[{"Title":"a feel-bad epic from a subversive misanthrope","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"105 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" William Friedkin is a mysterious, often mystifying film-maker. Although he rose to prominence at the same time as the rest of the so-called 'movie brat' generation of directors (Coppola, Spielberg, Scorsese, DePalma, et al.), he stands apart, even from a group as essentially disparate as this one. For one thing, his films lack the intertextual references and cinematic stylisation common to most of the other members. If he has an over-riding aesthetic, it would be the ugliness of the majority of human existence. He's not interested in prettifying his images or indulging in style-for-style's sake; which is not to say that his film's don't exhibit inventive and effective technique, just that this technique is always at the service of the story he's telling, and is often blunt and brutally effective in it's employment. All of this no doubt arises from his start in documentary film-making. Friedkin is particularly good at depicting the menace of urban environments, and the locales of a lot of his films are frightening, tangibly real places. Witness the sequences involving Karras' aged mother in 'The Exorcist', which for me are the most disturbing scenes in an often terrifying film. As we observe the elderly lady living alone in her shabby apartment in a crime-ridden neighbourhood, we realise that this is the existence that many millions of people are forced to endure, and it's oppressiveness adds immeasurably to the psychological impact of the film as a whole. We share Karras' fear and traumatising guilt that she died alone in such circumstances, and the special effects trickery of the climax is lent a genuine resonance. Because of the stark, seemingly 'artless' force and apparent misanthropy of much of his work, a number of otherwise perceptive commentators dislike Friedkin intensely. Pauline Kael was extremely cool about 'The French Connection' and absolutely hated 'The Exorcist'. David Thompson described him as essentially incompetent, bludgeoning the audience with blatant and obvious effects. In fact, Friedkin's best work is highly sophisticated in it's use of sound and music, and employs often visceral imagery to telling and subversive effect. However, some of his films ARE genuinely bloody awful, or at least depressingly mediocre. The very inconsistency of his work lies at the centre of the mystery that is his career. He seems to me to be a fiercely intelligent man whose art is driven by his life rather than the culture of film, and whose reportedly quixotic, often self-destructive personality in no small measure accounts for the expansive peaks and troughs of his cinematic achievements. Friedkin has reassuring or comforting his audience way down the list of his priorities. In the case of 'Cruising', he neglected to add them at all. Because of this, 'Cruising' is a very difficult film to watch. Most film-makers, were they making a film set in such an alien and frightening environment, would go overboard on providing us with at least one protagonist we could identify with. But Friedkin takes the very opposite route and presents us entirely with characters who are abhorrent, sleazy or totally ambiguous. Indeed, ambiguity is the film's raison d'etre - we are never sure of anything, and this becomes both the pictures great strength and source of much audience frustration. It seems that unlike, say, Spielberg, who continually seeks the approbation of his audience, Friedkin actively resents his (or rather, their preconceptions and certainties), leading him to consistently challenge and upset them. This can be exciting to those who value such seditious manouveres, but dispiriting and destabilising for those that don't.The major problem with evaluating 'Cruising' is that the film as it currently exists is seriously incomplete (apparently having been shorn of some 40 minutes of footage by the censors!). I suspect that a 'directors cut' should it ever emerge, although no doubt clarifying certain issues, would overall fail to dispel the central ambiguity that is so infuriating and troubling to the majority of the audience, and that lies at the heart of Friedkins vision. What interests me is the very thin line between good and evil, the director once said when asked to provide a thematic overview of his work - and this is the core of 'Cruising'.I would urge you to watch the film. It is a uniquely dark, brave piece somewhat compromised by well documented production difficulties and the censors scissors. It has a sinister, compelling momentum and wonderfully ugly, grainy textures that seep into your pores leaving you uncomfortable and unsettled. Sometimes a feel-bad movie can be as bracing as a winter morning. 'Cruising' is such an experience, and a fascinating, provocative one at that. "},{"Title":"a question of taste","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"74 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a FRIEDKIN movie. Consequently, it is soulless, dark and physical. There are no heroes, the range goes from unclear/mixed up/tortured souls/loonies to the dephts of hell. It is also highly interpretative, you can not expect a logical script and a I did it smile or a walk towards the sun type of ending. So, it's a question of taste if you like his movies or not. I DO. I very much doubt that Pacino or Sorvino regret making this film. It is riveting. For one, characters are not even gray, they are a mystery. Sorvino's character, for instance is so blank, that you even wonder if he cares about anything, including Burns' fate. Pacino's character is pretty ambitious, but other than that he is completely controversial. Although he shows some kind of goodness (towards his neighbor, for instance), the ending even kinda questions that (was it because he had sexual intentions with the guy or that he just wanted to do some good?). Also, he sometimes feels overwhelmed by the undercover job (I don't know if I can do this) but then he starts to adapt. One of the possible ideas of this movie is you dance with the devil and then you start to like it. In any case, it leaves conclusions to the viewer. The atmosphere and especially the music are truly amazing and original. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Controversial Document of Its Time","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"69 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Viewed today, Cruising still elicits intense responses from both Gay and straight viewers alike.  Mainstream Gays lament, as many protestors of the film at the time of its release, that it shows a homophobic image of Gay life, depecting them as sex-obsessed.  Straights are put off by the frank look at the Gay sex cruising culture.Interesting, however, some of the people involved in the Leather/SM subculture at the time this film was made have praised it for its accuracy of this particular lifestyle -- a pre-AIDS lifestyle concentrated on quick sex that was (and still is) pursued by a segment of the Gay community.The film does not pretend to depict Gays as a whole.  It is just a drama about a police investigation that uses the scene as a background and catalyst for an exploration into how one cop is affected by his work.Not the greatest film ever made, but certainly a good springboard for discussion about the Gay community's politics, when one fully examines the controversy surrounding the film and the continued debate over public sex and body image in the community.The strengths of Cruising are its use of locales and documentary-style cinematography, as well as the interesting performance from Paccino.  In the end, it is hampered as a drama by problems with the narrative structure of the piece that seems to fizzle out in the last act, leading to an intriguing, but inconclusive, finish. "},{"Title":"An Ambiguous Thriller?","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"55 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite all the mega-negative publicity before and after the making of this film, I have to say that I find Cruising a masterpiece of ambiguity. There is no clear-cut narrative, no definable character motivations, and the obligatory cop-entering-the-killer's-mind scenario gets drowned in an atmosphere of violence and dread that sort of saturates the entire movie. But what a descent into Hades it is!I've admired William Friedkin's work since The French Connection presented to me a cop film with an unsympathetic protagonist as well as a collection of amazing action setpieces unaccompanied by any noisy, thumping Kenny Loggins or Michael Kamen tunes in the background. Plus, there's that downbeat conclusion where the movie basically STOPS rather than ends. No clear resolutions, nothing. What nerve this guy has.I admired Sorcerer and To Live and Die In L.A. for a lot of the same reasons, primarily their edgy and stark determination to tell stories with no answers. So what are we left with in Cruising? Friedkin's exceptional yet manipulative film technique and a lot of sweaty men dancing in West Village dungeons, popping amyl nitrates, and moving to some of the scariest Village-People-on-P.C.P. dance music that I've ever heard (try cranking this soundtrack up at a party).But Cruising is a true experiment in movie suspense. It uses some fantastic atmosphere (sound effects and the late Jack Nitschze's superb score) to unsettle the audience. Friedkin's use of multiple actors to play the same killer, the switching over mid-film to tell the killer's story instead of having him remain an ominous presence (a technique Michael Mann used to similar effect in Manhunter), and the film's ending with its peaceful music serenading shots of the New York City harbor--the dump site for many of the killer's victims--all function as a sort of test. Can we be absorbed by a movie that makes it clear that there really is no certainty or logic to what we're watching? That there is no firm ground to stand on? It's almost like watching a sinking ship.It seems to me that Friedlkin always wants his audience on edge, and he wants us to be constantly challenged by not only the tough subject matter, but where Pacino's undercover detective figures into the whole sordid mess. The novel explains more about the homophobia and hostility in Steve Burns, but the film keeps all of these elements surface; we're almost numbed into a kind of voyeuristic fascination (or revulsion) at the ugly sights. And we're left out in the cold regarding Burns' true feelings. Maybe some of the film's detractors would have preferred a voice-over? Not too much suspense there.Luckily, Pacino's performance is low-key as well (a luxury we don't enjoy these days with any of his postScent of a Woman exercises in Circus Vargas acting) and this further causes us to distrust our own hero.So amidst all this confusion, what is there left to recommend? Cruising is a risk-taking thriller with the audacity to shock, revolt, and confuse without losing any of its intensity or pace. It's merits lie in its unique respect for the audience, thinking that we don't need everything explained to us. Just as the gay leather underworld is its own surreal type of subculture, so should our approach to viewing the film remain unbiased by red herrings or should we have any expectations that the film will lead us along, keep our interest, or enlighten us in the end. I mean, after all, this isn't Agatha Christie.  "},{"Title":"Taut Thriller With Unique Twist","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I know this film got bad reviews when it was first released but I have always thought it deserved much better than it got. The film is a very tense thriller with a terrific performance from Al Pacino.  The film is filled with memorable scenes and characters.  The killer is one of the most interesting villains I have seen.....attractive with a complex character that is both mesmerizing and frightening.  The film has a creepy quality that sometimes reminds me of the feeling I got watching Silence of the Lambs.  The scene in which Pacino goes to the shop and views the different colored bandanas for sale provides some brief humor that gives your nerves a chance to calm down.  "},{"Title":"subversive genius","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I had the pleasure of seeing this movie recently and I highly recommend it to any people who savor the darker things in life. If I had never seen this movie the reviews left about it everywhere on the net would surely have made me miss it at every opportunity but luckily I only came across them looking for more information after its viewing.The first thing that really got me was the fantastic soundtrack. This is American punk rock at it's best and most glorious and I cannot think of a more apt context for it than the New York gay S&M scene. This my friends ... is punk-o-rama.This is not a gay film ... nor is it a porno film ... this is an in your face horror much like William Friedkin's other classic The Exorcist ... but not a hammer horror nor a gore filled voyage through some fiery kissing the devil's ass hell but a very real slice of a very real life that exists in every major city in the world as well as some smaller ones. This is a film about a world so few know anything about that it is far above common criticism ... yet at the same time the directions and nuances are all too common. I would say that any fans of the movies of David Lynch might enjoy the somewhat lost disenchantment of this flick as it slides further and further into the darkest realms of the grotesque. As well anyone who's enjoyed the backwards pleasures of watching the cult classic Je'Taime ... Moi Ne Plus starring Jane Birkin would also find a little gem here.Cruisin' is pure subversive genius.Futurist-surrealism!Pure *ART* "},{"Title":"It reminded me why I love movies in the first place. It is not an easy movie to watch and its subject matter is made to make you squirm, but this movie really got to me!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler Alert I write this because this film was one of the most engrossing and powerful films I have seen in recent memory. I also write about this film as its pedigree is amazing. And finally I can't believe I've not heard of it, even in a Heavens Gate, this must have been professional suicide sort of capacity.The film is from 1980 and it is directed by William Friedkin (Exorcist & The French Connection). It stars one Al Pacino (no C.V. required). It is called Cruising. Basically it is the story of a gay serial killer and Al Pacino is the cop who must go undercover to try and find him.I was a bit drunk, a bit stoned and a bit bored when I was channel flicking one night in UK. I came across the start of this movie. The story starts in a club in New York that is very much like the Blue Parrot in the Police Academy movies, except there is nothing funny about this place. It is a proper underground S & M gay club where anything goes. A young Italian Stallion picks up a guy who is in the full leather get up. Cap and glasses obscuring his face and chains that clink whenever he walks. They go back to the stallions flat. Off screen sex occurs. The next shot is the young guy, naked, having his hands tied behind his back. He doesn't like this but is being talked into it by Chains. Next Chains draws a thin knife from his boots and starts playing with it. Young guy is frantic now and begs to be let out but Chains is now teasing him. Chains then stabs the young guy repeatedly in the back. This is graphically shot and you see the knife going in and the young guy screaming. This was a really, really intense scene. I was now hooked on the story and had to know where it ended.I am not gay and I am liberally minded. Having been to Thailand, Ibiza and Amsterdam I have had my arse felt a few times in dance clubs. I am not bothered by this as long as it stays each to their own, but I have no knowledge of the proper underground gay scene. The closest I get is working with a gay man at work, and enjoying watching Will & Grace. Like the brilliant 8 Mile this film was an introduction to a world I knew nothing about. The depiction of the activities in the Gay Club left nothing to the imagination. Never shown but implied were scenes of fisting and watersports. This, as well the very graphic violence meant this film was still quite close to the bone (no pun intended!) in 2003 so I could barely imagine what an impact this had in 1980's America.The police are now on the case, but more gay men start turning up brutally stabbed. A Harvard professor has already been murdered and a Hollywood stylist gets brutally stabbed in a cheap peep joint when he had been picking up a stars dress for an awards ceremony. These are respectable people who were not known to be involved in this extreme scene, so the political pressure gets turned up.In comes Al to the proceedings. He wants to be a detective but hasn't been given his chance yet. He is offered accelerated promotion to Detective branch if he agrees to go undercover as he is the same type of Italian Stallion that the perp seems to target. What comes next is a wonderful example of both acting and directing as young, naive, straight Al Pacino starts his undercover role. Reporting only to his chief (Paul Sorvino) and getting set up in a flat in a gay area of New York, it is riveting stuff to see Al Pacino learn from his mistakes when he visits the gay club. He learns that different coloured neckscarfes worn in either the left back pocket, or the right back pocket mean a different sexual taste! It is funny in a black comedy way watching him try to pick some one up to see if they are the killer, when it is quite clear he doesn't want to pick them up because he is not gay.Al has a girlfriend played by Karen Allen who only knows he is undercover but she doesn't know where or what he is doing. Al's character starts to go deepcover and begins to lose himself in the culture. He starts to empathise with the gay community and even gets hassled by prejudice cops. This is brilliantly handled by the director and the actor. A sympathetic approach to hardcore homosexuality in 1980? No wonder it disappeared.Meanwhile the killer is still on the loose. You see Chains picking people up in parks and by toilets or you see him visiting the bar. You can never see him properly. You can only hear the distinctive clink of his chains. This started to make me apprehensive whenever I heard the rattle of his chains. Now that's good direction!Al Pacino starts to lose himself as he goes deepcover but starts making progress on the case. I wont give away anymore in case someone watches it.I found this movie to be a really rewarding experience. It reminded me why I love movies in the first place. It is not an easy movie to watch and its subject matter is made to make you squirm, but this movie really got to me! To watch all the way through when all I was doing was channel flicking is a real test of a movies quality in my humble opinion.So there you go. Not a new movie but a bloody good one that most people may have missed. IMDb has not been too kind to it but hey, what do I know? "},{"Title":"My God what kind of man are you...-My Grandma Rosa","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was ten years old and an old movie house not far from my home was playing a double feature. It was Empire Strikes Back and Cruising. After nagging to my grandma for days she took me and a friend because we were huge Star Wars fans. The matinée was at 1200 p.m. and they started with Cruising. The movie starts, the place is packed and the bar scene were the killer picks up his first victim plays and my grandma storms out of place with me and my friend and I don't know if the guy my grandma confronted was the manager or the ticket seller but she ripped him a new one. She told him that he was trash, that she was going to call the cops, that he was not a man, everything. My friend and me were stunned and beg my grandma to calm down and wait in the lobby till Cruising was over. We waited and we saw Empire. It is disturbing that the place was full of little kids and nobody else walked out. Anyway, I tracked the movie down when I was in college and watched it.It still is a shocking experience and the bad reputation that this movie earned is a little uncalled for because I think Friedkin captures the reality of that world as it is. My cousin had a friend who was homosexual and part of the S&M leather gay culture. He was a flight attendant and whenever he flew to New York went to this clubs and my cousin tells me that the things his friend told him pale in comparison to what Friedkin shows us. The flight attendant died of AIDS in 1983. Pacino and his perm realistically portray the confused cop that ultimately becomes a killer out of the brutal repression his gay feelings suffer. This movie after 25 years continues to provoke discussions among film fans and any movie that does that is a good film. I really would like a DVD of this movie with a few extras to witness the backlash this film created. Watch it and witness the closing of the 70s and the beginning of the 80s in this murder mystery that will no doubt open your eyes to the brutal, the cruel, misunderstood and innocent sides of human beings. P.S. Nobody complained in 1984's Police Academy which the Blue Oyster Bar about the portrayals of leather gay men. BA BA BA BUM BA BA BA BA BA BUM BA BA BAM PARARARARARARARA.(theme song). I know I'm an idiot. "},{"Title":"Daring, brutal, and undeserving of its negative fame.","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First and foremost, Cruising is not a film about gay men in general. Friedkin explains this perfectly on the DVD -- it's a murder mystery of a cop going undercover that just happens to have a gay element in it. To those familiar with the 70s Italian giallos, Cruising is a U.S. giallo -- a successful combination of murder mystery, sex, alternative lifestyles and subcultures with that, and how getting into something too out of your element can affect you. Unlike the Italian giallos that often featured a gratuitous lesbian tease, Cruising gave us a masculine leather theme instead.The controversy and protests surrounding Cruising were based on misinformation and unfairly gave the film a bad reputation, though lately many critics that originally panned it have since recanted their negative comments, finding more to appreciate about the film.Two things factored into why people were uncomfortable with Cruising First, the murder story was not the real reason. Frankly, they saw not effeminate stereotypes, but masculine gay men dancing, kissing, and experiencing S&M activities. When gay characters are weak and fey, many heterosexual men feel safe. They want non-threatening characters that will be kept in their place. The disclaimer that appeared before the film (that has thankfully been removed on the DVD) was to appease gay men that felt the film would be perceived as a representation of the whole gay community. If that's the case, then films like The Birdcage and TV's Will & Grace should have disclaimers as well that say not all gay men are effeminate finger-snappers that watch Desperate Housewives, are drag queens, nor are FABulous well-groomed clean-shaven cutie boys.Second, the locations and activity in the bars was as it actually was (and still is to a degree) in many places. The characters and extras were real for this story -- bearded leathermen enjoying what they do, instead of buffed party circuit boys dancing to the latest diva tunes. To add to the darkness and mood of the story the bars were blasting with serious hard-driven songs by Willy DeVille, John Hiatt, Rough Trade, The Germs, The Cripples and others instead of loopy diva dance music. Some gay men as well as straight had a problem with this, thinking it was not a decent representation of what gay men should listen to. To date this is still one of the coolest soundtracks around, I cherish my vinyl LP copies of it.Yes, this film was brutal. It will leave an impression on you. THAT'S A GOOD THING! It's what film is supposed to do. Amidst all this the journey of Al Pacino's out of his element slip into a different mindset was a great touch. It affected his whole being, his treatment of his girlfriend, his whole outlook. And it wasn't just because he got to dance with some leathermen, it was because the murder investigation he was doing was so horrifying. What, you were expecting a sweet ending? The only reasons Pacino distanced himself from this film was because footage was cut that he felt fleshed out his character better, and the protests during filming distressed him.And think of it this way if this were a film about lesbians, it would be hailed by hetero guys as an erotic masterpiece. But when it's about masculine gay men, it seems hard for some of them to handle it. This may sound cliché, but I know many straight guys that actually understood Cruising and have told me (on IMDb as well as in person) they thought it was quite a cool film.After all these years, Cruising still packs a punch and does what it sets out to do unnerve you. It's a taut thriller and a mindblower in its complexities. That's quite an achievement and while many films are forgotten, this one still seems to be well remembered no matter what. I for one love this film and think Friedkin and company deserve much praise for their effort.The DVD released in 2007 can be considered a bit of a director's cut since Friedkin made some additions and changes. For a thorough article on the exact changes and where they occur, check out the magazine Video Watchdog #152, November 2009. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Ambiguous Conclusions of an American Movie","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In New York, the ambitious police officer Steve Burns (Al Pacino) is assigned by his Captain Edelson (Paul Sorvino) to work uncover in the gay S&M underworld to seek out the serial-killer that is killing and severing the members of gays since he has the same appearance of the victims. Steve has the objective to be promoted to detective and get his golden shield and Capt. Edelson is the only one in the department who knows Steve's assignment. Steve does not tell to his girlfriend Nancy (Karen Allen) his mission and he needs to learn the behavior of this community. During the investigation, Steve is affected by the discoveries in this new world, but Captain Edelson does not want him to quit his assignment. In the 70's and 80's, Al Pacino was among my favorite American actors with his magnificent performances. Cruising is an original movie that discloses part of the society unknown to straight persons like me the gay S&M world of New York in the late 70's. I have seen this film at least four time and today for the first time on DVD, and my greatest question is how far a person would go to be promoted. Steve Burns dreams on having a golden shield and when he has his chance, he accepts a dangerous psychological mission to find the serial-killer that is killing gays and affects his personal life and his relationship with his girlfriend. The conclusion is one of the most ambiguous that I have ever seen in an American movie, when Steve looks at his image on the mirror. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Parceiros da Noite (Night Partners) "}{"Title":"Interesting But Unsatisfying Gay Bar Serial Killer Film","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A serial-killer is attacking homosexual men in New York and the police have no leads. An ambitious young cop goes undercover and hangs out at the gay bars and nightspots to lure the killer out, but finds himself being changed by the scene he becomes part of.Based on a book by Gerald Walker, this is an intriguing (and daring for the time) delve into the NYC homo underground of leather bars and pick-ups in Central Park, and is a great pre-Aids snapshot of a particular era of the city's history. Unfortunately, as a crime thriller it's pretty pedestrian; the murders are bland, the investigation boring and the suggestive ending just plain confusing. Friedkin is a very stylish director, but here he deliberately abandons that for a documentary-like approach; this adds to the drama but kills any suspense, although James Contner's ultra-dark photography is terrific. Pacino is likeably believable, Sorvino does a gritty textbook job of a police captain who hasn't slept in a week and the supporting cast are good. Ultimately however, this film is more interesting as a pre-political-correctness depiction of a particularly sordid corner of society. As with other urban-ghetto films of the time (Busting, Fort Apache - The Bronx, etc) it was crucified by the white liberal arts media as queer-bashing propaganda, but of course it's not - they just didn't like the way it depicts the specific social scene the story is set amongst. An important document of a time, but not really a very good movie. "},{"Title":"A  cop goes undercover to flush out a killer in the gay leather bars of 80's NYC","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When this movie opened in theaters in 1980 I did not go to see it. I had heard that it was extremely violent, and exploitative of gay men. Violence is not really my thing. I had seen Friedkin's earlier film, The Boys In The Band which I did not like at all. The Boys in the Band seemed to me to be filled with stereotypical, largely unhappy characters. The film's view of gay life seemed skewed to me so, I decided to pass on Cruising. When Cruising recently became available in a remastered disc with features and commentary by director Friedkin, I decided to take a chance and watch it, and I am very glad I did. I think it is a masterful film that works on every level, as a murder mystery, as a psychological thriller, and as a social commentary of sorts since the film takes place in a millieu seldom seen on mainstream screens at that time.Is it violent? Oh yes, graphically so. Some scenes are very hard to watch, but so compelling that you cannot turn away. The violence is not gratuitous and is in fact important to both the atmosphere of the film and sequence of the plot. Friedkin creates tension in the film from the very first frames when you see what appears to be a severed arm floating in the river, and continues to ratchet up the tension throughout the film. This tension drives the murder mystery. The solution to the murders could be considered ambiguous,yet emains compelling through the very last shot. The ambiguity of the film lets you draw your own conclusions in a way that causes you to think more deeply than you would if it was all spelled out. I think this is a real strength in the film. Is the film exploitive of gay men? No, I don't think so. The film is realistic in it's locations which are gritty and stark. The bar scenes feel real. The bars are leather bars, and the men in the bars are there to engage in what you would expect to see in a gay S/M bar. If you don't like what you see, that is your choice, but I don't think that Friedkin films what you see in a way that is exploitative of the patrons. It is what it is, and you see it. In other scenes in the film you see the police exploiting some of the men, and that feels authentic to me too, for the most part, because that is also the way it was, like it or not. It is in this backdrop that Pacino's character of a young cop must find a killer. Pacino's performance is both subtle and affecting. It is simply one of his best. Given that, I wonder why he did not appear with Friedkin in the features of the disc, or as a contributor to the commentary. I found this to be both strange (is he disavowing his performance by not appearing?) and a real disappointment.Pacino's character is changed forever by his experiences in the film. How much he has changed is ambiguous. A careful viewer will see Pacino change throughout the film, though most of the change is implied, and not directly stated. Since Friedkin was willing to show us so much authenticity in the bar scene, and in subsequent scenes, he should have shown us more authenticity in the development of Pacino's character, and by that I specifically mean, at the very least a kiss between Pacino and one or more of the men he meets and or confronts in the film.The weakest character in this film is Pacino's girlfriend, who is played by Karen Allen as if she is completely comatose, if not downright stupid. The role is both badly written and underplayed. The changes in Pacino's character need to be mirrored more clearly by the reactions of his girlfriend, otherwise, why is she in the film at all? Friedkin has dropped the ball here.See this film, regardless of whatever you have heard about it. See it and draw your own conclusions. It is worth watching, especially if you are a fan of Friedkin's work. "},{"Title":"Still controversial after all these years","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Keep in mind when you watch this that William Friedkin based a lot, if not most, of the events and characters on real crimes of late 70's New York. Often dialogue was put in verbatim as he remembered hearing it. Knowing cops and criminals helped him gain insight and access to a world most of us never see in person. One thing is certain. Gay men were and are being murdered in many cities, sometimes by closeted men, other times by those who hate homosexuals and get away with it because homophobia still resonates in police departments and these deaths aren't always a top priority to solve. Arthur Dong's brilliant film Licensed To Kill was powerful in letting us simply watch these kind of felons explain their horrific crimes in their own words. Cruising is a murder mystery where no form of justice can punish the guilty. Al Pacino turns in his darkest work here, showing Patrolman Steve Burns as a young cop given an assignment no one should envy. Pose in clubs where men who looked like him met a man that butchered them. Paul Sorvino indeed shows what Friedkin calls profound sadness and is Burns' sole police contact for this incredibly dangerous mission. Burns, undercover as John Forbes, meets people he likes and others he doesn't and they all have one thing in common. None know who he really is and that is the ultimate mystery of Cruising. Watch this to see a New York that doesn't exist today. "},{"Title":"Flawed,Yet Also Quite Original and Captivating","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm glad to know I'm not the only person who actually like this movie.Cruising is a very unusual film, a very unique film for a lot of reasons.First of all,and most of all,the movie takes place in a world that very few people know about,and that is the S&M gay sub-culture.Second of all,we get to see Al Pacino,a top class mainstream actor, in a very different kind of character,even though he plays a cop.And finally,I can say it's also a very unique film because it does not follow the path of typical Hollywood movies in terms of structure and tone.The fact that the film does take place in a world very few people know about,at least not me,is one of the element that makes this movie so special and unsettling and original,because it's done in a very down-to-earth,realistic way.I think the film presents the S&M gay sub-culture for what it is,not more,not less.People who are offended by the sight of homosexuals having contacts with each other will be offended by this movie,of course.But if you're willing to go along,to let yourself be open about all this,you just might found out that this film is not about exploitation or homophobia.It's much more about the psychological path followed by one man who has to immerse himself in a culture unknown to him,because of a murder case,and the effects this culture and this case have upon him and his life.In the course of the movie,we see this evolution through Pacino's character,and it's rather quite compelling and captivating,Pacino being very subtle in this movie.Of course,Cruising is not only a psychological, undercover cop movie,it's also a thriller.And as a thriller,this movie is also very captivating,and pulse-pounding,although it still is flawed.Apparently,the version most of us saw is not the complete version of the movie,and sometimes,it shows.I like ambiguity in a thriller,but I think Cruising is sometimes too ambiguous for it's own good,and that some elements could have been just a little bit more developed and explained(the ending,for instance).That being said,Friedkin still shows with this movie that he is a very accomplished director.There's nothing artificial in this movie,nothing superfluous in terms of the cinematography or the music or the art direction,and for me,this just helps the movie to be more realistic for the viewer.There's a rather raw feeling emanating from this movie,and it suits perfectly well for the tone of this film.Also,I think the supporting cast gives very honorable performances,especially Paul Sorvino as Pacino's boss and Karen Allen as his girlfriend.So,in conclusion,do yourself a favor if you like thrillers and/or if you like undercover cop movies with great psychological input, if you're willing to be open-minded and if you want to watch something different than most Hollywood movies,just find this movie if you can and watch it,and never mind all the bad critics. "},{"Title":"Must have touched a nerve","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sensuality is so powerful that it can transcend sexual orientation. A Death in Venice is about a man who is overwhelmed by the æsthetic of youthful beauty. Cruising is about a man who is overwhelmed by the visceral allure of S&M. There's a story told by a survivor of Dachau, about how every morning, no matter how cold and miserable, the inmates were forced to stand at attention and listen to harangues by the Führer. This anti-Nazi said that in the end he found it almost impossible (like Dr. Strangelove) to keep his arm from springing to a Nazi salute. (Note that Strangelove is close to Stranglelove, and those who remember the movie know the scene I refer to.) Notwithstanding its status as legal for consenting adults, S&M&#151;like Nazism, with which it shares behavior, æsthetic and paraphernalia&#151;is inherently pathological. Thus, setting the location for a series of grisly murders among the gay S&M scene is quite plausible. Cunanan, the serial murderer of Versace and others, was an S&M queen; John Wayne Gacey's murders were B&D (bondage & discipline) rituals; SMBD communities exist in Silverlake (L.A.), South of Market (S.F.), the West Village (NYC) and (surprise!) all over Germany. Of course, S&M isn't just a gay phenomenon (one need only think of the BTK killer), but the ubiquity and openness of the gay SMBD milieu make it more accessible for filming than the somewhat more furtive heterosexual S&M scene.As for the artistic merits, I like Friedkin's pacing, the way Al Pacino's character gradually changes as it becomes of rather than just in the milieu. This is a familiar theme the undercover cop who goes native, first empathizing with, then becoming the subject he's trying to bust. In this role Pacino pretty much plays Pacino, which isn't bad, if you like Pacino. In the beginning he seems to reach for Serpico and in the end for Michael Corleone. Interestingly, the three characters' wives all see their husbands gradually consumed by their mission. And maybe a little Tony Montana is thrown in, with S&M rather than cocaine as the hook. (Never sample the product.)And, yes, the depiction of the gay S&M world is spot on, from the archetypes to the music and fashions. In fact, the research that went into the scenes, which consisted of visiting real-world S&M venues, was one of the grievances of the gay protesters, who thought they had been betrayed after having given Friedkin access to their habitat. (Of course, if he had not done such research, Friedkin would have been pilloried for never having set foot in a gay bar.)Cruising is a dramatization not a documentary, so of course the characters and situations will be dramatized. But for anyone who has ever ventured into the netherworld of gay S&M, Cruising has the ring of truth, which has obviously touched the nerve of those who, truth be told, regard the issue of Cruising more as turf war than social or philosophical debate. I agree with other reviewers who have called Cruising brave film-making. Gay author Randy Shilts's And the Band Played On, which cautioned the gay community about self-destructive behavior, was skewered by the same crowd that skewered Cruising. I remember when Cruising came out (no pun intended), there were nasty demonstrations by the gay equivalent of the Fundies who picketed The Last Temptation of Christ before they even saw the movie. (Even after seeing it, how many would have the honesty to admit they were wrong?) These two crowds, though they are loathe to admit it, have the same mindset. The mindless charges of Cruising's homophobia and TLTOC's blasphemy are based on perceptions, informed by overwrought sensibilities, of the movies' depictions, respectively, of all gays as S&M and of Jesus with a sex life, perceptions so ludicrous they make me wonder if these folks really care what the films are about&#151;make me suspect that what they really care about is that their stories, which they think they own, are being cast in an unfavorable light by unauthorized parties.While Cruising is absolutely not homophobic it does suggest, I believe, that S&M is unhealthy, a not terribly far-out suggestion, and to that extent it is a polemic. But I think that S&M is only a vehicle for the wider moral of Cruising's story, which is this sexual games can easily become serious, and the line between the two is so hard to discern that by the time one has crossed it, it may be too late. "},{"Title":"Just all over the place","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Body parts are being found in the Hudson River and there have already been two recorded homosexual murders that show signs of being done by the same killer.  With no leads in the case, Captain Edelson offers Officer Steve Burns the chance to go undercover on the basis that Steve looks similar to the victims that the killer tends to pick.  Steve goes undercover with no badge and no gun, only reporting to Edelson; meanwhile the murders continue as Steve begins to lose himself little by little.I had never seen this film until just a few weeks ago but I was looking forward to it as I remember it being one of the movies that was reviewed by critic Mark Kermode on his `cult corner' he used to do as a weekly part of a radio 1 show - he liked it and generally I trust him.  The film opens with a similar enough premise cop goes undercover to try and catch a killer.  We have all seen this genre before and think we know where it is going to go - cop will start to `go native' gradually and will struggle with it even after he has caught the killer - right? Well, yes and no.  The film tries to do this but it manages to make a real pigs ear of it throughout, coming across like it really didn't know what it wanted to do.  I am aware that there is another version of this out there somewhere and that this was mercilessly edited but I cannot know that that would be any better without seeing it.The film is all over the place.  Burns' investigation goes nowhere for the vast majority of the time and just seems to focus on gay clubs with lots of men in leather or jock straps.  Meanwhile the killer continues to carry out his murders and the rest of the police sort of float around in the background.  It is difficult to really get into the film because the narrative is so very disjointed and it is almost impossible to have anything to follow or care about basically the first 90 minutes is `there's a guy out there killing and a cop going to gay clubs - oh, look what they do' and then the final 20 minutes is `oh, we got him now' - and that's it!  So with no traditional narrative I assume that the film wanted us to follow the character of Steve. However, Steve is a nonentity, even being played by Pacino!  He has no character and we see nothing to suggest that he is really being either attracted or repulsed by the life he sees.  The end of the film is so open in regards him and just doesn't make sense.  With these two threads going nowhere, all that remains is a film that looks at the gay scene in the city.In this regard I was worried that it was going to be all PC when the film opening with a disclaimer that I assume was put on to placate gay groups. However I immediately understood why the makers had put this caption onto the film - and it wasn't even enough!  The homosexuals in this film are, to a man, deviants who all hang out in clubs having anonymous sex with multiple partners in clubs and parks.  I know the film apologises for this but it doesn't excuse the sheer lazy clichés that it wheels out and seems to just hope that we are shocked by the repeated graphic image.  The seedy nature of the film means that it hasn't lost it's shock ability (even with gay relationships no longer a taboo in the media or normal life) - but if this is all it has then it is hardly worth it.  If Friedkin had a vision then it has been lost because there is no sign of life in this film - by the end of the film everyone seems to have given up on it and it just, well, grinds to a halt.  I won't even go into the various threads that just seem to go nowhere - DiSimone turning up all over the place for no reason for example.Pacino is a great actor but he cannot do anything with a character he cannot understand.  He is absent from the film and is given nothing to work with. Certainly the `slow burn' he is required to do is not fitting his style, but it is made harder considering the script doesn't know about Steve either and Pacino has nothing to build to.  Sorvino is OK but has nothing to do, likewise Allen is just floating around as well.  The only thing that really kept my interest was how many famous faces were in early roles here - Powers Booth, Mike Starr, Spinell and Weeks to name a few.Overall I was looking forward to this film and wanted to enjoy it. I was not let down when it failed to do the usual things I expected from the genre set-up, but I was letdown by the fact that it did nothing else with it. The plot is all over the place and the performances are poor simply because they have no characters - Steve is impossible to understand and every gay character is a cliché. An amazingly inept film when you consider the names attached to it. "},{"Title":"Gritty and gripping","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Al Pacino goes undercover in gay S&M sex clubs to catch a serial killer. This film is often condemned for being severely homophobic. It made plenty of sense for gays to protest the film in 1980 - their culture was underrepresented, and this film, which basically presents homosexuality as a horror show, was being presented as a rare view into the world. But it doesn't represent all gay people, just a particular subculture. There are gay characters, notably the neighbor, who are presented in a positive light. And a serial killer thriller could just as easily be set in heterosexual S&M clubs, so, especially from our present point of view, it's not that offensive. The film is set in the same New York as Taxi Driver, a horribly seedy, gritty place where death and violence are around every corner. Pacino is quite good - subdued for him. He lets his eyes (and eyebrows) do the emoting. Karen Allen, one of my favorite actresses, has a fairly worthless role as Pacino's girlfriend. Friedkin's direction is excellent. It's probably my second favorite of his films, after The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"One of the first great horror films of the 80s","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A deranged serial killer is on the loose and is killing patrons of gay S&M clubs. Officer Steve Burns(Al Pacino) is chosen by the chief of police to go undercover as a gay male and find this mad man. The idea of going undercover, to Burns, at first sounds simple enough. However, this new bizarre world he has become a part of slowly begins to affect his mind and his psyche as he begins to question many things about himself and what he thought that he was before. Before he was simply just playing a role, but soon his work completely takes over his life as he becomes a part of the gay underground world.William Friedkin's early-80s shocker, CRUISING, has been called one of the most despicable and offensive films ever to be put out by a major motion picture studio. It's been voted as one of the most homophobic films ever made, along with Paul Verhoeven's trash classic BASIC INSTINCT and Gaspar Noe's experimental revenge thriller IRREVERSIBLE. While I can certainly understand where the hatred for this film is coming from, I still find it to be a very effective and haunting piece of film-making.I found the scenes involving Al Pacino at the clubs to be so full of realism and so raw that, at times, it was difficult to watch. These scenes are where the true horror of the film come to life. So much of what he sees disturbs him and, indeed, it disturbs us as well. The several glimpses of public sex(oral sex, anal sex, fisting, BDSM, etc) in these leather clubs are stomach churning in how different the world of these places are to everyday life.The whole film is quite disturbing and fascinating to watch all the same, but the explicit nature of the scenes, as well as Al Pacino's reaction to them, give the film a real documentary-like sense of realism. The scenes in which the serial killer strikes are equally disturbing in their realism. They come off extraordinary in the blunt and heartless way they are shown. The fact that multiple frames of gay pornography are spliced into the gory violence further makes clear the idea of the knife penetrating the body and, at the same time, will probably raise a few eyebrows from many folks who are offended at such gestures.Indeed, this is definitely a film that tends to be gleefully tasteless at times. I am certainly not surprised that many folks found the film so offensive. The gay lifestyle is not depicted in a particularly positive light. Most of the gay characters in the film are either perverted, violent, rude, or insane. The sole gay character who seems to be a shining light of purity is Pacino's neighbor in the film, Ted Bailey (Don Scardino) a rather young and sweet-natured writer who is terrified of the leather bars. Ted is the one lamb in the crowd of vicious billy goats, so to speak.Despite the Ted character and despite the raw visual style of the film, the scenes of actual police procedure come of a tad weak when juxtapose with the scenes in the leather bars. While they do have just as much an uncanny realism to them as the undercover scenes, they feel a bit lifeless and ugly. In addition, Karen Allen in the role of Pacino's wife comes off slightly overshadowed alongside the other bizarre and interesting characters in the film. Despite this, however, she does help make the climax of the film far more terrifying and shocking.Despite the homophobia and despite the flaws, CRUISING is a fascinating film. It remains one of the darkest and most challenging mainstream films I've ever seen. I loved the realism of the film and I loved how shocking the last hour was in particular. It is definitely a film that works! While I can't say that I would be able to fully stomach a second viewing, I can safely say that it is a film that will affect you whether you love it or hate it. You will not forget this film very easily. "},{"Title":"Dark and disturbing view to the underworld of homosexual life","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First of all I don't understand why is this movie so bad rated (to me 5.7 is small grade for this movie). I liked it mostly because of brave vision of William Friedkin and also because of Al Pacino who accepted this role. There aren't lot actors on this world who would accept this role in 1980. and I dare to say that maybe Pacino is the only one. He showed his class once again because his character transforms through the movie, just like his acting.The plot is about young police officer Steve Burns who is sent undercover to discover a serial killer who is brutally killing gay men in New York. After job well done he would become detective, at least he was promised that from Capt. Edelson. As he goes undercover he must stay apart from his girlfriend Nancy (she doesn't know what is he doing). She understands that Steve is starting to change and that the job he does affects him.Friedkin's directing of this movie is in some scenes very disturbing (mostly scenes in gay bars). I don't have nothing against gay people but some really sick scenes where shown in this movie. The whole movie is painted in dark colors and this thriller is very well made on area of suspense. It is very interesting and controversial. Remember the year this was made is 1980. and even today we cannot watch it without any comments. That is why this movie will be remembered as movie for all time. The year you watch it isn't really important. What is important is the message of the movie.The ending is well done and you can't expect that this will happen. It leaves us lots of questions. Did Burns do this, did he do that, did he become this or that? Lots of questions and the answer for it can be found in this very good and controversial thriller. "},{"Title":"An Enigma within an Enigma","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The passage of time has been more than fair to William Friedkin's thriller, Cruising. On its initial release, this film about a serial killer who preys on gay leather boys was considered bold, shocking, and politically explosive. However, over the ensuing quarter of a century, the horrific sex crimes detailed weekly on Law and Order Special Victims Unit are often far more graphic than those in Cruising. Such high-tone offerings as HBO's Elizabeth I offer bloody disembowelment that outdo any of the murders in Friedkin's movie. Gay Americans are far more visible and accepted in 2007 than they were in 1980, and the evident diversity of gays, which stretches from drag queens to leather boys to domestic partners raising kids in the suburbs, has rendered obsolete the accusation that Cruising stereotypes gays as sex-obsessed sadomasochists. With the shock and politics exorcised, Friedkin's taught thriller can be viewed as the enigmatic detective thriller that it always was. Cruising, which takes place in the leather bars around Manhattan's meat packing district and in the Rambles of Central Park, does expose the seamy activities of a certain group of gay men who are clerks and desk jockeys by day and slaves and masters by night. However, filmed in near monochromatic tones, the film's gritty scenes have an authenticity that is reminiscent of Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver and John Schelsinger's Midnight Cowboy, both of which used the sleaze and grime of old Times Square as a backdrop.Al Pacino is a Manhattan police detective who goes undercover to find a killer who has committed an unsolved series of murders. He moves into the West Village and assumes the leather-clad look and identity of a gay man who frequents S&M bars. Although he frequently emerges to engage in heterosexual sex with his girlfriend, Karen Allen, the film never clarifies the extent to which Pacino goes to lure the killer. Pacino gives a good performance as another undercover Serpico, although he remains ambiguous throughout. Is he repelled or attracted by the explicit activities of the leather bars? He quickly picks up the handkerchief signals and verbal codes, such as hips or lips? that are used in the leather underworld. He is fondled in the bars, dances with the men, and is tied up nude in a hotel room. Pacino's relationship with the young gay man who lives in the apartment next door also remains ambiguous, despite the accusations of the man's roommate. William Friedkin's script, which was based on a novel by Gerald Walker, effectively deals with the concept of role-playing and the difficulty of completely removing a disguise once the performance is over.Not only is Pacino an enigmatic character, but the killer too is open to question. Given the varying murders and the director's sly casting, which alert viewers may spot, some good discussions could follow the film as to just what did or did not occur; Pacino is not the only enigma in the film. Stripped of the shrill politics of the early 1980's, Cruising emerges as a well-crafted film that will engage viewer's attention throughout and trouble them for days afterward. The scenes that take place in the crowded bars are fairly graphic and not intended for youngsters or impressionable adults. However, they create an alien world, at least to most, where a faceless killer could lurk and kill. The tense score heightens the mood and further draws viewers into the murky underworld. If stereotypes and politics are left outside, Cruising will reward with its intelligence and intriguing denouement. While not an undiscovered classic, the film is definitely worthy. "}{"Title":"It reminded me why I love movies in the first place. It is not an easy movie to watch and its subject matter is made to make you squirm, but this movie really got to me!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I write this because this film was one of the most engrossing and powerful films I have seen in recent memory. I also write about this film as its pedigree is amazing. And finally I can't believe I've not heard of it, even in a Heavens Gate, this must have been professional suicide sort of capacity.The film is from 1980 and it is directed by William Friedkin (Exorcist & The French Connection). It stars one Al Pacino (no C.V. required). It is called Cruising. Basically it is the story of a gay serial killer and Al Pacino is the cop who must go undercover to try and find him.I was a bit drunk, a bit stoned and a bit bored when I was channel flicking one night in UK. I came across the start of this movie. The story starts in a club in New York that is very much like the Blue Parrot in the Police Academy movies, except there is nothing funny about this place. It is a proper underground S & M gay club where anything goes. A young Italian Stallion picks up a guy who is in the full leather get up. Cap and glasses obscuring his face and chains that clink whenever he walks.  They go back to the stallions flat. Off screen sex occurs. The next shot is the young guy, naked, having his hands tied behind his back. He doesn't like this but is being talked into it by Chains. Next Chains draws a thin knife from his boots and starts playing with it. Young guy is frantic now and begs to be let out but Chains is now teasing him. Chains then stabs the young guy repeatedly in the back. This is graphically shot and you see the knife going in and the young guy screaming. This was a really, really intense scene. I was now hooked on the story and had to know where it ended.I am not gay and I am liberally minded. Having been to Thailand, Ibiza and Amsterdam I have had my arse felt a few times in dance clubs. I am not bothered by this as long as it stays each to their own, but I have no knowledge of the proper underground gay scene. The closest I get is working with a gay man at work, and enjoying watching Will & Grace. Like the brilliant 8 Mile this film was an introduction to a world I knew nothing about. The depiction of the activities in the Gay Club left nothing to the imagination. Never shown but implied were scenes of fisting and watersports. This, as well the very graphic violence meant this film was still quite close to the bone (no pun intended!) in 2003 so I could barely imagine what an impact this had in 1980's America.The police are now on the case, but more gay men start turning up brutally stabbed. A Harvard professor has already been murdered and a Hollywood stylist gets brutally stabbed in a cheap peep joint when he had been picking up a stars dress for an awards ceremony. These are respectable people who were not known to be involved in this extreme scene, so the political pressure gets turned up.In comes Al to the proceedings. He wants to be a detective but hasn't been given his chance yet. He is offered accelerated promotion to Detective branch if he agrees to go undercover as he is the same type of Italian Stallion that the perp seems to target. What comes next is a wonderful example of both acting and directing as young, naive, straight Al Pacino starts his undercover role. Reporting only to his chief (Paul Sorvino) and getting set up in a flat in a gay area of New York, it is riveting stuff to see Al Pacino learn from his mistakes when he visits the gay club. He learns that different coloured neckscarfes worn in either the left back pocket, or the right back pocket mean a different sexual taste! It is funny in a black comedy way watching him try to pick some one up to see if they are the killer, when it is quite clear he doesn't want to pick them up because he is not gay.Al has a girlfriend played by Karen Allen who only knows he is undercover but she doesn't know where or what he is doing. Al's character starts to go deepcover and begins to lose himself in the culture. He starts to empathise with the gay community and even gets hassled by prejudice cops. This is brilliantly handled by the director and the actor. A sympathetic approach to hardcore homosexuality in 1980? No wonder it disappeared.Meanwhile the killer is still on the loose. You see Chains picking people up in parks and by toilets or you see him visiting the bar. You can never see him properly. You can only hear the distinctive clink of his chains. This started to make me apprehensive whenever I heard the rattle of his chains. Now that's good direction!Al Pacino starts to lose himself as he goes deepcover but starts making progress on the case. I wont give away anymore in case someone watches it.I found this movie to be a really rewarding experience. It reminded me why I love movies in the first place. It is not an easy movie to watch and its subject matter is made to make you squirm, but this movie really got to me! To watch all the way through when all I was doing was channel flicking is a real test of a movies quality in my humble opinion.So there you go. Not a new movie but a bloody good one that most people may have missed. IMDB has not been too kind to it but hey, what do I know?  "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpiece, if slightly flawed","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly, if I hadn't been working at a theatre where this film was playing, I probably wouldn't be writing this today. On first viewing, the film seems like a bit of a mess, and more than a little exploitative to boot. After several viewings, though, I had to admit that any movie that could mess with my head this hard had to have something going for it.Rumour has it that this film was pretty brutally slashed by the studio, which is probably why it seems a bit disjointed at times. Still, watching Pacino wrestle with his conflicting feelings about the environment in which he finds himself is a treat, and the ambiguous ending leaves enough loose ends to keep you thinking.Some have called this film homophobic. I think it's actually quite progressive, especially for the times, when most films were either ignoring gays entirely or stereotyping them as comic relief. The more adventurous filmmakers might put in a sympathetic gay character in a supporting role, in a patronizing some of my best friends... sort of way.This film, by contrast, portrays its gay characters as a group of human beings with all the diversity of any other group-- some are nice guys, some are assholes, some have hangups, etc. Sure, it focuses on the seamier side of the scene; that's why it's a thriller and not a comedy. But Cruising's message is not that all homosexuals are amoral sluts, just as National Lampoon's Vacation's message is not that all white people are stupid. "},{"Title":"Very intense, thought provoking and cool!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fantastic!  Although many dislike this film, including Mr. Pacino, I find it to be an intense, realistic and wonderfully acted New York Thriller. Putting the controversy aside, the film is just great!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Not as Controversial as It's made out to be ...","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So-so mystery ... good depiction of NYC at that time.  The controversy was around the gay S&M stuff ... but let's face it it happened.  Not an accurate depiction of the larger gay community - but not unrealistic.  Gay people can be serial killers too.  Not all straight people are like Norman Bates either... "},{"Title":"Controversial Cult Classic.  Holds up many years later.","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising is a movie which should be seen by brave viewers who are sick and tired of the safe formula retreads Hollywood sends to the local multiplexes every weekend, which live and die by the opening weekend box office gross and are forgotten the instant moviegoers walk out of the theater. The film may not be very coherent from a narrative or storytelling standpoint, but it challenges the viewer in ways seldom seen in a major studio production with an extremely recognizable lead actor.Al Pacino plays Steve Burns, a detective offered an assignment to go undercover in the gay underground to find a serial killer who preys on gay men. As the film progresses, the movie becomes less about the search for the killer but more about Burns' search within himself to find his true sexual identity. He has clearly been affected by his assignment in ways which are not explicitly presented to the viewer, only conveyed through subtle mannerisms by Pacino in what is surely his most underrated performance.Crusing works as both a tense thriller and as a slasher film. And includes scenes that would probably make the filmmakers of Brokeback Mountain blush. But mostly, the film is a statement on society a world where nobody really knows anyone except themselves. Who is the killer? Everyone is a suspect.People like Senator Larry Craig have lived a lie their entire lives and will continue to do so because they feel society, the career path they have chosen, and the image they are expected to project leave them with no other choice. For some, doing their best to hide who they truly are is the only rational alternative. Steve Burns goes through a similar dilemma during the course of Cruising. And in the film's final scene, it is left to the viewer to decide whether he has come to that conclusion or not.A daring film. Entertaining. Thought-provoking. Shocking. Unexpectedly funny at times. Al Pacino's most courageous performance. William Friedkin's very best. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Distasteful But Historically Significant","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Gay characters began to reach the American screen in the 1960s, but they would not be portrayed with any validity until the 1980s. Curiously, one of the most homophobic films created by Hollywood would mark the transition the 1980 William Friedkin CRUISING starring Al Pacino, Paul Sorvino, and Karen Allen.Based on the novel of the same name, CRUISING might best be described as a sexual thriller. Police officer Steve Burns (Al Pacino) is sent undercover into the gay community to attract and identify a serial killer who stalks New York City S&M bars, slashing and sometimes dismembering his victims with a serrated knife. But even as the killer strikes again and again, Burns becomes more and more entangled in this extremely dark world, comes to identify with the killer, and eventually self-destructs in a particularly nightmarish way.From an artistic standpoint, CRUISING has several things going for it. Director Friedkin has an interesting eye, and the film has an unexpectedly gritty, at times almost documentary-like style. It also has tremendous atmosphere; it is adept at making the viewer feel unsettled. The cast is also effective in heightening the disturbing tone of the film as a whole. What the film does not have is a coherent plot, nor does it have anything approaching a decent script, and it is grotesquely insulting to the gay community in several ways.CRUISING equates homosexuality with an extreme sexual lifestyle, and what emerges is a portrait of nasty men doing nasty things in nasty bars. Does such a subculture exist in the gay community? Of course it does, just as it does in the heterosexual community--but CRUISING posits this as the norm for homosexuals. Even more distastefully, what ultimately emerges is the idea that a heterosexual man can be seduced into the gay community in which (at least according to the film) extreme sex, insanity, and violent death all go hand in hand. And it was precisely this that so outraged many in the gay community when the film was made. Film shoots were repeatedly disrupted by protests, and director Friedkin tried to calm the matter by stating that CRUISING was not about homosexuals--an extremely bizarre statement that only fueled community ire.A number of gay organizations greeted the film with boycotts, but as it happened their efforts were unnecessary. Few critics and even fewer moviegoers liked the film and it soon faded from view. Seen today it reads very much like a snapshot of American homophobia in 1980 and little more. But CRUISING does have a certain historical significance by and large it would be the last major Hollywood film to present the entire gay community in a wholly negative light.The very outrageousness of the film seemed to prompt American film makers to a much needed reevaluation of the way in which gay characters were portrayed on screen. Although gay man equals bad man characters have cropped up in a few films since--Kevin Costner's NO WAY OUT and several of Mel Gibson's films come to mind--the overall reaction to CRUISING killed the stereotype. And so the film, in an accidental sort of way, is significant from a historical standpoint; film historians and movie buffs will find it interesting, and I give it three stars for their sake. But just about everyone else should leave it alone.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"still waiting for the unedited version","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Has anyone else noticed how this movie is not available on DVD???  We all know about the missing 40 minutes (maybe more?), and I think it would be rather interesting to hear Pacino's take on the movie, as well as get the extra footage.I'm interested primarily if it was taken out because it was too anti-homosexual, or too pro-homosexual (even bi-sexual, re the Pacino character).I do find it interesting that no one has brought up that amid all the anti-homosexual talk, this film revolves around police trying to catch a killer who is stalking homosexual men, regardless of their persuasions.  How does this differ from Silence of the Lambs?Just waiting for the DVD.... "},{"Title":"Tough Call","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Until a completely restored original (or director's cut) version of Cruising is released, it's pretty futile to try and assess its value.With a reported forty minutes excised from this film, it's a wonder it comes across as well as it does.  Forty minutes is half of many features, and its deletion is enough to undermine any production. William Friedkin and Al Pacino bring their high degree of professionalism to the project, but they're certainly handicapped by the censor's sheers.I'm not sure what's the background of Pacino's Burns, and what all that business is about implying that he was somehow mixed up in the final discovered case.  We're told almost nothing about his past, and left to make our own meager assumptions. It must also be said that much of Friedkin's atmosphere comes from his sweeping Panavision images in a live theater.  The average tv monitor cannot do justice here. So it's a very tough call to try and make any kind of quality judgment on Cruising as it stands as of this writing.  Perhaps one day we'll have the pleasure of viewing the original as initially intended by the director.  What a rewarding day that will be. "},{"Title":"Realistic film that still stands up today.","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One point subtracted because we aren't seeing the directors complete vision,but apart from that the film is faultless.Whilst some may say this is something of a period piece depicting gay life for the late 70's S&M crowd, there are still clubs such as those shown in the film in major cities throughout the world.As a gay man myself, I can't see why the gay community kicked up such a fuss about this film when it was originally released, because what is shown on screen is pretty realistic, if somewhat toned down from what actually takes place in such clubs and bars.The performances throughout are exemplary with Al Pacino giving one of the finest performances of his career. It was only when watching this again recently that I noticed Joe Spinelli(of 'Maniac' fame) stars as one of the cops in the car near the start of the film,and then reappears later as a leather man cruising Al Pacino in a bar.A gripping film that I recommend wholeheartedly to open minded adults. "},{"Title":"has tamed very slightly by today's standards, but it has the power to unsettle through psychology not backdrop","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Yes, Cruising has gay people. Lots of them. Most of them in leather, costumes (there's a cop night at a club, ironic for Pacino's character), who lead double lives with their leather and homosexual sex at night, and successful careers during the day. But as William Friedkin points out repeatedly on the newly released DVD, the West Village Manhattan backdrop of the S & M bars and bondage-fetish lifestyle is just that, a backdrop. He's not intending to make a statement either way that this way of life is bad or not. It's a murder mystery story that, in a sense, could've took place in any environment (look at it as though the setting were regular heterosexual bars, with a man getting at women, and it wouldn't be much different if only for, uh, sex and misogyny misplaced). It's still meant as neo-noir, and it's a good one. That it's not great should be expected.It's plot ends up a little confusing (which, Friedkin also said, is part of his own metaphor for the story in the picture as one doesn't know who is really the killer, killers merging perhaps, or a killer still lurking at the end of the film even as things look tidy plot wise). But this isn't too much of a deterrent to enjoying the bulk of Cruising, as a cop (Pacino) goes undercover in the Village to search for a killer who's taking out gays, either by stabbing repeatedly or by cutting off a body limb or two, dumping in the river. We get the missteps (wrong suspect brought in, and in a bizarre moment a big black guy slaps him and Pacino around a bit, which oddly enough Friedkin also says was based on a real incident), the obsessive following of John Struthers, and even some dark, unsettling tension that edges towards the erotic. It also helps that Friedkin has a good docu-drama type of cinematography at hand (meant to be in b&w), and superb songs from Willy DeVille and the Germs.But it doesn't mean Cruising is without flaws. Maybe more-so for some. A central one for me is that Pacino's character isn't fully developed. We get a lot of scenes early on establishing the killer, this environment, and Friedkin gets a very good feel for this world, this sort of enclosed place where things are surreal but charged with an energy that isn't alien. But Pacino is sort of left with he's got a girlfriend he loves, that's it, and he has to work within a slightly 2-dimensional frame of a character. Which he can still do as well as an actor like Pacino can do, with few-to-no BIG scenes out outbursts or what-have-you. Yet as this officer plunges further into a situation he can't control, and can't totally assimilate to (the most he goes towards being in homosexual contact is getting tied up in a scene ala one of the deceased, saved by other cops who burst in before going any further). The one little piece of interest is suggestion, which is half Pacino half Friedkin, where the contact of being around this world of the clubs and these people get to him when he does have regular sex with his girlfriend Karen Allen. He's changed, sort of subliminally, in how he perceives contact, which is also seen with the character Ted.It's a little trashy, actually respectable, and a bit better than you might've heard from the initial critical reactions. Cruising isn't any great shakes, but it's almost fun in the depths that Friedkin goes to in giving just that slight turn of the screws to a detective genre piece. It shakes things up just enough to get noticed, for better or worse, as an original work. "}{"Title":"Cruising for a bruising","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Freidkin's career was going so well that he decided to sabotage it by throwing himself head first down the sewer without a return ticket. This film has a verite style which in layman's terms means it is 'fly on the wall'. In fact, it's so static it could be an entirely new genre, 'squashed fly on the wall'. It's dead pan style made for an anti-climatic ending.Al Pacino plays an undercover cop and is a fine actor. And he should have been fined for signing to this. It is, however, informative on a number of issues, not least that police officers are expected to have sex with men in order to get a gold shield. But then, what do I know about police work? There's also a scene in which a sex shop salesman explains the meaning of handkerchiefs. If it's in the left pocket, you take it in the sport's section. If it's in the right, you give it in the funnies. If you wrap it around your head then your a subscriber. I forget the bit about red and white. What worries me is what happens if you actually have a sinus problem.Because of it's controversial subject matter, the producers added a disclaimer explaining that the film only depicted a section of the gay community and was not intended to be representative of the hole. I thought, who is 'the hole'? Is he one of the local faces like the mysterious Tommy the Joker mentioned to Captain Edelson by Pacino in the bar scene? Then I realised I had mis-read it, it was 'whole'. So 'the hole' can rest easy, wherever he is. Or she. But the gay community, as it is so often patronisingly referred to, was not placated and criticised the film for treating homosexuality like a disease. This complaint has some justification, not least in the meeting between Captain Edelson and Patrolman DiSimone at the murder scene towards the film's close and Pacino's somewhat fatuous succumbing to the dark side. The force is with him though, especially on precinct night down the club where you see things being done with a tin whistle that would make your eyes water. The film drops in the odd disclaimer such as Pacino telling Edelson that he didn't join the Police Department to s**t-can some guy just because he's gay but you can tell it's largely cosmetic. The plea bargain at the end is especially shocking, a gay man's life not being worth much next to even minor political careers. I think the disease portrayed is actually male violence and the unsavoury attractions and power of a uniform. There are other allusions such as the killer and the cop both having issues with their fathers but it's a largely superficial work by a talented director. "},{"Title":"Into the Heart of Darkness","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** With the Democratic Convention coming to New York City a rash of murders of local gay New Yorkers has put the NYPD on the case in a very big way. From the mayor on down every city official wants the politically explosive murders stopped, and solved, as soon as possible. NYPD Detective Captain Edelson, Paul Sorvino,gets local patrol cop Steve Berns, Al Pacino,to go undercover in the gay community to help find and arrest the killer before he kills again. At the same time Burns is very uncomfortable with his new and secret assignment. Not having any idea of the local gay lifestyle Burns feels it would alienate him from his live-in girlfriend Nancy Gates, Karen Allen, but he really has no choice in the matter. The movie Cruising has some of the most graphic scenes ever, in a major studio released motion picture, about the heavy leather and S&M gay world. Those scenes are peppered into the movie in almost every other sequence to the point that it almost loses it's story about a gay serial killer on the lose.Burns taking the name John Forbes and moving into a West Village apartment tries to get familiarized with the clubs and bars that the killer frequents to find new victims in his bloody rampage against gays. Even with a strong police presence the killer goes on his way killing gays but now he's being tracked by the undercover Steve Burns aka John Forbes who got a good idea to who he is. It turns out that the killer Stuart Richards, Richard Cox, is an art student at Columbia University. Stuart's first victim was a professor Vincent who's class he attended. Officer Burns realized that Stuart was seen at the local gay bars in the village were a number of the killers victims were picked up and later murdered. The very fact that Stuart was also a student of the murdered Prof. Vincent, who was also gay, was just too much of a coincidence to be overlooked.Breaking into Stuart's apartment on the Columbia Collage campus Burns finds a number of leather jackets and caps hidden in his closet. The clothes match the ones that Burns saw the person who looked a lot like Stuart at a number West Village gay bars and clubs. There's also a box-full of letters written by Stuart to his father, who's been dead for ten years, begging his forgiveness for not being the man that he always wanted him to be. The movie ends on a confusing note where we don't exactly know if Stuart is really the killer or not. Ever more surprising it's not made clear if someone else had taken up Stuarts cause or crusade against New York's gay community. Since a number of murders, including Burns' next door gay neighbor Ted (Don Scardino), happen after Stuart was already taken into custody. You don't know for sure but it seems as if the now very troubled and confused, about his own sexuality, Officer Burns had lost his bearing and went off the deep end. Burns may have began murdering gays like the killer he was assigned to capture! As the movie ends we see Capt. Edelson investigating Ted's murder and then pulls back in a white fright, this was the first time in the movie that he showed any real or genuine emotions at all, when he finds out who possibly may have murdered him! Edelson finds that Officer Burns, using the name John Forbes, was living in the next door apartment at the time of Ted's murder! Did Edelson at that point realize that in what he did in trying to find and apprehend the gay serial killer he unknowingly created an even bigger Frankenstein Monster! A monster Which he and his bosses in the NYPD would have to answer for in the very near future. "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not as offensive as it's reputed to be (the opening disclaimer is self-explanatory), and almost a pleasant (so to speak) surprise, coming from the director of two of the most overrated movies ever made, I think (The French Connection and the Exorcist). At least it's more character-driven than those films, a fascinating story of a man who changes and evolves during the course of the picture, perfectly played by Al Pacino. The film may not be as fully-developed as we might have wanted (they say it was cut before release), but it has a gritty, grungy realism and a feel of authenticity.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Brave and innovative but an opportunity wasted","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Brave and innovative, in that, despite being made in 1980, when gay lifestyles were less accepted, the movie sets a murder-drama against the backdrop of New York's underground gay subculture. Moreover, the gay background is represented in a balanced fashion.With this backdrop, the movie starts out very interesting and intriguingly. However, it seems to run out of new ideas after a point and drifts. There are some silly interludes and scenes, and the plot gets confusing.There is a great twist at the end, but this doesn't make up for the disappointment of an opportunity wasted to make a thoughtful and telling movie. "},{"Title":"Pacino Cruising.","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising (1980) Dir William Friedkin / Cast Al Pacino, Paul Sorvino, Karen Allen, Richard Cox, Don Scardino Disturbing and sexually graphic thriller about a search for the killer of several gay males whose body parts are found in a river. Al Pacino plays Steve Burns, a cop who resembles the victims and is assigned to go undercover to seek out the killer. Director William Friedkin details the film with insightful elements of the gay and leather lifestyle including a scene where he learns what various colored bandannas mean in what pockets. Pacino plays Burns as someone shocked at what he witnesses at these bars but he takes several risks that lead to potential suspects. He grows frustrated and alienated from his regular life. He is also disgusted with the police brutality stemmed from homophobia. Paul Sorvino's role as police chief is more standard issue with barking orders, issuing interrogations and convincing Burns to remain on the case. Karen Allen plays Steve's girlfriend who feels the emotional distance when her boyfriend cannot explain the nature of his case. Richard Cox plays a suspect whom Burns follows after breaking into his apartment. Don Scardino plays a struggling gay playwrite who befriends Burns. The sexual lifestyle showcased here is graphic and certain acts are downright disturbing to watch but it does point to the hostile world such sexual orientations go cruising into. Score 8 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A film that pushed the limits back then it  would still hold up in today's world due to it's who done it suspense theme!","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After many years finally watched the little talked about but known 1980 thriller Cruising which was directed by the legend William Friedkin(The Exorcist and The French Connection). And for a film of 1980 which it's focus is that of a gay culture before the years of AIDS even though many scenes were graphic with blood and gore pushing the limits the film held up as a good suspense thriller as you the viewer ask questions after each and every murder as like who done it? Set in New York city on the streets it's a tale of a serial killer who's on the prowl killing off gay men and his methods are entrapment of stalking them from gay bars to their apartments with a fetish of S&M while finishing each off with a knife in a very bloody way. In the lead role is Al Pacino(who was already a star)as detective Burns a young and up and coming investigator who's assigned to go undercover at the local gay clubs to try and crack the case. All along this changes and affects the life of Burns both personal and job wise. Thru it all this film entertains with suspense drama all while it's a showcase of a subculture that's in a different world from the norm of society, which true from 1980 standards might be more acceptable in today's world still this film was an underrated centerpiece of thrill and suspense one film that a thriller fan should see, for the fact that it's a tease and that it's murders are still a mystery leaving the viewer asking who done it? "},{"Title":"The enthralling and erotic scenes never arrive .....","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So was Cruising supposed to be a thriller? Or was it about one man's gradual descent into a subculture which is looked down upon by society and the police department that employs him? Friedkin has a tough job on hand - he is making a thriller, so the film needs the thrills and the twists. But he is also making a film about a cop who is gradually attracted to the lifestyle of the people he is spying on. Friedkin does not do a good job handling these two aspects of the film or stringing them together. In the end, Cruising is neither a great thriller not a great character study.I really wanted to like this movie. I was waiting for the enthralling scenes where Pacino turned it on. But instead you have many scenes with Pacino casually walking into an underground gay bar and looking around at the debauchery going on around him. It is almost like Friedkin is saying - look, this is all so provocative. But the blatant scenes of debauchery leave you cold rather than shocked. Friedkin did such a great job gradually building up the changes in Regan's personality as she is taken over by Demon Pasusu in The Exorcist. But there is none of that ingenuity in Cruising. A bit of subtlety would have helped the movie. Instead, you are hit on the head with all the gay sex scenes. The hard rock music played during the scenes in the bar are cheesy. And so are the actors who play the gay men taking part in the debauchery.Also, Pacino is introduced a good fifteen minutes into the film. We know nothing about him. Is he a conservative cop? Does he dislike gay people? We are told literally nothing about this character.The scenes which indicate Pacino's increasing attraction to the S&M scenes are few and far between. They are quite flimsy as well. The ambiguous ending was a bit hard to believe. There is nothing that came before the ending that adds any weight to the ambiguity.Sorvino and Pacino seemed to be sleepwalking through their roles. Pacino is really good in some of the scenes (like the one where is dancing with a patron at the bar. That was intense.). But he is nowhere as intense as he is in Serpico. The scene with Powers Boothe was quite funny. But another one where Pacino is told off by a patron at the bar came across as trite.We do get a good look around New York. The film made me wonder what it would have been like to live in a great city like that in the 70s and 80s. A city that gave the opportunity to a man to become whatever he wanted to be.Norman Mailer wrote (in Tough Guys Don't Dance) that people become cops to escape the criminal or deviant inside them. I guess Pacino's character in the movie confirms to this view. "},{"Title":"Painfully ambiguous photographic masterpiece","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising has William Friedkin directing Al Pacino as an undercover cop who immerses himself in New York City's underground gay S&M subculture in order to track a killer who is filleting gay men across Manhattan. Infamously protested by the gay community upon its release, Cruising is upfront and unyielding in its depiction of the leather subculture; Friedkin does not shy away from depicting raw sexuality anymore than he does candid violence, and it's no surprise that a film like this caused such an uproar in 1980. Opinions on the film are myriad and vary from interpreter to interpreter, and it's perhaps one of the most frustrating thrillers of all time because there are so many different ways in which we can make sense of it. Friedkin toys with the audience deliberately by employing various actors as the sinister killer, which in effect puts a damper on the murder-mystery plot arc and forces the audience to focus on the bigger picture&#x97; the devil is not in the details here.The film has been interpreted as an admonishment of gay S&M subculture, a prescient metaphor for AIDS, and an exploration of sexual repression and the ways in which that bubbles into violence. My theory on the film is more in line with the latter, and I find it impossible to take any definitive stance on the crosspatch of possibilities that Friedkin leaves us with in regard to who the killer really is&#x97; the fact remains that there is really no way way to make sense of it no matter how we attempt to piece it together. There is no resolve. Ultimately, all that we are left with is a series of senseless and vicious murders in an underground culture of men on the fringes of society. The cinematography shines here, and is perhaps the film's strongest suit amidst a narrative that irritatingly closes in on itself over and over again. Cruising is a photographic masterpiece full of phenomenal compositions, haunting murder scenes, and a very astute capturing of subculture, sex, and the nightlife of New York City. Friedkin's signature grit is in every frame, and combined with the borderline-nihilistic narrative, the final product is graphic and almost depressing. Al Pacino turns in a strong performance that is as ambiguous as the material itself, with a supporting cast portraying everyone from closet-case patrol officers to sassy drag queens and innocent abused lovers. All in all, while Cruising is perhaps one of the most ambiguous thrillers I've ever seen, I still feel it is culturally and social relevant, and worth seeing if for nothing more than the cinematography and the genius compositions on display. It's disheartening, disturbing, and offers us no answers, leaving us in a circular state of confusion; a who-dun-it without the dun-it. In the end, all I can definitively say about it is that Cruising shows us that the potential for violence bubbles underneath the surfaces of us all, and repression of any kind is ostensibly more dangerous than a knife itself. 8/10. "},{"Title":"awesome hard hitting Pacino","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the most hard-hitting movies ever made IMO .... One of Pacino's best ever performances. Paul Sorvino is great and in general the casting and quality of the cast is as good as it gets .If you are homophobic don't watch it . This movie is not 'politically correct' and would not get made today, not by a long shot. It is very much a time capsule - pre AIDS and before they 'cleaned up' NYC The music used is great especially the stuff by Mutiny.A lot of people will not be able to get past the 'subject matter' But if you have an open mind , let yourself descend into the darkness of what is one of the darkest films ever made .... "},{"Title":"A Dark Twisted Classic","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this film I thought it was okay (dark, cold, but okay). The second time I saw it I thought it was pretty bad (I didn't realise how bad it was). Third time I saw it I thought it was absolute garbage (exploitative trash).Years later, when I was older and more mature I watched it a fourth time - the new remastered version. Absolutely brilliant! A classic. And now I've watched it a fifth time and can confirm, this is one of William Friedkin's finest and one of the greatest pictures of 70s cinema.This is 70s film making at its best and reminds me once again just how bad modern cinema has become. From the first chords of that synthesiser score you know it's the 70s (or specifically that transitional period between the 70s and 80s). A mustachioed guy puffing on a cigarette, a gloomy NY backdrop, a severed arm - here we go...For those of you who enjoy American cinema from this period, or Friedkin, or Pacino I recommend you get a copy of this film pronto to see what all the fuss is about. The new remastered version shines a whole new light on it, revealing colours and textures that were missing from the grimy video version.This is one of the darkest most suspenseful films and works on many different levels. It's an undercover detective thriller, a psychological horror movie, a slasher flick, and it works as both a mainstream and B-Movie.This film makes you want to hop in a time capsule and travel back to the 70s, or at least go walking round New York city to see how the locations have changed (If you don't live in NY you can always check them out on Google Maps in 3-D). The meat packing district has totally transformed since those days due to gentrification.Much has been said about the controversy surrounding Cruising. The main argument is obviously that Friedkin exploits homosexuals or that the picture is downright homophobic. All I can say is, absolute crap. These critics should be gently placed in the category of 'politically correct nuisance' along with critics of Clockwork Orange, Straw Dogs, Freebie and the Bean and all the rest. It's a detective thriller that just happens to take place in the world of gay S & M. It could have happened in the African American world of reggae, or the Country Honk of the South or the Latino world of the Copacabana. But it doesn't. It takes place in the gay leather bars of New York.I think the main reason why this film did so badly on its original release has nothing to do with either the quality of the film, or the fact that it was homophobic but because this was the 70s for chrissake and the majority of people didn't take too kindly to homosexuals in general. These were very right wing macho conservative times - people were watching Little House on a Prairie, and Harry Callahan. They weren't interested in Pacino wearing makeup and leather, dancing with a yellow scarf and sniffing poppers. Nowadays even the Arab Bedouins in the desert have seen a commercial for Gay TV (the times have changed).****SPOILER ALERT**** The film has many twists & turns leaving an open ending with no easy answers. However, when you watch the documentary Friedkin pretty much clears things up. There is no specific killer and his identity changes from scene to scene - to add suspense. The killer is actually a composite of several characters. Thus, the identity of the killer becomes irrelevant, a McGuffin so to speak leaving the viewers to use their heads a little and make their own minds up. A tactic that you will rarely, if ever see in modern mainstream cinema.And as for the theory that Pacino might be the killer, I always thought this was stupid. Has the job changed him - sure. Has the undercover work in the leather bars made him question his own sexuality - perhaps. Did he stab the wrong guy in the end and almost commit murder - possibly. But why the hell would he be the actual killer - that's just stupid. "}{"Title":"Still very pertinent and to the point, somehow.","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film was important when it came out in 1980. We were just before the AIDS pandemic hit the world. In New York the gay scene had crossed the line of simple ordinary cruising to enter the hard line of sado maso sex, leather paraphernalia and a certain amount of constraint, force, violence, etc., what some call authoritarian gay sex. In that scene criminal violence is then a lot more difficult to trace and find out because it does not stand out like a sore thumb but gets blended in the surrounding violence.One serial killer is running on that stage in New York and to pick him, to find him out a cop has to be sent undercover. He is young, handsome, not gay at all, and yet he is going to get into the gay business. He finds out that this cruising is first of all attractive because it deals with feelings that are not satisfied otherwise love, friendship, equal force and equal power. It is more some accompliceship than real sensation or emotion. The lovers meet halfway in the project of being as strong as the other, of submitting the other and be submitted to the other by this other precisely. This narcissistic fascination, this love for the other who is my equal and to whom I must submit to be his equal because he submits to me to be my equal &#x96; submission, domination and yet total communion and equality. This side is actually not explored enough in this film, except of course occasionally when the undercover cop meets with his next door neighbor the playwright. But that is little and it will end badly anyway because in such a situation jealousy and possessiveness are the two main characteristics of some couples who cannot accept any intruder, in spite of the fact that the gay bars are necessarily open stages and open situations. For some to get into a relation is also to get out of all opportunities to meet with another possible relation, the rejection of any promiscuity. That is not typical of the gay scene but men have not been used to being dominated by their partners for something like 300,000 years like women. Such situations can become very nasty.The film exploits another line without giving all the details. The serial killer was rejected by a father who, we understand, refused his gay orientation and required that he should change orientation in order to be given the support he wants. Unluckily it is suggested that the father has been dead for ten years. Hard on the chap who has not been able to prove himself to his father and is out in the wild without a father behind him, except as a phantasm to whom he writes hundred of letters, every week or so, without sending them, of course. Then we enter the field of perversion, rather simple actually, maybe too simple. He uses his sexual orientation to capture a prey, has sex with, complete or partial sex, it does not matter, and then he kills his prey who made him do this. It sounds simple because it is not explored enough. It is true we were in 1980 and that was a long time before profiling became popular, a long time before Criminal Minds. It will excuse the lack of expertise with DNA too.The subject was interesting, but the treatment has aged a lot and appears today rather simple if not superficial or just plain provocative, though the provocation has completely gotten out of the picture for us today.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Challenging, if incomplete film.","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" William Friedkin's controversial 'Cruising' is a challenging and oftentimes frustrating film. The story centers around Al Pacino going undercover to find a serial killer in the gay BDSM culture of late 70's NYC. The story seems simply enough, right? Well, it's deceiving as what Friedkin does is take the audience into a dark abyss of sordid sex, extreme debauchery, and brutal violence. It is, quite honestly, one of the more uncomfortable American films of the period to sit through.The problem with the picture are the character motivations are vague for virtually all involved (Pacino, the killer, and the police chief). Why is the killer doing this? Why is Pacino starting to lose it? What is the deal with the police chief? Does he care about Pacino or not? Everything is so opaque and mysterious that the film is both fascinating and aggravating at the same time. And perhaps that was done on purpose, but considering reportedly 40 minutes was cut from the film I would imagine that many of those questions I posed were more clear. The ending itself is even more strange and confusing and I would suspect that while the ending wouldn't have been wrapped up in a nice little bow for the audience (nor would I expect that in a Friedkin film), the viewer could at least attempt to make more sense of it. "},{"Title":"A curious piece of film history and little else","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising is one of those film oddities from the 1980's that is far more interesting to read about than it is to actually view. Comparatively, Silent Night, Deadly Night and Showgirls are the same way. Reading about the controversy they caused, the reactions they prompted, and the impact they left leaves a person more fulfilled than watching the actual product often does.Cruising was controversial as could be during its release in 1980. The film's portrayal of gay clubs and their patrons was deemed homophobic, and the film was criticized for having a narrow-minded look and attitude towards gay culture. Gay activists were offended, Christian-conservatives were offended, and I'm slightly offended because for a film bearing such meaty controversy, a relatively unexplored culture at the time, and boasting Al Pacino, this could've been such a treat.Instead, this is a film that's tonally all over the place, hints at subtexts and underlying ideas it never comes close to identifying or tying together, and feels incomplete all around. The film seems so set on shock value that it forgets other aspects to further fulfill its story. Maybe it's because I've been reviewing films for almost five years and occasionally feel like I've seen it all (and given the extremes films gravitate towards in current times) but Cruising's shock value seemed depressing minimal.Pacino plays Steve Burns, a rugged New York City cop tracking down a serial killer who is known to kill gays in the popular gay S&M community. In order to get into character and gain access to information within the gay community in a natural manner, Burns goes undercover as a gay man, frequenting local gay nightclubs around town dressed in black leather and suited up with slick latex outfits.The world of leather, seedy nightclubs, and homosexuality is portrayed about how you'd expect; dark, other-worldly, and often uncomfortable but not unrealistic. The booming bass of the club music and the exuberant sight of warm blue and black colors give the film's aesthetic something lively to look at. It's the scenes that take place outside of these clubs that are dreadfully tiresome and boring, turning in to your average suspense-thriller, a genre we kind of hope Friedkin would've done more toying with.Cruising has the original plot and the audacity to show us some pretty graphic scenes inside the gay club, but the suspense scenes lack any kind of a bite. The torture aspect of them is very slim and the entertainment factor is even lower. Pacino works with what he has (no pun intended), but even he occasionally looks cold and unfazed by this kind of repetitive material. The novelty of this picture is entirely rooted in the film's bloated controversy, and because of that, its reputation as an oddity from the eighties is probably the only leg it has left to stand on in present time.Starring Al Pacino. Directed by William Friedkin. "},{"Title":"Feelin' Friedkin","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After The Exorcist (1973) and The French Connection (1971), William Friedkin fell hard and fast into the world of mediocrity. Before his career crashed and burned, however, he made 3 fairly interesting films.Released in 1977, Sorcerer was Friedkin's remake of 1953's Wages of Fear. Both films find a group of international criminals hiding from the law in a small South American village. Struggling to make ends meet they agree to work for an oil company. Their task? Drive truckloads of volatile nitroglycerin over three hundred miles of treacherous jungle terrain. Though tense in places, Sorcerer was a huge box office flop. A stupid title and poor marketing meant that audiences stayed well away. Like Coppola, Friedkin took his crew to the jungle and seemed to never quite return. Three years after Sorcerer, Friedkin directed Cruising, a little known film staring Al Pacino. Here Pacino plays an undercover police officer who poses as a homosexual man in the hopes of catching a serial killer responsible for murdering several gay men. As such, Pacino infiltrates the leather bars, a subculture of gay life in which men wear S&M fetish-wear. Cruising's a fairly interesting film, but Friedkin's portrayal of gay lifestyles is too caricatural, too derogatory (homosexuals as lair dwelling vampires?), and his plot rarely excites. Worse still is the film's thin vein of homophobia, and Friedkin's aligning of gay sex to physical violence (earlier edits subliminally spliced shots of hard-core penetration into the film's murder sequences). This isn't as dubious as some of Friedkin's other works - the racist/crypto-Imperialist Rules of Engagement, the death-penalty loving Rampage, the ultra conservative, science/woman/hippie bashing Exorcist etc - but almost. Lifting the climax to 1977's Looking for Mr Goodbar, Friedkin then ends with Pacino's character's latent homosexuality triggering a self-loathing that sees him assuming the place of the film's killer. This climax has been criticised by many, but is one of the film's saving graces. Here, law enforcement and bourgeois values are portrayed as being inherently repressive, violent and constructed via the destruction of everything that deviates from traditional masculinity. In other words cops hate gays because they're repressing their own touchy-feely, homo-erotic feelings.Beyond this, Cruising boasts some fine cinematography, the director using the black and white motifs of the leather bars to sculpt the entire look of his film. Aside from some cold blues, Cruising might as well be monochromatic.Friedkin's last watchable film was To Live And Die in LA, one of the better crime pictures of the 1980s (see the superior Cutter's Way). It stars William Petersen as a Secret Service agent responsible for tracking down a counterfeiter, but Friedkin's plot is unimportant. Savour instead the film's breezy atmosphere, catchy soundtrack and its slick action sequences. What's most interesting about To Live And Die In LA, however, is its possible influence on director Michael Mann. Petersen would star in Mann's Manhunter several years later, a film in which Mann's style changes drastically from the dour tone he initially utilised in Thief (1981). Mann seems to have also been influenced by Friedkin's use of the German electronic group Tangerine Dream (who scored Sorcerer and who brought synthesisers and trance music to the mainstream) and the stylised visuals that Friedkin had hit upon. Of course Mann's Miami Vice was released a year before To Live and Die, so it may well be Mann who's the influence on Friedkin.Regardless, in many ways To Live and Die in LA is the link between the gritty crime films of the 1970s and the more stylised crime films that would came later; the point at which neo-realism meets slick MTV visuals and cutting. In the 1990s, Michael Mann would marry this cocktail to the designer existentialism of Jean Pierre Melville (see The Samurai, The Fingermen, Bob the Gamber), giving rise to Heat.5/10 - See Cutter's Way. "},{"Title":"Crusing is an underrated thriller","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising is one of the most controversial films in the last 40 years, up there with Straw dogs, Clockwork orange, and Natural born killers. The film follows police officer Steve Burns (Al Pacino) who has been assigned by Captain Edelson (Paul Sorvino) to go undercover into a gay S&M clubs to find a serial killer who has been murdering men after having sex with them. The film has many graphic scenes of Pacino in these bars observing men engaging in various sex acts. Pacino gives a solid performance as a cop in over his head, who can't quite make out how he should feel after spending night after night in these clubs. After several weeks undercover, Burns becomes emotionally and physically distant from his girlfriend (Nancy Allen). Because of the nature of being undercover, Burns can't disclose what he is experiencing, seeing, feeling, etc. There are strong hints that Pacino might be experimenting sexually with some of the men in the bars he has frequented and that there might be more then one killer. The movie is extremely ambiguous about the identity of the killer (or killers) and the ending only leaves you more mystified. One of the controversies of the film was that there was 40 minutes of film that was censored and cut out. When director William Friedkin wanted to add the deleted 40 minutes several years later when the film was released on DVD, but the footage was missing. Friedkin has had several explanations on what exactly was in the footage. He has claimed it was just more footage of gay sex in the s&m bars and other times that there was also some scenes suggesting who the killer may or may not be. You have to give Pacino credit for taking on the role even if he probably wasn't the best choice. (Gere had been offered the role but passed). Gay rights groups were justifiably outraged that one the first movies about homosexuals would be a film about a gay man who is so repulsed about his own sexuality that he murders the men he has sex with. Another controversy was the perceived inference that the S&M scene is common among gay men and that they spend their nights partying and having indiscriminate sex. I don't really believe the latter was true, but you can understand why film was so controversial. "},{"Title":"Fairly Muddled","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What people think about what it comes to Cruising is the gay S&M material. But, the movie is essentially a hunt-for-a-serial-killer film. Pacino is undercover and trying to find out who's slaying the victims. The rest is really backdrop more than the guiding force of the story.Given that, the serial-killer hunt is kind of muddled. Friedkin has been said to purposely misdirect the audience in the film. So, when you get to the ambiguous ending, it pretty much adds muddle to muddle.As always, Pacino is very dedicated to the part, and the other actors contribute fine work too. But, as said, Friedkin short circuits his film with the added confusion. And, that's too bad, because the film is certainly atmospheric and achieves the proper mood throughout.The film is based on a novel, and the source material might be better and clearer in purpose than the movie was.***** (5 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"One Of The Most Underrated Serial Killer Film Of All Time.","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I heard about this film and decided to see it. William Friedkin has become a house-hold name with films like The Exorcist and The French Connection, To Live and Die in L.A., Rampage, The Guardian and Sorceror.The film starts with the discovery of a body part in the Hudson river. This body part is one among many pieces which were discovered. New York Police Captain Edelson(Paul Sorvino) assigns Officer Steve Burns(Al Pacino), who resembles the victims, is sent deep undercover into the urban world of gay S&M and leather bars in the Meatpacking District in order to track down the killer.Friedkin gives us scenes to what goes on inside the gay S&M and leather bars. Also there is a scene of some cops harassing a pair of transvestites and ordering them to give bl*wjobs inside their squad car. We hear one of the cops say. I knew a guy once who was a coke-sucker. We hear his partner immediately saybefore that he was a cork-soaker. This dialogue shows the society's views on homosexualism during that time. The murder scenes depicted in the film are hardcore. Pacino's acting is excellent as always. His role in the film was to bring the serial out and the way he accomplishes this task is why you should rent or buy this excellent film. I've seen this film about three or four times already and it gets better with every watch. Also I should mention that Paul Sorvino, another favorite of mine, gives a powerful portrayal of New York Police Captain Edelson who is given a deadline by the Mayor to solve this case or else...Other serial killer films to see/buy The Deliberate Stranger(1986), Ted Bundy(2002), To Catch A Killer(1992), Dear Mr. Gacy (2010), Albert Fish In Sin He Found Salvation (2007), The Gray Man(2007), Dahmer (2002),The Secret Life Jeffrey Dahmer (1993), Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer (1986), Citizen X(1995), Evilenko(2004), The Hunt for The BTK Killer(2005), Confessions Of A Serial killer(1985), Deranged (1974), H.H. Holmes America's First Serial killer(2004). Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Summers of Sam .... the late-1970s","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" CRUISING is one of those late-'70s (as I always say, 1980 was the last year of the '70s) urban sleaze kinds of films like LOOKING FOR MR GOODBAR and DRESSED TO KILL and CALIGULA and (my absolute favorite) EYES OF LAURA MARS where the period plays a key role in why they don't entirely work -- and yet why they DO work.The '70s had a melancholy, breezy, sexy thing going on which defined the decade, yet the last half of that decade also had an odd gutter-smarm undercurrent which is hard to describe but at the time was hard to miss... It wasn't the only era to give us real life serial sex murderers, but -- gee! -- no other era seemed to fit it so well.Movies tapped into this vibe as well. And if it was going to do so effectively, you had to wind up getting a bit queasy during or after watching it. And that was these films' strengths as well as their vulnerability to partly-valid criticism.Curiously, motion pictures can get much more explicit today, but few of them feel so utterly fetishistic as those from the late-'70s (or, technically, 1980).CRUISING was repellent in many ways, largely on purpose. But the sordid-beyond-belief flavor was absolutely part of the zeitgeist of the time.And many of those late-'70s snuffy-sleaze pictures I retained an interest in without fully condoning them.They're period pieces, essentially. And valuable for that reason. And they sort of define that old, over-used idea that it's so bad it's almost good. "},{"Title":"The entire movie is dull","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just avoid watching. The plot is problematic. The camera is terrible. The scenes are badly chosen...Lets do this like the murderer, piece by piece. First it begins like a police movie, somewhat thrilling showing you we have a big problem with a murderer. But then, when you think the movie is going to start presenting it self, BAM! Dull Pacino opens the movie. No expression, no feelings, no nothing. You can't extract nothing from his act from the beginning. First i thought it was a stereotype but then I realized that it wasn't going to change. And that kind of applies to the other actors, they all acted without emotion, slowly making this same void pattern.Then there is the plot. The history is good, at least the idea is good. Good police movies don't need a complex story, generally deep characters are enough, so this movie had actually potential. But the way the pieces were put together makes you feel dizzy trying to assemble a general idea. The scenes seem random and don't link well together. There is a lot of repetition of ideas and obviousness when is not needed. Ah I just can't. The plot is bad, that's all.Finally the camera needs glasses and to turn the night vision off. Scenes are too dark most of the film. Even if that was the intention to create the climate of the underground hardcore scary ambient. You just suffer trying to understand what is happening, who is dying, how many people are in the scene... even if you knew it before because the movie actually show it to you =P.Well, my final consideration is Watch only if you want to know Pacino entirely or you like random gay cut-scenes, otherwise search more. "},{"Title":"Maybe not Friedkin's best, but my favourite of his.  A few spoilers.","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love William Friedkin's filmmaking, and here he takes on a very compelling story about a series of homosexual murders in New York City by a man frequenting gay bars; he takes them elsewhere for sex before tying them up, and stabbing them to death. Al Pacino plays Officer Steve Burns who goes deep undercover into the S&M subculture to frequent leather bars and other such establishments in the Meatpacking District.Solid writing by Friedkin is supported by some great performances. Paul Sorvino plays Pacino's boss, and as always is quite convincing. Pacino himself gives a great subdued performance. People who say Pacino is all yelling and outburst in his acting need to watch this film because we get a lot of reserved behaviour from his character who slowly becomes submerged into the S&M culture within the gay community, and seems to be getting way in over his head. He really is great. Eventually, Steve Burns comes to see that the police force he is a part of is motivated by homophobia, and Pacino really falls into this character. The film has a quasi-horror film feel, which I really enjoy. It comes from the gritty look at an underworld of New York City. There is supposedly 40 minutes of deleted footage (which James Franco takes an interesting stance on with his project Interior. Leather Bar) depicting raw acts of homosexual bondage activity, and other such stuff. It really is a rough thriller, and I thoroughly enjoy it.The one reason I give this film 9 out of 10 stars is because there is an interrogation scene that just totally feels too much. I think I understand it after watching Cruising a few times, but I still think it pushes things a little far, which doesn't work for the film. Other than that, I think this film is very well crafted, and has some real suspense to it. I highly recommend it for fans of William Friedkin, Al Pacino, and those who love dark gritty thrillers from the 70s & 80s. "}{"Title":"A cruise intio a dark world, that won't be loved by all","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was shown in a really bad criticized light, like how the gay scene was so wrongly portrayed. I guess I'd have to be there, to see it with my own eyes. William Friedkin's movies are just ones I love so much (I still have to see his latest, Killer Joe) and here's just another prime example of top floor movie making. Part of an arm surfaces on the New York river, that of a gay man. Another gruesome killing of a helpless gay, who thought he was going home with Mr Right, is what impels the story into action, where cop, Pacino, accepts a job to go undercover and snare this maniac who just before killing his victims, utters remorselessly, You made me do that. We even have some gay hating cops, played by a younger recognizable duo of actors, who arrest a cross dressed gay (Gene Davis) and pull an intimidating stunt on him in the cop car. Of course when he reports it, the detective in charge, (Paul Sorvino) doesn't believe him. Some parts of Cruising are repulsively sick, as we go deep down into the dark side of the homosexual world, which at times is unnerving. Pacino too, makes friends with a gay neighbor/budding play writer, penning what he hopes will be his next selling piece. Playing the undercover part, he soon finds this very uncomfortable scene, where later on in the movie, this assignment really takers it toll, with Pacino, wanting to call it quits. Pacino, too has a woman, and this too, isn't easy on her. One interrogation scene, with Pacino, slapped by a another cop, in a front another gay, and thrown into another room, to make it look real, I liked, in how it ended. Pacino, says to this big built cop, You really hurt me, then throws his cowboy hat out the window, another Pacino moment in film. I loved Sorvino, first asking wannabe undercover applicant, Pacino, bluntly, You ever had your d.ck sucked by man, and then Pacino laughing out embarrassingly, dialogue following. After our killer is captured, another victim surfaces, another horrific crime scene, a forewarning another sickie is out there. At this scene, when a cop addresses himself and his partner to Sorvino, these cop's names ring bells, when earlier spouted by Davis (another asset to the film) who was harassed. Cruising of course, is not for all, especially the easily shocked, but it's a case of If you don't like it, don't watch it. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Weak Effort from Friedkin...","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Al Pacino, William Friedkin and loads of sleaze? I was very hyped to see it, but the end result was disappointing. Cruising is a decent giallo style thriller but I wanted much more from it. Al Pacino feels bored and the whole film is just clueless and doesn't know what to do.I did enjoyed portrayal of the gritty, sleazy New York and the whole pre-AIDS gay culture. The whole premise of serial killer that targets gay men, is very interesting and it isn't used very much in mainstream films. Also the direction by Friedkin was good and added a lot of atmosphere and mood by the cinematography and music choices.Acting is underwhelming, to put it lightly. I hoped for more intense Al Pacino performance. Like in Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon style but here just seemed bored. As for the supporting players, they are also underwhelming. Paul Sorvino, Karen Allen and Richard Cox were bland and left no impression. Script was Okay for the most part. With stronger and more intense performances, the mediocre script could have been elevated.Cruising is weak effort from Friendkin. If you want to see early 80's film with gay sub-culture and Al Pacino pretending to be gay dude, then it's worth checking out. Also it's worth seeing if you are die hard Pacino/Friedkin fan. Otherwise, it's not really that special. "},{"Title":"Nice Concept, Some Plot Holes","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Found this on Netflix after watching Scarface for the dozenth time and wondering if there were any 80's Al Pacino gems. I was really surprised when I saw that Al wanted to do this role. It really contrasted Tony Montana to a gay cop. I have never thought of this concept before, and I really liked the idea of the whole undercover rookie that will do anything to get into the big leagues. I also liked the open ending, I feel like there was no way that the director could have wrapped up this movie contently. I thought it was very weird for an Al Pacino movie had some things happen in the beginning that weren't even mentioned by the end, as he seems like a stickler to not have plot holes. I also loved some of the symbolism scattered throughout the movie. Over all, 7/10, this is a great movie that is very unique and appears as if a lot of time went into it, specifically with research and costume design. "},{"Title":"Lost Footage Twarts Work","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just like George Cukor's A Star is Born, the forty minutes lost footage by United Artists thwarts Cruising from ever being given a proper evaluation.Since Director William Friedkin felt it necessary to place this extensive footage in his work, the production company, United Artists, owed it to the director to at least include it in its DVD release. If ever a film cried out for a Director's Cut, this film did. However, the claim by UA that the footage was lost placed a nail in the coffin, forever relegating it to filmland's graveyard.A pity, for this creditable director's ambitious work, Cruising, will never able to be fully assessed. "},{"Title":"Bad sex","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dark, gritty, viscerally-geared look at the gay leather bar subculture of Manhattan found its kindred spirit in William Friedkin. He presents cold New York streets as a limbo of anonymous , soulless souls in transit, the amoral , amorous couplings completely without any warmth of passion, violence in the jaded manner of it being routine and natural response to a world governed by base instincts. Something else is amiss here, not mere amorality. What is it? Matters of sex and violence are tricky subjects. Safer perhaps to illustrate using sex, but nonetheless the two of them are governed by the same dynamics (this goes far beyond the hysteria against 'torture porn'). Because the main sensation is so overpowering, but at the same time so readily available, so the desire for it is strong but often haphazardly squandered, it's not often very clear what it's all about.Sexual dynamics are about exchanged energy, more pronounced and pure in the D/S lifestyle.Good sex is the around the exchange. It sharpens and clears mind. Bad sex is simply waste of energy. Your partner may have attractive skin, but the mind wanders and the chemistry is all wrong.This is bad sex and even worse D/S. That is probably because the main atmosphere is horny guys soliciting antsy sex, and guys are guys, so all the sex is primarily visually aggressive, forceful and completely without a tease of sophistication, and on top of that the filmmaker is a macho guy, so there is absolutely no trace in the world of the film of something truly ecstatic that is concentrated prolonging, surrender, or meditation. it's quick and sloppy, like a handjob at the park.The most memorable scene is murder in a seedy porn cinema with penetrative thrusts of a kitchen knife spliced together with footage of gay porn. It highlights the main effect of the film jarring, meaningless excitement that is quickly forgotten.Al Pacino is the one good note here. That was from the time when he was still exciting to watch and didn't just bellicosely bellow. He probably sought this out as his Taxi Driver and put serious effort to that effect. He has layers, internal dimensions, builds an ambiguous personality that prolongs our anticipation. He must have consciously grasped that he's playing an actor who has consciously grasped a role but has to internalize having done so, so he steadily internalizes having grasped the role. We are eventually unsure if it is still a role or not.He is the complex , feminine center that anchors Friendkin's aimless waste of energies. "},{"Title":"Very good, surprising","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie very much because it's funny, although I'm sure many would disagree. I wasn't expecting such politically incorrect approach, I found it quite shocking. Al Pacino is fearless and I wouldn't have watched Cruising if it wasn't for him and his cool performance. Let me put it this way the dance scene is worth alone seeing this movie. Many viewers complain about the lack of resolution and the ambiguity, but that's what makes it great in my opinion. The thin lines between cop and criminal, the infinite shades of sexual identity are very well drawn here. Cruising is a must see for Al Pacino's fans and it's a classic. I hope they release the full version, as I'm very curious what we've missed. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Astonishing","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a raving Pacino fan, I missed this film because frankly everyone told me it sucked. It does not. It is complex, difficult and ultimately rewards repeated viewings.The apparently dry dialogue and standard-issue Pacino-as-undercover cop trip probably led many viewers to expect something standard. I certainly did, and I expected everything to be tied up nicely when Burns solves the crime.And then his former neighbor turns up bloody and then there's that last scene with the boat, like the whole cycle is starting again. I'm now watching it, looking for clues. Friedken says he wanted an ambiguous ending. A good ambiguous ending means you want to watch the film again.I did, and I do. This is an enormously brave film, and I hope it doesn't get lost because the mostly straight film geek community feels too homophobic to see it. Why is it that everyone who writes about this film feels obligated to declare their orientation?You have to have a strong stomach gay, straight, whatever . . . This film treats fetish subculture and it doesn't pull punches.I think if it has anything to say--and this is consistent with Billy Friedken's work as a whole--it's that evil lurks inside all of us. The mirroring of the hat and shades--cop gear, fetish gear, whatever--says that nobody is innocent, and that the law and the underground look the same and act with the same raw, murderous MO. Watch Karen Allen put on the hat and the shades at the end of the film. The one innocent character might be . . . compliant if not complicit? Nothing is easy in this film. Be prepared. "},{"Title":"A classic. New DVD release?","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Any exploration of darker sides of sexuality is bound to stir controversy. Making sure he doesn't offend anyone in the process obviously wasn't Friedkin's concern. In some fortunate cases, that's a good thing,because political correctness can be damaging, sometimes fatal to the message. The effect of Cruising hasn't diminished over the years. In fact, I found it quite shocking in its blunt depictions, very dark and compelling, with just the right amount of violence and sexuality-enough to make viewers uneasy, but not that much to turn them away. It could have easily slipped into something too much, but the movie never crosses that line (although it gets close a couple of times).I wish they explored Pacino's transformation a bit more. I liked the ambiguity and the unanswered questions. Cruising also has plenty of humorous moments (but that depends largely on your sense of humor). The display of the American flag was rather ironic, I'm not sure what to make of it, just like I'm not sure what to make of the ending. The soundtrack is just fabulous. Pacino plays it so cool, he's fascinating to watch as he develops from a detached observer to... we don't know what exactly. The message I get across is that there's no black and white simplicity when it comes to sexuality (and morality perhaps). The movie didn't strike me as hateful, but of course, back in the 80's, when the gay community didn't have much PR, the choice of this particular subject matter for a film was a statement in itself. People are entitled to take offense, you can't blame them, but sensibilities differ greatly. For instance, I find Cruising to be less offensive than Married with Children (watch out for Al Bundy, by the way).I hear there are 40 minutes of footage cut from the film, which makes me curious. I hope we get to see a DVD release with the missing scenes. "},{"Title":"Cruising for a Thorough Scrub","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You know, there are certain movies that make you feel dirty just for watching. Brr. I had an aching desire to take a shower after seeing 'Cruising'. The thriller, made in 1980, is written and directed by William Friedkin. There is a brutal serial killer at loose in New York City, who slays homosexual men by using S&M tactics. Police detective Steve Burns (Al Pacino) is assigned to go undercover and attract the killer, as he matches the victim's general appearance.I actually felt worse watching Al Pacino look painstakingly uncomfortable in leather pants and a tank top than by the movie's highly provocative sexual content. Perhaps the notion of Steve Burns wanting to bolt out of the underground gay bar and go home to his girlfriend wasn't just acting. At the time rumors were that Pacino actually wanted out of the movie after he learned about its offensiveness.What bothered me the most was that Steve Burns was given no leads. He practically had nothing else to do than mingle in various gay bars of the S&M, B&D scene and hope that sooner or later the killer will start hitting on him. Indeed, the detective seems to randomly point a finger and pursue suspicious-looking figures (and let's face it, at the places he shows up in, there are plenty of things to point fingers at). Therefore it is no surprise that when he actually stumbles upon the real killer, Stuart Richards (Richard Cox), it is by a mere coincidence (namely that Richards was in one of his victim's classes).Meanwhile Burns is struggling in his personal relationship with girlfriend Nancy (Karen Allen), as he is not allowed to tell her about his secret assignment and finds this continuous exposure to the underground homosexual club scene affecting his physical relationship to her. I wish there would have been a bit more time spent on developing this couple's relationship, because all the viewer gets to see from them are seemingly brief scenes during and after they have sex. There is no strong connection between them, though it is evident that Burns finds comfort in Nancy's company and her cozy apartment that is miles away from the dark places he has to go to every night.I also hoped to see the character of the killer being more developed. We do get a glance at his disturbed relationship with his father, but other than that he seems like a faceless figure stabbing his victims while reciting nursery rhymes. Sure, that is creepy enough for a thriller, but it is not enough for a credible character.Did anyone see the point of having a barely dressed huge black male police officer randomly show up at Skip's questioning and slap the guys around? To me that was hilarious, but I am kind of worried that I may have missed out on the deeper meaning of this&#x85; truly memorable scene.Though the movie does start with a disclaimer, it does little to nothing to avoid portraying gay men as leather-clad freaks lurking around in some shady basement and engaging in orgies. The only glimpse the viewer gets into gay relationships is a couple strangers agreeing to have some form of sex (in a motel, park, middle of the bar, anywhere really), which of course is very offensive to the homosexual community. It is said that the leather bars shown are actual gay bars in New York and the extras are its real guests who were instructed to act natural yet tone down their sexual activities for the movie .Now, I am well aware that this might have been a realistic portrayal of underground homosexual phenomena. My problem is that the movie exclusively resides to this portrayal, which is not only offensive for gays, but also makes the movie rather shallow and flat. It could have been made into a real nail-biting thriller, but instead Friedkin delivered a ridiculous freakshow. I really am going to take a shower now, but I wish the makers of this movie would have taken a cold shower before releasing it. "},{"Title":"Dark & Disturbing..","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Cruising' is a Dark & Disturbing film, that can be viewed only if you have a strong stomach. Regarded as One Of The Most Controversial Films Of All-Times, 'Cruising' indeed offers moments & images, that actually leave you shocked. 'Cruising' Synopsis A police detective goes undercover in the sleazy and underground gay subculture of New York City to catch a serial killer who is murdering numerous gay men with S&M tactics.'Cruising' was banned in Finland, Iran and South Africa, and was highly criticized during it's release. Members of New York's gay community protested the production of the film, throughout it's making and believe it or not, Even Today, 'Cruising' remains to be a heated topic for many.In my opinion, 'Cruising' is a film that offers Major Shock Value. As said, you ought to have a strong stomach to digest this 1980 flick. The Violence, though not all-out gruesome, it yet disturbs you. The Presentation of the Gay-Community might leave some hypocrites aghast, but that works for the film. As a film, 'Cruising' is interesting at first, but in it's second-hour, it loses pace & even gets a bit dragging. William Friedkin's Screenplay is impressive in the first-hour and even offers shock value, but his writing in the second-hour, as mentioned, loses pace and drags itself a bit more than needed. Friedkin's Direction, on the other-hand, is impressive. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are decent. Performance-Wise Al Pacino's performance can be credited as 'Inquiztive', rather than 'Bombastic'. Karen Allen does well. Paul Sorvino is top-notch. Don Scardino is appropriate. Others decent lend support. On the whole, 'Cruising' caters to a niche audience. It's not meant for everyone. "}{"Title":"The most « violent » movie I have ever seen (DVD)","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I feel deeply affected by this movie, like the character played by Al. Even if a lot of erotica and sex are depicted today, gay love and beyond, SM-bondage-leather sex are very unusual.In this movie, everybody follows this trend, so you can't run away from it. You take a plunge in a very, very particular world! Al is superb, playing a policeman who gets into darkness and see his life turning upside down! Sorvino is unforgettable as a tragic captain. The long perspective shots and cinematography for blue steel are artistic. So, I don't know if I want to forget it or to praise it! For sure, it's really not a pop-corn movie there so beware! Surely, my strangest review for the strangest movie! "},{"Title":"An incredibly flawed and confusing work, which still manages to be somewhat fascinating","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Under a grey and overcast sky, harbour men on a small tugboat discover an arm floating in the murky depths of the Manhattan River. From this opaque, grisly discovery we fade into the gritty streets of New York, the underbelly of the underbelly, a place where gay men go to eke out their frustration by donning a uniform of leather and chains, police uniforms and mirrored shades; a dangerous place where lust can get the better of you. The world that director William Friedkin creates here is an ever-contrasting one. We weave between the everyday, of meaningless sex and paper-work, diverging into the polite society of Greenwich Village and its bubbling gay community, before finally converging in hell; into the deepest pits of violence, aggression and degradation. This is a film that hides, much like its central character, behind a mask; behind false identities and confused emotions. Within the mire of homosexuality we find the beacon of light, our protagonist Steve Burns, an inexperienced detective willing to do anything for the respect of his captain. Thus begins an odyssey that will take Steve deep into these three contrasting worlds in a search of a serial killer not unlike himself.Here Friedkin pushes his themes of sex and death, identity and false identity to their extremes, predating, as many others have said, the horror of the AIDS epidemic and the metaphorical 'gay-killer'. The subtext is overflowing with ideas, some complimentary, others simply confrontational. Friedkin's notion of a gay killer, manifested as a tortured young grad-student, whose complex relationship with his late-father masks a troubled childhood - one that in never fully explained - became THE controversial talking point of the decade. Pickets were elected, voices heard, even the cast have since turned their backs to the film, with Pacino's discomfort clearly evident in his tortured performance herein. Richard Heffner, head of the MPAA ratings board even declared that there weren't enough X's in the alphabet to rate the damn thing. The resulting cuts, apparently clocking in at around 40 minutes worth of exorcised footage, have only made a confused film all the more confusing; with Pacino's character going from clean-cut cop to implied homo-slasher in the time it would take most mainstream films to reach a neatly-formed dénouement. Friedkin has confirmed that the cut scenes would have prolonged Burns' journey into the underworld, giving greater insight into the relationship between himself and his father, and his apparent similarities to the actual killer. Also thrown into the mix would have been a graphic fisting scene (part of which still exists in the 100-minute cut) and the sight of Burns participating in a golden shower. Singing in the rain this ain't! Also gone from the version screened by Britain's Film-Four are the hard-core subliminal images that Friedkin cut into the more graphic scenes, including a brief glimpse of anal-penetration inserted into the first knife attack.With such a degree of censorship, the film is understandably hard to rate. What we are left with is a stale, confused, possibly offensive detective story, with some odd touches of genius permeating through the left over nuggets (those left un-touched by the censors and the studio that is). However, it is my belief that, if released in some kind of restored director's cut, Friedkin's dark vision would be so much more. A two-hour-plus epic of dehumanisation that would not only scratch the surface - and believe me this truncated version does just that - but would get right under the viewer's skin. In the remains we have left, Friedkin creates some lasting images. The use of sound in the opening scenes, completely lacking any sort background action, gives the film a dreamlike feeling of floating, just as the raucous chanting and rockabilly chic of the S&M scenes creates a feeling of savage debauchery and indiscriminate abandon. The murder scenes are also highly impressive. Sadistic, yes; and sometimes bordering on exploitation, as knives are thrust into sweaty, muscular flesh, which begs the question; is this is what they left in imagine what they took out?With Cruising, we have the basis for a great film. Direction is strong, with a good use of documentary realism; performances are believable, with fine support from Paul Sorvino as captain Edelson and Karen Allen as Pacino's girlfriend and yes, despite the seeming ambivalence he's shown towards the film in recent years, Pacino too gives a fine performance as our confused protagonist Burns. However, despite this, the film - as a result of the missing footage - is a bit of a mess. Still, there are some interesting ideas half-developed, and we can only assume that the full director's cut would clear up that ending, give us more information on the murder of the writer and the disappearance of his lover and any information as to the inclusion of the jock-strap wearing cop would be very welcome indeed. The final shot hints at mental breakdown, as we fade back to that grey and dreary harbour; what will be discovered there? Is this a circular narrative unfolding in flashback? Is Burns a killer? All these questions need answering; in a film as controversial as this, understatement is not a virtue. "},{"Title":"Cruising for a Re-Appraisal","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" William Friedkin's Cruising has long been regarded with the same level of distaste (by critics and advocacy groups alike) as the UK prudes who concocted the 'Video Nasties List' of the 1980s. I am guessing its years of rarity on home video was a direct result of the backlash incurred during production and after its release (something well-recollected on the new DVD). It's a shame, since Cruising is ultimately one of Friedkin's best films--combining a hard-hitting cop thriller with a mist of documentary realism, an aura of psychological depth, and a strong lead performance from Al Pacino. A serial killer is prowling the leather bars of New York City, murdering homosexuals; Sergeant Edelstein (Paul Sorvino) enlists patrolman Steve Burns (Pacino) to immerse himself in the gay subculture to weed out the culprit. Friedkin captures the scuzz-pit grunge of NYC at the time with much affection, and films the leather-bar scenes with a peering, objective eye that hits a tone more surreal than exploitative; he is admirably forthright in presenting the lifestyle as it existed then, and is not beyond pushing limits (though it should be said he uses skillful cuts to imply more than what is actually shown). The thriller aspect of Cruising works quite well--almost invoking the feel of Dario Argento's gialli at times--and Friedkin stages several intensely uncomfortable scenes that veer away from sensationalism and remain in service to the story. Under the surface, Cruising is about identity, and the psychology of Pacino's character indeed rests on an ambiguous note that is very intriguing. While some elements of the film--including a thong-wearing black guy who slaps around a suspect during an interrogation (played for comic relief, it seems), and the use of several different actors to portray the killer (more unfair than clever)--fall flat, Cruising is an overall success. Considering how the few gay-themed thrillers that emerged in its wake (though I can only think of the dreadful 1986 slasher City in Panic) handled homosexuality ineptly or offensively makes Cruising a prime candidate for re-appraisal. "},{"Title":"One of Pacino's best films to date!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I recently got a chance to see this film on video luckily seeming it's one of the most rare films ever and thought it was so underrated and just a cool movie for the god of acting.After i saw this film i wanted to see what other people thought of it and i just did'nt get it! How can such a good movie be so trashed off, sure it's bizarre but it's also got brilliant acting from Pacino, Paul Sorvino is also really good as the police chief and Karen Allen as Pacino's girlfriend.The movie also does not hold back on having realism and it's seediness of the time and place it is set in. I suppose the idea of Pacino going undercover as a gay in hardcore clubs put people of it, but if you look past that and see the master direction of William Friedken,well what do you expect? (The French Connection and The Exorcist) and the great acting and unusual storyline this makes it one of the best movies of it's time.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing - as it SHOULD be","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So the movie delves into what may or may not be an accurate portrayal of the dark side of the New York gay leather scene of the late seventies.  If that were all that this movie was about, it would quickly have been dismissed and forgotten.  It is the murder case that carries this film - and it carries it magnificently.The fish out of water aspect allows the audience to enter along with Pacino's Officer Burns a world which few of us main stream types even contemplated.  As offsetting and confusing as this world may be, there is a murderer present who strikes without warning; thus giving a high tension that is superbly handled.  The bleakness of the cinematography and the overwhelming soundtrack heighten the surreal atmosphere in which Officer Burns finds himself and makes this movie work.That there may be shocking footage cut from the original print is irrelevant as (from what I have read) the deleted scenes added nothing of substance to the film.  In my opinion, enough of this leather world is seen to give the audience the feel of what Officer Burn's is experiencing without distracting from the main focus of the story.This movie is disturbing and even frightening, but that is exactly what it was supposed to be.  Overall, I think this is a dark but well done film. "},{"Title":"Questions rather than answers.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I own a copy of this film and have watched it many times over. I bought my copy back in 1990 mainly because it had legendary cult status, it was the Al Pacino movie I had heard existed but had never even seen a rental copy of up until the moment I saw it for sale in a store. At the time I was a fanatic for Pacino's performances so I jumped at the opportunity to finally watch the secret Pacino film. Now I have to say that I would probably never have even thought about posting a criticism about it have I not read the other user comments on this film. It seems nearly everyone has a big problem with not having direct answers to the many questions this film poses, so much so that they even think it is flaw in the censorship forced editing, and that an actual directors copy would clear everything up. I do not think so nor do I agree that not having answers is a bad thing. Lets face it, one of the worst problems with modern films is the fact that they try to answer everything for you thereby insult your intelligence in the process by acting as if you are too stupid to draw a single conclusion on your own without help, and so they become mundane and contrived. I am very thankful when ever I find a film that dares to let you figure it out on your own, to me this is something I would strive for if I ever made a film myself. Cruising not only does not answer anything for you, it instead does something that goes completely against the grain, it goes out of its way to be ambiguous on purpose, and I would wager that the 40 minutes of extra footage would not clear this up because it is what Friedkin wanted. I am not going to tell the plot of this film except to warn some people that this is a gritty, grizzly, horrid film that sweats with pungent atmosphere on many levels at once and can go well beyond insulting the sensibilities of sensitive viewers. In fact two of the murder scenes have subliminal shots of gay anal penetration inserted in with the equally pornographic naked bloody stabbings. This film has the rare ability to make you feel as if you want to have your mind washed clean after viewing it as It drips with east coast summer humidity. This film is by no means perfect or an truthful description of true rough-trade gay underworld and is thus open to much criticism for its many flaws and directorial indulgences, but despite this, this film has its own identity, and when you see it, weather the effect is positive or negative, you will at least realize that it is different, has guts, and will not be forgotten afterwords as just another film in a long line. Cruising stands out and to me that is the mark of a really good quality film. Cruising gets my recommendations for many of the reasons that bother other viewers.  "},{"Title":"A harbinger of what was to come!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At the time this film was being made, there was a real-life killer in the community where the actions of this film occur.  Unlike in the film, this killer was identified but never caught.  That real-life killer was the AIDS virus, and when the viewer sees this film he or she gets an understanding of how this virus spread so quickly amongst these people.  This film, along with the Randy Shilts book And the Band Played On, is the perfect depliction of what pre-AIDS gay life was like prior to the virus.  How sad it is to think that most of the people who were deplicted in this film are no longer alive.What is also commendable about this film is that it illustrates the lives and loves of homosexual men - how they become jealous when their lover leaves or how hard it is for them to recover from the breakup of a long relationship (similar to heterosexual men).  Although far from a perfect film, to see this film is an experience from the mainstream films of today and yesterday because it takes the viewer into a setting that he or she does not know of and will never be around again.  Well worth the view. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie by any means, just not one of Pacino's best.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My one MAJOR gripe with this movie is Al Pacino's hair style I understand that this is the 80's, but that bad-perm look does not suit him well at all. Otherwise, this movie is fairly decent.  A serial killer is gruesomely offing members of NYC's gay S&M underworld, and Pacino is the cop assigned to go undercover to snare the killer, in the process questioning his own sexuality and self-confidence.I understand how this could've caused major controversy upon its initial release 20 years ago, when homosexuality was still in the process of becoming accepted amongst the public as a lifestyle (it still is for that matter).  With several scenes of men groping and kissing other men, portrayals of gay leathermen interested in nothing but kinky sex, and the depiction of the sleazy underworld of the S&M scene in New York City circa 1980, no wonder people got all up in arms over this.  And we have Al Pacino of all people right in the middle of it all to boot!!  I'm not saying that the film's representation of this lifestyle is positive, or even accurate, but it does raise eyebrows, possibly to intentionally ignite the very same controversy that accompanied the film's release.  Who knows?  But taken just on entertainment value alone (it is a movie after all, its purpose, hopefully, being to entertain the masses), it is mildly satisfying.  A big liability is the script, I must say.  Usually if the story is engrossing enough, I'll try and overlook a faulty screenplay, but the dialogue here is really quite awful, and the wooden acting does not do much to pump it up at all.  Even Pacino's performance as the conflicted cop is uncharacteristically dull.  A few moments of the classic Pacino intensity seep through, but they are too few and too far between.  William Friedkin's direction is fine, if not unimpressive.  Loaded with symbolism and atmosphere, this movie fits right in with Freidkin's oeuvre.Overall, not as bad as some would have you think, but certainly not a masterpiece either.  Good slice-of-life picture of NYC in the early 80's though.  "},{"Title":"Rank, Bizarre, and Confusing","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is really bizarre watch one of the Corleones playing a leather daddy - but that's just what Pacino does (has he ever played any other part in all the films he's made?).  But what is more bizarre is that this is a hack job script ripped off from possibly one of the best mystery novels written in the second half of the last century  The Lure by Felice Picano.  It rips off so many aspects, yet completely ignores the essence and center that gave that book the gripping reality and compassion for its characters.  (When are they going to make a film of that book, as it was written?)  I've seen this movie several times; each time hoping that I will actually be able to figure out who done it.  Friedkin, who is typically an excellent director, leaves the ending open for question (in my opinion) and as such confuses the viewer.  Further, this is a VERY violent and repugnant film, depicting a small segment of the gay community, but the casual viewer isn't aware of that fact.  It's a dark, depressing, and angry film that seems to not know what it wants to say or how to say it. "},{"Title":"Still powerful...","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Cruising is a special movie, not really in itself , but by the way people react to it. Its contemporary gay spectators hated it because of its sad depiction of a gay community, and some straight viewers hates it because of the end. It can be used as an argument for homophobes to reduce all gays into sex-monsters, or it can be used by others to claim the relativity of sexuality in itself (the main character seems to become gay in the end of the film). Reading the other comments on this film, I see how concerned people are with this, more than the film itself. I think Cruising was a quite interesting film in itself as well. It gives a quite realistic account of how some gay communities are - but for God's sake we are not all like that! Taking this for a generalisation of gay people's lives is stupid - and was certainly never the intention either. Cruising gives us a very interesting account of a normal man's odyssey into a weird underground world. To find a mass-murderer he has to become a part of this world himself. A good thriller about two different things the typical detective-criminal hunt and the rather original identity-thriller. The funny thing is how the film still touches people - negatively or positively. If it makes you angry or happy - at least it makes you think! Isn't that something essential for a film? Have a look and see! "}{"Title":"Could've been a classic.","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Police detective Pacino goes undercover as a homosexual in search of a serial killer targeting gay men in the S&M subcultures of NYC. Edgy, thrilling, mysterious and unforgettable are some of the good things that can be seen when you look past the explicit stereotypes that caused protests during filming. Director Friedkin captures a wonderful mood and style that ceases to exist in cinema post-1990; it's a shame the story couldn't run smoother and the ending couldn't be executed better. Straight people may find this film uncomfortable, gay people may find it offensively inaccurate, and the ending will definitely make most people feel cheated; but the way Friedkin set the story off, and the chills it sends to the viewer is accomplished in the same manner as any classic thriller. Had they tried to level the controversy with just a little bit of conventionalism, this could've been a real classic.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"A sordid, creepy, underrated classic.","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Finally caught up with this notorious piece of cinema after I learned that the soundtrack contained material by The Germs, a classic American punk rock band from which director William Friedkin had personally requested a set of recordings. There they are all right; albeit only one song ('Lion's Share' turns up at 4243; a worthy item but a puzzling choice in favour of the superior 'My Tunnel', far and away the best of the six songs the Germs recorded for the movie) and just a snippet of it at that. Virtually all of the music in 'Cruising' is fragmentary and low-volume, as if overheard spilling out of cafés, nightclubs or passing cars. No MTV-style rock video editing here. In fact, the most ubiquitous sound in 'Cruising' is metal on metal; the spurs-like jangle of buckles dangling from leather jackets, the rattle of chains, the clanking of barbells. This perhaps aids in building the movie's distinctly unsettling mood, in which undercover cop Steve Burns (Al Pacino) dives deep into the (literally) shadowy hardcore gay leather/S & M world to find the city's increasingly-notorious 'homo killer'. This movie copped a lot of flak for allegedly giving a misleading portrayal of the gay lifestyle, but to be fair it was the adherents of the city's leather-and-bondage, rough trade 'hardcore' scene on whom the killer preyed and not the likes of polite middle-class suburbanites. As he immerses himself in an alien underworld, denying his natural inclinations and obsessing over the killer, Burns begins to yield under the pressure. This movie is not easy going (I'll never see the Village People in the same way ever again, for one thing), but the combination of such taboo-breaking subject matter (with a key plot element eerily prescient of the AIDS epidemic), class acting and fearless direction gives 'Cruising' a certain dark, compelling power. The ending gets it just right, too. It's a genuine pity that there isn't more of it; for example where is the scene where Burns, having talked the talk, had to finally 'walk the walk' so to speak? Was that part of the forty minutes slashed out to whittle it into a censor-sanctioned release? Bring on the Director's Cut. Trivia note keep an eye out for Ed 'Al Bundy' O'Neill as a detective. "},{"Title":"Village people","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is easy to dismiss this film as a piece of commercial psycho sexual exploitation thriller. This was a project that was controversial at the time it went into production and it met a lot of opposition from the same gay scene it wanted to present to a larger audience. If William Friedkin would have decided to direct the film today, it probably didn't cause the same uproar it did back then.Al Pacino, an actor that brings all his intensity into most of the films in which he appears, seems to have been miscast as the undercover police officer he is supposed to portray on the screen. This was a movie based on real events. The main character, a policeman who worked on the case, probably didn't get a lot of publicity when the movie came out. Gerald Walker's novel was the basis for the screen treatment Mr. Friedkin gives credit as his inspiration for the script he created. In reality, Randy Jurgensen, a real undercover New York policeman, was involved in the investigation of a case that involved the killing of innocent gay victims.Cruising presents a dark side of a faction of the gay life. As depicted frankly in the finished product, it probably will turn off squeamish viewers for the kind of rough scenes presented, something that never had been shown to a wide audience. This was a slice of life in New York City before the arrival of AIDS, something that no one during those careless years probably had in mind and which decimated a lot of the gay population addicted to this form of sexual activity.The best way to watch the film is to have an open mind as it reflects a period of that culture in which a deranged individual zeroes in this particular group of people to wreck havoc among them. "},{"Title":"40 minutes more?!?","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If that's true, they better get it released. It would probably clear up just about everything. I still liked this flick though. It's gritty and really gives a safe look at a life some can't handle even thinking about. I think most people are afraid to say anything positive about this film because of the anti-gay tag. I didn't see it as anti-gay. At one point, Steve Burns even said I didn't come on this job just to shitcan some guy just because he's gay. He clearly had an awakening here. But was he the final killer? That's open to individual interpretation as far as I can tell. I thought Ted Bailey was killed by his lover the dancer. A jealousy thing. We did hear them arguing through the wall of Burns' apt. in one scene. "},{"Title":"Cruising to Nowhere (some spoilers)","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I finally saw this infamous film a few weeks ago and I have to say that it was deserving of its one star rating.  What could've been an edgy film noir in an unusual setting falls flat due to a half-baked script and poor acting, which may have been exacerbated by the possibility that Friedkin might very well have been making it up as he went along (according to Karen Allen, she was not permitted to see a script before accepting the role - perhaps because it may not have been completed!)  The killings are well-shot in Friedkin's typically suspenseful style and there is a gritty realism to the gay bar scenes but it's not enough to overcome the disjointed narrative and shallow character development.  I understand what Friedkin was trying to do here - the idea of Pacino's going native amongst the leathermen forcing him past a point of no return psychosexually is an interesting one - but little effort is made to convey his internal conflict other than a few perfunctory shots of him preening in the mirror before hitting the clubs, ostensibly to show that he was supposedly enjoying his work a little too much, and the little did he, or didn't he.. bit at the end feels tacked-on as a result rather than delivering the shock that it was intended to cause.  Pacino's weak performance doesn't help matters either, he will not discuss this film in interviews but apparently he wanted out midway through filming, perhaps because he wasn't on board with his character's transformation.  Failing that, it seems that he attempted to stick it to Friedkin by giving what can charitably be called a minimal effort.  Those (like me) who think Pacino has done a variation of Tony Montana in every one of his post-Scarface films might be interested in this as a rare example of him underplaying a role.  Clearly, this was a case where giving Friedkin writing as well as directorial duties was an exercise in giving him enough rope to hang himself - you'll recognize plenty of the gifted actors here and they all look as lost as Pacino does in this mess of a film.  Their careers recovered, but Friedkin's never did (the hemorrhaging continued with the ill-fated Deal of the Century).  1st-time producer Jerry Weintraub knew from an artistic perspective that he had a bomb on his hands but thought that due to the controversy angle it would sell anyway (as mentioned earlier, it was not officially rated X but a disclaimer was issued that no one under 18 would be admitted).  Perhaps if a less heavy-handed director who did not insist on script control was at the reins (Brian de Palma was among others considered) this could have been an interesting film, but the vanity project that is William Friedkin's Cruising (which is the film's actual full title) ends up being interesting only to the voyeurs who want a peek into the late-70's rough-trade gay leather scene or to cineastes that enjoyed the other overindulgent film-brat disasters (Heaven's Gate, 1941, Apocalypse Now, The Blues Brothers) that cropped up at the end of the Me Decade. "},{"Title":"Pacino in hog-tied heaven","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhere between the Godfather II and Scarface Al Pacino played Steve Burns, neive, so-far heterosexual beat cop, given a break for promotion. All he has to do is become an undercover agent, for an unspecified length of time, leading the life of a hardcore S&M gay guy, constantly on the prowl for sexual encounters. He's chosen for this job because he is cute enough for his boss to use as serial killer bait.Considering Pacino is plunged into a world of group sex, fisting, bondage etc etc, he copes really well. I know strait guys who have thrown a tantrum in public at the suggestion that we go to a gay bar.I really liked this movie, despite the fact that the serial killer was once again explained through a combination of mental illness & dad traumatisation.  "},{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie. Why? Because the same-gender liking men in this movie weren't a bunch of sissies, queens, fairys etc. Ok, the scene they are in is a little bit extreme and only caring for sex (although I had the feeling that the one guy, who is questioned with the cop at the police station fell in love with Pacino), but this movie is a manifest against stereotypes. There are only two drag queens in it (and if you look at some other movies this is a very low number), there are only two artists in it ( a musical writer and a dancer) and only one waiter!! The other men seem to be quite normal and even (wow!) very masculine men. The movie has also a strange aura of mystery to it, what I liked very much.  "},{"Title":"They don't (and can't, and won't) make movies like these anymore","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" --- Spoilers ---30 years after the theatrical release and critical/commercial crash of this unsettling, eerie, unique film, things have cooled off and many viewers can now sit back (but not relax) and take a look at it as it is available on DVD since 2008, without hearing any echo of the hate screams the whole project had set off in the distance, back in 1979-80.In 2010, Billy Friedkin stands as the shadow of the great filmmaker he was and seems only to be hired as a luxury guest in DVD extras as for Narc, Al Pacino has nothing more to prove and no more interesting movie projects to be involved in, and Karen Allen, well, we all loved her in Raiders of the Lost Ark, didn't we ? But let's go back to our movie  is it a good film or a bad one, by the way ? Well, hard to say.... it's a kind of thriller with some scary horrific sequences (the murders are actually extremely gross and violent, even for nowadays viewers who had to deal with Passion of the Christ for example), it has some documentary ambitions but it lacks social and psychological characters development (none's background is ever explained at any time, especially our infiltrated cop Steve Burns (Pacino)), it's a detective story but director Friedkin used so many twists and turns and style variations (the killer never has the same face...) to try to make a point that viewers might feel disappointed by this aspect as well...Not to mention that gay and straight viewers might feel offended by the choice of showing a few people of the gay community exposed to so many stereotypes  the shy-intellectual-writer-wannabe who won't take a stand, the arrogant blond Apollo, the bunch of leather S&M night wolves, the perverted cops (great opening scene with Joe Spinell and Mike Starr), the two travesty hookers, the sex-crazed hustler, the disturbed student obsessed by a omnipotent father's figure... all of 'em shown either as uncompetitive victims or hungry attackers.As I write this down, I recollect a funny detail from the film  the only person that we're shown getting laid (and getting it pretty much the hard way) is ... the only female character, Steve Burns's soft and gentle girlfriend, Nancy (played by cute and discreet Karen Allen). Well, Hollywood never had any problem to show heterosexuals having sex on screen, anyway.All of this create an unbalanced feeling of a whole cast and crew who don't know where they're going, trying to create ambiguity where the audience would need transparency (is Burns the killer ? Did he achieve his inner journey at the end ? Why is Nancy wearing the leather outfit ?) but it is always interesting to watch such a great missed opportunity by a -back then- great director in such a powerful story.So failed... but so much more enjoyable to watch as a guilty pleasure than 90% of today's productions. "},{"Title":"Keyword Uncertainty","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When 'Cruising' came out in 1980, it terrified audiences and critics. Terror often turns to aggressiveness in reaction. Mainstream people didn't like the 'nasty topic', mainstream gays didn't like being reduced to a 'nasty topic' and critics, I think, didn't like to handle such a topic. All that is and has to be history now. Now that 'Cruising' finally came out on DVD, most people simply have to admit that it is a great movie by a great director. What is very unusual about this American film is that it deals with uncertainty. That, I think, is the keyword for 'Cruising'. It's not interest in the crime and/or the background it has taken place in, Friedkin's interest lies for the most part in exploring the meaning of uncertainty. Pacino's (who has deserved a price for his courage alone) character step by step looses a good deal of his certainties throughout the movie and tolerates it, which at least by a great group of viewers must be perceived as degenerate. However, that attitude is at least interesting and rare in a U.S. movie! 'Cruising' could have only been made in the seventies during the so-called 'New American Cinema' movement when times were liberal and 'innocent' enough for a film with an almost (for the official U.S.) 'unamerican' message 'Don't become a victim of your uncertainties by avoiding them'. Unfortunately these times (at least for the climate that made this movie possible) were then nearly over and certainly are now. "},{"Title":"Needle in the Haystack","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A look at William Friedkin's filmography reveals that the driving force of much of his work is sensationalism. On the plus side The French Connection, a quintessentially exciting New York movie; The Night They Raided Minsky's, an amusing period piece about a turn-of-the-century scandal; and The Boys in the Band, in which self-hating gays exchange barbed witticisms in the late 60's. On the minus side The Exorcist; Rampage; Jade. The notorious Cruising must largely be counted on the minus side. The film begins with an inherently absurd premise set loose, without support, one undercover cop, who fits the profile of the victims, on the prowl in the underground world of gay S&M bars, in order to lure the killer into being caught. As the ostensibly straight cop, Al Pacino, in order to gain a fast-track promotion to detective, stoically dresses in jeans and leather and indefatigably descends into a world of free-for-all sex - without (except for having his chest groped) actually engaging in any man-on-man sex. The gritty late-70's New York locations are the film's greatest asset. Yet, this sort of documentary realism becomes a problem when used mere backdrop, in a movie in which cinematic style seems paramount. The bar scenes, using actual patrons rather than extras, are obviously authentic, yet over-lighting and inauthentic soundtrack music exert a form of judgement and deprive the scenes of any sensuality.The fatal flaw is that Pacino's character remains, not just inarticulate, but entirely opaque. He seemingly befriends his gay neighbor(in an undeveloped sub-plot); he enjoys one ecstatic, amyl-nitrate fueled, dance in a club, which threatens to submerge him but doesn't; then complains to his chief (Paul Sorvino, in a wonderful performance as the world-weary seen-it-all head of the detectives squad) that he can't handle it. As his girl-friend, Karen Allen (in a woefully underwritten role), has no other function than as proof of Pacino's heterosexuality as an occasional sex partner (with better sex after his immersion in the bars). The final murder, and the ambiguity of the ending, undermine the entire picture. This is not Last Year at Marienbad!. Murder mysteries demand resolution. The giallo genre successfully exploits the idea of multiple murderers - with all the killers eventually revealed. That the murders are shown (by using different actors as the killers) as the work of possibly more than one man,with an enigmatic ending, delivers a subliminal anti-gay message that these sick perverts would just as soon kill as f**k.Seen on DVD; do not omit the enlightening (to a certain extent) Making of... features. "}{"Title":"Murder mystery which tries, unsuccessfully, to freshen itself up by exploring the seedier side of the gay underworld.","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" William Friedkin never quite returned to the heights of his early masterpieces The French Connection and The Exorcist, but in 1980 he plunged to new depths with Cruising. This thoroughly unsympathetic cop thriller set in the underbelly of New York's S&M scene seems to be rather over-impressed with its own courage in dealing with a hitherto taboo subject. The problem with Cruising is that the subject matter is treated terribly superficially &#150; this is little more than a murder mystery, with scenes of excessive sleaze and gay bar activities tossed in to stir up some controversy. One almost feels that Friedkin wasn't happy with the idea of a simple, straightforward cop thriller, so he came up with all the gay scene trappings to add spice to his film. He uses gay characters and gay lifestyles merely to shock us, but never really gets down to making a serious statement about his sexual and political intentions.Dismembered corpses are found in the Hudson River in New York. The police believe that the deaths are the work of a serial killer who is preying upon gay men, luring them from gay bars in the city, raping them, then killing them and throwing their cut-up remains into the water. Captain Edelson (Paul Sorvino) of the New York Police Department appoints rookie cop Steve Burns (Al Pacino) to crack the case. Burns &#150; a straight guy with a steady girlfriend - is approximately the same build as the victims. Edelson hopes that he will go undercover in the gay underworld scene and attract a little attention upon himself &#150; perhaps even lure the killer into the open. Determined initially to take on the case to win promotion, Burns gradually finds himself drawn deeper and deeper into the unfamiliar gay culture. His relationship with girlfriend Nancy (Karen Allen) suffers, and he finds himself uncertain of his own sexual identity and orientation.The film aroused a large degree of protest when released, partly because it was ahead of its time and partly because gay activists were afraid that the film might set back their cause. Sometimes such controversy inadvertently generates extra box office for a film, but in the case of Cruising the film was a flop. Pacino gives an acceptable performance as the emotionally and sexually bewildered cop, though the script does him few favours. In a city as big as New York, it seems almost unthinkable that an undercover cop could be chosen to ensnare a serial killer merely because he is roughly the same build as one of the killer's preferred victims. It is such an unconvincing plot point, yet so important to the whole story, that it wrecks the film's credibility. On the plus side, the gay bar scenes seem fairly accurate, but less agreeable is the way some of the anti-gay characters who people the film are presented too over-the-top (for example, the police interrogator who assaults a gay man in his custody whilst wearing a jock-strap and cowboy hat.) The film's climax also sits awkwardly, especially the way that it hints that maybe Pacino himself has committed one of the murders. If we pursue this line of thought, are we to assume that the film is saying that indulging in gay activities will ultimately turn you into a killer? Cruising is a confused, repellent thriller. It treads ground that many movie makers are afraid to step upon, but sadly it never tells us much about the places and people it attempts to explore and emerges as a somewhat disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Has anyone ever smoked your pipe? Not for everyone that's for sure but I liked it.","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising is set in New York where severed body parts are being found in the Hudson River & a gay man into extreme leather & S&M sex named Loren Lukas (Arnaldo Santana) is found brutally murdered, a single serial killer targeting the extreme gay community is thought to be responsible. The New York gay community doesn't have much of a relationship with the NYPD & getting any sort of information is like getting blood out of stone, Captain Edelson (Paul Sorvino) needs a man undercover so recruits patrol cop Steve Burns (Al Pacino) who matches the victims physical profiles. Steve accepts the assignment & start cruising the notorious extreme gay S&M bars in New York looking for clues & trying to attract the killer...This American German co-production was written & directed by William Friedkin & while it has a notorious reputation I must admit that I quite liked Cruising (the film not the real life act I hasten to add...). The script was based on the novel by Gerald Walker & is a fairly sleazy, seedy serial killer thriller but one that I found strangely entertaining. It's gritty, uncompromising & sometimes explicit but that adds to it rather than detracts in my opinion, it gives it a certain gravity although it's certainly not a film for everyone & I could see it offending more than a few people. It's interesting to note although maybe not surprising that apart from Pacino's wife I don't think there is another female speaking role in the entire film. The basic story of a detective going undercover in a sleazy world he didn't even know existed is reasonable, we don't really get inside his head that much & while we know it's affecting him we aren't really sure why. I think Friedkin could have expanded this side of the script a bit more to be honest. The way the killer is tracked down is also a little bit random, the way the killer just happened to try & chat Pacino up & then Pacino is handed a load of photo's on the slim chance he might recognise someone who he does. A bit to much of a coincidence for me. I would have liked a bit more detective work & the ending is very frustrating & abrupt which leaves the viewer wondering what the hell has just happened. Sure the ending is open to viewer interpretation but since it's a bit of a mess it's very hard to make any definite conclusion & you finish watching the film feeling a little cheated which isn't good. Having said that Cruising remained nothing if not watchable & fairly engrossing for me, I suppose it's a bit like a car crash where you just have to look & for me the gay bar scenes are certainly memorable although I am not sure they paint the gay community in a particularly good light. I mean according to Cruising all gays are hunky bodybuilder types who dress in tight t-shirts or vests, wear leather cowboy chaps, wear those leather caps & tight jeans who are all into kinky S&M leather bondage sex with complete strangers.There is some priceless dialogue in Cruising that is laugh out loud funny, I know I shouldn't laugh but I did. The 'has anyone ever smoked your pipe' & 'come here, I want to show you my nightstick' lines had me in hysterics. Then of course there's the infamous interrogation scene when the NYPD use a naked except for a cowboy hat & jock strap big black guy to beat a suspect! A truly surreal yet funny scene that I probably won't forget in a hurry. Apparently cut by forty odd minutes Cruising can be pretty graphic at times, from vicious knife murders to severed limbs to autopsies, from explicit sexual dialogue to sequences set in gay bars to depictions of S&M. I'm sure many will will much here to object to but none of it really bothered me to be honest. Cruising caused a fair bit of controversy & there were prominent protests both during the filming of it & when it opened to theatres.Technically the film is very good, it's well made & has that Hollywood polish about it although it still remains fairly gritty & sleazy just as it should. Shot on location in New York & in real gay bars there. The acting is very good from all involved, Pacino is just a great actor anyway & watchable in any film he's ever been in really.Cruising is not a film for everyone & I think that is pretty clear but I have to say that I liked it & was pretty impressed. I don't really care if this ruffles a few feathers in the gay community or upsets anyone, I liked it & that's all that matters to me. "},{"Title":"If only Sea of Love had been chronologically previous to this...","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ... then perhaps Pacino would have worked this type of genre out of his system and left us with some pleasant memories, rather than illustrating just how bad it can get when a good actor signs onto a project for the wrong reasons.  On paper there would seem to be mileage that Pacino can extract from this role, but in practice he's let down by a director and a script badly lacking in focus.  Friedkin seems only interested in the exploitative, never bothering to fashion a decent through-line, which renders any moments of drama pointless.  The script doesn't give anybody much to work with either - the audience is simply left with too many blanks to fill.  A few scenes demonstrating Steve having difficulty making love with his wife don't compensate for the moments of 'angst' that the material should have catered to Pacino with.Even the murders are shot without directorial flair.  They come off more like the deaths in some cheap and tacky '50's sci-fi serial.  This is actually hideously appropriate - they may just as well have subtitled this film The Gay Menace, and this was BEFORE the scourge of AIDS became widely recognised!  There's no sympathy on the part of the makers for anybody who's involved in that lifestyle, but it (rightly) refuses to condemn, either, so one has to wonder what exactly the point of the exercise is?  If they were looking for a 'tense, dark thriller', then kudos to the director of photography, because everybody else fluffed their brief quite spectacularly!Some of the acting is laughable, and even Pacino is way below-par here.  This misbegotten excuse for a movie emerges as a hysterical (in all senses) Taxi Driver wannabe which doesn't have the intelligence to match its ambitions and is undoubtedly one of the low points in Pacino's illustrious career. "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having recently been shown on Film Four in the UK in its longest form (i.e. the most un-hacked version ever shown in the UK, but still missing those elusive 40 minutes), I gave it another look as I hadn't seen it for 10 years or more.I'd forgotten what an excellent film it was. Right from the first shot, the fading in of the grey harbour accompanied by Jack Nitche's brilliant electronic / jazz soundtrack, an atmosphere of oppression and gloom is set which carries on through to the final credits. This certainly isn't the most upbeat film but so what? I personally found the presentation of gays in this film far less offensive than pap like Philadelphia, which shows a Hollywood-friendly (and totally unrealistic) portrayal of a controversial subject. At least Cruising has the balls to show you something you haven't seen before and doesn't soften the blow (so to speak).I understand from the short documentary that preceded the movie that it was a real hot potato when it was first released in 1980. Indeed, during the shooting in the real life gay bars of New York, protesters hounded the production as Friedkin was damned for making a downbeat movie about homosexuals. Ever been to a heavy leather S & M bar? I have, it was wild and quite surreal. And don't think that the cruising that went in the film is wildly exaggerated, it wasn't...The film is dealing with a subculture of gay life (and an extreme one at that), not the mainstream. Surely anybody with a brain can see that this is not implying that all gay people are obsessed with anonymous sex and sadomasochism... but some are. If that's their bag then good for them. Some are decent people, some are arseholes, just like any other part of lifePersonally I think Friedkin and Pacino were very brave taking on a project like this. Pacino in particular gives a marvellous and very subtle portrayal of a man drawn in to this bizarre world whilst struggling with his inner demons. The scene in which he almost breaks down to his boss (I just don't think I can do the job) is Pacino at his pot-boiling best.As mentioned at the start, 40 minutes have been cut from this film, including a full fisting scene where a man's clenched fist is apparently clearly visible in the stomach of another (yikes). What was almost certainly cut were finer details of Burns' journey in dealing with his own, deeply buried, homosexuality. At one point Pacino's character tells his girlfriend there's a lot you don't know about me. As it stands, some people's interpretation that Pacino turns gay in this film is quite understandable, even though not really possible.It's funny that when you read reviews of Cruising, many will concentrate on its repulsive scenes of consensual gay sex. I can't ever remember a time when a film with copious amounts of consensual heterosexual sex was slammed on that basis alone. Plus c'mon now, it's hardly hardcore!The book by Gerald Walker (on which the film is based) is vastly different from the film and, believe it or not, is much more vicious and disturbing (the Pacino character in the book eventually turns killer himself - poor old Ted).So for me, Crusing is a winner for it's wonderful French Connection grittiness, atmosphere and guts, Pacino's gamble, the amazing and never-mentioned Jack Nitzsche score and all round top quality acting. Hopefully one day we'll see a release on DVD with a Director's Cut. "},{"Title":"A review...","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Cruising was made in 1980 at a time when the AIDS epidemic had not yet made its presence known.  The film consists of a fairly basic plot line, there is a killer, and he has to be stopped.  There are some things about this plot that make this film much more controversial.  The killer is a man who is killing other men who are gay.  He is meeting these men at what I would describe as themed underground gay parties and bars, and then murdering them after having sex.  This in itself is an interesting factor that drives this film along.  Suspense is created obviously here, because there is a sense of urgency to catch the killer.  Obviously the man who  is killing these other men has problems in dealing with his own self, because he is heard uttering you made me do this before he kills his victims.  There is a young cop played by Al Pacino, named Steve Burns.  He is asked by his Captain Edelson (played by Paul Sorvenio), to go undercover and live the life of the gay man for a while to see if the killer is going to be able to be caught.  Sounds simple enough right?  Not quite.Cruising touches on several key aspects of American life, and makes some rather interesting stereotypes, perhaps looking to make some social commentary.  The representation of gay men in general is very stereotypical, and most are portrayed as being very promiscuous and dirty. The clubs that are danced in are dimly lit, and there are some strange scenes that suggest other things going on.  For example, Burns looks like he is having a seizure, as well as a great time when he begins to dance after huffing an amyl nitrate.  There are bandanas that are worn by men all the time, which represent what they would like to do, sexually.  One color is for giving receiving oral sex, one color is for anal, and there is even one for getting peed on.  I can only imagine that this fueled racist perceptions, not only in the media, but in the world at large as well.  This is a very negative portrayal of gays, and if quite unfair to have this be one of the first representations of gay life in cinema.The character of Burns also is quite an interesting part of this movie. When I asked myself, who this movie was all about, and what the message of this film is, most of the answers I came up with were based around this character.  He is asked by the Captain if he is gay before the assignment is given to him, and this scene seemed a little awkward, almost like Burns was trying to act straight here.  After he gets the job and begins to get into character, he goes through some interesting changes.  He experiences difficulty making love to his girlfriend, Nancy (played by Karen Allen). He also confesses to the Captain that the job is getting to him, getting into his head too much.  So not only do we not know his real sexual orientation, we are left with more questions about the culture.  This movie is making it look like being gay is a spreadable disease.There are also a lot of strange lines in the dialogue of the film.  When Burns thinks that he has the real killer, they go up stairs and begin to engage in a sex act.  The cops however can not hear what is going on so they go in and raid the place.  Pacino is tied up here, and he keeps saying that they came too quickly.  Then during the interrogation, there is a huge black man wearing a jock strap and nothing else.  I know I am not alone in wondering what that guy was all about.  The captain also tells Burns that he needs him, and that he is his partner.There is an interesting sub plot concerning a writer and his lover.  Burns had been placed next to him and they became friends.  We find that the writer is in a tough relationship.  Towards the end of the film, we are introduced to the writer's boyfriend.  Burns talks to him while the man is wearing nothing but underwear.  This is another aspect of the film that confused me.  Burns ends up fighting the man and then at the end of the film, the writer is dead and the man is no where to be found.  The killer is eventually tracked down by Burns, and he is arrested in a strange scene, where there is a lot of tension.So what is really happening here?  The first scene of the movie is a tugboat finding a severed human arm.  The last scene is the tugboat floating along. Here is my take on what really happened.  While Burns is in the process of catching the killer, he realized that he is in love with the writer.  He then kills the writer and chops up his boyfriend and throws him in the harbor, which is the scene that we see at the beginning of the film. Burns has slowly taken over the role of the gay killer, and he is going to keep on killing.  Also at the end of the film, we see Nancy putting on Steve's gay outfit.  We then see Steve looking at her through a mirror, and get a close up of his eyes.Unfortunately, I feel that this movies central theme is quite negative.  I think that the director of this film had a message that said all gay people are evil, and they will spread like a murderous disease.  The only other explanation I could muster was unless he simply meant to show society's portrayal of gay men and how obscure it is.I give this movie a 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What Was All the Fuss About?","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I do well remember all the outrage when word about Cruising being filmed on location in the streets of New York with all kinds of protesters from the GLBT community picketing the set. Word had gotten out that the film was going to be about the Leather/S&M scene and everyone that I knew was upset.Viewed 26 years later Cruising is mild stuff compared to some of what is shown on television today. There isn't a prime time TV series that today doesn't have some gay themed episode on it during its season. Some are sensitive and some are far more crassly exploitive than Cruising could ever aspire to be.The fuss back then was that in many places including the location of the film, New York City, gay civil rights was not on the statute books. A whole lot of people were trying to make that happen and a film like Cruising was feared in that it would give homophobes a lot of ammunition against the proposed civil rights law.People needn't have worried. The cause and the community proved a lot stronger than the impact of one film at the box office.Without all the politics involved, Cruising is a murder mystery. There's a troubled young man with a whole lot of issues murdering and dismembering men he picks up in various locales in New York. Chief of Detectives Paul Sorvino picks officer Al Pacino because in looks and build he fits the physical profile of the victims. Cruising is the story of Pacino's undercover investigation looking for that killer. It also is a story of Pacino reexamining a whole lot of preconceived notions about human sexuality in general.As it turns out I happen to know one of the cast members of the film who had a small three line speaking role in the film and with Al Pacino himself. He related to me that when the casting call came out, he came in the required leather uniform and had three levels of audition. First with the casting director, then with Bill Friedkin and finally with Al Pacino himself.What he also mentioned was that Pacino was a nice down to earth sort of fellow when he met him and easy to work with. And the reason he was easy to work with was that he was a man totally focused on the job at hand when on the set.He also related to me that apparently Bill Friedkin had decided in advance to do some kind of a gay related story. The final script for Cruising beat out others including one that would have had a prostitution angle in it. Probably a worse image for a film than what Cruising was about. This writer whose script was rejected was a political activist as well and he was the one who got the ball rolling with all the protests. My friend mentioned that among his own group of friends he lost only one permanently over his decision to work in the film. Everyone else in his circle saw the film and their reactions were a gamut of applause for the film to a total trashing. But only one individual broke with him over it.Art sometimes predicts life. There is a shot during Al Pacino's travels through the bars and clubs of the West Village of 1980 of the Ramrod bar. After Cruising had come and gone from theaters, a man named Ronald Crumpley one November night in 1980 drove by with an Uzi and wounded six and killed two people. Things like that are still happening, even in some of the gay friendliest areas in the USA.Besides Pacino and Sorvino, the performances to look for are those of Don Scardino as the young writer who lives next door to the apartment Pacino is located in during his undercover assignment and James Remar as Scardino's roommate who is a dancer. They have a volatile relationship and Scardino would be considered a battered spouse had they been able to marry. A story all to true, but hardly limited to same sex relationships.Cruising will never rank in the top 10 of Al Pacino's films on anybody's list. But sufficient time has passed so that we can look at it with a bit more objectivity than was possible in 1980. "},{"Title":"Cruising? See This Movie, It's Out-Standing!","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the most controversial films ever made. I saw it when it first came out on Miami Beach, at the 71st Street Bryon-Caryle Theater. Being that I was in my early 20s and not to keen as to the controversy, I went in expecting to see an Al Pacino movie. What I got were Gay and anti-Gay activists lead by Bob Kuntz & Anita Bryan. Anyhow, to the film. A brutal, raw, hard, sometimes disturbing look at a small sub-culture of the Gay community-The leather Bars, just prior to the AIDS explosion of the 1980s. Filmed in some real clubs, with many leathermen playing bit parts. It's basically a story of a serial killer on the loose in the world of leather. The real stars of the show aren't Al Pacino or Paul Sorvino, but character actors Richard Cox as the killer and Jay Acovone as a suspect. Gut-level acting. It's as raw, as raw can be. Outstanding! The final show-down in the park at night, to me, is one of the best filmed and acted scenes in cinema history.The ending leaves some people confused, but not me. In a nut-shell, Richard Cox as college student Stuart Richards, is a gay Norman Bates. Instead of a mother complex, Cox's character suffers from a father's one. He uses his father's voice when crusing and then killing his pick-ups. In other words, he is his father killing himself because he is gay! As for Al Pacino's character. Well, he is basically a symbol of a person, who when exposed to daily, nightly, acts of sexual sadism, is disturbed/and/or/ revolted or turned-on by it. In order words, absolute corruption-corrupts-absolutely!A great film. A 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"sex, death and disco","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Cruising' is not an especially good film. Not as a gruseome, gritty crime thriller. Not as an adaption of a crime novel. Not as one of the first mainstream Hollywood films to depict, often quite explicitly, theafter hours life-style of some gay men.The film depicts &#x96; intentionally or not &#x96; gay and bisexual men in a manner starkling similar to Hollywod vampires; i.e. nocternal, decadent, amoral and predatory.Granted, it could be argued that the film's decadent aspects &#x96; namley the S&M leather bars and depicting the men who visit these bars as willingess to engage in casual, even public, sex acts may be accurate.In the sexual liberation ethos of the 1970s (filming largely took place in the summer of 1979), before the AIDS pandemic, it is certainly possible that this is how some (mostly white, middle class) gay and bisexual men liked to get down and party after work.The problem is that 'some' becomes 'all' as far as this film is concerned. The film makers had many creative and simple ways to better depict the gay community without being a bland, public service announcement.The undercover cop has a gay neighbor who is a nice character (played by a terrific actor) but is not really given much to do, except be brutally murdered.Franky, even the film's stars are not really given much to do, largely because the film removed much of character development, motivation and story arches found within the novel.As a crime drama, we have a depiction of the New York City police department that is, frankly, down right scary.I am surprised that members of law enforcement are not as outraged as the gay community is on how this film depicts them. 'Criminal Minds' or 'NCIS, it ain't.The 'investigation' into a serial killer basically boils down to one straight man posing as a regular bar at kinky gay bars in the hopes that the killer will try and pick him up.Basically, this means paying a straight man to dance in sweaty/smoky bars and then being awfully surprised that this is not an effective way to track down a serial killer.Apparently, all that late night dancing (to some funky disco and punk music) gives the undercover agent a sexual identity crisis, which, in turn, transforms him into a gay murderer.After the gay serial killer is caught, the gay neighbor is killed, apparently, by the undercover cop.Yup, our film's hero becomes a gay serial killer after catching a gay serial killer because....um...er....I have no idea. He hung out with gay and bisexual men? His girlfriend dumped him? He listened to punk rock music? The homophobia, sexism and good-old-fashion bad writing in this film makes for a rather tragic triad.Tragic because the film has got a great cast and crew involved with it. The novel itself could be adapted into a great film. I even enjoyed the retro, 1970s music.Film audiences -- gay or straight -- deserve better. Fans of gritty, crime thrillers deserve better. Heck, fans of vampires or the S&M scene deserve better. "},{"Title":"Cruising","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There seems to be a serial killer at large in New York City, targeting only members of the underground gay S/M scene. Officer Steve Burns (Al Pacino) is given an undercover assignment to infiltrate the scene and trace down the killer in seedy leather bars and cruising spots in public parks. The emotionally draining mission puts great stress on Burns' personal life with his girlfriend Nancy (Karen Allen) and the overly rough actions of the police also affect his mental state.The movie obviously trusts on the shock value of showing non-embellished sex scenes from the more extreme corners of the gay community, and while homosexuality itself is not much of a taboo anymore, I think the graphic encounters in the private clubs still convey an effective sense of decadence, helping to create a menacing atmosphere. Even so, the story should have put more emphasis on Burns' personal development and the changing of his nature &#x96; now only the scenes of Burns stalking the suspected murderer near the end of the film carry the feel of creepy commitment. These scenes are the best part of the film anyway, as the cinematography and atmosphere are at their most effective at that point.Despite its flaws, the film also contains many successful elements. For one thing, the use of music is very good; both the score and the rock songs on the soundtrack support the mood excellently. The nasty, shocking murder scenes and the calm-voiced killer character are also presented skilfully, and the lingering sense of uncertainty at the end also works in favour of the whole. Pacino's performance as the skinny officer is worthy of praise too. Still, a little more focus on traditional drama elements and less on shock value would have been needed to make Cruising really stand out among other crime thrillers, but it is perfectly watchable as it is now too. "},{"Title":"The French Connection Director Goes Cruising . . .","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The R-rated, Al Pacino undercover cop movie Cruising about homosexuals shows Oscar winning French Connection director William Friedkin at his nadir. Cruising qualifies as cheap, raunchy sensationalism that isn't as offensive as it is incoherent. The reason may be that Friedkin doubled as writer and director after his fracases with scenarist Ernst Tidyman on The French Connection and later with writer & producer William Peter Blatty on The Exorcist. Either Friedkin left half of the movie on the cutting room floor or he was too timid to plumb the depths of Manhattan's seamy underworld of sadomasochistic homosexual bars. Whatever the case, it is surprising to watch an actor like Al Pacino, suited up in leather, wander through the incomprehensible muddle of Friedkin's grisleyand with little to do. Reportedly, Pacino has even voiced his own dissatisfaction with Cruising. Friedkin and Pacino both are doing variations of earlier work. The hard boiled cops of Cruising are reminiscent of the profane police in The French Connection. Friedkin uses the same technical adviser on Cruising that he used on The French Connection&#151;Sonny Grosso. Grosso served as Popeye Doyle's real-life partner in the actual French Connection narcotics case. Meanwhile, Pacino plays an undercover cop in Cruising. This role isn't a far cry from his portrayal of another undercover cop in Sidney Lumet's Serpico. In another Lumet movie, Dog Day Afternoon, Pacino played a real-life gay bank robber; in Cruising, he sets out to protect the gay community from a homicidal maniac.Pacino is cast as N.Y.P.D. patrolman Steve Burns who agrees to masquerade as a leather-bound sadomasochistic homosexual, so he can catch a murderer that butchers gay men with a steak knife. As Captain Edelson, Paul Sorvino delivers a stand-out performance. Edelson assigns Burns to the case because Burns resembles the victims of the stabber.Burns moves into a gay neighborhood and cruises the haunts of gay S&M hard cases. The bars that Friedkin's cameras prowl appear to be the genuine article with sex between consenting men as uninhibited as it is promiscuous. Burns' girlfriend Nancy (Karen Allen of Raiders of the Lost Ark) tries to learn what he is up to, but he cannot bring himself to reveal the unsavory nature of his assignment. Gradually, Burns grows accustomed to the ways of S&M homosexuals and the subtle clothing language they use to identify their sexual preferences. Burns' impersonation as one of them improves to the point that he finds himself in the middle of an identity crisis.He pops up at Nancy's apartment in search of heterosexual love to prove himself that he has turned gay. Later, he complains to his captain that his work is affecting him deeply and he isn't sure he can continue the assignment. His captain persuades him to continue; Edelson is under pressure from his own superiors to nab the murderer.Along the way, Friedkin introduces the villain. This guy is neither gay nor masochistic, but he is a sadist. He hates gays and what they want to do to him when they rendezvous with him. But they don't get far before he stabs them and in some instances lops off an arm or a leg. Friedkin carefully details his villain. For example, this disturbed young man writes dozens of letters to his father that he never mails because his father is dead. Presumably, Friedkin is trying to make his villain ironic in that he isn't the usual brutish thug. Unfortunately, Burns' characterization is as sketchy as the villain and neither emerges as remotely believable. Friedkin refuses to reveal necessary elements like motivation, so his characters are somewhat of a mystery themselves.Sadly, most of Cruising makes very little sense. Aside from ignoring motivation for his characters, Friedkin also leaves out much exposition. Instead, he dwells on the unwholesome aspects of the murder. The film opens with the discovery of a chopped off arm floating in the river. The knife murders aren't gory, but they are intense and sudden. An interrogation scene depicts the police stooping to any tactic no matter how repulsive it is to obtain information from a suspect.Clearly, Friedkin went on location to film the gay bar scenes because the atmosphere looks too authentic to be confined to a studio. In a sense, Cruising is a documentary of the gay male S&M scene. Friedkin goes to tedious lengths, including a preface to point out that Cruising is not an indictment of homosexuality. Essentially, Cruising is your typical police procedural melodrama about a confrontation between a resolute cop and an elusive murderer. But Friedkin doesn't go far enough and the showdown is pretty routine stuff. When it's all over and Pacino's has arrested his man, you're tempted to say, So what. Instead, Friedkin isn't out to make a law and order opus any more than he is out to indict gays. The setting of contemporary gay society is exploited as a novelty and a backdrop for the action. Rather, Friedkin's goal is to make people feel uncomfortable with his choice of subject matter.Friedkin's screenplay resembles a sieve. By the end, he tries to convince us that Pacino's Burns has been transformed into a murderer, but the idea is so lightly hinted at that audiences can never really be sure whether Burns has become a gay killer. "}{"Title":"Cruising","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite its controversial setting, Cruising is an extremely ordinary undercover cop tale with little in the way of character or plot development which leaves the viewer struggling to find anything of interest once we have become used to the sleazy gay bar scenes. Al Pacino is to be applauded for taking on a role that must have been much more daring than it would be considered today, but you can't help thinking he should have paid a little more attention to quality control when he signed on the dotted line his character is so one-dimensional he makes a paper cup look interesting. And, given that the basic plot could have been played out in any milieu, the use of the underground New York gay subculture suggests writer-director William Friedkin was simply out to shock audiences.Friedkin deliberately muddies the waters by using different actors to portray the murderer (one of the killers also plays a victim) while having the police investigation suggest the killer is one individual, and also by giving us a deliberately ambiguous ending. For an ending like that to work it has to have more of a connection to the rest of the film, has to have more detail in the preceding scenes for the audience to chew over, but Friedkin is either too lazy - or too contemptuous of his audience - to put in the effort. Some people might applaud running the credits with issues unresolved, and where such a device is used intelligently to prompt some thought and debate on the part of the audience but, given the lacklustre nature of every other aspect of the movie, I can't help feeling Friedkin was embarking on some kind of ego trip by which he displayed his perceived superiority through an attempted manipulation of the audience. "},{"Title":"Friedkin, the Original Refn","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising was negatively reviewed by nearly all critics, only discreetly commercially profitable, nominated for three Golden Razzies and notoriously beleaguered by gay rights activists throughout production. But the misapprehension by critics is a testament to the movie's profound effect on the subconscious mind, something you truly cannot say about most movies. Friedkin's storytelling ambiguity is at its most extreme here. Even the title is ambiguous, a subtle rhetorical amalgam of cruising in the implication of patrolling and cruising in the getting-laid way. Whatever we bring to the film we'll take away. Expressly, if we think Al Pacino's character grows seduced by the murky fever dream of his undercover world so that repressed homosexual predispositions surface within him and that his inability to stop hiding from this unleashes his own murderous instincts, then we'll see confirmation in the film to validate it. If we think otherwise, then we'll hit upon traces to substantiate those predetermined lines of reasoning.When we meet Pacino, his willingness to probe the murders has a boyish characteristic. Upon describing the risks involved, his boss played by a poignantly brooding Paul Sorvino asks him if he wants the task. Pacino's reply smacks of inexperience. One could also deduce that response as masking his enthusiasm, like the threat were before now addictive to him.In the next scene, Pacino lies in bed with his girlfriend, played by Karen Allen. He tells her he can't reveal his assignment, but he'll get a gold shield for it. In the wings soft music plays, and when Allen says that his father called, Friedkin cuts to a close-up of Pacino, his face dimming, an gloomy music sting fading up. When Allen says she didn't know he was so ambitious, he replies, There's a lot about me you don't know. Friedkin uses obscure dialogue and intuitive music, not action, to create an ostensible estrangement between Pacino and his father.By the end, will Pacino have overpowered the outlandish world he's been drawn into, or has he come under the influence of its shadowy deviance? Upon his appearance in Greenwich undercover, Pacino makes friend with Ted, who shares the neighboring apartment with his wary lover played by James Remar. Pacino and Ted chat about gay life, the murders, and his lover's self-centeredness. For those tending to think Pacino is attracted to Ted, okay. For those who find Pacino merely rising to another person as a friend, also okay. In one scene after agreeing to his assignment, Pacino sees Allen, who ebbs out of frame, apparently to perform on him orally, and we push in on his face, which twists, and the sounds, voices and vivacious music of the leather bars stuffs his thoughts. Sound becomes character, but it could be interpreted as sexual confusion, or a hard-wearing appeal to that subculture, or a traumatic reaction to it. Friedkin makes no ruling.The initial murders, with their forceful close-ups of the knife plunged repeatedly into the victim's back, are gruesome and disquieting. The killer(s) establish an evident, mortal, monstrous danger. Friedkin reprises a shot at the beginning and the end of a leather-clad figure with rattling keys and small hindrance in his stride, a bearing shared by Pacino and the apparent suspects, walking into a bar in the meat-packing district. One can conclude that these homicides are a sadistic succession, a communicable virus. By the end, has the malicious rotation truly begun anew? We take away whatever we bring in.Cruising, another one of William Friedkin's much overlooked and under-appreciated masterworks is another example of his ability to individualize his vision into such subjectivity that it in fact becomes universal. His visualization of Cruising is crystallized into a closed-curve narrative structure of both circular and parallel projections, less interested in the identity of the killer than the contaminating nature of male violence in general. Through the repetition of the recurring symbolic element of the Jungian shadow motif, all of the imagery, structural components and dialogue brings to life that part of the unconscious mind made of buried Achilles' heels, inadequacies, and impulses. It's supposedly one of the three basic personality aspects. Everyone has a shadow, and the less it's made flesh in one's conscious life, the blacker and thicker it is&#x85;like leather. It may be partly one's connection to more primordial visceral impulses, which are outmoded more and more throughout life by our willful minds.In being intuitive and unreasonable, this deepest reach of our minds is given to a kind of projection We all do it, turning a private inadequacy into a moral fault in someone else. Thus homophobia. Thus rage toward homosexuals. Thus the carnivalesque but no less sinister ambiance of the cavernous nightclubs Pacino frequents. If these projections are never accepted, maybe their root, one's shadow, then goes without a pattern and can effect some other circumstantial attribute of its influence. These projections segregate and hinder us by keeping an ever more opaque (like leather) haze of false impression between our self-images and our real world.It's about time we surrendered our reliance on box office, the Academy, and critics as gauges of value. We have to see the films for ourselves. "},{"Title":"Al Pacino stars in this often misguided but well-meaning thriller about a gay serial-killer.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When CRUISING was released in 1980, the theaters that were brave enough to screen it were lambasted by anti-gay groups who felt the film's subject matter was 'unhealthy' and 'unnecessary' for society. The direct subject matter surrounding aspects of the homosexual lifestyle also did not appeal to everyone's tastes, including homosexuals themselves. Many people felt that CRUISING also misrepresented the gay community and exposed them as promiscuous and sleazy sexually-crazed perverts that it was no surprise that the movie was lobbied against by homosexuals as well.I had the pleasure of catching this movie on cable late at night recently and I can now say that I understand why there was so much controversy surrounding this movie. Al Pacino, already a star with an acclaimed resume (ie. THE GODFATHER, SERPICO, etc.) assumes the brave task by taking the lead role in this movie, portraying a naive police officer who goes undercover to try and catch a crazed psychopath who is killing members of the gay community in New York City. The specified aspect of the community that is focused on here is the sado-masochism and leather groups that became a stereotype farce for homosexuals throughout the 70's and 80's.CRUISING represents itself as a nocturnal thriller. We only get to witness the debacles of the 'alternative lifestyle' at night. The gritty footage of the grimy buildings in deserted districts that pose as gay bars and 'cruising' areas give you the impression that there is about as much warmth within New York City as a cold latrine.CRUISING is a movie containing gore and somewhat explicit scenes involving naked bound and gagged men who get stabbed to death by the serial killer. The twist in this particular film is that the serial killer is actually a homosexual killing victims from his own community. Al Pacino is given very little to work with here and I believe that the Director of this movie had very little knowledge or understanding of the things that truly represent the gay community.The things we see through the eyes of Pacino as he enters this new and foreign world are men scantily clad in leather and jock straps, kissing, touching, feeling and groping each other in smoke-filled bars. The community we are privy to witness is nothing more than a sleazy nocturnal society of sexually-depraved perverts who prey on each other to engage in sexual acts to be played out inside dirty video booths, among the bushes in Central Park or under some abandoned bridge.To assume the identity of an individual involved in this particular community, Pacino moves into an apartment in a gay neighborhood, purchases leather clothing and begins lifting weights. Due to his 'undercover' activity, Pacino's girlfriend (played by a young Karen Allen) has no idea of the things Pacino is about to involve himself in.Factually, the things that take place in CRUISING make absolutely no sense. Pacino is not allowed to carry weapons of any sort, yet he is encouraged to stake-out the gay 'hot-spots' and even engage himself in sexual activity with other men, yet if one of them turned out to be the serial killer - how was he supposed to get himself out of the situation?Regardless of the things that turn the events of the film into fiction rather than non-fiction, CRUISING is a unique and offensive thriller that does provide some thrills. The film spends little time delving into the mind of the psychopath himself. His reasons for killing his victims are explained so vaguely, the finale of the film is less than satisfying.Loose ends left in the air will ultimately discourage you from saying too many positive things about this film, but I applauded it mostly for being daring and for Al Pacino's brave performance as a young man whose life is turned upside down as he enters the world of homosexuality. Of the outcome of Pacino's character, one might ask themselves at the conclusion of the film, So is he, or isn't he? I was confused myself, but I suspect that the Director intended this  particular aspect to be the controversial point of the movie, and not the subject itself.My Rating - 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Hoped it would be better","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I heard of this film a few years ago, and was intrigued by how much Al Pacino looked like Frankie Valli on the movie's cover art, and I was interested in seeing him in this subject matter. Pacino is one of the greats, and I was curious to see how he portrayed his character. Even though I consider myself a socially liberal person, I was still quite surprised at the many shots of sexual innuendo and partial male nudity throughout much of the film; it got to the point of taking over the film, in my opinion, and I felt it distracted from the rest of the film's story. As much as I enjoy Pacino's talents, I wasn't terribly impressed with his performance, as perhaps he wasn't totally into his character. I know he goes undercover and must keep things quiet, but I didn't feel he stood out as he normally does. There were times I wanted certain answers and motives, but I wasn't satisfied with how Cruising left many things to question. I didn't get any sense of closure when it ended. Paul Sorvino and Joe Spinelli also star in this grainy tale. I did enjoy the underground and realistic shots of new york though. "},{"Title":"Cruising","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You made me do that.Talk about a fascinating movie. There's a serial killer stalking homosexual men in West Village, and a green patrol cop(Al Pacino)is persuaded by Captain Edelson(a gaunt looking Paul Sorvino)to go undercover to snuff him out. But, as cop Steve Burns, taking the identity of John Forbes, continues to remain in disguise he finds himself becoming affected which seems to derail his relationship with girlfriend Nancy(Karen Allen). You know, Friedkin questions Burns' sexual orientation right from the get-go when Edelson asks him bluntly if he had ever engaged in homosexual sex before..notice how a jarred Burns can't quite answer that question. I feel that he was always sexually confused which would explain the rather vacuous nature of Burns relationship with Nancy(There's a lot about me you don't know.). They seem to embrace with a relative coldness that isn't very convincing. Yet, as Burns remains undercover, all of a sudden, in one particular night, his sex with Nancy has a force and passion perhaps never surfaced before. After this, Burns' sex life with Nancy becomes stunted and eventually non existent. To say that CRUISING completely cast homosexual men in a negative light I think is wrong. Sure, we see Pacino visit bars where men, in leather and not much else, these manly men with mustaches, balding and hairy, some with muscles, real guys who might work on shipping docks and meat packing plants, embracing, kissing, fondling, and the way I saw it, it was a release of hormones. This was their refuge, the place where they could be themselves with other men just like them. Are all gays so free and liberated, in a public place, like this? I think not, but who's to say that there wasn't places like this at all in the 70's. Anyway, what really intrigued me was the method of casting different men as the killer, as to keep his identity a secret. Is it Richard Cox's Columbia music student? Yes, his Stuart Richards was ill in that his father's disapproval(of what is uncertain, but one thinks that it could be his sexual orientation)caused him to imagine he often talked with daddy even though he had been deceased ten years. Richards does have a knife he comes at Burns with(Burns also has a knife on his person which I would think should raise some eyebrows as well). But, he never admits to the crimes and later in the film, a young gay struggling playwright, Ted Bailey(Don Scardino; HE KNOWS YOU'RE ALONE)is found mutilated(Ted is a good friend of Burns' Forbes)so to say that the case is closed would be perhaps ill advised(notice the haunted look of Sorvino's face, as if he's acknowledging that his undercover cop might've been the culprit). I loved all these question marks. Could Burns have become so guilt-stricken with his own budding homosexual feelings that he eventually took over the reigns from another killer? The closing shot of Pacino's face is certainly puzzling(it's as if this face reveals no identity, who Burns truly is anymore remains a mystery). And, Nancy's finding the gay gear in a chair as Burns returns home from his undercover work, with the gold shield he so desired, trying on the hat, jacket, shades, certainly left a lasting impression with me(I was taken aback at how sexy she looks in such garb). I didn't think the movie was anti-gay, just representing a certain section of homosexual men letting their inhibitions go. Men picking up other men, to me, is no more shocking that men and women hooking up, or lesbians..it happens, whether or not this film's depiction is totally accurate, I don't think CRUISING ever meant to represent the entire gay male population. Joe Spinell's cop is particularly creepy, how he's an obvious cruiser who might also be a worthy suspect(he mentions having a family who left him for Florida, so dealing with latent homosexual feelings could just drive him to rage killings as well, I think). The whole segment where Burns targets Stuart(Friedkin shifts the film as we follow Stuart instead of Burns which it, in itself, is quite interesting)kind of casts a different light at the film's supposed hero. Burns seems to assume the predator role and Stuart the prey. "},{"Title":"dark and gripping look at a seldom seen sub culture","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It always makes me smile when looking back at certain films made in the 70's and 80's and pondering on what the intent was for making it. It was prime time for exploitation films, and some of my all-time favorite shockers come from this seedy period. A time for zero budgeted filmmakers and producers to make a quick and sleazy buck. But hand in hand with this we also had some more mainstream filmmakers diving into the cinematic septic tank to wrestle with the slippery turds that get stuck in the underground. Scorsese showed us with Taxi Driver that a look into the low life's didn't equate to potential Oscar disaster, and Paul Schrader himself followed up with the skin-filled exploration of porn and snuff in Hardcore . So I guess it is no surprise to see a film like Cruising not only coming from one of Hollywoods biggest hotshots, Mr William Friedkin, but also starring the one and only Mr Al Pacino.Based loosely on a true series of events, Cruising follows the undercover attempts of the New York police department as they try to infiltrate the gay sub-culture (specifically the leather S&M scene) in order to solve the spate of vicious gay serial killings that have been haunting the mayor and police chief. They select the young Italian cop Steve Burns (Pacino) to go deep undercover in the scene, forcing him into morally questionable scenarios for a heterosexual male. But is everything as it seems with the murder case? And does Steve stand more to lose than his anal virginity? There is only one way to find out! To say Cruising is a dark and gritty little film is an understatement. It's shot in a similarly garish style to something like Vice Squad; lots of neon lights, sleazy characters and rain drenched streets. There is a constant sense of danger floating throughout, either in the S&M bar scenes, or in the quietly haunting moments before a nasty murder erupts. Even by the end of the film, that sense of unknowing fear will grip you. Who thought a simple image of a leather-clad man walking down a dark, lonely street could be so unsettling? The murder scenes are short but brutal. As I said, they are most effective in the moments before the actual kill, with the murderer mouthing the simple rhyme of 'who's where? I'm here. You're here' before getting stab happy. The S&M scenes are suitably lurid, expect lots of manly types in jock straps with studded leather blowing each other, and in one great scene, lubing up and fisting each other. Reminded me of sports day in school.There are some flaws for me though, and it's mainly in how Steve Burns is shown in how he deals with his own homosexuality. We are never explicitly shown if he is uncomfortable, or how far he pushes himself in search of leads. The closest we get is when the detectives, fearing Steves life is in danger, bust into the apartment where he is taken by a suspect. They find Pacino hog tied and naked, but still he murmurs, 'you came in too soon'. It shows that he has been down this road more than once, and has to endure more than play acting.Ultimately though, the film is a dark road beaten through Steve Burns' fragile mind, the further he gets into character the further he must go to get to the truth. Is the truth to the identity of the killer out there? Who knows. Friedkin leaves us with more questions than answers, but his point was probably to make us examine the darker sides of our own nature and sexuality than to really give us an easy solution.Were his intentions genuine for making the film, or was it in his eye's an easy and controversial hit? The film was plagued with protests and disruptions due to it's content, which no doubt helped it greatly in it's initial run. Whatever the case may be, he crafted one of the finest cop/serial killer thrillers in my book, exploitation or not. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Please tell me I am not crazy, William!","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie at the theater in the early 80's and I seem to remember a different ending! I have heard sometimes that a different cut appears at different theaters. I will not reveal the climax (no pun intended) I saw was darker (lighting wise) and Mr. Pacino not want to be stopped (not like the earlier scene when he was interrupted). I rented the VHS years later (different) and saw a different DVD today. It was not the same. Somebody save me. A big fan and I am not gay either. Listening to the directors commentary did not explain the release that I saw. I read their was a longer version but I don't remember 40 more minutes!!!! A highly underrated movie with great performance by Pacino. As Mr. Friedkin explains, it is the type of movie that asks more questions then answers. I can think of many great movies that use this technique. "},{"Title":"Misfire","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to know exactly what Friedkin figured he was doing here.  The movie has three themes, so to speak (1) a mystery in which a cop, Pacino, goes undercover to investigate the brutal murder of some homosexual; (2) a love story involving Pacino and Karen Allen; and (3) Pacino fighting his own Jungian homosexual shadow.None of them is very well done.  Man, when the phrase lacks focus is used, this is the sort of thing that should serve as the referent.The first them is blown by a meandering script that loses sight of the mystery, the hunt for the murdere, and takes us instead on a lengthy tour of what any God fearing son of the soil would immediately identify as the worst side of gay life.  Half the movie seems to be spent following Pacino through those mean streets, crowded with buggers in black leather and faux military caps, sweating, fisting each other in public venues, ogling each other laciviously, knifing each other in the back, prowling through orgiastic saloons dimly lighted by neon -- and all the time accompanied by blaring electric guitars and a singer shouting at us that, It's easy!!!!  What a bore.  If there was some notion of titillating the audience it failed.  If this is representative of the gay life style it's enough to drive anyone straight.  But in fact this isn't representative of anything much.  It's rather like an alien from a freshly landed UFO asking you to help him find a typical earth organism, so you take him to the zoo and show him a rhinocerus.  The original murder business is forgotten during the middle half of the movie in favor of this guided tour of the Black Museum.The girlfriend business.  Karen Allan is there, on those rare occasions when she is there at all, for only one reason -- to demonstrate the problems that Pacino develops with heterosexual relationships.  As he first descends into the lower depths he makes love to her more strenuously than usual.  Then he requires fellatio to be stimulated by her.  Finally he ignores her completely and they split up.  He returns to her at the end but by that time he's a fruitcake.Pacino's demons.  The poor guy.  His colleagues are disgusted by the fags roaming the streets.  Look at this, one cop says disgustedly, you used to be able to play stickball on these streets.  The fact is, you still can. Gay guys, unmarried and with no family responsibilities, have a great deal of discretionary income, at least those who chain migrate to neighborhoods like the Village and Polk Gulch, which are neat, coy, harmless, and expensive.  They may be gay but as far as violence is concerned, it's just not really there, not like the rest of the city.  But Pacino is drawn into the lifestyle.  He never comes out and says so, but we see him doing things like lifting weights in front of a mirror and painting his eyebrows.  When he finally captures the murderer it seems as if the nightmarish descent is over -- but no.  The very exposure has contaminated him and he butchers a friendly gay neighbor.At least that's my impression.  It's a bit confused and not sewn up very well.  It's not the performer's fault either.  Pacino does exquisite things with his expressions and, particularly, with his voice.  It's effete without being obviously so.  It's lighter and a bit higher than his normal tone, suggesting, but not openly brandishing, a certain lack of inner strength, of masculinity even, which is tough for an actor like Pacino.The fact is, though, that I just don't understand why this movie was made. I know it generated a lot of heat in the gay community, but I have a feeling that if it weren't this movie there would be some other issue to provide a rite of intensification.  Okay.  Here's an example of the sort of thing that leaves me puzzled.  While hanging out in gay bars, we see a dozen hairy leering faces give Pacino the once over.  One of them in a familiar character actor whose name I forget, maybe Spinell.  In the penultimate scene the same actor is used as a cop, in a role that has nothing to do with the gay bar.  No effective use is made of New York locations.  I couldn't see any identifiable parts of the Village.  Money would have been saved if the movie had been shot in Toronto.  What was Friedkin thinking?  "},{"Title":"No, not for me thanks...","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was disappointed, I have to say.  It's a stock Hollywood whodunnit with a homosexual twist, and a pretty poorly constructed one at that. Friedkin of French Connection and Exorcist fame proves he can't cut it as a writer, Pacino doesn't look right as either a cop or a leather-bound gay man, and his performance is affected accordingly.  Pretty weak performance from the normally unswayable Sorvino into the bargain.  This could have been used as a double episode of Quincy, regardless of sexuality issues.  That it is set in the early 80s S&M underworld of New York is mere window-dressing for a crummy thriller.  Are we supposed to think Pacino is turning gay in the final scenes with his wife or what??  Poor all round.  ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Hot and Stupid","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers! &#150; Do not read unless you've seen the movie!! I have to admit, I find the leather guys in this movie very sexy, so I have always enjoyed this movie on some level. But it IS lame and dangerously so, mainly because we are led to believe that a person exposed to the S&M gay scene could easily become a pathological killer, as Pacino does at the end of this movie. Let's assume that it isn't about the gay S&M scene but the straight S&M scene. It becomes more obvious then how ludicrous it would be for a cop or anyone for that matter to become a murderer just from hanging out at S&M clubs! If that were the case, there'd be millions of S&M murderers all over the country! It also makes no sense that a cop would become a killer just from spending several months tracing a killer. If that was the case, then most cops in the homicide department had better retire! Then are we to assume then that Pacino is a latent homosexual? If so, we're shown no reasoning for that in the film, and even if he were, his sexuality wouldn't have anything to do with being homicidal! The most change we can see in his sexual behavior is that he begins to discover that he likes it rough with his girlfriend. There's a big leap between that and murder! Seriously, this misunderstanding that S&M equals murderous impulses is about as ridiculous as someone who plays pro football being consumed with wanting to bash people's skulls in. OJ Simpson aside, S&M is far less violent than the world of football because anger and rage aren't facilitated in S&M. It's a very controlled act that is entirely permissive &#150; don't forget, it's sadoMASOCHISM; the recipient 'wants' a certain amount of pain! At this juncture in gay history, a film like Cruising wouldn't register much on any scale of political incorrectness but back in 1979, this was the first major Hollywood movie to deal with the subject. Because of that, it had a responsibility to keep truthful in its depictions of sex and violence. Friedkin knew damn well what he was doing. If one watches the scene where the man who was tied up gets stabbed over and over in a very slow scan, they'll see that Friedkin had edited in a gay hardcore sex scene of penetration. Homo Sex = Fatal Violence in Friedkin's warped mind. MAYBE one can accept that the murderer in the film was murderous because he couldn't cope with being gay, but there's nothing in Pacino's character that would make him succumb to such a mindset.As for the murderer in the film, his character is also pretty lazy writing if you ask me. A closeted man studying Broadway musicals of all things, virtually turns into his disapproving father whenever his sexual impulses &#150; ahem &#150; arise. Again, if all the gay men into Broadway musicals with disapproving fathers became schizophrenic murders... I suppose the Christofascists would create a new holiday in celebration! Still, every few years I take a peak at this movie, for the hot guys, the (unintentionally) hilarious dialogue, the fabulous score (when's the soundtrack gonna be re-released?) and for the nostalgia. It was after all, the halcyon days for gay men; a type of murder that was far more sinister than what was dreamt up in this movie was just around the corner. I say, try to enjoy this movie the way you would Gone with the Wind with its outrageously offensive black stereotypes. We are a wiser more sophisticated society now and we can wink knowingly at the stupidity on the screen. And don't worry, homophobes wouldn't go near this film with a ten-foot pole, so no one's going to be using this film as a textbook example of homosexuality. Just put your intelligence aside and enjoy! Now, where did I put my handkerchief? "}{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love this film. I love the locations, the acting, the music. It is a fantastic story and being in 1980 a perfect time. Al Pacino is great in the main role and nothing sums up the movie more than when he leaves the club and the guy follows him and Pacino stops and says not tonight!. The underground club scene at that time in the Gay world is shown brilliantly and the mental effect on Pacino takes its tool and is shown well. It's so good because it so different, if feels true and with lots of serial gay killers at the time it's like a documentary of one of them. I watch this film regularly and never grow tired of it. Shown regularly on UK television and I am glad they do and not take the easy way out and think it offends cause it doen't. In fact it opens up a forgotten world. Not appreciated enough. "},{"Title":"One of the worst I've seen.","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this for the first time on a specialty cable movie channel, and it was the complete release version. Pretty bad execution of good subject matter and interesting idea. Seems obvious that the Pacino character is dealing with some repressed homosexuality, much the same as the music student/killer. Very sad that the film only shows negative aspects of gay life, and that the way of dealing with latent homosexuality is to become violent. Regardless of the disclaimer at the beginning of the film, which seems slapped on to appease possible protesters, this film is one big stereotype, and really sour. Then there's all kind of plot holes, like what happened to the mutilator killer? Obviously the music student wasn't a mutilator. Why is Pacino told that he's so deep undercover that only the chief knows about it, then suddenly the whole precinct knows anyway? What the hell happened to standard police detective procedures? It doesn't seem likely that they really needed an undercover cop with all the evidence and informants available. So what if Pacino might have killed the writer, or maybe he didn't? What's the point? It wasn't articulated. Pretty negative and completely homophobic movie deserves a ZERO if that was possible.  "},{"Title":"Huge Plot Hole or Bad Edit","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The killer at the beginning of the movie and in the private movie booth is absolutely not the music student Pacino follows and arrests at the end. The original murderer actually looks more like the victim murdered in the park. Did anyone else pick up on this? I got to see this two nights in a row on IFC so I had the luxury of recording and watching it again. If anyone has an explanation, please explain. If not, Friedkin has to be the worst director ever. Again, the murderer who kills the first guy in the hotel by stabbing him in the back and the guy in the private movie booth is definitely the guy who GETS murdered in the park. What's going on? A little continuity please. "},{"Title":"An odd one","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As Arte Johnson of Laugh-In used to say Verrry interesting&#133;but DUMB!I happened to catch Cruising on IFC for the first time since it came out in 1980 and was rather surprised at how engrossing I found it while at the same time finding it so thoroughly hollow. With the controversy of it long past (I remember the atmosphere in Los Angeles was so tense at the time that once in West Hollywood several friends and I were treated to the sickening sight of a bunch of homophobes in a passing car screaming threateningly to a group of bar patrons, Are you waiting in line to see 'Cruising'?) one can look at the film somewhat more dispassionately. Unfortunately, such remove makes one see the film for what it is; a routine detective thriller that plays out a little like Basic Instinct in the way it tries to divert from its pedestrian plot by shrouding it in a world of titillating sleaze.Nothing wrong with that, but after viewing the film I can't fathom what the whole thing is supposed to add up to. It seems to have very little to actually say about homosexuality, homophobia, violence or even sex. Like the 1968 film The Detective it seems content to let public curiosity/repulsion to homosexuality (in this case, the S&M leather subculture) provide the atmosphere and mystery.I don't find the film to be either more or less homophobic than most of what comes out of Hollywood, it just strikes me as sensationalistic and out of touch.SPOILERS Other posters have pretty much covered all that needs to be said of the film which holds an odd interest despite not being very good, but here are a few points I haven't read anything about yet1) Did anybody else notice that during the first murder and the one at the film arcade, the director (who demonstrated his fondness for subliminal shots in The Exorcist) inserts shots of anal sex? I wasn't sure if I saw what I thought I saw and so I replayed the DVD copy I made and sure as shooting there are close-ups of a penis entering a backside inter-cut with shots of a knife going into the victim. Not only is this cinematically irresponsible but truly a case of overkill (no pun). There are few weapons as phallic as a knife, the inserted shots (What are we to make of them? Are we to be repulsed? Stimulated?) strikes one as merely abusive of the subliminal power of film.2) Am I the only one who remembers the handsome Arnaldo Santana (the first murder victim) as the 70's porn actor Malo, who appeared in 1979 film Dune Buddies under the name Pepe Brazil and later (a much heavier version, but unmistakable) as a henchman in Brian De Palma's Scarface?3) What the hell was that scene in the interrogation room with the guy in the cowboy hat and jockstrap? It seemed like a personal fantasy sequence Freidkin wanted to shoot and have the studio foot the bill for. Even in this loony film that scene stands out as soooo over the top! "},{"Title":"Yup, it's really homophobic","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie stirred great controversy in its day for essentially saying that being gay turned people into killers. And I guess we've ultimately won, as this has been out of print for years and sells for up to $26 on Half.com. So anyway, the movie opens with a disclaimer saying that it is exploring a small segment of gay society and is not meant to represent the whole. Which might make one hope that something more exciting than what actually follows were to be here, but oh well.The movie begins with cops finding a severed arm in the river, then we quickly move to two cops who are complaining about what b*tches women are&#151;-only they never actually identify the sex they're talking about. They then harass two trannies and force the girls to pleasure them in their police car. And at this point I was like; wow, maybe this movie is going to be pretty interesting, showing how macho attitudes and dislike of women can lead straight men to harass/be attracted to gays. Which, now that I think about it, ties very strongly into the ending.So Al Pacino (introduced fairly late into the film)is a young cop who is asked by his commander Paul Sorvino to pose as a gay man in the leather scene and try to draw out the killer. Paul actually asks him, rather out of the blue You ever been porked? Or have a man smoke your pole? He then describes the scene of Heavy leather. S&M. It's a world unto itself. Hey, thanks for the exposition, Paul, and if I ever get my pole smoked, I'll let you know.So Al agrees, and after leaving his whiny girlfriend (played by Indiana Jones' girlfriend Karen Allen), and heading into the West Village, he meets Ted, a gay guy living down the hall. Ted is played by Don Scardino, who canny viewers will remember as the hero Squirm! Go Don!Then we have what is really the highlight of the film, which are the many scenes set in the West Village leather bars of the late 70s. Big Sigh. I moved to NYC in 1998 (and visited many times before), so I was able to catch the tail end of the leather scene here, back when men had mustaches (and sometimes BIG mustaches!) and weren't afraid to wear full leather and try to look mean. Now of course everyone wants to look like Jennifer Love Hewett with a five-o'clock shadow and a baseball cap. Anyway, the best thing about this movie is the footage of the leather bars and the HHHOT men who frequented them, and there are multitudes on display here. What's more, the bars looked like FUN, and the Village had crazy street life, and everything just looked like a blast. I asked my friend if it was really like that back then and he said he remembered the bar scenes in this film as being pretty realistic. Ahh, happier times. What's NOT realistic is the ludicrous gay-bar-pickup dialogue Friedkin has his characters say. Okay, I wasn't there in the late 70s, but I feel quite sure that no one talked like that, and if they did, you would high-tail it away from them pretty fast. Unless they were really hot, of course. So it goes on, as Al is slowly drawn deeper and deeper into the leather scene. The movie is pretty explicit that he never actually has sex with a man, and he seems unable to really get into the scene. There is one scene where Al is on the dance floor, and does poppers and begins to loosen up&#133; and he still can't dance. I didn't know whether this was characterization, or if Al really just can't dance.Spoilers follow So Pacino finally catches the killer, but then they find that Ted has been killed while the killer was in custody&#133; and the best explanation is that Pacino did it. There is an alternate explanation that perhaps there were different killers all along, but the more I think about it, I think we're supposed to think that Pacino did it, which also makes sense with the many scenes of how hatred of women and repressed sexual attraction to men leads various cops to attack gays. Which leads to all sorts of interpretations, from that being gay and into leather is just a breeding ground for psychopaths, to that the more you get into it that&#133; you turn into a killer, or whatever. ...Spoilers endPretty much everywhere you turn, however, the message is pretty noxious. I was all like; okay, let's approach this with an open mind and see if this is actually a good film, and people are just being too politically correct, or this is a good film even though it truly is offensive, but I think ultimately it is quite offensive and it's really not that great a film. Aside from what it's saying, the scenes repeat themselves and the whole thing just gets dull and shapeless after a while. We never really feel Pacino's attraction to the gay world or leather sex, and the leather world is not presented as mysterious or alluring, just weird and alien. I would still definitely say it's worth watching at least once, though, if only to see WHAT straights (at least, at one time) made of the leather world, what they think of the psychology of gays, and the scenes capturing the heyday of a leather world now pretty much gone. ---- Hey, check out my website on bad, cheesy, and gay movies, Cinema de Merde. Find the URL in my email address above. "},{"Title":"Homophobic or what!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As if to show he could out-gross The Exorcist William Friedkin made this risibly dire so-called thriller that managed to prove deeply offensive to just about everyone. It's set in New York's gay S & M underworld and Al Pacino (in an embarrassingly third-rate performance) plays a cop who goes undercover to catch the killer who's been slicing up the local trade. The killings and the sex scenes are crude and gratuitous in the extreme but what is worse is the shallow psychology that suggests there is an aphrodisical attraction about the whole milieu that manages to suck the (apparently) heterosexual Pacino in. Try writing a thesis entitled 'Does hanging round S & M clubs turn you into a friend of Dorothy'? Since Friedkin also made the reprehensibly one-dimensional Boys in the Band, which gave us a wider selection of gay stereotypes to ridicule, one may wonder what his agenda might be. "},{"Title":"No More Cruising","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Al Pacino, one of the greatest talent in Hollywood and gave us many memorable movies and with William Friedkin as the captain of the ship the expectation rises even higher. The story starts in with a serial killer who kills only gay guys with the same kind of appearance. This leads pressure to the police department who hires Al Pacino, an normal cop to go undercover and catch the bad guy. But Al Pacino himself gets more involves physically and mentally into his disguise. The storyline is decent but its main flaw is the screenplay. We get to see a similar kind of scenes about 3 to 4 times. And the serial killers character is undeveloped. This is one of the most worst crime thriller that i've had ever watched, everyone and every scene in this movie moves on a snail pace and there's not even one scene gets me excited. My advice, Just Stay Away!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Love the leather...","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising, hugely controversial around its time of release and still somewhat notorious to this date, is a thriller that opens terrifically and immediately grabs you by the throat with its raw atmosphere and grisly images of human body parts that are discovered in and around the Manhattan area. In fact, the entire first half of the film is truly powerful and non-stop suspenseful, but then &#x96; sadly and inexplicably &#x96; the whole thing descends into a largely dull, arbitrary and routine cat & mouse thriller with an unsatisfying finale. The basic premise feels familiar, with a cop going undercover to seize a serial killer, but the remarkable aspect here is that the cop is a heterosexual macho male and the turf he's infiltrating into is New York's homosexual S&M world. The depiction of this social environment is what caused the controversy during the release, as the gay community claimed that it was too stereotypical and raunchy and that it would inevitably evoke homophobic violence. Admittedly, William Friedkin's portrayal of the nightclubs and their regular customers are indeed rather unpleasant and crude, but what else did you expect from a reputedly laconic director who intends to deliver a grim and disturbing thriller? I bet the story wouldn't have made any impact if all the main gay characters walked around in pink tutu and sung to the music of The Village People. Officer Steve Burns takes on the difficult task of going undercover, as his profile of a dark-haired and dark-eyed thirty-something muscular hunk is most similar to that of the victims that are piling up. He encounters a number of possible culprits during his wild nights, but also spirals down into isolation and ambiguity. After a really strong and tense first half, Cruising quickly becomes tedious and too focused on one storyline while it deliberately bypasses a few potentially fascinating sub plots. Suddenly the film doesn't touches upon stuff that got raised at the beginning, like Burns' relationship with a girl and the two patrolmen abusing their police badge to get free oral sex. Most of all the script diverts from adequately studying Steve Burns' character. The always reliable top-talent Al Pacino gives a stellar performance and there are remarkably many familiar actors (still at the beginning of their careers) in small and insignificant roles, like Powers Boothe, James Remar and William Russ. Cruising is definitely not a must-see, but a worthy thriller nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Pacino and Friedkin at its best!","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I understand why the movie was at the time of its release so under fire, it was simply a no-no, but today a movie like that should get finally the reviews it actually deserves. Until today there is no other movie that I know of that is made in that scene and I consider it sad, because the potential for a mystery thriller like Cruising is there. For me personally its Pacinos best work, because you believe what he is playing and see the transformation of his mind, not just in clothing, you buy it and if I think that they wanted, if I am not mistaken, Richard Gere for the role...it most likely would have been a different movie. Well, enough said, I hope that Cruising in the future will become a classic like it is to me. The movie is almost perfect, including soundtrack, picture and story (who ever watches the DVD should maybe listen to that what Friedkin has to say to the story). So a perfect 10 for it, to me one of the best 5 Movies of all time!Sadly controversy is nowadays the no-no!!! "},{"Title":"Cruisng","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising is more interesting when you learn that many of the more (and some less) entertaining sequences were based largely on fact...just not any series of linear or consistent facts.The first film that came to mind after viewing Cruising was Shock Corridor - a great Sam Fuller thriller about a journalist who goes undercover at an insane asylum, only to find his own sanity slipping. Only it's not sanity that's slipping here, it's heterosexuality...and that's kind of offensive.Friedkin insists that Cruising was not meant to be offensive or hinder the acceptance of homosexuals into society, but scenes that equate getting fatally knifed in the back to getting buggered by a dude in leather make that suspect.The first hour of Cruising leaves you unsettled for all the wrong reasons. It should have been nothing more than a murder mystery with a provocative backdrop (switch genders and it's a Shannon Tweed vehicle). Rather, Pacino wanders from gay nightclub to gay apartment complex to gay park, not really doing much police work (undercover or otherwise), just kind of voyeuristically watching. Friedkin's documentary style couldn't have made 1980 audiences all that comfortable.But Cruising, as a film, commits even worse crimes. It's characters, particularly Pacino's, are weakly drawn or downright out of place. It presents interesting ideas and themes, but focuses only on the smarmy and shallow.The finale almost redeems much of the film, save for a nonsensical, ambiguous implication.Rather than smoothly incorporate the gritty, true facts that Friedkin had extensively researched for the film, he chooses to use them in the two most inappropriate ways unrepentant smarm or a mish-mash of good but out of place ideas. "}{"Title":"Has some memorable features","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Saw this movie on VHS as a teenager a loooooooooong time ago. Really don't remember too much about it. Browsed a review of it a couple of weeks back. Something about a cop going under cover to catch a killer of gays or something.Anyway, I'm giving this film 6/10 and a review because it does have some memorable stuff in it. Namely, this movie is like a sociological insight into the gay scene. I can't say how authentic the depiction of the gay scene is-it might even have rallied gays against it. In any case, the stuff about the semiotics of the gay scene is FASCINATING. By that I mean all the ways that the gays signal to each other, with signs, what sexual stuff they are into it.There were echoes of that last year, I think, with the controversy over a Republican politician caught acting gaily in a public toilet in the US. Lots of details about signalling sexual intent in that case. And recently there was a news story about how paedophiles have signs on their person which identify them and their sexual interests.Interesting movie for the semiotic aspect to it. Stars Al Pacino, playing a very daring role for someone of his standing. "},{"Title":"FRIEDKIN'S FORGOTTEN FILM","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Cruising is a lost film. In this I mean it is a forgotten film. That is a shame because its probaly William Friedkin's best effort afterThe French Connection and The Exorcist. The film looks grubby and it recalls a dirty New York like Abel Ferrarra's Driller Killer. What is an interesting fact is that the film was butchered on release and Friedkin said It was butchery on the the scale of what RKO did to the Magnificent Amberson's. This is probably true because some area's of the film do not add up. The death of Pacino's neighbour and several othert elements seem brief and not fully devoloped, even the killers motive seems to have been rushed. Why all of a sudden are we allowed into his pyschosis, which reveals his problems. The film is very flawed but extremely fascinating.Pacino gives a great understated performance and his slow descent into the gay underworld is sometimes very funny. The scene in which he dances is wonderfully camp. But the film is very dark in places the ending is frustrating because it seems not to end just stop. Is Steve Burns/John Forbes the real killer? Is Friedkin really a homophobe that people made him out to be? who knows maybe a DVD release or dirctors cut would settle some nagging points. Friedkin's DVD releases so far have been exellent.  "},{"Title":"Weird","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very messed up. But one thing it teaches is the hate and discrimination of homosexuals. It's a poor movie though, it's got a lot of scenes that would make a straight person turn this off, and that's what I did. When I watched the ending of this movie, I was very disturbed. I never thought it would end out like the way it did.  "},{"Title":"Thank you","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think, I´ve got to thank all the people who made this movie possible. I always thought, gay men are just like everyone else. But thanks to `Cruising`, now I know all they are up to is Sex, no matter where, no matter with whom. They are spending their time hanging around in Parks, searching for possible one-night-stands there, having sex in public or working on their body to look good for possible one-night-stands.The whole movie was a ridiculous lining up of stereotypes.I can`t believe Al Pacino ever did such a movie. And he wasn`t even very good, just like all the other actors. The only thing interesting in this movie was its surprising end. The rest of it wasn`t worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Sexy Muddle","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm gay. As a form of protest, I didn't see 'Cruising' until about 30 years after its release. The film remains controversial, though times have certainly changed. Gays were feeling somewhat empowered back then; however, mainstream media portrayals of gays were few and far between. Therefore, some gays protested what they considered a too-negative portrayal. Also, some protesters were testing if they actually could shut down a film production or significantly interfere with it. In DVD commentary, director Friedkin cites his freedom of speech right, and that is a valid point. Now that gays are quite visible in mainstream media, we have become less defensive about negative portrayals, and hopefully most of us recognize that freedom of speech is important to us too. The narrative involves finding the killer(s) of gay men in the leather S&M scene of those days. Oddly we never find out who he is or they are. In his commentary Friedkin contends that all the open questions and ambiguity were completely intended. Completely? I don't think so. He says 40 minutes had to be cut, and it's a stretch to believe that some narrative coherence was not sacrificed. The controversy centers on the relationship between sex and violence. (Some women are interested in S&M too but the film does not mention that). On the other hand, countless films have in some way explored a possible relationship between sex and violence. It seems difficult to argue that this should be taboo subject matter, no matter what community it takes place in.The club scenes in the film are quite sexy. No frontal nudity but practically everything else. 'Cruising' shares the distinction w/ 'Querelle' of being the sexiest films I've rented. To its credit, the film acknowledges that a lot of blurring occurs. There are brief scenes in which 1 of the policemen is shown to be closeted but gay. Also, rather humorously, one of the clubs is shown to have a 'precinct' theme night, when virtually everyone is dressed in some kind of police uniform. So the movie shows 'crossing over' in both directions. In the film, the police are trying to prevent murders (as well as solve cases) but their methods are sometimes questionable. Not exactly new ground, but 'Cruising' makes a few stabs at being balanced. Eventually we find out that one of the main suspects (who probably committed at least 1 murder) had a difficult relationship w/ his father. (ho hum). That comes off as trite, and certainly a lousy defense for becoming a psychokiller. Thus my middle-of-the-road rating not love, not hate. 'Cruising' has gay killers (probably more than 1 but we're never sure) and gay victims. While it's not a really good film, the fact that it got made is OK. "},{"Title":"No Wonder Pacino Never Mentions This One","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After being let down by watching Paul Newman in FORT APACHE THE BRONX, I decided to try Al Pacino in this early 80's crime mystery. Another disappointment. This movie is boring beyond comprehension. Considering Paul Sorvino and Joe Spinell are in it and it's still dull, is very troubling. Where's the intensity? Pacino goes undercover to catch this maniac whose murdering gays, yet for some reason, he seems catatonic, talking in that monotone style that reminds us of Stallone. That's not the Pacino we've come to known. I can't remember one scene where he got angry and shouted. Considering he's trying to catch a murderer and going insane himself, that seemed odd to me. Forget boring, this movie was glum and depressing to boot.Score, 3 Out of 10 Stars "},{"Title":"a curious disaster","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are some movies you watch that completely frustrate you and Crusing is definitely a top the list. The film starts off very curiously with body parts found in the East River that could be linked to a killer who's MO is tied to homosexual murders. At least it appears that way at first. Enter Al Pacino's character who's given an assignment to go deep undercover by Paul Sorvino to investigate the recent murders of gay men taking place in the gay community. Pacino does just that, he goes way too deep undercover and while getting closer and closer to the killer, he soon finds his sexuality confusing in his own right, which is one of the main problems with this film. From the outset, we see Pacino with the beautiful Karen Allen and immediately think that he's out of his mind to accept an assignment like this. Soon while his undercover alter ego makes a few connections and attractions, Pacino's character starts to develop his own thinking of who this killer really is or does he? Or the stress of the job be getting to him to cause even more confusion. Director William Friedkin was on some kind of high at this time because this movie just makes absolutely no sense no matter how you look at it. His main problem is that or it appears that way is his self indulgence for the gay culture and the way it's portrayed in the film which is what probably enraged gays when the film was released. If the film was released now, I still think it would be controversial but not as badly as it was back in 1980. At the very least, it would have a shot to being successful, but it just isn't both artistically or visually. Another problem is that Friedkin was just too close to this material and to say he fell in love with it would be an understatement. If someone else had polished his draft of the script, it wouldn't have been as convoluted as it is because it has no idea of how to deal with the material in a simpler way. Like Pacino's character, the film's itself doesn't know what it wants to be. Is it a mystery? Is it a suspense thriller? Is it a personal attack on gays or particularly gay men in general? It boggles the mind to even think about it, regardless all these elements put together in way that Friedkin has doesn't make any sense. The film's tone, atmosphere and settings look awkward and very uncomfortable to sit through at times to the point you'd want to take a long shower after you've finished watching it. What is Pacino doing in this film? He just looks really out of it in this one and to be honest, he probably saw something interesting on paper that looked like a good idea, but on film, it just doesn't work. You don't know what his character is, what he likes, who he loves? What kind of guy he really is when he's not wearing a badge? There are lot of unanswered questions. Pacino is completely wasted, so is everyone else associated with this film from Paul Sorvino to Karen Allen. What are they doing in this film? They deserved better than playing cardboard characters. It's understandable that the MPAA cut this film to shreds, but how much of a difference would it make if the director's cut that Friedkin talks about would make if it was shown today? Maybe a little one, the question would really be if that version of the film would be able to save this mess? Perhaps one day we'll be able to see what Friedkin had originally intended for this film. For now we'll have to live with this curious disaster that at this point has very little redeeming qualities and an ending that just leaves you hanging. It's a wonder why Pacino has not worked with Friedkin ever since and you can't blame him for this disaster. "},{"Title":"Cruising for a let down?","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Normally Al Pachino invests 100% into his acting, whatever the subject matter, Pachino is likely to deliver. However, 'Cruising' is the exception, and not by any half measure's either. The story line revolves around a killer who is targeting gay men, and Pachino plays the cop assigned to track the murderer down, whilst questioning his own sexuality. The plot has so much potential but is so far off the mark it's frankly awfull. The supporting cast is poor, to the point this movie is worse than the worst selection of made for t.v productions ive had the miss-fortune to have sat through. If, like me, you admire Pachino's acting, then i wouldnt recommend this to you, even for die hard fan's this is best left alone.   "},{"Title":"Not as homophobic as one might think...but still not a good film","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This starts off well--Al Pacino plays a cop who goes undercover in NYC to find a killer preying on gay men who frequent leather bars. He plays gay but finds the job unnerving and doesn't know if can handle it. I remember when this came out in 1980. Despite what people are saying it did NOT have an R rating. It came out with what was called a self-imposed X. Basically the film was X rated by the MPAA, but the studio didn't say that. They just released it with a little box making it clear that NO ONE under 18 would be admitted into the theatre. The year before Dawn of the Dead had the same rating and was a big hit. But this one was torn apart by the gay community--it was accused of being homophobic and sick. It was said that gay people were going to die because of this film--sadly, that came true. A straight man, after seeing the movie, went to a gay bar and shot two men to death who were standing in front of it. I still remember the marches in Boston protesting the film. Still, I don't think this film is that homophobic....but it's still not that good. For the record, I'm a gay man.There are some homophobic elements--there is a disgusting and very cruel interrogation of a gay man; the opening murder is very bloody and violent and, at the end, it's mentioned that if somebody gets convicted for killing 5 gay men he'll only get 8 years in jail!!!! That aside, the film does make it clear that it's not representing the gay community as a whole--just the heavy leather section. There was a sign at the beginning of the film that said that but it's been removed from the DVD version. It was actually shot on location in NY bars. Also it IS an accurate portrayal of the heavy leather set. I was never into it, but I've seen footage shot in the bars and read articles--Cruising actually toned it down! But they did (somehow) get a scene of fisting in this film! The film looks great (on DVD at least) and there's good acting--it was fun to see the then unknown Powers Boothe play a hanky salesman! But it slowly falls apart. It has a horrible script (the dialogue in the opening pickup sequence is just beyond belief) and it's very negative and VERY very dark. The tone of the film is more than a little disturbing.SPOILER!!!!Also the ending of this film is terrible. It's completely open-ended and (suggests) that playing a gay man drove Pacino to kill another gay man! If that idea wasn't so laughable it would be offensive! Hard to believe William Friedken directed this but I honestly don't think that he is homophobic. I've read from people who worked on the film and they said he went all out shooting explicit scenes in the gay bars. Purportedly a lot was cut just to get the film released! However I don't think there's any missing 40 minutes that people have heard of--it's another urban myth. Anyways if it DID exist it's probably long gone by now.It gets a 5 for the direction, acting and a good opening. Sadly it just falls apart completely. This was major bomb when it came out and, to this day, Pacino won't talk about it. I think it's worth a look especially if you're a gay man. It shows the incredible homophobia that existed and how a certain section of the gay world was pre-AIDS. "},{"Title":"Not a bad thriller......","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Cruising is an interesting thriller with strong characters which is directed by William Friedkin (The Exorcist, Rules of Engagement).Cruising is definitely better than stupid thrillers like Cherry Falls or Scream 2&3. The S&M and leather districts of New York and the gay bars are really something different, good camera-work. The bad thing of the movie is that Al Pacino plays the role of the undercover agent Steve Burns, not because of bad acting performance but the role of a cop who must pretend he`s gay is nothing for Al Pacino, it was really hard for me to see Al Scarface Pacino in a gay bar. I'd rather wanted to see Paul Sorvino and Al Pacino in a crime movie and not in a gay thriller.If you are a fan of Al Pacino, because you liked him as Tony Montana in Scarface or like Michael Corleone in The Godfather or like Carlito Brigante in Carlito`s Way then don`t rent this movie!!! It`s going to be hard for you to see Pacino in a gay bar....... "}{"Title":"Good Slasher","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cruising (1980) *** (out of 4) A psychopath is murdering homosexuals so a cop (Al Pacino) goes undercover to try and track him down. In the DVD thread I called this one of the worst films ever made but I guess time has been friendly to the thing since I last saw it nearly 15 years ago. Technically speaking the film is pretty well made with some very disturbing death scenes and an original location if you want to call it that. As a straight person it's rather hard to watch some of the stuff going on but Friedkin pulls you into this world and takes you for a ride like no other director could have done. I'm not sure if Pacino was supporting a drug habit at the time but it's rather shocking to see him in a film like this. I've heard, due to all the controversy during filming, that he gave up on a performance but I think he's okay here. I'm not sure if Friedkin was trying to deliver a message or anything but the film works best as a slasher film. You might even file it under exploitation. I've heard the director's 140-minute cut (40 minutes longer than this version) features hardcore scenes, which I really don't want to see but I would love seeing some longer scenes that dive into the Pacino character some more. The ending is a real train wreck and I'm really not sure what the hell was going on but perhaps this could be explained in the longer version. "},{"Title":"Great movie/ with pacino doing a great job.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Back in 1980 seen this movie 3 times in the theater and felt at that time was a great movie. When it came out on VHS I purchased a copy and have watch it numerous times with friends. It's one movie everybody should watch at least once. The subject matter may not be for everyone taste, but it makes you think about who did it, even after the so-call murder as catch. The think Al Pacino did a great job in his role as a undercover cop. With the last murder it gave you something to think about and if correct person was catch. It would have been a great lead in to a follow up movie if the subject matter was something a major of movie goers wanted to see. I for one would love this movie on DVD/with extras if available. "},{"Title":"Sleazy junk","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Cruising set off loud protests from the gay community upon its release, with one prominent spokesman deriding it as an exercise in terminal sex. Actually, it's about a cop who goes undercover in the S/M underworld of a gay neighborhood to track down what one lurid newspaper headline calls a Homo Hitman.  Al Pacino plays the cop whose assignment inadvertently leads him to explore a sexual lifestyle at odds with his relationship with girlfriend Karen Allen.Directed by William Friedkin, this sleazy piece of junk is the film that set the Oscar winning director's career on a downward spiral from which it never recovered.  Judging by most of his films, including such wretched nonsense as The Exorcist, Friedkin's brief stint as one of Hollywood's top filmmakers was nothing but a fluke.     "},{"Title":"The controversy over this film hides its most important aspect.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  And that is this It's a lousy movie.  Plain and simple.  Whether you are straight or gay, pro-gay or anti-gay Pat Buchanan or Barney Frank, that is the bottom line.The premise?  Dumb.  The script?  Incoherent.  The ending?  Incomprehensible.Perhaps if they had left in some of the real sex that was alleged to have taken place during some of the leather bar sequences there might have been something on the screen worth viewing.  As released, there was nothing.Some movies do absolutely nothing to justify their existence.  This is one of them. "},{"Title":"All dressed up, no place to go","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"27 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first knifing in William Friedkin's Cruising, which takes place in a seedy hotel room after two men have had sex, seemed so realistic I stared in numb surprise. It was something akin to what I imagine a snuff film would be like. Once straight cop Al Pacino is assigned to the case, going undercover in New York's gay leather bars to find the serial killer of homosexual men, I found the picture akin to cheap porno ugly, depressing, degrading, repetitive and, finally, boring. A few good scenes here and there Pacino practically forcing a man into sex because he thinks he's got the murderer, with the cops bursting in too soon; the interrogation scene of that unfortunate guy, who is achingly humiliated. Karen Allen (in her debut) has a nice, squirrelly presence as Pacino's girlfriend, and the pseudo-dramatic ending got a laugh out of me for its sheer dumbness. Pacino himself isn't shown to good advantage here; he's acting, showing off, but he's not in character because there really is no character. The movie has a foreboding presence, but doesn't utilize it to build any kind of momentum. Alas, as a thriller, Cruising is impotent. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Another BIG miss in Wm.Friedkins career","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This director is not one of my favorites. I did not like The Exorcist & thought that The French Connection was oner of the worst films & not an multi Oscar winner. At least this was routinely savaged when it came out in 1980. I probably gave this, close to the same rating as now .Al Pacino is a cop that goes undercover to attempt to weed out the gay serial killer.. The movie was somewhat sensationalistic when it was made in 1980. Today of course it is mild in comparison.Even tho most of the movie was made on location, it has the stamp of a cheap studio made film.The gay bar scenes were not authentic at allThe acting by the others in the cast were adequate,I for one moment felt any connection. I also will admit to being somewhat knowledgeable of the BDSM scene & I never saw anything close to scenes like were portrayed in this film.Ratings **1/2 (out of 4) 67 points (out of 100) IMDb 6 (OUT OF 10) "},{"Title":"Gay politics about the filming","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When the production was scouting locations and hiring real-life denizens of the not-so- underground West Village sex-in-bars scene, there was general excitement for many reasons. The rumors were that Pacino would be playing a gay man in the New York S&M scene; no movie star had ever taken that chance before. And local gay men were eager (even desperate) to be in the movie--especially as they would supposedly be able to flaunt their fetishes on screen.Then, just a week or two before filming was to begin, someone got ahold of a copy of the shooting screenplay and outrage spread like wildfire through the West Village. Word was, the screenplay portrayed a gay MURDERER! Suddenly, all the excitement about depicting what Gay Life Was Really Like became quite the opposite--gays were going to be the bad guys, once again.There were actual protests, both on the street (yes, with people marching and placards!-- remember, this was the 70s), and some people from the community demanded and supposedly even got a meeting with Friedkin about the content of the film. They pressured him very hard to change the script (or what they had heard about the script), but whether he did or not was never known. He acknowledged the anger and concerns that were brewing in the Village over the (as yet unfilmed) movie in public statements and (I think) in an interview in the Village Voice.So then a backlash ensued, and people who had been hired to be in the film were pressured by their friends to NOT do the film, as it would only contribute to the eternal movie image of gays as pathetic and/or evil people.The movie got made. It was pretty awful. And movie history (and Pacino's career) soon conveniently forgot about it. "},{"Title":"Eye-opening","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I saw this in 1980, I was in the Air Force..My husband and I went to this movie thinking it was about the 1950's cruising in cars..most of the people in the audience thought the same. However, after we found out what it was really about, no one walked out! We stayed, watched and learned. We were overseas and had no idea what was going on in America. I liked the movie and love Pacino. My husband had no negative comments about it. I saw the movie again last night on TCM and it is still fresh. Even though I am a woman, I have been to bars like that (not so sexual, however) in San Francisco South of Market. I was often the only woman there. I never had any problems. Pacino is a genius and is so flexible in his acting. I am asking if the bars portrayed were real, or staged. Were the actors really gay men, or not? They were 85% convincing if they were not! I will be researching those questions. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic and Exploitative","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I lived in San Francisco when this movie was released. It was strongly criticized for promulgating negative stereotypes and boycotted by the gay community. I never watched it, but finally caught it on satellite 20+ years later. I can understand the objections and am inclined to agree with at least some of them.Some have tried defend it as a realistic, even sensitive portrayal of the gay leather scene, but I find it hard to accept they have a real familiarity with the leather subculture. At best, it's a new twist on a thriller, at worst, it makes use of unrealistic stereotypes that border on being malicious.The situations depicted betray a major lack of knowledge of the gay leather scene. The participants are cookie-cutter caricatures that would be almost comical were it not for the subject matter. They were obviously chosen by people who were after a certain look at the expense of authenticity. How else could one explain their uniformity, particularly in body types? Nearly all were muscular, smooth skinned, somewhat buff, while there was no one outside of that body type or few minorities, to name a few examples. This is definitely NOT representative of the gay leather crowd.The movie drags on, and manages to stereotype even the cops. What was the point of the black cop in the jockstrap, for example? The killer was a textbook Hollywood psycho. How is it these guys can engage in all this sexual activity in public places and never get caught? When the ending comes, it's much too abrupt, as if they were watching the clock and pulled the plug to keep it at 120 minutes, and didn't care how many questions were left unanswered.I suspect the writer had a vague idea of terms like leather or S&M might mean and depended on stereotypes and much less that firsthand information. It's too bad so many fine talents were wasted in this effort, particularly Pacino. He's lucky his work is of such quality to allow him to overcome what must have been his most embarrassing role. This movie is a major waste of time.... "},{"Title":"Remake, NOW","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Film begins in a fair neutral way with a notice. But from the beginning you're being pushed towards a very subversive environment/scene. It shoves you to a setting with violent bitches, very brute murders and people leading double lives. The film lacks an explanation for this view, total lack of balance. If, in reference to the notice at the beginning of the film, this is a view on modern society it's very crooked and insulting. When you're not an insider you get the impression that a guy in leather equals disgust and cruising attracts this kind of killer. Again this view doesn't do justice to reality in this film you are looking at a niche, within a niche, within a niche in which a series of murders happens to appear that's being pulled to being the normal situation within this gay leather subculture. But to see that the viewer is being led a stray I think he/she will have to be either an insider, someone with a certain level of intelligence and/or a broad and open view on society as it really is. Just maybe a number of killings of- and by gay people are the result of heterosexual society's suppression and repulse of people being gay and living their gay lives openly. Now this stands apart from my view on the film as a detective. It's a reasonably good one, but maybe we could have gotten more hints during the cause of the film. The dark setting gives the film a very good tension. The questioning at the police station binds the psychic pressure on the people within the scene to the actual plot. To my view this is realistic but one gets the opinion (again) that all leather gays don't have personality. Also the pressure on the undercover guy gets more and more. This is understandable if you include the fact that it's a straight guy that HAS to fit in with a `butch' gay subculture although he doesn't complain much to his superiors. But again I'll have to say that the `butch' side of this subculture is over-exposed, which gives the 2-dimensional viewer a very distorted and unfair picture. Fully understandable how the gay community reacted. Hé Friedkin, it's necessary to adjust your notice at least!! (Notwithstanding Pacino's good acting)  "}{"Title":"Friedkin probably wanted to make a gay porn movie, secretly...","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So-so thriller/drama. Karen Allen is wasted in a thankless, dull role. The ending is far-fetched; we are lead to believe that Pacino was so disturbed by his undercover job that he ended up killing a gay neighbour for no good reason. So the message is what? That infiltrating the sleazier parts of the gay scene will drive you mad? It doesn't seem that realistic. The movie has that mediocre, ugly 80s look, although not as bad as most movies from that period. If Cruising had been made in the 00s, we would have had Pacino involved in a graphic gay sex scene not a pretty thought! And if anyone tried to censure it, or slap a box-office-killing X rating on it, the PC police would point out passionately that that would be homophobic. That's the kind of times we live in...Thanks for clicking NO. It's been a pleasure... "},{"Title":"An irresponsible film","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is in response to the poster who said the film has been maligned because it portrayed masculine gay men as something the general population could not accept. But by presenting all the gays in the movie as leather-clad S&M rough trade (maybe Pacino's neighbor is the only exception), it is the only portrayal we get. But the big problem comes as the killer in the movie is a sadistic psychopath who preys on the men in the leather bars and dark, hellish midnight parks. And the ambiguous ending (is Pacino and his exposure to the leather community somehow responsible for some of the murders?) helps paint gays as murderous killers.The release of the movie at a time when gay-bashing was already on the rise (early 80s), enabled an increase in violence committed against openly gay men in many major cities. And with the arrival of the AIDS epidemic shortly after the movie's release, gays were further ostracized at a time when compassion and charity, let alone science and medicine, were needed but not extended.The film, while well-made, is simply too painful to watch and impossible to praise in light of these social events. "},{"Title":"The French connected exorcist goes cruising.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Although I thought that Cruising was an OK movie, I can see why it riled the gay community. The subject matter is pretty ugly, but I did think that Al Pacino was doing a good job as a cop cruising the gay bars looking for a serial killer. Granted, this is probably not a movie for the sensitive. Clearly they weren't really thinking about political correctness or anything.Some people ask why William Friedkin's career didn't seem to go anywhere after The Exorcist. Both that one and this one have some pretty nasty scenes, except that this seems grittier. Overall, I think that it's worth seeing, but it's debatable as to whether this should be your first choice. Also starring Paul Sorvino and Karen Allen. "},{"Title":"To be blunt, a mess, and arguably Friedkin's worst film...","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I avoided writing a full-length review of this film because I have little to say about it. I find it disgusting and pointless. It's about a serial killer who goes around New York City's gay areas and murders various homosexual men. Enter Al Pacino as the good guy who tries to solve the case.Why is this movie often regarded as one of Pacino and Friedkin's worst films? Because it is nothing but a vile motion picture, lacking heart and even worse, a point. Take, for instance, the fact that it is supposedly all about gays in New York (the MPAA had an uproar over this film, which was nearly rated X, and is still, to this day, very controversial in its exploitative nature), but yet the opening credits tell us that it's not an accurate portrayal of gay activity in New York. Then what IS it about?What a mess.  "},{"Title":"Mean and Evil","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At the time this film viewed in theaters, I was about to come out, and wondered what a gay themed movie might be like by 1980. Still reeling from the tacky, flaming stereotypes in Boys In The Band, I really didn't expect much from this freak show. I got what I paid for. This is one of the most repellent, mean-spirited and hateful films I've witnessed (and I've seen the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre twice). There is absolutely no redeeming value to this film even as exercise in gore. Strangely, although unknowingly, it ended up being a metaphor for what would be the AIDS epidemic and the initial reaction to it. The audience seemed in collusion with the menacing main character by applauding and laughing as these exaggerated gay men were stabbed and slaughtered as though they should be taught an evil lesson. I've never forgiven Al Pacino for being part of this mess or the director for passing this off as entertainment or as incisive narrative. It would be years before this kind of reaction to gay men's existence would not be considered acceptable, even in New York. It should be held as an example of the end of an ugly era. "},{"Title":"Sex filled homo extravaganza!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is made for homos. the only reason straights would see it is for always electric PACINO and he is on target here with his gutsy performance that couldve maked or breaked his career at the time.  "},{"Title":"Cruising ? Confusing More Like","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don`t understand this film at all . Is there an agenda behind it ? Is it pro gay or anti gay ? What`s the subtext ? I don`t really understand the ending , is the the serial killer the person who is in the last scene with Pacino ? Sorry but I was totally confused with CRUISINGI notice there`s a lot of debate in the reviews as to the merits of CRUISING. I`m straight myself but sexuality shouldn`t come into it , if you`re gay or straight then the bottom line is that CRUISING is a pretty poor film made worse by the fact that it stars Al Pacino and was directed by the man who brought us THE FRENCH CONNECTION and THE EXORCIST . The bottom line is that it`s just a routine plot set around trying to catch a killer   "},{"Title":"An absolute piece of trash","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What on earth was Al Pacino thinking of when he decided to take on this movie? From The Godfather to Cruising is an amazing gulf.Pacino along with Robert De Niro are my two favourite actors and De Niro has acted in some turkey's in his time but give him his due ,he has never been in a film as bad as this. Cruising is a dreadfull film about a cop who who goes undercover in the gay S&M scene to try to catch a seriel killer. For starters the story stinks, the cop played by Pacino is straight so could in no way all of a sudden be gay, this would never happen. I cant really explain how the story pans out because it stops in it's tracks without an explanation, which normally i would be annoyed at but i was just pleased that the film had finished. What i really hate about this film is that for most of it all we see are hundreds of middle aged sweaty men fondling each other . Not just once but all the way through the film! I'm not sure if the director is into  the gay scene but it certainly looked like like self indulgence on his part and to think , this is the guy who directed The Exorcist.  Cruising is nearly as sickening as the Exorcist but for the wrong reasons. This film one of the worst i have ever seen. 2 out of 10.  "}]