[{"Title":"Cheesy 80s fun!","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Nine To Five is one of those classic 80s comedies which was what made the decade so fun as far as movies go. Jane Fonda plays Judy, a recently divorced housewife who lands a secretarial job at a corporate office. Lily Tomlin is Violet, the beleagured supervisor at the office who shows Judy the ropes on her disasterous first day. Dolly Parton is Doralee, a secretary whom everyone at the office thinks is using her - ahem - assets to get ahead by sleeping with the boss.Soon these three become best friends and team up after they've gotten fed up with their chauvinistic and smarmy boss Mr. Hart, played to the hilt by Dabney Coleman. Sure, it does delve into zany corniness, such as the scene where they all get high on pot and share their fantasies about how each of them would like to knock off the boss (the funniest is Violet's Snow White coffee one, which uses cartoon animation and live action) or the scene where Violet thinks she accidentally poisoned Mr. Hart's coffee with rat poison and tries to steal his supposed dead corpse out of the hospital! This is the kind of movie where you check your brain at the door and take it for what it is.There are some great one-liners like the one where Fonda tells her ex-husband, who thinks she's having a kinky S&M affair with Mr. Hart, something along the lines of, If I want to do M&M's, that's fine with me! The office they work in is reminiscent of the one in The Apartment. Three very clever characters, great comedic acting from Parton as Doralee and Tomlin as Violet. Jane Fonda, who I never cared much for, was good as the naive Judy. Sterling Hayden has a great cameo at the end as the Chairman of the Board. A funny revenge comedy about Every Office, U.S.A.. You gotta love the theme song, too. Most recommended! "},{"Title":"Perfect Performances all the way around!!!!!!!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From the sparkling acting debut of Dolly Parton to the comic genius of Dabney Coleman 9 to 5 is one of the best acted comedies of the 1980s. Jane Fonda and the brilliant Lilly Tomlin round out the lead cast with hilarious performances in this screwball revenge comedies that was one of the first films to champion girl power. Even the smaller characters like Marien Mercer (as Missy Hart)and Elizabeth Wilson (as office snitch/bitch Roz)get in good one liners and laughs. Rent this movie. No wait - BUY this movie. You can watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Comedy Stands The Test Of Time","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I never saw 9 TO 5 when it played at the theaters but saw it soon after on video. I was like 14 years old back then and I remember enjoying the film very much, even if I didn't get all the misogynistic humor and women's lib stuff. Fast forward to 2006 and I decided to buy 9 TO 5 on DVD and see the fun again. After all, I haven't seen this one on TV in a LONG time and my local BLOCKBUSTER is sorely lacking a classics catalog. I knew in my mind that some of the movies you hold so dearly when you're a kid simply don't cut it when you see them all grown up. I am very pleased to say that 9 TO 5 has stood the test of time quite well and its it's a corporate world underpinnings couldn't be more appropriate now a days. The movie was cleverly written and directed and the humor develops naturally without looking forced or too acted out. It's the story of recently divorced Judy Bernly (Jane Fonda). Her ex husband ran away with his secretary and now Judy, ironically, finds a job being one. The company is called Consolidated Companies, which by the way, we never really know what they do or what they sell. We only know that it is a big company and that each floor of the high building is a division. Frank Hart (played wonderfully by Dabney Coleman) is the villainous boss and head of the division. He is, as his right hand aide might put it, an egotistical bigot. Hart's overwhelming tyranny makes his aide, Violet, to snap and with her go Judy and Dorlee (Dolly Parton), his voluptuous personal secretary. The trio spend the afternoon together drinking and smoking pot and jokingly thinking how each of them would kill their boss if they had the chance. The movie visualizes each of the secretary's outlandish fantasies and this part of the movie is one of the most entertaining and hilarious. Next day it's back to the real world and back to the daily grind. From here on each of the secretaries' fantasies take real form in some way or another making the movie even more fun. You'll have to see the rest to know what I mean. Despite being a 25 year old movie, 9 TO 5 stands the test of time perfectly, with only some of the cars and some of the clothing fashion looking a bit dated. It is a very well made, fast paced comedy that never bores. My wife loved it and she had never seen it before (she was barely a year when this came out!). 9* out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"'9 to 5' is excellent 24/7","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie starts with Dolly Parton's anthem to office workers everywhere and immediately sets the movie's tone throughout. 9 to 5, to me, is a comedy classic. The three leads put in fine performances (especially love Lily Tomlin's frustration as Violet Newstead) as does Dabney Coleman as the boss you just love to hate. It's basic Screenwriting 101. Likable leads, easy to hate protagonist, fun and fast-moving story, solvable conflicts, the all is lost moment and viable resolution. It doesn't hurt that your title is a hit song, too.This movie was pretty big back in 1980. It was the 2nd highest grossing movie of the year. Number one went to The Empire Strikes Back. It's not hard to see why this movie did so well. How many of us has had dreams of getting even with their boss? The movie still plays well today. Sure, a lot of those office hijinx don't happen anymore and we've become so sensitive as a nation that the mere mention of sex (what?? people do that?? how disgusting!! ) would likely get you sued or fired. Overall, this movie is just one fun ride! See more reviews at www.soveryterry.com "},{"Title":"gruesome but cute","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie on HBO around 1981.  Now, as I re-watch it again for the 20th time, it still has me laughing at all the hysterical lines, ....change you from a rooster to a hen...., ....gruesome but cute...., It looks just like Skinny & Sweet....I might as well save them the trouble and give them the rat poison...., and all the rest of this wildly funny movie.This movie is timeless.  Including all the actors who are the perfect choice for this movie.This comedy is a definite 10 out of 10!!!! "},{"Title":"Fully of classic one line quotes you'll be laughing for ages.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be a true classic movie for anybody. Parton, Fonda, Tomlin play the three main characters set in a big business office block, Consolidated. Dolly Parton is excellent, portraying the country girl, Jane Fonda as the divorced housewife's first job role, and Lily Tomlin as the bosses stepping stone. The film is full of one line crack jokes which can be missed on the first time you watch it. Do watch the movie a few times, and soon you'll pick up on how funny the lines are Violet, did you get my Memo?, I did Roz, I tore right through it.Later in the film the plot is well underway and animation is combined successfully with Tomlin's scene of a Snow White type character! I loved this film, and my laserdisc copy is always on the top of the pile. A good all rounder to be watched over and over, and I sometimes find myself using those punch lines.Dolly Parton provides the 9 to 5 opening music, which sets the movie off to a good pace.  "},{"Title":"This is why you should join a trade union!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this film as a kid when it was in the cinema. I must have watched it more than a few dozen times since then. As a kid I simply loved the comedy, and the way our three heroes triumph over the Boss from Hell. As an adult I've found it's a great way to cope after a terrible day at work beer, pizza and 9 to 5. When you've got the Boss from Hell, then this movie is your fantasy. I feel like I'm getting revenge on my boss from the comfort of my own home!Parton, Fonda and Tomlin make a fantastic team. There is obviously an incredible chemistry at work between them. Along with Dabney Coleman they play their fantastic characters to the hilt, right up to the edge of over the top without actually jumping off. At the same time the dramatic moments in the film fire up their (and our) sense of outrage at the conditions they must work under, giving the story a kick along at exactly the right moments.Apart from being horrendously funny, it is a stark reminder of what sort of conditions prevail in a workplace without a union to represent staff. I've been working for 14 years now and spent many years as a trade union delegate in my workplace. So much has been gained in the last 20 years that it is now not uncommon to encounter young, naive employees with no idea of history, asking So, why should I join the union? What's the union ever done?. Look at this movie, look beneath the comedy, and see exactly what a workplace can be like without a union.  "},{"Title":"Unsurpassed.","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am a 31 year old man, married to a high-powered corporate secretary. Her favorite film is Nine to Five. I never understood this until the past year. It NAILS what is STILL going on to our women in the workplace. Lily Tomlin is absolutely perfect in her role as Violet, and she is really at the heart of the movie. Her struggle is that of almost any honest, hard-working mid-level manager. This is not feminist propaganda by any stretch -- in fact I am extremely impressed by the humor with which this movie is pulled off. Dolly Parton is so awesome, so hilarious. Dabney Coleman embodies pure sleaze, and although it pains me to say this, many executives here in 2005 are almost identical to him. Obviously he is a ridiculous chauvinist bastard, but so are thousands of these guys in corporate America (and elsewhere) -- and they do it with impunity and without a sense of humor. Thank God for Nine to Five! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is an excellent movie. Funny as hell, a bit twisted and psychedelic at times, and close to the reality of cubicle working. It shows the different personalities of people who come together working in an office environment. It is based in reality and how disenfranchising a job like this can feel, quite hopeless. The fantasies of the workers against their sexist, lying, hypocritical bigot of a boss are played out in playful talk. These dreams/fantasies are not to be missed and are quite surreal, that's one of the best parts of the movie. But then they actually do concoct a scheme to expose their boss' mishandling of company funds. It's a struggle to the end to out him until the ending where they don't have to do anything at all. The problem of their boss of taken care of for them in an unexpected and very fitting way. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Office Angst.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Three miserable women (Dolly Parton, Lily Tomlin and Jane Fonda) take it upon themselves to get back at their evil boss (Dabney Coleman) in this hilarious little film. Rat poison, crazy dream sequences and S&M-styled equipment are the main calling cards in this amazingly creative little comedy. Parton's title song is also strong and it received an Oscar nod in 1980. Impressive comedic fare. 4 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"It's A Big Bald Header From The High Glass Tower!","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadComedies are not terribly esoteric to evaluate did it make me laugh? Yes! The movie, with all its flaws, is worth owning for the scene that will have you losing your popcorn when poor Violet thinks she poisoned Hart and is stealing a cadaver, the wrong one, from the morgue. This scene contains the best line in the movie when a candy striper stops Violet and says,Oh, I didn't notice you are a doctor, I am sorry, Violet realizing she is wearing a doctor's lab coat says,Oh, I'm a doctor, then why the hell am I talking to you, P off. Yes, it is dated and Higgins the director occasionally goes over the top as he did in Foul Play. Yet, Tomlin carries the movie on her shoulders and shows you the great comedian that she always was. Nobody can play a jerk like Dabney Coleman who plays Franklin Hart the most loathsome boss you will ever see delineated in a motion picture. I know many of you are not Fonda fans, I am not a big one, but she is pretty much under control here with only one or two 'China Syndrome' moments. Parton will surprise you; this was her best performance on film. The movie slows down after the ladies lock Hart up in his house and wait for the invoices to arrive that show he has been ripping off the company, selling their inventory and pocketing the money.It makes its feminist point quite well without beating you about the head and shoulders with its thematic core. The surprise of the movie is that the three play off of each other quite well with Tomlin outshining the other two. The script shows the typical composition of a white collar office the brown nosing underling spying for the boss, the contrast between the stated goals of the company and its real practice. When Hart is 'praised' by Tinsworthy for all the more humane innovations, the ladies did while he was tied up, watch what his reward is a transfer to South America. He does take Hart aside and tell him that,that equal pay for equal work, I like your ideas but let's not get carried away. The movie works because the dialog is realistic, the in fighting and backstabbing we are all used to is here. Yes, critics, Hart is a caricature, idealized as a loathsome swine without one redeeming feature. Yet, this is necessary for the comedy to work, believe me, you will really enjoy this,lying, egotistical, sexist, hypocritical bigot getting what he deserves. It shows Hart stealing Violet's ideas and presenting them as his own, promoting people ahead of her, and chasing Doralee around his desk.The dialog is quite witty and sharp; the movie moves very well with only the aforementioned slow part waiting for the invoices but even here Hart is constantly trying to escape. The chemistry between the ensemble of the three ladies and Coleman with the funny writing makes this a keeper. It makes its feminist points cerebrally without kung fu, stabbings or shootings which is an example of how to achieve goals within the film NOT overcoming the narrative for ideological target practice. My header refers to my favorite fantasy, Doralee's, where she treats Hart like he treats her ending up hog tying him. Like the more modern Office Space, it depicts the horrors of the white collar working environment with the same great comedy and trenchant writing. If you are avoiding it because you are wary of Parton and Fonda, don't, you will never see them this funny in any other film. Lots of these old comedies have not aged well this is a glaring exception. My advice make sure you are not eating when Violet goes to the morgue! Yes, Violet, they do fire you for killing the boss. "},{"Title":"9 to 5-Work Was Never This Much Fun ***","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No question that this is a very funny movie thanks to the gifted performances of Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, Dabney Coleman and Dolly Parton. Parton's Oscar worthy song 9 to 5 immediately captures a positive mood in this tale of 3 women who gang up on their miserable boss who has subjected them to sexism in every sense of the word.The real surprise in this film is Fonda's performance. She goes from a woman who acts and dresses as if she is a spinster teacher to one who is quite hip.There are some silly moments when the 3 women imagine how they will get rid of boss Dabney Coleman. The mix up at the hospital, though inane, is needed to keep the story going.A wonderful film depicting the changes of roles of women in the workplace, changing conventional ways of doing things in the office, and a marvelous cat and mouse relationship made by the women and Coleman to get the goods on each other "},{"Title":"Poured Myself A Cup Of Ambition","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While watching Nine To Five, I couldn't help but think about the Billy Wilder classic film, The Apartment. Part of the plot of that film was Fred MacMurray, a more polished version of Dabney Coleman from this film who also used his office and position of authority to behave like a real pig. I thought about poor Shirley MacLaine who tried to commit suicide and eventually found love with Jack Lemmon, but both faced an uncertain future albeit with each other.Shirley and the other of MacMurray's victims should have seen this film and taken a lesson from Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, and Dolly Parton who start as strangers and end up as allies and who find a way to get even with Dabney Coleman for using and abusing his employees.All three women are different, different in real life and playing different types of characters in the film and at the beginning not really liking each other because they don't know each other. Tomlin is the efficient office manger who makes Coleman look good because he takes credit for her work. Fonda is a new employee who had to go back to work because her husband left her. And the beautiful and curvaceous Parton is Coleman's secretary who Coleman is trying to jump her form and the folks in the office think he already has.But eventually these women make common cause and what they do to Coleman is an inspiration to working women everywhere.As good as these women are the film would go nowhere without Dabney Coleman who makes a specialty of playing men you love to hate whether in comedy or drama. He's as big a sexist pig as MacMurray and a whole lot funnier.The supporting cast has some real interesting roles as well. Elizabeth Wilson plays the office snitch and anyone who has ever worked in an office you can count yourself lucky if there are only one of those in your place of work. And they don't have to necessarily be women. I also liked Marian Mercer as Coleman's completely clueless wife. And movie veteran Sterling Hayden comes on in the end as the chairman of the board of the company who in his own earnest, but clueless way settles all their problems.To Dolly, Jane, and Lily who took action for put upon employees everywhere, we did love you in this film. "},{"Title":"A classic comedy that has a few good laughs.","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have watched this movie a few times and never really thought it was that funny, but it's still fun to watch and good for a few laughs.Its about women that work at a company and their boss is a jerk and they end up giving him a taste of his own medicine, and try to get the respect they deserve.The acting is really good. Dabney Coleman is one of those 80's stars that plays a good bad guy, not really evil, just unlikeable. Dolly Partin is lovable and fun to watch in comedies and her down south wit really shines here. Jane Fonda is so-so and does little for me. Lily Tomlin is the best thing about this movie, she has the funniest lines and made me laugh out loud several times, gotta love her.I could recommend this to anyone that likes 80's comedy. I like the movie but it has things about it that I don't like. It starts off great and has a nice flow and then everything starts coming together all at once and made me care less about the characters. They all have little fantasies about what they would like to do the boss and although 'cute' I just thought it slowed down the flow of the movie. As the movie goes on it once again picks up and the funniest things happen and then once again it slows down, only to wrap up in a quick manner thats too good to be true.4 out of 10 stars, but give it a try if you haven't seen it. I think depending on ones mood it may be more or less likable. "},{"Title":"Did you notice...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This is a great movie!  One of my all time favorites from childhood, I've enjoyed this film every time I've seen it - even in the theatre as an 8-year-old who probably missed all the jokes.  Lily Tomlin is the most talented here of our three heroines, with great work from Dolly Parton and Jane Fonda, and of course Dabney Coleman and others.  The action flows well, leading from hijink to hijink, indignity to indignity.  If you've ever had a butthole boss in an office where the secretaries knew exactly what to do... this movie will resonate with you!  Also check out director/screenwriter Colin Higgin's other work, notably Harold & Maude.  It's all good.SPOILERS!Did you notice... - All of the fantasies of revenge on Hart come true?  (Violet poisons his coffee, Doralee ties him up, and Judy shoots at him)- During the old fashioned ladies' pot party, Dolly Parton is NEVER shown on screen smoking a joint?- Anyone ever guess what city we're in?  I'm pretty sure it was filmed in L.A., but factors like the home office in New York, Hart's house being way off the road, the mix of people in the office, and Doralee mentioning a rodeo in Dallas make me guess it's probably Houston. "},{"Title":"For Anyone Who's Ever Wanted To Get Back At Their Boss","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Classic work-force comedy about three struggling working girls and their ultimate revenge on their pig-headed boss. This is one of those films that never gets old. The jokes and situations are just as funny now as they were 20 years ago. The three stars (Tomlin, Fonda, Parton) work great together as they offer up the perfect solution for anyone who's ever wanted to get back at their boss. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Classic in every sense of the word","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When this movie came out, it was revolutionary absolutely everyone was talking about it, across the political spectrum. The casting was jaw-dropping Dolly Parton and Jane Fonda in a movie *together*?!? It built a tremendous amount of anticipation for the film. But the excitement didn't stop at the opening once it came out, word-of-mouth for this film packed theaters across the USA, even in the Southern USA. The public spoke with their wallets they LOVED this movie.30 years later, the film stands up to the test of time. This movie is not only still hilarious, with all the jokes still making for side-splitting moments, the commentary on what a quality work environment is, and the need for rights for women in the workplace, is still utterly valid.A film that deserves the term classic. "},{"Title":"It almost seems quaint to see all those typewriters at the office...","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" NINE TO FIVE starts out with a good idea for a comedy involving such able players as JANE FONDA, LILI TOMLIN and DOLLY PARTON in a story about three secretaries who are fed up with their boss--the male chauvinist pig from hell--DABNEY COLEMAN in the film's funniest performance. He's a pencil dropping boss who likes to see Dolly crawl on the floor for obvious reasons.But after awhile it becomes a little tiresome. Fonda's character is just a little too innocent to survive more than a day in this kind of streamlined, sophisticated office, Tomlin is a schemer out to avenge all the men she trained who got promoted, and Parton is always amazed that men notice she's wearing sweaters two sizes too small for her bust. And the humor is so obviously of the '80s era, with feminism and sexism as rampant as Women's Lib jokes.It passes the time quickly as an average comedy with a nice title tune sung by Parton, but it's nothing special. Biggest laugh getter is Coleman as the boss who infuriates the girls to the point of being kidnapped so they can rearrange things at the office in his absence.Final note There's something quaint about seeing all those typewriters on every desk (Selectric IBM's, I presume) instead of computers. "},{"Title":"for anyone who's ever hated their boss","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ever wanted to take revenge on a really creepy person? Well, Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton do just that in Nine to Five. After their undesirable-in-every-way boss (Dabney Coleman) threatens to have them arrested after a misunderstanding (it's a long story), the three take him hostage and institute progressive policies in the office.Especially a hoot is the mixture of characters Jane Fonda is the mousy newcomer, Lily Tomlin is the goof-off, and Dolly Parton is the hillbilly. No matter what happens, they always have a solution, even after a bizarre mix-up in a hospital.I recommend this to everyone. "},{"Title":"Three secretaries' fun revenge on their chauvinistic boss","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a cute, fun movie where three very different secretaries extract, most humorously, a gruesome revenge on the inconsiderate, chauvinistic boss who treats them abysmally. Nothing serious, just laughs, other than a (humorous) memorial to women's struggles in the workplace.The three secretaries are quite diverse, but share a common desire to give that sexist, egotistical boss, Frank Hart, his comeuppance. Jane Fonda convincingly plays Judy, a recently divorced housewife, who is just now timidly venturing forth into the corporate world. Lily Tomlin shines as Violet (not shrinking), the smart but put upon, unappreciated supervisor who shows Judy the ropes, and Dolly Parton (my perennial favorite) is the sweet, well endowed Southern gal, Doralee, who is assumed by many to be sleeping her way to the top.The plot moves along ridiculously from one set of crazy antics to the next, both fantasies and actual revenge tactics. My favorite scene is the one where the intimidated Judy must do battle with the photocopy machine, which of course has a mind of its own. I totally identified, being quite nontechnically minded myself. Of course it's also pretty funny when Violet thinks she's inadvertently murdered Hart by poisoning his coffee with rat poison. I seem to recall that at one point the ladies have Hart all trussed up.It's not memorable or rocket science but kinda fun. As one reviewer noted, check your brain at the door. The lasting legacy of the film is, however, Dolly's cute and catchy tune of the same name. "}{"Title":"Occasionally perceptive office comedy eventually becomes arms-flailing cartoon","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It had to happen for two-thirds of its length, Nine to Five is a sharp, satirical, recognizable put-down of work-a-day life at the office, but in its later stages it becomes a silly revenge comedy, and then a message piece. The messagey last act is the real bummer, with three secretaries taking over their work-place and transforming it into a politically correct nightmare. Jane Fonda is Judy, a just-divorced woman new to office work, and her starchy appearance and nervous manner aren't really all that funny (she's immediately cold to secretary Dolly Parton on the basis of office gossip alone); her character's big flub in the copy room is an example of director Colin Higgins' use of silliness--and it's not even to make a point (the Xerox machine goes cartoonishly haywire and Judy just looks like a jinx). Lily Tomlin is much better as Violet, a 12-year team player who keeps getting passed over for promotions--but why she would even want to be promoted into a den of thieves and liars is never really made clear. Dolly Parton is dazed but not frazzled--she's just pleasantly zonked as Doralee, whom everyone thinks is sleeping with the boss (Dabney Coleman--who only shines in the fantasy sequences; his Mr. Hart is a tiresome tyrant who, of course, is not just a show-off and a cheat but an embezzler as well!). Terrible-looking movie with an excruciating background score manages to get laughs with some canny writing (in the first hour or so) and because of Tomlin's dead-on impersonation of a working widow with kids who just wants her dignity. But the plot-twists in the second-half take the picture off-track, leading to a storybook ending that is commercially driven--and not even in keeping with the cynical, satirical tone of the early part of the film. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Nine to Five and Three Women.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nine to Five (1980) Dir Colin Higgins / Cast Jane Fonda, Dolly Parton, Lily Tomlin, Dabney Coleman, Elizabeth Wilson Observant and hilarious view of women in a working world dominated by males. It takes place in an office building with recently divorced Jane Fonda arrives for her first day. Lily Tomlin plays a working mother who has seen it all and handles the demands like a pro. Sunny Dolly Parton is so full of life yet she feels bad when ignored by co- workers due too untrue rumors spread by the boss. Through an awkward set of events blackmail plays a factor and they kidnap their boss and create a better working environment. Funny and clever with appealing revenge fantasies played out during an evening of smoking pot. Insightful directing by Colin Higgins who previously made the spy comedy Foul Play. Fonda, Tomlin and Parton are hilarious with Dabney Coleman perfectly cast as the chauvinistic boss. Elizabeth Wilson is amusing as Coleman's nosy assistant who spies the the women. All three women are from different backgrounds, with Fonda dealing with her ex-husband's attempt to mend, Tomlin dealing with bickering children, and Parton sent out to buy scarves for her boss's wife that end up being given to her. Plus an ending where everybody seems to win including the boss who encounters deja vu. Strong statement of woman's rights result in a true comic gem. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"nice fun likable group","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Judy Bernly (Jane Fonda) is new to the clerical pool. Her husband left her for his secretary. Violet Newstead (Lily Tomlin) is the veteran tired of getting passed over. Doralee Rhodes (Dolly Parton) is the secretary to sexist boss Franklin M. Hart Jr. (Dabney Coleman). She is ostracized for a false rumor of having an affair with the boss. The three women become friends after a constant series of injustices by Franklin. Some misunderstandings lead the girls to believe that Violet accidentally poisoned Franklin. Franklin finds out and tries to blackmail Doralee. That is when Doralee takes him prisoner.This is not as funny as one may expect. At least, there are no big laughs. This has a black comedy edge to it. It is likable enough. The three women have great chemistry. And Dolly Parton has that iconic song. Coleman is a great chauvinist. "},{"Title":"A classic comedy!!","Date":"1 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I work in an office setting. And office movies that were instant classics such as Horrible Bosses and Office Space are movies that I love watching. But the movie that started it all was 9 to 5. Even though the focal point is about three woman who turn the tables on their chauvinistic boss, it really is an enjoyable family comedy. My 12 year old son watched for the first time and love it!The three leading ladies and Dabney Coleman's Franklin Hart are the focal points in the film. Lily Tomlin, who is one of the most underrated improvisational actresses of all time was great as the unappreciated supervisor Violet Newstead. Listen to her one-liners in the film. They are so easily overlooked, but so funny. Jane Fonda's role as the recent divorcée Judy Burnly was the weakest of the three leading ladies, but still was effective. She plays a woman whose ex-husband left her for his secretary and getting a job was her way of not only supporting herself but also to move on from her previous life. But the one who really shines in this movie was Dolly Parton as Hart's secretary Doralee Rhodes. You can't really tell this was her first motion picture role. She provides so much energy yet she doesn't come off as being over the top. It's hard to forget that this was the second highest grossing film of 1980. Only The Empire Strikes Back did better. It is definitely a comedy classic and would go great in any DID collection! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 9 to 5To ensure that your co-workers don't snitch on you when you kidnap your boss, nab them on a Friday morning so everyone gets a half-day.However, the co-workers in this comedy have avoided detection by taking their boss hostage before he arrives at work.When Judy (Jane Fonda) is hired as a secretary for a sizable company, she is quick to learn that her boss (Dabney Coleman) is a complete creep.Eventually fed up with his misogynistic manner, Judy and her colleagues (Lily Tomlin, Dolly Parton) decide to take him hostage in his own home.Meanwhile, in his absence, they begin to implement bold new business ideas that really shake up the company.A ballsy comedy with feisty performances from the female leads, 9 to 5 is still ahead of its time, socially and comically.As for getting rid of a female boss for an extensive period, secretly inseminate her. (Green Light) "},{"Title":"One Of The Great Comedies of the 80's!","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 9 to 5 is an outstanding film that works on so many levels because of the tremendously talented actors in their leading roles. Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, and Dolly Parton, are an absolute joy to watch as they become increasingly fed up with their Sexist, Egotistical, Lying, Hypocritical, Bigot, boss, played magnificently by Dabney Coleman.The actors hit all the right notes, which creates this gem of a film that remains appreciated to this day, and not just for its humorous elements. There are many serious issues of work place prejudice and discrimination that can make almost anyone think of a boss or a teacher that treated them like s**t! In this movie, REVENGE ON THE IMPOSSIBLE BOSS HAS NEVER BEEN FUNNIER!!!! Standout scenes include The outrage that Violet expresses toward Mr. Hart when she loses a promotion to a man at the company who had 5 years less experience than she had. (And even trained!) Judy's first day on the job trying to work the Xerox machine! The Pot Party.Violet thinking she put rat poison in Mr. Hart's coffee! Well, I thought it was Skinny & Sweet. See, the boxes are identical except for the little skull and crossbones on the label!!!!!! (That is laugh until you cry funny!) The chaotic scenes at the hospital! This is a gem that is worth seeing overtime for everybody! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever! In my Top 10","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the funniest comedies ever next to Caddyshack and Friday. The cast has great chemistry and the way they torture their boss is hysterical. Anybody who has worked in an office can relate to the story. I think we've all had a boss like Hart. Nowadays, he would probably be sued for sexual harassment and fired, but it was tolerated back in the day. I was only 2 when the film came out but I found it on video as a teen and now own the special edition DVD. The best parts are the chemistry between the 3 ladies. Lily Tomlin (who i adore) is a standout as Violet and Dolly Parton does a fine job in her first movie ever. I dare you not to laugh! "},{"Title":"One of the best films of all time","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't think I will ever get tired of watching this film. It's a movie that will remain a classic for a long time. Dolly Parton, Jane Fonda, Dabney Coleman and Lily Tomlin were made to play each of the characters in the film, and the film itself is so funny, it's hard to believe after all these years and times of seeing it, that it can still make me genuinely laugh.Judy (Fonda), has just gotten a job as a secretary at an office in the big city. She's in the middle of a divorce, because her husband ran off with a secretary. Violet (Tomlin), is in charge of the section that Judy will be working in, and becomes her new friend, showing her the ropes on her first day of work. Doralee (Parton), is the boss' secretary, and there's a rumor going around that the two of them are having an affair, even though they are both married. And finally, Mr. Hart (Coleman), is the boss of the whole division in which all of these girls work. He is a sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot, if I may quote the girls. The movie is set up as so. Later on, chaos begins with a single cup of coffee, and the rest turns into a laugh-a-minute riot. Some people might find the humor a bit dated, or unrealistic, but I still find it funny. It's clever, honest and probably a chick-flick, but genuinely entertaining.I own the film, and hope that many of you will see it if you haven't already. It's a classic, and will remain that way for many years to come in my opinion. "},{"Title":"9 to 5","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fantastic movie! I've wanted to see this movie since I saw The Best Little Whorehouse In Texas. Dolly was so great in The Best Little Whorehouse In Texas and after that I started to listen her music and wanted to watch all her films. She's absolutely great and I love her laugh. 9 to 5 is so hilarious with great actors. Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin were so amazingly funny and I laughed myself to death when I watched this movie. I can only suggest everybody to watch this and watch also The Best Little Whorehouse In Texas, Steel Magnolias and Rhinestone. I will give whole 10 for this hilarious great little movie about working 9 to 5!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Yeah! "},{"Title":"Women in the working world get their revenge!","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every time I watch this movie and I begin to hear Dolly Parton's Nine to Five song playing in the opening credits, I begin to smile. The reason is I know I'll spend the next 110 minutes laughing my head off. The female-empowerment message it tries to convey is rather dated but it is witty and amusing nonetheless. The movie takes place in the male-driven corporate world where women are still oppressed. Three office secretaries are fed up with their chauvinistic boss and after a silly set of occurrences they take matters into their own hands. The result is one of the funniest revenge comedies I've ever seen. What makes this movie work so well is the three leads. They are all perfectly cast and have delightful chemistry together. Jane Fonda plays prim, newly divorced Judy Bernly, Lily Tomlin plays feisty, pot-smoking Violet Newstead, and Dolly Parton plays sexy blonde Doralee Rhodes. Dabney Coleman is also terrific as the sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot who gets his just desserts in more ways than one. There is a lot of high-energy slapstick humor to enjoy along with many great one-liners and one hilarious scene after another. Watch out for the boss-killing fantasies, the corpse-stealing hospital sequence, and Coleman in a dog collar. Lots of fun! "}{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mostly I like this film because of the storyline, characters, etc., but I also like it because of the old office equipment you get to see (quote typewriter, Dictaphone, and adding machine). It shows you how offices how (and haven't in some cases) moved on over the years.My favourite part of the film is the title sequence and music at the beginning - although it seems half suitable for TV and half suitable for film, it ends up suiting the film perfectly in my opinion.It's a shame that Nine to Five isn't available on DVD in the UK either to rent or buy. (as far as I know) "},{"Title":"Classic Workplace Comedy","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Listen to the lyrics of Dolly's title song and you'll understand just how great this movie is ( why didn't her song get  the best original song oscar?). This is Dabney Coleman's greatest role and Lily Tomlin, Dolly Parton and Jane Fonda have a field day. It is also unintentionally funny as it pre-dates the age of the PC and a couple of other major workplace changes but never fear it has plenty of copier humor to spare. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite comedies. Lily Tomlin, Dolly Parton, and Jane Fonda are at their best. Three women try to get back at their sexist boss and when they do, havoc and chaos takes over! Perhaps the funniest person of all in this movie is really Jane Fonda. This was the first movie I ever saw her in and it made a very good impression. This got a 10/10 for it's script, direction, and the actresses! Terrific! "},{"Title":"Still as relevant...","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clever comedy that still speaks to office politics and discrimination today as it did 20 years ago.   Terrific cast and a funny movie.  If only these three ladies could find another script to get together again. "},{"Title":"Funny,funny,funny","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  9to5 is a very funny film. Lily,Jane and Dolly are just fantastic together. God,they really all three need to get together again on a different comedy. Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A funny little time capsule.","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think Nine to Five probably resonates more with people of my generation and earlier than it would with kids today--though its appeal still is timeless. I watched the film with my teen, and she laughed her head off at the antics of the film so much that now she wants to go see the play.Let me digress a bit and say that the quality of this film says a lot to me personally, as I am NOT a fan of Jane Fonda (you may well guess why) yet I heartily recommend the film. Plus, whatever my feelings about the actress and her politics, she did do a good job in the film.The plot is probably very familiar to most of you, so I won't explore it in any detail. Suffice to say that the boss is an evil sexist pig and three women in his office decide to pay him back for his dastardly ways. Had this just been a film about sexism, it might have come off as preachy. Instead, as it's a rather clever comedy, it seems less preachy and just fun--and still makes its point. My favorite parts are the fantasy sequences (especially the Snow White-inspired one) and I must admit that while it's a wonderful film, it does slow down a lot after Dabney Coleman's character is kidnapped. Still, overall it's a very good film for the whole family that is excellent in every way...and an interesting little time capsule at that. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sadly enough, I have to admit, I can practically recite this movie line, by line as I watch it. To me, its the perfect lazy day movie. It is a sad, but true, sign of the time the movie that was released. it shows three of the ways that women were (and sometimes still are!!) mistreated in the work place, and in Judy's case, life. Lily Tomlin is at her comical best in this movie Jane Fonda plays the shrunk, but unshrinking flower brilliantly.Dolly Pardon, in her first movie performance, has a few bad acting moments, but for the most part recovers and stays within her range, and pulls it off wonderfully.9 to 5 is just a fun movie. It doesn't try to be anything other than what it is, and sends a message at the same time Women are smart, don't mess with them. "},{"Title":"Classic!   (Spoilers)","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stumble out of bed & stumble through the kitchen, pour myself a cup of ambition!! Meet Violet, Judy, & Dorlee... three working gals in the DREADFUL corperate world under the sexist-egotistical-lying-hypocritical-bigot aka F-Hart! When these worker-bee's get together & have a little Maui-Wowi, they share their inner darkest secrets about how they can get rid of the boss...when each fantasy becomes a reality the laughter is NON-STOP!  The scene with the body in trunk & the girls relize that it's not Mr. Hart is the funniest part in the film...just look at the expression Dorlee (Parton) gives to Judy (Fonda) & Violet (Tomlin)...  & I can't forget to mention the eyes-ears-nose-&-throat of Mr. Hart...ROZ (played by Elizabeth Wilson) because anything she hears, he hears!! One final note Marian Mercer is divine in this as well. Classic film with a VERY strong cast! A must-see! 10+ "},{"Title":"Sugary, lovable boss is unfairly attacked by 3 vindictive, murderous bitches","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedies usually appeal to me about as much as falling into a snake pit. This one, however, was a little jewel. For my money, the boss made the movie....what a crud! While Dolly wasn't as polished as the other players, all did a commendable job. Just too funny!! "},{"Title":"Violet honey, can I see you for a second?","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" LOL! If you like screwball comedies and sarcastic humour, this is the film for you. All three actresses are perfect in their roles (Dolly Parton's first movie role) and deliver some of the best lines ever.Will you two quit arguing and think of a way we can get our hands on some cement! Very dated in it's theme (sexual harassment isn't mentioned ONCE; and the fact that everyone though that Doralee was 'screwing the boss'basically because of the way she looked like is never addressed) it still has enough 'timeless truth' to it to relate to modern audiences.Funny, funny, funny.Well it looks just like 'Skinny and Sweet', except for the skull and cross bones on the label. "}{"Title":"Chemistry","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A battle between management and workers with a feminist twist is burdened only with a silly kidnapping the boss scenario that takes the majority of the film down a path only survived by the great, great, great chemistry of the three stars. Although the role of Judy is is written rather thinly Jane Fonda's acting is as good as it ever was, playing the mousy Judy with pitch perfection. Lily Tomlin a fantastic actress with an impeccable sense of timing (along the lines of TV greats Beatrice Arthur and Marion Lorne) plays Violet, who runs the office yet gets no power with great aplomb. And best is Dolly Parton as the office bombshell, plays her part with great charm and no-nonsense. Parton's first acting role (and has no training whatsoever) is superb, look at the scene in the hospital where Fonda is trying to calm Tomlin down, Dolly is so into the tension you think she will explode. Fonda, Tomlin and Parton's chemistry will not let you down. Nice supporting work from Dabney Coleman (boss), Peggy Pope (office lush), Marian Mercer (boss' slow wife) and the great Elizabeth Wilson as Roz the office stool pigeon. Always root for the underdog. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know it's a 'chick-flick' but I can't help but like this 1980 Comedy about 3 women played by Jane Fonda,Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton (who also sang the titlesong) who work as secretary's for a mean,horrible,sexist pig (a tailor made role for Dabney Coleman) who decide enough is enough and so plan their revenge.I've heard of this movie for quite sometime, but didn't watch it because I didn't think it was my cup of tea, How wrong I was, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie from start to finishThe movie is quite dated (all the ladies use typewriters-which have since been turned into antiques by the onset of Computers.It's well Directed by Colin Higgins who had previously Written and Directed the equally enjoyable Chevy Chase-Goldie Hawn Crime Comedy 'Foul Play'.Followed By not one but TWO TV series based on the film 1982-1983 and 1986-1988 without the Stars and probably suffers as a resultall in all a very enjoyable 1980's Comedy that was a major hit on it's original release 24 years ago.My Rating ***1/2 out of ***** or 7/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty Amusing","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Three female employees of a sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot (Dabney Coleman) find a way to turn the tables on him.I really knew nothing about this film going into it, and did not necessarily have the highest of hopes. Judging a book by its cover, this could be seen as a chick flick, but it is most certainly not. This is a clever, humorous comedy that really came at the right time.This is an especially good role for Lily Tomlin, who has plenty of good roles in her career. The morgue sequence... wow. That is some dark, morbid humor that was completely unexpected, but also saved the picture for me. Sometimes you just need a little darkness to get the laughs. "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 9 to 5 is a very cute light-hearted comedy. It is worth viewing - if you have not seen it yet then you should if you are a fan of comedy films. It's quite funny to watch Jane, Lily and Dolly get back at their very stubborn no good male chauvinist boss played by Dabney Coleman.I think the movie shows woman power (female wisdom/intelligence as well) - women are stronger and smarter than what they think in a comical way. And the movie shows how some bosses misuse and abuse their position/power - being a no good boss is in fact, not good in a humorous manner.This movie would make a great matinée to liven up any afternoon. Make it a double feature with Best Little Whorehouse in Texas Witches of Eastwick. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Workplace Comedy","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Colin Higgens directed and wrote this hit comedy that stars Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, and Dolly Parton as three office secretaries in a successful firm who must contend with their lecherous and overbearing boss Franklyn Hart(played by Dabney Coleman) who treats them like servants, and wont leave Parton alone(despite being married). The women fantasize about revenge(in a colorful series of vignettes) but unexpectedly get their chance one day, and things will never be the same again... Good cast, especially Coleman in a most memorable performance, and though it starts out well, it eventually takes a sharp-left turn into contrived absurdity, and never recovers, despite almost redeeming itself with a bright ending. Truly uneven. "},{"Title":"Hart to Hart to Hart","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What lawyer wouldn't have a field day if Nine to Five happened today?Nine to Five is one of my all-time favorite comedies and as a comedy, with extreme deadpan delivery from Lily Tomlin (Violet) and excellent lines and acting from first-timer-at-the-time Dolly Parton (Doralee,) it still works. Sadly, this is the Stone Age when it comes to office politics and, of course, equipment. This is not to say sexist remarks or promoting males faster than females still doesn't occur, but I cannot imagine, as a whole, it's this blatant.While that's not a flaw, it was what it was 33 years ago, the movie's only flaw that I could concede is that it went on for far too long. It didn't know where to cut or when to end. And still, even with that minor fault, it's still amusing and fun through to the end.I truly loved this movie and it begins solid with one of my all-time favorite movie songs, the same name of the film and sung by the star, Parton. Following that, I loved the fact that the three central characters, Violet, Doralee and Judy (Jane Fonda) weren't exactly friends at first, but become allies when their over-the-top sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot of a boss wrongs them. While the movie was already fun at that point &#x96; mainly thanks to, again Tomlin and Parton, this is where the sh|t gets real&#x85;funny.From merely complaining, to pot smoking their way into incredible laughs (from both them and us) of their fantasies of getting retribution, to almost and inadvertently bringing one of their ideas to life, these ladies get in deep when trying to deal with the soulless boss.While I stated the movie, sadly, is dated for 1980 or that timeframe, it's also unfortunate that the same stereotypical coworkers exist today. Maybe that's reason #38 why I like this movie so much; I can relate as I've worked in offices since March 1996 and have seen all kinds of these characters portrayed here, in the almost equally hilarious Office Space and in pretty much any Dilbert strip.Now, that said, allow me to make sure I am revealing a positive. These secondary and third-tier characters make the movie even better. They're hilarious (Atta, Girl said three times almost back-to-back is one of my favorite lines and so true from the office drunk) and realistic (there's ALWAYS an untrustworthy office spy/boss, kiss-up Roz character to deal with.) On the front end, there's also always the sarcastic and down beaten Violet (which is usually me,) the optimistic Doralee and the newbie, Judy, who ALWAYS will soon learn the hard way. Now, though I've encountered my share of horrible bosses &#x96; as well as awesome human managers, I've never worked under the reigns of the terrible Mr. Hart (played deliciously by Dabney Coleman,) although I know they exist as do his superiors as portrayed in this film.I didn't work in 1980 &#x96; I was at the young age of ___ then, and my mom was still a stay-at-home mother when this was released, but I know these events in the movie happened in real life and I am glad these talented ladies could theatrically fight for women's rights. It might not have seemed like a political film, and perhaps it wasn't meant that way, but I bet this brought to light a lot of the disgusting things that occurred to the female workers of the late 1970s, early 1980s.Oh, and speaking of that era, I've read and been told countless times that Jane Fonda was the DEVIL for her war-time actions prior to the movie's creation. While she wasn't my favorite part or character of the movie, she was still enjoyable in her role. I do my very best to stay out of filmmakers/star's politics. If I didn't, I wouldn't have enjoyed so many Tom Cruise films &#x96; and believe me, I have more fun in his action/comedy/suspense films than most actors over the past few decades.On a personal note, it truly pains me to hear someone tell me not to watch Fonda's movies, or worse, wish her dead. Without getting into the details of what she did, or even the reasons why, I don't care one bit. Did she entertain me when I watched this? is the only question I should be asking myself and the answer was yes.I digress. This movie is hilarious, real fun, adventurous and it's one I could watch countless times, like I did as a kid. Highly recommended.Side Note That song, Parton's Nine to Five, isn't just one of my favorite movie tracks, it's one of my all-time favorite songs. And funny story when I was a kid and I would, indeed, watch this movie over and over, or listen to that song from one of my mother's, ah-hem, record player, repeatedly, I always thought the first few lines readTumble out of bed and stumble to the kitchen; Pouring myself a cup of bitchin'&#x85;I was shocked, growing up in a swear-free household, at that word! It truly intrigued me. Until, of course, I grew up, got, what we call now digital music, clear-sounding movies and, obviously, internet, and learned the true word was ambition.Eh, I think both fits. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jane, Lily, Dolly and Dabney Coleman have fun in this classic comedy and so will you. It's not about unionization of the work place. That came a little later. But female office workers of a certain age will remember the humiliations inflicted on them by their male bosses and maybe the role played by female tattle tales. We watched 9 to 5 in streaming video and three of us had a good time doing so. The chase scenes with a dead body (mistaken identity) is especially hilarious. All three of the female leads are splendid. I'm not sure, however, that Dabney Coleman doesn't steal the show as their hateful boss. It was a life-saving diversion from all those election ads which we see because we're next door to a swing state. Neither of the Presidential candidates bothered campaigning in Maryland, among the bluest of the blue states. As the most recent of the GOP candidates for governor explained, they've got the organization, they've got the money, they've got the message. What they haven't got is the voters. "},{"Title":"Great from top to bottom.","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If have ever worked in an office atmosphere,felt undue pressures from your bosses and fantasized about getting revenge,or just want to have some good laughs,Nine to Five is for you.It's just one of those films where all of those people that are entrusted to bring forth a great finished product went above and beyond.It is excellently written,casted,and acted.You would expect seasoned veterans like Dabney Coleman,Lily Tomlin,and Jane Fonda to deliver,which they do,but the biggest surprise was Dolly Parton,in her first film,proving to us that her talents were not limited to her singing.Fortunately,her great singing talents were made part of the mix,and that makes it all the better. "},{"Title":"It Has Its Funny Moments","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Three female office workers have had it with their chauvinistic male boss. So they band together for revenge. It's all in good fun. Viewers get some laughs and get treated to a lesson in the power of feminism.For a 1980s film, the premise is fine. And the plot starts out okay. But the middle Act fantasies stretch out too long, which slows down the plot. The kidnapping segment doesn't work at all. It's just too preposterous, and gets the film seriously off track. Two of the three main characters, Violet (Lily Tomlin) and Doralee (Dolly Parton) fit right in. But Judy Bernly (Jane Fonda) is too new to the office, and too innocent and naïve, to be recruited into an insider's role.Casting is mixed. With her comedic background and those squinting eyes, scheming Lily Tomlin is a hoot. And chirpy Dolly Parton adds a 3-D look and feel ... so to speak. But Jane Fonda seems out of place as an office worker. Prod design looks credible, again for the 1980s, though those typewriters sure date the picture, as do the clothes. What I liked best was the catchy title song, by Dolly Parton, with its appropriate theme and disco beat.The film has its funny moments like, for example, when Roz, the overbearing admin assistant, hands Violet, the Lily Tomlin character, a memo admonishing Violet about the rules of office décor. Violet takes the memo and then responds sarcastically Thanks Roz, I know just where to stick it.But overall, the second-half plot is just too outlandish to have any credibility, even as comedy. It's like the writers were trying a little too hard. The satire comes through but it's not nearly as caustic or biting as that of the much superior predecessor film, with similar themes How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying (1967).Nine To Five offers the viewer a look back at typical 1980s comedy. It's a film with charm and verve, but it lacks the razor-sharp writing and biting social commentaries of earlier films about office politics. "},{"Title":"I've killed the boss, you think they won't fire me for that!","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first saw this in theaters in 1980, I never imagined I'd be sitting here in 2011 (November) writing about it. Probably because there was no Internet/World Wide Web in 1980, but I digress. This picture is now 31 years old and it has aged gracefully. Lilly, Dolly and Jane in arguably their best roles ever really shine. You can tell they were having fun filming this movie. Dabney Coleman is true to form as the evil boss and the supporting characters are equally funny (... atta girl). When they manage to remove the boss from the office, everything changes. Better pay, redecorating of the entire floor, relaxed atmosphere, flowers, job-sharing (2 employees split a full time shift so they can spend the other half of the day with their kids), in-house day care and lots more. When F-ART (Franklin Hart) returns, will Dora, Violet and Judy be able to keep the changes or get fired? This picture holds up well... my favorite part is Violet's fantasy with Bambi, Thumper and the other animals and birds. Very, very, very funny. 8 out of 10, even 31 years later. "}{"Title":"Pleasant Entertainment Despite Its Unbalanced Attributes","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In view of the activist aggression of this revenge fantasy, it might be apt that the funniest performance in the film is by Dabney Coleman, who plays unfair, chauvinistic company superior Hart. Hart is a fun bad guy, a bird-brained horndog so in the throes of his trifling infatuations that he's not beyond knocking his pencils on the floor so he can peep Parton picking them up on her hands and knees, her cleavage showing. There's some message sent by the fact that the biggest laughs in this feminist candygram hinge on wholehearted, unashamed sexism.Colin Higgins' infectiously amusing little 80s comedy starts as satire, skids indecisively into farce, and ends by intently flying the banner of feminism. It has some incredibly amusing moments, and then it has some key constituents that fall short, including some of its pot-induced fantasy sequences. It's pleasing entertainment notwithstanding its lopsided features and a plot that's almost too ridiculous for the material. The movie is present in the convention of 1940s screwball comedies. It's about ridiculous events befalling droll exaggerations of recognizable types, and, like those Hawks, McCarey and Stevens pictures, it's also laced with a mortal dose of social commentary.The implication in this case involves women's lib, particularly with the position of women in the corporate workplace. Fonda, Tomlin and Parton all work in the same office. Tomlin is the well-organized and very seasoned office manager. Fonda is the tenderfoot, having a go at her first job after a divorce. Parton is the boss's secretary, and everybody in the office thinks she's having an affair with him, so the other women won't have anything to do with her, until she finds out who's been spreading that rumor.Played by Dabney Coleman, Hart is unkind, exasperatingly self-righteous in his status quo worldview, with an immense and genuine yearning for Parton. She's having none of it. After the movie hosts some human and labor rights issues like equal pay and merit promotion, the movie expands into a peculiar plot to hijack Coleman in an effort to secure equality. He ends up swinging from the ceiling of his bedroom, fastened by wire to a garage-door opener.This entire kidnapping sequence moves so far toward unreserved travesty that it injures the movie's more realistic opening scenes. But maybe we don't actually care. We realize immediately that this is consciously a frivolous film, notwithstanding its yolk of sociopolitical import. And, affording the obligatory indulgences, we just lay back and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Wow, now this is funny!","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 9 to 5 has become somewhat of a classic comedy for no other reason than the fact that it has some of the biggest laughs I've ever seen. It proves to be a fast-moving, quick-witted movie that keeps you engaged with laughs the whole time. It's a rather simplistic story, involving three women who want to rebel against their sexist boss (Dabney Coleman, playing a role typical of him at this time). A series of mishaps leads them to think they've poisoned him, causing the women to steal a dead body which turns out not to be his. When he finds out about their plot, they must kidnap him to keep him from talking, and it's all pure fun from there to the end. Sure, it's ridiculous nonsense, but that's what makes it so enjoyable, and that's the way comedy was meant to be, in my opinion. It takes about half an hour to really get into the film, but once the action starts, you'll find yourself laughing like crazy. One thing I like about this film is that there are no unnecessary secondary plots that take away from the main story. Everything works together here for one purpose, and the film does not try to make a statement. The film exists just to make us laugh, something we rarely get to see anymore. Not perfect, but easily enjoyable fun.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A great escape from your own pink collar ghetto","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Michael Douglas corrupting Charlie Sheen's soul in Wall Street. Meryl Streep digging her claws into Anne Hathaway in The Devil Wears Prada. Gary Cole oppressing his hapless minions with smarmy platitudes in Office Space. Let's face it, isn't there something so cathartic about watching some poor working stiff suffer under a ruthless boss in a movie? It's just a perverse reminder that, no matter how wretched our head honchos are, there are fictional ones who are much, much worse. I think it's safe to say that the most memorable, and, sometimes, most painfully realistic boss in the movies is Franklin Hart Jr. (Dabney Coleman) of 9 to 5. The undeserving manager of Consolidated Incorporated, Hart is a sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot (a fair assessment he's given three times in the movie). He cruelly berates mousy newcomer Judy (Jane Fonda) on her first day on the job for making an innocent mistake. His sexy, guileless Southern belle secretary Doralee (Dolly Parton) is a daily victim of his lecherous behavior. And he passes iron-willed employee Violet (Lily Tomlin) over for a promotion just because she's a woman. It doesn't help that Hart has a loyal sidekick in hateful office snitch Roz (Elizabeth Wilson), who is possibly in love with Hart. But when Hart finally pushes Judy, Doralee, and Violet too far, they decide to push back even harder&#133; even if it means hog-tying and kidnapping the ruthless Hart and placing him under house arrest in order to put things right in their pink collar ghetto. Though the middle of 9 to 5 is rather uneven and rushed, the movie as a whole remains fine entertainment and a real time capsule of the workplace in 1980. It's amusing and also surreal seeing the outdated technology (Xerox copiers that took up an entire room, Dictaphones,). Yet some scenes are a disturbing reminder that, yes, sexual harassment in the workplace once held sway with little or no consequences (Hart actually pins Doralee to the ground at one point). Coleman is brilliant as Hart, making use of his hard features and clipped voice. In spite of the torture he's eventually put through, he seems to relish playing a truly loathsome pig of a man. The three actresses are also a delight. Tomlin is superb as Violet, creating a strong, realistic character who refuses to let her situation get her down, and who has a strong sense of loyalty to her loved ones and entitlement to herself. Parton is adorable and charming as Doralee and a natural comedienne, which is pretty impressive considering that this was her film debut. I really have to give Fonda, the biggest star in the movie at the time, credit for taking the least interesting part so that her co-stars have a chance to shine. Whether it's seeing Hart imprisoned in chains and a dog collar or witnessing the women's pot-induced revenge fantasies, 9 to 5 is a hilariously addictive comedy for anyone who's ever had less than warm regards to their appointed leader. "},{"Title":"The greatest!!!!!","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Queen of all office-humor movies, here I come!!!!! 9 to 5 stars that lovable country lady Dolly Parton as she stars in this funny yet sweet office humor movie before we had crazy guys beat a printer with bats in a field or have an overweight guy take to a monitor with a keyboard.Dolly Parton was the national treasure - she had flair, fun, great country music (especially the 9 to 5 theme song), and has more wardrobe than a Neiman Marcus and Sanger Harris combined!!!!! Also, I am writing this to tell you that the Old School Disney Channel showed this late one night (Feb-Mar 1995), which makes her ANNA INDIANA (ewwww!!!!!) appearance the second on the network.If you like laughter in the office, then you better be watching this NOW!!!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"So Funny that you'll cry laughing!","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What a combination of great talent in this cast and that includes Oscar nominees Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton with 2-time Oscar winner Jane Fonda and Dabney Coleman playing their despicable boss. Remember when typewriters were the computers of our time and on every office desktop imaginable. Anyway, I liked Peggy Pope and Marian Mercer as well but you can't top Tomlin as divorced mother of four Viola, Dolly's Doralee happily married to a country singer, and Jane's Judy who is not always goody two shoes. The three women become friends and smoke a joint after their boss played brilliantly by Dabney Coleman. I think the cast just had such a grand old time making this movie that there is still talk of a reunion and the four major cast members reunited last year for Jane's charity benefit in Atlanta, Georgia. I loved the scenes where they imagined giving Hart played by Coleman, a taste of his own medicine. The kidnapping is also worth watching as well. I can't forget Sterling Hayden. This comedy is one of the all-time classic comedies especially about working environments and women's rights. When these three women take charge, they make changes that brought differences to the working place where their employees became better people which means happier employees. I guarantee if you are an employer and you want a productive environment, you have to have a happy working staff regardless of the cost. "},{"Title":"What A Way To Make A Livin'!","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When Judy Bernly reports for her first day at work, her new boss, Franklin M. Hart Jr., greets her by saying she's a welcome addition, and a damn pretty one, too.I mean that, he adds. You should see some of the crones coming through here lately. Real pathetic.It certainly was a man's world in 1980, when Nine To Five, Colin Higgins' warm and frothy satire of women in the workplace, came out. Some credit this film, produced by and co-starring Jane Fonda, with making a difference in bringing some R-E-S-P-E-C-T to the fluorescent jungle. But if Nine To Five has an overt feminist agenda, it is only in the sense of showing feminists really do have a sense of humor.Fonda plays Judy, a newly divorced woman forced into the office, where she soon makes friends with seasoned supervisor Violet Newstead (Lily Tomlin) and cheery secretary Doralee Rhodes (Dolly Parton), their bond formed in the crucible of cubicle misery overseen by the heartless Mr. Hart (Dabney Coleman). The three dream of ridding themselves of Mr. Hart, but when those dreams become a real-life nightmare, the three women must improvise fast.The film works so well because it refuses to take itself seriously, however much it is about the cause of working women. Righteous indignation is kept very far beneath the surface, as we instead are treated to scenes of mayhem and killer comedy, like when Doralee defends herself from one of Hart's lecherous advances.Doralee But Mr. Hart, I'm a married woman.Hart I'm a married man. That's what makes it so perfect!In the film's most hilarious sequence, Doralee fantasizes about having Hart be her secretary, and putting the squeeze on him instead, forcing him to wear a red scarf and keep her entertained. Hart's sex drive goes flaccid when the tables are turned. I won't kiss that mouth, Hart whines. You are laughing so hard, you hardly notice the point sinking in, that sexual harassment is about abuse of power more than lust and as much to be minded when its Dolly Parton pinching your bottom, which is how good socially relevant comedy is made.Obviously this film was a special labor for Fonda, given how she slips almost into the background, leaving most of the film in the hands of her non Oscar-winning co-stars. Tomlin is a rock, playing Violet as the paragon of office efficiency one moment, and Mama Meltdown the next. Dolly is sweet as sugar but tough on the inside, like when she warns Hart she packs a gun and will turn him from a rooster to a hen with one shot if he keeps pushing on her. Coleman may be the best thing in the film, playing Hart as a more subtle source of menace than you expect from reading the plot, then ramping things up as he is foiled by his underlings.Good comedy requires good control, and director Higgins, making only the second of three films in his short life, keeps a firm grip on a plot that puts Tomlin in a Snow White outfit and manages to get even sillier from there. It's a shame we didn't get to see him develop his art; he seems to have had a sensibility akin to Blake Edwards at his zany best.Even the film's weaknesses are tradeoffs on its strengths; amiable dream sequences that go on too long and a clever conclusion that is a trifle too pat. You can argue that the characters are shallow, but the message is anything but.That, along with the great comedy, is why Nine To Five was not only such a success when it came out but an influence on so many other work-oriented films to follow. (Office Space features three cubicle buddies and an embezzlement subplot, Anchorman showcases sexual harassment and a score that conspicuously echoes Parton's terrific titles theme here, a number-one pop hit in the U.S. in early 1981.) Nine To Five may be dated, but it's still relevant, and still funny. "},{"Title":"three female archetypes","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" love this movie, love the casting. we have lily tomlin, a woman whose sexuality has long been whispered about, dolly parton, a woman embodying the male ideal, big boobs and small brain, and finally we have jane fonda, a feminist protest organizer. casting these three women as the leads in a movie that served as a subversive feminist tract was a stroke of sheer genius, or was it? if this movie came out in 1980 how much speculation was there regarding what went on behind closed doors with lily tomlin? was casting jane fonda more of a risk due to possible protesting by Vietnam war vets? was dolly parton simply the result of a well-calculated business decision? "},{"Title":"It doesn't get much better than this","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Other than some very dated office equipment scenes and references to a more laid-back attitude about smoking pot (ahhhh, those were the days), this movie holds up incredibly well. I know dozens of people who freely admit that this movie made them laugh in 1980 and still does when aired on TNT.I remember watching it over and over and over and over and over again in 1981 on the then-nascent HBO during a rare Atlanta snowstorm. I've probably seen it 50 times, and it still makes me smile.  It is unquestionably Dolly Parton's reigning celluloid moment, even though it was her first movie. Lily Tomlin (Violet Neustead, please hold) is fantastic, even though she inexplicably takes her jacket on and off again at the oddest times. Jane Fonda, playing against type, is a meek mouse...a far cry from her incredibly strong roles in The China Syndrome, California Suite, et.al.)  All of the reviews on imdb praise Dabney Coleman, and he was fine, but not amazing.Most of all, the chemistry between Dolly, Lilly and Jane is perhaps unparalleled in the nearly quarter-century (ouch!) since this film was made.  "},{"Title":"It Looked Like Skinny and Sweet...","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best comedies around. I simply love this movie. All performances are wonderful, and I especially like Coleman's slimey peformance as Mr. Hart. From square one, it never bores and always entertains. A real comedic treat (even from Fonda). 10/10 "},{"Title":"The king (queen) of all worker movies","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What happens when Hollywood casts three outstanding comediennes/actresses in a comedy designed for anyone who works?  The answer is emphatically, 9 to 5. The chemistry between the career girls in this fantastic romp flows so smoothly.  Backed by a cool title song, the film packs a solid punch. "}{"Title":"Dolly Parton","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Isn't it interesting that in Dolly Parton's two best performances -- 9 to 5 and Steel Magnolias -- her character doesn't sing?The fantasy sequences are still hilarious. You're a lying, sexist, egotistical, hypocritical bigot. "},{"Title":"Great comedy about workers in 1980's, classic 80's movie everyone can enjoy it!!awesome movie about workers vs.the boss!!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is about a group of women who have a really bad mean boss at their job.They work in office building for a big corporation.They have many hilarious misadventures during the movie. The movie deals with many issues commonplace with today workforce. It shows that if you have the right cast the movie will always be remembered. This movie is one of my favorite comedy movie from the 1980's. I really love the title song for this movie(same name as the movie ) . Even if you do not like the movie stars , you can get a kick/laugh out of this worker movie!!!Also it is a very clean movie so everyone in the family can enjoy it!! "},{"Title":"Fun but fluffy","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although this movie (or maybe just the title song) seemed ubiquitous in the early 80s when I was a young kid, you don't really hear people talk about it anymore and somehow I managed to never see it until now. I guess it's a zeitgeist film (did I get that right?), a film about a social movement that might not seem as urgent today. In 1980 this was an edgy movie, but today most the material would be tame for TV.However, it still has some weird laughs... I enjoyed some of the dream sequences, especially Dolly Parton with the lasso capturing Dabney Coleman the sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot boss. My wife and I both thought that Coleman and Parton were the most fun to watch in the movie. Fonda was trapped in this ridiculous character, a 1950s housewife stereotype brought into the modern era, and she never finds her footing or does anything interesting in the inevitable scene where she becomes a modern outspoken woman. Lily Tomlin does some good acting (the scene where she half-heartedly resists her teenage son's offer of a joint is typically solid), but her character didn't really take off for me either. But at least she covered it up better. Parton's just having a good time and it's a bit infectious. Coleman, one of our great under-rated character actors, has more to work with her than usual. He has several different layers of nastiness, and at least one layer of sympathy.I think the project is good, but just short of being really memorable or classic. I found the plot very thin generally, and that once the office situation and the characters had been set up so well there was nowhere up for the movie to go. The hospital sequence and the scenes in and outside of the car were tedious, and there are too many scenes of Coleman in his odd S&M getup. I would have liked to see the film maybe a bit more episodic, instead of settling into that whole story-angle about the rat poison for the entire length. Also I think the film's formula is too rigid and it ends up restricting the characters. The zany scenes clash too much with the serious scenes and it makes the whole thing feel a bit haphazard, because it's not directed with any vision that would have united them.With the story going so far and so long into the whole hostage situation, my sympathies weren't sticking completely with the girls. The film tried too hard to make them heroic, despite all the bizarre stuff they were doing to Coleman's character. A good example would be the big confrontation I mentioned between Fonda's character and her ex-husband (Laurence Pressman). The way I saw it, he could easily have been a sleaze.... he obviously was to some extent, because he ran off with the secretary and so on. But nothing he does or says in that particular scene is so outrageous, that we should really jump to Fonda's side and cheer when she tells him off..... as we're obviously supposed to do, en masse. Unlike in somewhat similar films about office and sexual politics such as, say, Election and Office Space, the protagonists are simply right in this movie and whoever gets in their way is wrong. Don't worry too much about the details, or expect any introspection along with the character development, because this movie ultimately is about female empowerment in the most generic sense of the term. I found it fun in a lightweight way, but it was too comfy with its own assumptions and the farce was too broad to completely please me. "},{"Title":"A goof you do not have posted","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just recently watched Nine to Five for the first time in years and I noticed a flaw. In the scene where the girls are back in the office (the next morning after the hospital fiasco, and they realize Mr Hart did not die) Violet has on the same clothes she did the night before (a gray blouse with red trim and a long plaid skirt), but Doralee and Judy have changed. Later in a scene from that same day, Violet's clothes have changed and she now has on a red and white blouse and black jacket. Incidentally, Violet wears that outfit a few more times thru-out the movie, but at least they are all supposed to be different days. "},{"Title":"Fun, but also interesting","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Nine to Five', a fun little film about office politics, also makes some serious points about sexism in the workplace. What's interesting is that the (always believable) stereotypes on view here appear dated do people really behave like this any more? Probably not, and yet sexism is anything but dead. In some ways, the crass prejudice here almost seems to belong to a sweeter, more innocent world than the one we live in now, women may have a better chance today of successfully playing the sophisticated games needed to succeed, but is life really any better for the straightforwardly naive? It's an extreme comparison, but watching this film made me think of Neil la Bute's utterly horrible 'The Company of Men'. That film is a nightmare, this one a fairytale; the truth may lie somewhere in between, but it's worrying to think that the latter came first. "},{"Title":"Fine office comedy","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  9 to 5 is a fine (but woefully dated) office comedy with a slight feminist edge. The person that let me down the most in this film was Jane Fonda. After larger than life roles (like Bree Daniels in Klute) this role as Judy Bernly was a disappointment. Ms. Fonda is so mousy and meek in this. Ironically, the person who is most at ease in her role is the rookie of the bunch, Dolly Parton.       The first half of the film is fine, with superb dialogue (Peggy Pope is perfect as the office drunk). The second half (when they keep the boss captive in that bedroom) is when the plot unravels (just a bit). We are transported from realism to cartoonland (literally, in Tomlin's case).       The film was shot in Toronto. One scene that gives it away is the Dominion Bank sign in the background when a vehicle is driving up the street.  "},{"Title":"Very dated, but one of the funniest comedies ever","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"          I just saw this movie recently for probably the first time in 10-15 years and realized how much has changed in the workplace in terms of technology and equality of the sexes. The sounds of clackety typewriters, buzzing phone lines, and copy machines that take up an entire room are now deceased remains of not too long ago. And even then in the early 1980's, the majority of women working outside the home took more traditional female occupations, with little hope for advancement. Anyway, I thoroughly enjoyed all three female leads, but especially Dabney Coleman's b-hole boss. In today's workplace, much to the credit of Miss Anita Hill, he would have been gone in a heartbeat The company the ladies work for is nondescript, even an Ajax warehouse is thrown in. Lily Tomlin is terrific as an exasperated section supervisor and working single mom constantly getting the short end of the stick. Other comical roles I enjoyed were Dabney Coleman's clueless wife and a nosy section manager. Sterling Hayden does a self-parody at the end as an autocratic CEO. Nothing Academy Award worthy, just wonderful check-your-brains-at-the-door escapist entertainment. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Cheeky Fun","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie, it is witty and an instant classic.  Does anyone besides me see the connection to the Matrix. Dabney Coleman as agent, Lily Tomlin as Morpheus, Jane Fonda as Trinity and Dolly Parton as Neo. Breaking the bonds of slavery with a touch of S&M thrown in... "},{"Title":"THE FUNNIEST MOVIE I EVER SAW!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When people ask me to name the funniest movie I ever saw, I answer Nine to Five.  Most movies have one cleaver joke, and they build an entire feature around that one joke, which becomes of so UN-funny after about 20 minutes. But THIS movie is SO SMART!  It never hammered in on one joke, it just kept punching out new ones, one right after another.  I laughed so hard, I had to go back three more times, just to get all the jokes.  I can still watch it today and laugh, which is what a REAL comedy is suppose to do.  Take a tip hollywod, just because something is newer, doesn't make it better.  Dolly, Jane, & Lilly are COMIC QUEENS, and this movie proves it! "},{"Title":"Coleman is Genius!!!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dabney Coleman's sexist pig is the only thing worth watching in this entire film. Although he's a bigot and a liar, you love Coleman's cold-hearted character with every scene he sticks his nose into. His delivery is damn near perfect. Colin Higgins' direction is adequate. Then again, so's the script. The female leads are odd Tomlin was fine until that silly Snow White sequence. Who thought of that? Fonda is horribly miscast as an actress trying to be a comedienne. I don't buy it, Jane. Only Parton grabs comic attention because of her pleasant personality and that oh-so cute smile. Her belting out of the title song is also quite delightful. Elizabeth Wilson and Marian Mercer are also quite lovely in small roles. "}{"Title":"Simply the best movie ever!!! A definite 10!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We knew Lily Tomlin was a great comedienne, but what is unexpected was Dolly Parton's natural comic genius. After a great intro song the three ladies and the supporting cast were lovely. Dabney Coleman plays the boss to the hilt. Not many movies will ever match up to this one. A truly unique comedy that is timeless!  "},{"Title":"Still Hanging High, As One Of The Most Classy Of All Comedies!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  With as much 'strict critic' approach as you may try, this is nonetheless a hillarious movie!Winning in all aspects, with Dolly Parton, in one of the best debut performances ever given on screen, is excellent!Movie about 3 hard working office women being used and over worked by a cruel boss, in which without planned they get even with... in the most unusualest of fashions.Pumps a good theme song, charecters which hold their own, and a brilliant comedy story.Easy to like and unforgettable. Tell me again why they don't make more movies with this kind of winning humor?.... hmmmm now that's something to think about... "},{"Title":"Two quibbles","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have always loved this movie.  My favorite thing about it is the way the women become friends and band together to make their world a better place (through VERY unorthodox means).  A cavalier viewer could say the ends justified them--I'll leave that up to the conscience of the individual.  The beginning is great  the relentless and hopeless drudgery of the office is simultaneously shocking and familiar.  I found the fantasy section a bit silly and overindulgent, but as it set up the following section, it was worth including.  And the last part, where the three reform their office and make everyone happy, is well up there in a list of fulfilling endings.  I only have two little problems with the film.  I hate to undermine such a fulfilling ending, but the increased productivity obtained by their innovations would likely have been short-lived.  Not that they were wrong to make the changes  the atmosphere in the office had been unacceptable and counterproductive.  But any huge improvement in work quality is extremely difficult to sustain over time.  Employees would grow inured to the changes, with few left to make in the future.  They've shot their wad, so to speak.  The other quibble is a small one  in the pursuit of cheap laughs at the end of the film, they undermine the situation they've set up by telling us how the three women leave their jobs.  It's as if at the end of Pretty Woman a title card had told us They broke up 6 weeks later and Julia went back to prostitution.  I felt ever so slightly betrayed. "},{"Title":"Dated but still quite funny","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Three secretaries (Lily Tomlin, Dolly Parton and Jane Fonda) work for a sexist pig of a boss (Dabney Coleman). One day Tomlin accidentally poisons his coffee with rat poison...and then things go barreling out of control.I saw this back in a theatre in 1980. I thought it was hilarious and very well done. Seen now it's VERY dated (typewriters are used and Tomlin has to wait a MONTH to get invoices!) but it's still very funny. The script is well-written and well-directed by Colin Higgins (especially during the fantasy sequences). The casting is also letter perfect--Parton is terrific in her screen debut and Tomlin matches her word for word. Fonda isn't that good but her role is pretty bland anyway. Coleman is also wonderful as the sleazy boss. And the opening sequence with Dolly Parton's Academy Award-nominated title song is just great!Times have changed since this was made. Coleman's character wouldn't get away with any of the things he pulls in this movie nowadays (thankfully). And it does get more than a little silly and unrealistic at the end...but the three stars keep it on track.Worth catching--I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Nine to Five","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The title song I have obviously heard many times on the radio, on television and in films, it is probably the only one know I really know from the famous country and western singer, I was interested to see the film that the song came from, and the acting debut for the singer. Basically at Consolidated Companies, three female office workers, secretary Judy Bernly (Jane Fonda), senior office supervisor Violet Newstead (Lily Tomlin) and fellow secretary Doralee Rhodes (twice Golden Globe nominated Dolly Parton) have had enough with their boss. The company boss Franklin M. Hart Jr. (Dabney Coleman) is a sleazy, selfish, sexist, misogynist pig who takes advantage of all his female employees, and the three colleagues plan to get their revenge on him. There are a couple of instances where they may be contemplating killing him, and there is an accident where they think they do, but they settle instead with simply teaching him a lesson by trapping him in his house, making him see the error of his ways. By the end Hart has very much learnt his lesson to treat women much better, and the end credits say that Judy, Violet and Doralee went on to better careers and stuff. Also starring The Asphalt Jungle's Sterling Hayden as Russell Tinsworthy, Elizabeth Wilson as Roz Keith, Henry Jones as Mr. Hinkle, Lawrence Pressman as Dick Bernly, Marian Mercer as Missy Hart and Renn Woods as Barbara. The three female stars all do their vengeful characters as well as they can, the one that stands out for me is indeed Parton, and Coleman is a good choice to be the bastard mistreating them, I will admit it is not the funniest and most original film, it isn't such a bad comedy though. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Parton's title song (also nominated the Golden Globe). Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Fun film of Women who can Think Way Above their Pay Grade!!!","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What do these 3 films have in common?1981 - Nine to Five - the film with three super secretaries who think WAY outside the BOX and make their company and workplace better???And--- 1988 - Working Girl (and the early 1990s Shining Through)?They all are about a women (or Women) secretaries who push through to a higher level to PROVE to the men in power that they can think and work WAY above their pay grade.But don't worry about creaky preachy feminism. All three films are great fun! And all three films are somewhat underrated...(I suspect because very young girls - and many men - maybe just don't get why lots of women from the workplace - like these films).For me, I am reliving my time in the workforce as one of the pink collar workers who can work and think above her pay grade - as long as I do not expect to be paid at the higher pay grade level.If you're a boss---think out of the box here. Who are the real worker bees - the real persons who get things done in your company?(Who is really MISSED when he/she is on vacation???) I suspect you will find that a few of those indispensables might be the secretary - that clerk - that other nobody who is moving, working, thinking at a higher pay level.SMART bosses figure out who the Lily Tomlin leaders are - and reward them! "},{"Title":"9 to 5 A Woman's Lib Comedy","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nine To Five (1980) Starring Lily Tomlin, Jane Fonda, Dolly Parton, Dabney Coleman, Elizabeth Wilson, Sterling Hayden, Henry Jones, Lawrence Pressman, Marian Mercer, Ren Woods, Roxanna Bonilla-Gianini, Norma Donaldson, Peggy Pope, Richard Stahl, Ray Vitte, Edward Marshall, Earl Boen, Jeff Douglas Thomas, Alan Haufrect, Tom Tarpey, Michael Delano, David Price, Barbara Chase, Gavin Mooney, Peter Hobbs, Terence E. MacNally, Helene Heigh, Jerrold Ziman, Vicki Belmonte, Eric Mansker, Shirley Anthony, Esther Sutherland....Director Colin Higgins, Screenplay Patricia Resnick.Released in 1980, Nine To Five was a hit comedy for a number of reasons. It came at the right time. The late 60's and 70's had been a time of great improvement in the status of women in America, thanks to the ever-blooming Women's Liberation Movement, which called for equal rights and saw a new generation of women who went to college to get digress, held careers once dominated by men such as law, business, politics, medicine, you name it. Another reason was that comedies were better appreciated at this time, such as the well-made Mel Brooks comedies. Yet another reason was the star power of the lead actresses - veteran comedian Lily Tomlin, Oscar-loved Jane Fonda and country singer icon Dolly Parton. Their chemistry is absolutely remarkable and this comic film, with it's women's empowerment theme and witty script and overall zany mood would inspire films that would actually beat this film in similar themes, such as the mid-90's film The First Wive's Club. The film is named after Dolly Parton's popular song Nine To Five which plays as the film opens and ends. Jane Fonda portrays recently divorced Judy Bernly. Once a kept house-wife, she must now work for a living. She finds work as secretary in a big industrial company in a major city. Her boss is the sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot Franklin Hart (Dabney Coleman) who rules over his section of the building with an iron fist, cheats on his wife and does'nt appreciate the valuable asset that are such women as Violet (Lily Tomlin in a great performance) and Doralee (Dolly Parton). Tired of all the injustices from this sexist tyrant, the three women kidnap him, hold him hostage and threaten to blackmail him with the fraud he's been doing to the company. In the meantime, the women take over and conditions in the office improve significantly with such innovative and welcome changes as day-care, flexible hours and a feeling of being valued by the company. Mr. Hart learns a hard lesson by these three women who took matters into their own hands. Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin, Dolly Parton and Dabney Coleman are simply great together. The script is hilarious, and such scenes as the revenge fantasy sequences, the confusion with corpses at the hospital and the final portions of the film are the stuff of good comedy at the time. This was Dolly Parton's first film and she memorized everyone's lines as story has it. She would appear in several other films in the 80's in which she herself was the star (Best Little Whorehouse In Texas, Rhinestone, A Smoky Mt. Christmas) and one of the Southern gals in the popular women's film Steel Magnolias in '89. They don't make comedies like this anymore and this one is a charming one. Don't you wish you could take revenge on any boss who ever treated you this way ? This is a wonderful comic film and one that continues to delight even today. A real winner! "},{"Title":"This movie illustrates the Patriarchal Society we Live in","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie was very funny and somewhat very realistic.  Women do not tie their boss's up in the work force.  Instead, it illustrates the Pink Collar Ghetto women in the work force have to contend with. It illustrates the glass ceiling that Lilly Tomlin experienced when she trained Dabney Coleman as a manager.  Lilly Tomlin's seniority meant nothing to the good old boys instead she never received that promotion that she deserved for all those years.  I enjoyed the movie it kept me laughing for the longest. I could not see Lilly Tomlin as Snow White maybe the terminator not snow white. Jane Fonda appears real meek and mild until she gets loaded. Then, she finally becomes assertive from then on in the movie. I could not figure out for the life of me where the movie was made? Does anyone know at all?  "},{"Title":"They are woman with attitudes!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a great film!  As a Lily Tomlin fan, it was refreshing to see her in a role perfectly suited for her, because she can play so many great characters.  After seeing All of Me, which was also great, Lily was fabulous in both.  I liked Dolly Parton before 9 to 5, when I saw Steel Magnolias, but this was a great role for her.  Jane Fonda wasn't too bad either, but was so meek at the beginning.  The idea of women taking their boss hostage was timeless, since most companies are dominated by males.  The women just want a chance.  These women got theirs!! "},{"Title":"A Great Film for Its Time and Anytime","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a historical satire, 9 to 5 is in line of business all by itself. To understand the social importance of the film, you need a basic understanding of the history of the feminist movement.HISTORY OF SEXISM IN 1970S (from Wikipedia)1976 * Congresswoman Barbara Jordan of Texas, the first black woman elected to the U.S. Congress from the former Confederate States of America, is the first black and first woman to address the convention as a keynote speaker, famously declaring that what was different and special about that night was that I, Barbara Jordan, am a keynote speaker.* Redbook magazine polls about sexual harassment and finds 90% of young women view the situation as serious.* ERAmerica is launched to promote the ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment.* Supreme Court decision agrees with General Electric that the company's failure to cover pregnancy-related disability is not discriminatory.* Many professional and women's organizations decide to boycott those states that have not passed the ERA and to hold their conferences elsewhere; the pressure is on for states to ratify the amendment before the 1979 deadline.1977 * New First Lady Rosalynn Smith Carter takes an active role in government, heading policy proposals and sitting in on cabinet meetings, as more women serve in White House staff positions and in the U.S. Cabinet than ever before.* The First National Women's Conference is held in Houston, Texas. Twenty-thousand representatives, women from all states, gather to pass a far-reaching National Plan of Action.* The National Coalition Against Domestic Violence is established.* Eleanor Smeal, president of NOW, demands that homemakers should have their own Social Security accounts.* The American Civil Liberties Union asks the Rhode Island Supreme Court to allow women to use their own names, rather than that of their husbands.* The first women pilots of the United States Air Force graduate.1978 * For the first time in the history of the United States, more women than men enter college.* The Oregon v. Rideout decision leads to many states allowing prosecution for marital and cohabitation rape. 15* The Pregnancy Discrimination Act bans employment discrimination against pregnant women, stating a woman cannot be fired or denied a job or a promotion because she is or may become pregnant, nor can she be forced to take a pregnancy leave if she is willing and able to work.* ERA's deadline arrives with the ERA still three state short of ratification; Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman leads a successful bill to extend the ERA's deadline to 1982.9 to 5 - A MOVIE OF ITS TIMEWith the failure to ratify the ERA by three states, many women were extremely angry at the failure to achieve full recognition in a Constitutional Amendment. 9 TO 5 captures in social satire the anger of women at disparate treatment for hundreds of years as the time for the ERA bill was winding down on an extension to ratify it into the US Constitution.From sexual harassment of Dolly Parton's character by Dabney Coleman's character to taking credit for Lily Tomlin's file color coding and her passing up of a promotion, demonstrate the equity in a profoundly male managed workforce. Another sign of the times was working men cheating on their housewives with their secretaries, like what happened to Jane Fonda's characters.Dabney Coleman's character stating that he would not be out smarted by a bunch of dumb broads was a common sentiment among sexists that prevented women from advancing.Utilizing comedy to discuss these issues brought them to life in a film that endures.GREAT STORY & SCREENPLAYThe screenplay crackles with wit and slap stick gags. The rigging system built to detain Dabney Coleman's Hart character is a hilarious bondage Tour De Force. The coffee sweetener named Sweet & Slim (a metaphor for what women are expected to be in a sexist society ) and its counterpart rat poison are an example of witty gags that overflow from each reel of film. Other examples are scenes where Hart is trapped at home watching soap operas like housewives.One of the most satisfying portions of the film are the pot induced fantasies involving revenge against Hart. The physical comedy during these scenes are top notch, including Jane Fonda's Judy character shooting at Hart like a carnival game, Dolly Parton's Doralee character roping Hart like he was cattle, and Lily Tomlin's masterful dark portrayal as a Snow White like women, surrounded by animated forest animals, playing the role of poisoning Hart.The world has turned upside down in 9 To 5 by the end of the film. Due to the three lead women's progressive ideas, including daycare, job sharing, personalizing the office, and implementing other progressive work programs that increase productivity 20% in just six weeks.CONCLUSIONAlong with great performances, a hip hit song, and all of the social messages to boot, 9 To 5 is a cinematic triumph, and what more films should aspire to. "}{"Title":"The theme song is more memorable and legendary than the movie itself.","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a fairly amusing comedy that has some good strong female characters in it and also makes a good social statement. However as a comedy it falls flat at times, since it heavily relies on just the three main characters, played by Lily Tomlin, Dolly Parton and Jane Fonda.The movie begins good and sort of satirical, about the male domination at the office. The boss of the office floor is portrayed as a 'sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot'. It's of course overdone but the movie makes a good statement. Therefor the movie works well as a social satire about the male supremacy- and the office work in general. The women are portrayed as strong individual personalities. However as the movie progresses the story becomes more and more silly and unlikely. The movie therefor then looses some of its power.The three main characters are good and strong, mainly because they are being played by excellent actresses, that seem to know how to handle the comedy genre. The movie however very much relies on this three main characters with as a result that the movie looses its focus on the story at times. The story at times becomes muddled in and the filmmakers seemed to prefer to show the three women their antics instead. Some of the moments are funny but at the same time also far fetched, which makes this movie a rather simple comedy. Sure, it's good fun to watch but it also makes this movie quite a forgettable one. It's just not a movie that I want to re-watch again, any time soon.Even though this is an 1980 movie, it still has a typical '70's feeling all over it, which means that it's also quite outdated to watch this days. Even though the male supremacy in the business life is still a relevant and much alive subject of course, even now, more than 25 years later.Amusing relevant comedy but it doesn't leave a lasting impression, due to its flawed focus and storytelling.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Mediocre Film","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated PG for Language and Drug Use.I saw Nine to Five yesterday on Movie Pix.It wasn't a bad film and it wasn't a great film.It was an okay film you could watch on TV.I wouldn't recommend renting or buying the film.It was an average mediocre film.There were some small laughs but not overly hilarious.The plot was sort of interesting.The film is about three stressed female workers and their evil boss.One day one of the workers accidentally pour rat poison in her bosses coffee.Scared that she will go to prison she and the other two workers kidnaps her bosses body but its the wrong body.The boss turns out not to be dead and comes to work.However one of the workers overhear them talking about the incident and tell the boss about it.Fearing the boss will call the cops on them they kidnap him and make him stay in their room.While he is gone they turn the work place around.Nine To Five is a mediocre film and if it comes on TV its worth a look.Runtime110min 7/10 "},{"Title":"This is NOT a PG movie","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I give this a One-star rating because it's rated PG and absolutely should not be. I was 20 when this movie first came out and I enjoyed it as much as anyone. Twenty-five years later, there wasn't much I remembered about it except that I had thought it was funny and there was something about Lily Tomlin as a sadistic Snow White. So, since it was rated PG and it was in the bargain bin at the local video store, I bought it to watch with the kids(Ironically, ages 9 and 5). Let me first say, that I am no prude. But when it comes to my kids, I really don't want them exposed to certain things until they're ready. In this movie we have the 's' word numerous times. At one point Dabney Coleman tosses it around three times in under a minute. There is also heavy usage of some of the lesser swears, to the point where I was cringing every time another one came out. So, I paused it and packed the five year old off to bed, and resumed watching with my 9yo, with my hand firmly on the fast forward button. But still,I wasn't fast enough on the draw. There were references to sex games and S&M, or as Fonda puts it M&M's. Funny, but not with the kids asking what it means. And finally, the scene I took most offense at being passed of as PG involved the three women sitting around sparking up a joint and having a fantastic time! What a fabulous message. Even worse, the joint was a gift from Tomlin's teenage son. So, watch the movie. It's got some funny stuff, but it sure as shinola is NOT a PG movie, so keep it away from the kiddies. "},{"Title":"Jane Fonda is a traitor!","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really love this film. It came out 23 years ago and watching it today its amazing how it ever got made in this age of political correctness! Dabney Coleman is wonderful as the slimy Mister Hart and its no wonder his employees hated him so much. Dolly Parton is a wonderful singer who is one of our true country and western legends and she proves in this film that she is a fine actress as well as Doralee. The best part of the film is the one where they are smoking pot and dream up of ways to do away with their evil boss! Today in this age of PC smoking marijuana may infuriate some people, but just relax and have a good time. There is only one problem that I have with Nine to Five, I wish they had cast someone else besides Jane Fonda in one of the roles. I want to put out something right here and now that I hope every right-thinking American will read Jane Fonda is an American traitor who deserved the firing squad for what she did during the Vietnam War. Our true American heroes are the men who were Prisoners of War in that war, some living in hell for seven or eight years enduring torture and the worst treatment that you can possibly imagine. Jane Fonda took a trip to Vietnam and gave aid and comfort to the enemy in 1972, she actually posed in a VC uniform! When our POWs came home in 1973, Jane Fonda said that they were hypocrites and liars and not heroes! This woman is a coward and a traitor to our nation. How dare she speak that way about our precious heroes who did what she didn't have the guts to do. Jane Fonda is a coward. I'll give you an example. Admiral Jeremiah Denton was a POW for 7 and 1/2 years (there is a movie about his life called When Hell Was In Session). He and Jane Fonda were supposed to be speakers at a college graduation. Before the ceremony, Denton said that Jane Fonda says I am a liar, I want her to meet me in public, I want to show her my scars from where I was horribly tortured. Denton showed up at the ceremony, Jane Fonda didn't. This woman makes me sick! "}]