[{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"128 out of 143 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are great films (Citizen Kane, eg), and there are big films, like ET or Star Wars.  Then there are absolute crap films (eg, WAY too-many to list!).  I propose another legitimate category Guilty Pleasure Films. These are movies that one can see over and over, through countless repetitions on cable and broadcast channels, and enjoy the experience every time.For example, I have probably seen Brighton Beach Memoirs 40 times.  I loved it during its first run, and I've loved it each of the 39 times I've seen it on the small screen.  No, it's not a great movie, but it's one that brings me pleasure when I watch it.  Same with (blush) Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure the movie's stupid, but it just always entertains me!Similarly, nobody is going to compare The Final Countdown to 2001 A Space Odyssey as far as absolute quality, but The Final Countdown is a classic example of an unabashed guilty pleasure movie.The story is intriguing--what would YOU do if you were commanding a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier full of supersonic jets, etc, when you were transferred through a time-warp (ref a CHEESY looking laser and smoke effect storm!) to December 6, 1941?? Would you alter history, just to win a battle against those attacking Pearl Harbor? Or would you hold back because you'd change history if you did anything?Interesting point! Kirk Douglas, as the ship's captain, looks like he's having a ball acting in this, and Martin Sheen does a great job as the civilian consultant, Mr. Laskey.No, this movie isn't an Oscar-winner, nor did it really deserve to be.  But I'll put it this way.  A local independant station showed The Final Countdown tonight at the same time TNN was showing The Godfather 2 uncut.I spent maybe five minutes on the Oscar-winning Godfather 2.  Yes, it is an empirically great film, but I've seen it once before.  But with American fighter jets dogfighting 1941 Japanese Zeros, I was FAR more entertained watching The Final Countdown for the 10th time! "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"73 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a highly entertaining sleeper about a naval ship that happens to go through a time warp and end up at Pearl Harbor just hours before the attack in 1941. Realistic acting, special effects and air scenes really make this movie stand out from other similar movies. I'm really surprised that this film is not more popular, because this was a very unique and fascinating concept for a movie, especially back in 1980. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a good science-fiction film. I'm also surprised that it has such a low rating, I was expecting it to be rated at least a 7. Ill give it an 8 out of 10. Well worth viewing. "},{"Title":"All-timer great movie, fantastic flying, top acting, themes for men & women","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"74 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is one of the great ones. Having served on an aircraft carrier for 2.5 years, I'm familiar with aircraft carrier excitement. But the movie was more than just wonderful shots of the U.S. Nimitz. The cast was top drawer, and their acting was as good as it gets. Standing above all the great performances was a Japanese actor portraying a shot-down, highly competent, captured Japanese Zero pilot. While racism understandably raises its ugly head during wartime, with epithets and insults hurled in both directions, in fact this Japanese actor portrayed a Japanese warrior at his finest--someone whom Japanese viewers would be proud of. Played equally well were American military personnel, including some Marines. One of the candid themes of the movie is the tragedy of such fine people going to war against each other, whatever their race.The film is undeniably top drawer, far more mature than than Top Gun, with even better flying scenes. So I've often wondered why it isn't widely known and not kept in stock in widescreen format. Perhaps the answer is today's wimpy trend towards politically correct dialog. In one scene, Kirk Douglas refers to the captured Japanese pilot as a yellow bastard. In the video version, this was sanitized. However, sanitized or not, the original racial comment, by itself, may have doomed the film from greater video distribution.I saw the film when it came out in wide-screen format and saw it several times before it left town. Thereafter, the only other versions available in video were fit-to-TV-screen size. That was tragic! Though still exciting in box format, the widescreen original was breathtaking. I cannot imagine why producers haven't released this in DVD in original wide-screen format. It makes a huge difference with this film! (Aircraft carriers are huge!)One interesting comment to add about the F-14 flying scenes. I was awed by one particular F-14 maneuver, which I didn't think airplanes were capable of doing. A couple of years later, I talked with a Navy fighter pilot and brought this up. He was very familiar with that scene and personally knew the pilot who flew the F-14 in the movie. He told me that the F-14 almost crashed in that scene, stalling while trying to fly too slow, diving for the ocean to pick up speed, and barely recovering just above the wave tops. This near-accident was caught on film and added immensely to the exhibition of flying skill. An exception had been granted to the Navy's policy of not allowing dissimilar aircraft to fly together in movie scenes. The result of that granted exception was almost the loss of an F-14.This is an incredibly good drama. I found that the various twists and turns, and particularly the call-it-off ending, all contributed to the drama and moral dilemmas. This is a fine, great movie. Like others who commented here, it seems tragic that this film is not available in widescreen DVD format. Everyone I've shown it to loves it, male and female. Feminism and romance are included, along with a collie dog for the kids. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy war drama","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"58 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie. Every time I hit it channel-surfing I think I'll watch it for just a minute and I end up watching the whole damn thing. Some of the best movies take one or two freak things and then play them out absolutely straight (e.g., Big, Back to the Future, Groundhog Day). Modern aircraft carrier encounters bizarre storm and finds itself between the Japanese fleet and Pearl Harbor a day before the infamous attack. What to do, what to do... What happens (which isn't actually much) takes a back seat to 1) an Oscar-caliber performance by Kirk Douglas as ship captain, and also fine performances by Sheen, Durning and others; and 2) the wonder of tactical operations on a modern carrier. For war buffs just the idea of the U.S.S. Nimitz prowling near the Jap fleet with Douglas at the helm is enough. Enchanting musical score and satisfying wrap. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Saw it during my Carrier days...","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"58 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this in the theater when it first came out. I was stationed onboard the USS Enterprise (CVN-65) while it was being overhauled at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard in Bremerton, Wa. I loved every minute of this film.I know that this will sound trite and maudlin, but I remember going up on the flightdeck one morning after working the night shift, shortly after I saw this film. The USS Bonhomme Richard was at the pier near us- painted with zinc, all closed up, its gunmounts covered, doorways sealed-up, bridge windows shuttered, its flightdeck silent save for the screeching of seagulls. Looking at that old wooden-decked warhorse through the rain and mist, I felt a new appreciation for it and the other vessels in mothballs.I felt as if I were looking through time itself.  "},{"Title":"When the Propmaster is the Chief of Naval Operations","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Making a military movie without official cooperation can be difficult.  If the story doesn't require major air or naval assets, a script disapproved of by the top brass can be convincingly brought to the screen.  Two examples - both true stories that the Pentagon didn't want to support - are Men of Honor reflecting the epidemic racism of the not-that-long-ago Navy and Sgt. Bilko, a film portraying what some noncoms do to earn extra income (trust me, it's a true story a real Sgt. Bilko worked (officially but not actually) for me when I was an Army officer.But when you need lots of planes and ships, you gotta have official help. And few movies have gotten more assistance than the producer, director and cast of The Final Countdown, now available on DVD,a sci-fi recruiting spectacular that features - on loan at taxpayer expense - the huge carrier U.S.S. Nimitz complete with crew.  Now that's cooperation!Kirk Douglas skippers the supercarrier which is on Pacific Fleet maneuvers. On board as some sort of efficiency consultant is a young Martin Sheen, not yet ready for the West Wing.  A mysterious and never explained weather phenomenon grips the mighty floating air base and to the unfolding amazement of captain, officers and crew dawns the realization that the Nimitz in sailing not that far from Pearl Harbor on 6 December 1941.Meanwhile a U.S. senator, played by one of Hollywood's deservedly decorated war heroes, Charles Durning, is enjoying his yacht, also near Pearl, while dictating to his lovely secretary, Katharine Ross.  A brace of Japanese Zeroes sink the yacht, killing two passengers which then prompts the carrier C.O. to order trailing F-14 Tomcats to splash the enemy.  Durning and Ross are rescued.  Without a word, this talented actor's face does a comical double-take when introduced to the ship's executive officer who just happens to be black (in 1941 a black navy man could only serve as a steward in the officers mess.  That was it.  Period.)The dilemma facing Douglas, of course, is a classic time-travel conundrum. To interfere with the course of history (the carrier's air wing can make instant teriyaki of the six Japanese carriers) or to let events take their known and disastrous course.A chaste incipient romance between the nearly drowned damsel and the carrier's Commander Air Group competes with the white knuckle decision-making struggle of the C.O.So much for the plot.  What is on offer here is a demonstration of every aircraft type, fixed-wing and rotary, deployed on the vessel as well as demonstrations of shipboard activities ranging from retrieving a damaged jet to going to General Quarters to...you name it.  The technical advisers knew they had a film crew pliant to every suggestion.  The result is a genuinely exciting show- a great warship going through its paces.  And, unlike Tora Tora Tora it doesn't appear that any genuine sailors were harmed in the making of the movie.There's one big problem.  A science fiction story is usually utterly improbable, indeed impossible, but its internal logic is vital it must be consistent.  Spielberg understands that very well.  Watch the first couple of minutes when Sheen is greeted by his employer's lackey and the last minutes when he debarks from the Nimitz.  Something is very, very off-kilter. Could the CEO of a great military-industrial conglomerate have used top secret technology to send the carrier back to 1941 for...So what.  This is a beautifully filmed adventure story, not a great film. The cast probably relished taking over the carrier for a while and the real captain, never shown, surely wished that the Navy hadn't banned hard spirits from our ships in World War I.  But all emerge unscathed in a genuinely entertaining romp through time.8/10 "},{"Title":"I like it even more 18 years later","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was right out of high school, and I wasn't surprised to see the lobby-card poster hanging in a Navy recruiter's office a few months later when I dropped by.  And that's entirely appropriate; the film is, among other things, a love letter to the modern Navy.  I mean that as high praise  Where lots of military movies (and plenty of recruiting commercials) overdo the martial aspects of their characters with a gung-ho Sergeant Rock style, the byplay in this movie provided glimpses of the the Navy (and the Marine Corps too, God bless 'em), honestly and simply, as people taking pride in a demanding, sacrificial profession. To this day I wonder which, if any, sailors and Marines I saw were actual service people. If any were, Don Taylor and his second-unit directorial crew got excellent small performances from them. Here's an example  In a brief scene that probably barely survived the final cut, there's interaction among some sailors  Christ, Chief, all we wanna know is what's going on, asserts one mildly exasperated rating. If you need to know, you'll be told, replies the Chief Master-at-Arms curtly.  The people who spoke this dialogue definitely weren't Screen Actors Guild types; they looked and sounded pretty much like sailors I've known.  And that's a little detail that's done right so seldom that I hardly notice anymore that I'm deliberately overlooking it.The aerial sequences set a standard that wouldn't be touched until /Top Gun/ hit the screen.  To be sure, both movies relied to some extent on stock footage of naval-aviation ops, but as with /Top Gun/, this film's flying was spectacular -- and, in the last of the years before CGI took hold, REAL.  (Compare this film's or /Top Gun/'s exteriors of aircraft with, say, /Air Force One/, and you'll see what I mean.The name-actor ensemble of Kirk Douglas et al. performed, perhaps not brilliantly, but serviceably in a film that certainly was more plot-driven than character-focused.  The story -- revealed by plenty of other comments here -- though implausible, is still capable of holding one's interest.  But after you catch this flick on the tube for the second or third time, pay attention to the enlisted pukes doing their jobs -- to me, they're the real stars.If it's on the shelf, rent it.  If it's on TV again, watch it.  At the least, it's an entertaining story.  At its best, it's a good study in style and pacing. "},{"Title":"A armed nuke warship transcends time and space to go along with historical events or be their salvation!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE FINAL COUNTDOWN at times presents a doctoral thesis of sorts on the perils of time and space and alterations with events supposedly set in stone. Armed with a all star cast, COUNTDOWN gives audiences a family tale of time and space and adventure. The film fails to give the audience what it is promised in trailers and posters, a conflict between a lone united states nuclear carrier and the entire japanese pearl harbor attack force. Yet, this is a fine picture with some fine acting moments unusual to this genre. During the film the carrier swept to DEC. 6, 1941 takes a evasive stance while the crew and commander try to decide whether to alter history..yet, if they alter history will their ship even be made? Will they die once the paradox begins? Will the abortive theme FROM HERE TO ETERNITY love story work out? These questions and more are answered in a award winning PG film from the director of ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES, the star of SPARTACUS, a effects team behind the 007 opening montages and the producer of THE TOXIC AVENGER. The film may suprise you. Recommended for fans of THE PHILADELPHIA EXPERIMENT and THE TIME MACHINE. Limited distribution, and poor advertising hindered this film which found a audience on tv and on video.  "},{"Title":"Having served on the Nimitz....","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film before I joined the Navy and again before I served on Nimitz (CVN 68). Kind of a nice feather in my cap experiencing the world's largest 'time machine' in person! On to the movie... A very interesting premise which should have merited a more detailed analysis! Executed well enough for 1980, but could be remade into one hell of a motion picture today! I'd love to see it. One thing the story does well is get one thinking about the 'what-if' scenario having the most modern carrier in the today's fleet taking on the Japanese Navy almost 40 years prior... Hmm. What a mismatch that would be in much the same way that **** SPOILER ALERT **** Combat Air Patrol (CAP) Tomcats rendered the 'Zeroes ' splashed handily! But, the very nature of Paradoxes would have rendered intervention potentially destructive to Nimitz and all aboard! (Which would have made profound changes to MY naval career as well.) And that was the dilemma faced; Do we change history because we feel a conscious duty to tilt the war in our favor (At least in the short term.)? Or do we choose to let nature take its course knowing full well the outcome if nothing is done? 4 more years of war and millions of lives? Or win a decisive victory and save all of the agony yet to come at the possible expense of destroying the fabric of space/time... or at the very least causing the U.S. and the Allies to lose in the long run because the U.S. would have delayed entering the war? Thorny, eh? As it turns out, history in this film was changed in a minor way but then again... was it? Possible predestination paradox, meaning events were supposed to happen the way they did. ***SPOILER ALERT*** If the Nimitz had stayed to fight, logistically it would have been possible... for a short time. Without access to spare parts, jet fuel and other means of support, the ship would have been nearly useless. True, this vessel class can steam for over 20 years on a fresh set of plutonium rods, but jets can't fly without fuel or spare parts! And just imagine trying to provision that ship with its crew of 5000 plus with 1940's technology! This ignores what the U.S. Government would have done once they got their hands on Nimitz and her technology back then! The debriefing would never end for those people! And imagine the changes to history then! (Could be a whole other movie!) All in all, I think it was a great piece of science fiction and a very enjoyable 'what if'... I recommend anyone see it who can! It has its flaws and is dated but the concept is still very valid. The movie's big strength is not so much what is said, but what is not. The important stuff is left to the viewer's imagination, and this is what makes it very entertaining and provocative! This is the movie that made the USS Nimitz a household word and I am very proud to have served on a piece of science fiction history (no pun intended)! The ship is very distinguished and far more impressive 'in the steel' than she is on film. I give this film a 7.9/10. Mostly for the powerful premise. "},{"Title":"Well Done!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A man takes a strange trip with an aircraft carrier and lives an amazing nightmare with a bizarre twist.  Time travel, moral sensibilities and harmful consequences are explored when the crew is confronted with a chance to change history.  Trying to control the political impact of altering history, the captain makes a painful decision that ultimately leads to a happy ending.  This one has sadness, irony and moments where ones wants to say, how stupid can they get?  Overall, just a great Sci-Fi Thriller that will leave an impression. "}{"Title":"A classic science fiction time travel paradox flick.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a really great fun film that deals with some of the aspects of time travel into the past. If one does anything to alter the past while there, what will be the effects on the future you knew? No hint of an explanation is give as to what could have caused the, I guess you could call it, 'time storm.' But the film does have has some very interesting twists and a cool ending. Not only that, but the flight sequences of the F-15s and the dogfights between them and Mitsubishi Zeros are just plain fun (from a modern day American perspective). Someone said that they are the best shots of an F-15 in action prior to Top Gun. Ever since I was a youngster, I wondered what would happen if you could transport a battleship or aircraft carrier back to say, the Revolutionary War era. Final Countdown comes about as close to playing with that idea as I expect to see.  "},{"Title":"the final letdown","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a few problems with 'The Final Countdown,' the main one being that it's too real. Let me explain. The film was shot almost entirely on the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Nimitz with the Navy's full cooperation. Now one might think that was quite a coup for the filmmakers, but on viewing the finished product, it seems very constrictive. Sure, there is plenty of footage of navy jets taking off and landing that's fun to watch, in and of itself. But too often such footage seems to be at the expense of the movie itself, and its plot, and having anything really interesting happen. For instance, early on, one of the jets returning to the carrier reports trouble with its landing hook, which is supposed to grab a tether when it lands on deck. So the order is given to raise the emergency barrier to prevent the plane from going off the other end of the deck into the ocean. This is done and the jet lands safely. That's it. It has nothing to do with any part of the plot. In fact, it's like watching a training film for navy recruits. Far too much of 'The Final Countdown' IS like watching a navy training film, unfortunately. The actors and the film's story seem like intruders aboard the Nimitz. Many scenes are unambitiously cut short. The reality of the ship sinks the believability of the story. We never for one minute believe Kirk Douglas is really the captain of the Nimitz. It's obvious too, that many of the ship's crew were used as extras. Here the problem is just the opposite. They have zero screen presence. One of the reasons you hire professional actors for movies is they ARE professionals and have spent a great deal of time learning their skills at projecting a character and speaking lines of dialogue effectively. Whoever it is that says, Captain on bridge, and Captain off bridge about thirty times has obviously never acted in his life. A shame too, since the story idea is a good one, albeit one straight out of Time Travel 101. What if a modern day aircraft carrier was somehow transported back in time to the day before the Pearl Harbor attack? Even though it's not a terribly original premise, there are so many ways one can have fun with the idea, so many possibilities. But all 'The Final Countdown' can do is nibble around the edges. The requisite questions are asked What if I meet my own grandfather and he dies? Or, what if someone who was meant to die, survives? What if the captain warns Washington? What if the Nimitz attacks and defeats the Japanese fleet? Unfortunately, again, the questions as phrased above are about as far as 'The Final Countdown' gets in playing with any of the tantalizing might-have-beens. One begins wishing for even a long, drawn-out conversation between two of the characters about those various possibilities. But the screenwriters cannot so much as bring themselves to do that, and such scenes are cut short as well. The brutal truth is that nothing much of anything happens in this movie and at the end, one is left with a huge 'so what?' kind of feeling. 'The Final Countdown' should have been titled 'The Final Letdown.' "},{"Title":"Was their trip really worth it?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" An aircraft carrier, (in an unconvincingly contrived way), goes back in time to the day just before the Pearl Harbour attack and does.... Er very little really? Other than a few people getting killed, (most of who nobody seems overly bothered about), one man from the future being left behind and a dog getting sent forward in time absolutely nothing of any consequence happens here at all.Now a film, (or more usefully), a series, where the ship doesn't go home but instead stops the attack and then deals with a crew that has to come to terms with living in a past where their irrevocably rewriting history... now that would be worth watching.Imagine the issues to deal with...How would the Roosevelt Government come to terms with this new found asset on their doorstep.What issues would it's Nuclear Arsenal have on both ending the war and effecting the balance of power afterwards.What interaction would 1000 navy servicemen with a knowledge of a possible future have on the world their parents/grandparents are growing up in.Altogether a far more interesting premise than the rather pointless one the film finally opts for. "},{"Title":"One of my old favorites!","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie deals with time-travel on a large scale... And like most sci-fi films, it is easy to pick their theories apart (especially after almost 25 years). I think that many of us have a tendency to over-analyze these types of movies, when, in fact, we should just sit back and enjoy the experience. I first saw this movie at a drive-in (remember those?!?!), and during one scene in particular, the entire crowd actually cheered. This is not a reaction I'd expect from a large crowd during a bad movie. If you like sci-fi, aircraft, and time-travel movies, then ignore the nay-sayers and watch this movie! It's one of my all-time favorites.  "},{"Title":"Sleek f-14s in hot fetish fun!","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie a few times in the theater in 1980, when I was 12, and at the time it was pretty much utterly awesome. However, as we are forced to face again and again, what is awesome when one is 12 is not the same as what is awesome when one is over 30.This movie forces us to look inside ourselves and ask What would happen if a state-of-the-art (for 1980) aircraft carrier were transported back in time to the eve of Pearl Harbor? Then there are all the regular questions about the Prime Directive, the ethics of using advance knowledge and advanced technology, blah blah blah. The situation is the hook of the movie, a pretty good one. Unfortunately, it's also the only thing the movie has to offer.After some exposition that gets top military whiner Martin Sheen on the boat, and some unrelated techo-fetishism about the way those sweet F-14s land, a mysterious storm that looks a lot like a laser and a fog machine appears in the sky and causes the sailors to hold their heads. When it goes away, they are in 1941 (the year, not the movie), and they have to grapple with many philosophical questions about whether they should whup the Japs' asses but good.A good 35% of the movie is just flat-out recruiting-film military techno fetishism. It's kind of cool for a while, as you watch planes swoosh and dive, and it reminds you of the days when the prospect of going into the military meant you were going to fly cool planes and do cool things instead of simply being sent to a desert to be killed. But it gets tiresome after awhile, though it does remain quite visible, so you can fast-forward without fear of missing anything.There's a small bit of derisive laughter as the crew (during the LONG period in which they are coming to accept that they have traveled back in time) compare a photo that was apparently taken an hour ago by one of their planes to a photo that was taken 40 years previously by another plane. The cast bravely pretends not to notice that they are THE EXACT SAME PHOTO. Amazing coincidence! There's another movie right there.The performances fit the material. Kirk Douglas is actually quite charming as the captain. He projects authority, yet is warm and approachable, and isn't afraid to say he doesn't know what's going on. Martin Sheen appears to be on hand simply to deliver speeches about how very morally complex it all is. Former Superfly Ron O'Neal is around as eye candy for me. Katherine Ross is in full do I have to do anything except stand around and be dewy? mode, but she will always get props from me for ensnaring gravelly man-hunk Sam Elliott in her wicked web.This movie is a bit like those alternative history novels, which are usually about what if the South won the Civil War, which translates as;what if we'd kept the blacks in their place. This one, I think, is about redressing the perceived imbalance that occurred when the US was caught unawares. But how could we be caught unawares&#133; we're the United States! I think the enjoyment of this movie for some people is in floating the fantasy that we could show them Japs once and for all.This movie is also notable as a likely influence on 80s rock group Europe's cheesy hit of the same title.SPOILERS>>> The end of this movie cops out by having the mysterious storm appear at the PRECISE moment that the US is just about to attack the Japanese fleet. The aircraft carrier is transported back to the same time it left, everyone shrugs and goes Huh, and they go about their average workday. It makes the movie somewhat unsatisfying at the end, but you know&#133; not any more unsatisfying than it was up until that point.--- Hey, check out Cinema de Merde, my website devoted to bad and cheesy movies. You can get the url from my email address above... "},{"Title":"Great Film, would love to see even several times!","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film way back in college with my close classmates & friends in the aeronautical engineering field. Mind you that most of us love airplanes and during that time where plastic modellers. The excitement of watching this movie prove to be awesome for most of us during that time. We watch it again twice in a span of three weeks that it was shown in the theaters. In the later years, I saw it again in Laser Disc format and it still amaze me that time that I rented that title almost 10 times. The scenes of the carrier operations was the most fascinating scenes that I repeat viewing that specific part several times. As I discover in your web that it has been released this year in DVD format, I'll be waiting for it in the store to come out here in the Philippines. It is still one great movie that I will never forget. Remember Pearl Harbor as we remember Bataan and Corregidor, as brave Americans and Filipinos fought bravely in World War II. "},{"Title":"Perhaps most realistic carrier film","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is overall excellent. Good candid image of carrier life at the time. Much footage shot onboard. On the other hand, many details are wrong, most obvious is the wrong base on the wrong side of the U.S. The time travel paradox WRT Tideman is pretty interesting. I disagree with an earlier reviewer WRT this. Quantum theory allows for Tideman to exist in two states at one time since he is not observed at the beginning. The image of carrier life is especially good. I had several close friends who were officers on the Nimitz at the time it was filmed. Much better than most Hollywood movies such as Top Gun. An interesting aside is that several Navy people got fried because of this film. This was before the Top Gun mentality, and Navy Brass were not too thrilled about the level of access given for this film. It was claimed that mid level officers gave approval for use of the Nimitz for this film without proper authority. This was before the Navy woke up to the recruiting potential of such films, so use of the Nimitz was regarded as fraud, waste and abuse. Acting is tacky in many cases...the ship and the aviators are the stars. Most of the effects were shot using real aircraft, again a controversial issue at the time. One of my best friends was a pilot in the Black Panther A-6 squadron shown. It really makes one think how average people would react if thrust into a similar situation. In short, there will likely never be a movie like this made again. It's kind of analogous to Frankenheimer's Grand Prix where the filmers were permitted to enter their own cars into the races. The staggering expense of producing such films makes them rare. It's too bad that some people suffered professional punishment for making Navy resources available to make this film when the Navy rewarded people involved in Top Gun, in many ways a much less realistic film. "},{"Title":"An interesting yet ridiculous movie","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Starts off as an interesting sci-fi concept to contemplate but then quickly turns it into an insult to any intelligent person.First off it's okay to interfere with history by saving a couple of people on a yacht but it's not okay to save over a thousand lives at Pearl Harbor ??The character of the carrier's Captain ( Kirk Douglas )was almost mind numbing. Even after the time travel happened, he just walks around most of the time smiling. The storyline seemed to have wanted to present us a real modern moral dilemma but instead gave us some silly 1980's made for TV drama. The scene where they put an dangerous POW to interrogate right next to a civilian and the Americans they did rescue, was one of the dumbest movie scenes ever. Talk about a lack of any common sense. LOL "},{"Title":"A cerebral sci-fi fantasy film that doesn't quite deliver.","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Countdown starts the USS Nimitz aircraft carrier as she departs from pearl Harbour in 1980, Captain Matthew Yelland (Kirk Douglas) is in charge of a training exercise but the Nimitz sails through a strange storm which transport the carrier & everyone on board back to December 15th. The Captain & crew quickly realise this fact & also realise the significance of the date as the 15th December was the eve of the Pearl Harbour attack by the Japanese during World War II, Captain Yelland must decide whether to intervene & defeat the Japanese & risk changing all of recorded history or whether to stand by & do nothing...Directed by Don Taylor this is an interesting sci-fi fantasy drama that is hard to categorise & while the potential was here for something special I personally think The Final Countdown falls somewhat short. Credited with four screenwriters time travel had rarely been tackled in an intelligent or thought provoking way before in cinema, the majority of films to feature the concept of time travel merely used either the past or future to set some sort of adventure in & I suspect it was the makers intention to add a little thought to the idea. At 100 odd minutes The Final Countdown starts off briskly enough & the Nimitz & crew are stuck in 1941 fairly quickly & then the debate begins & the real point of the film is made, basically what if we could change history? Should we & what would the consequences be? The whole time paradox issue is brought up & things are discussed & debated & both sides of the argument are represented by old fashioned Commander Owens who believes things are what they are & cocky young office boy Lasky who sees immense possibilities in righting past mistakes, both men have their stand point & opinions & luckily the film never becomes too bogged down with hypothetical chit chat although that's not to say there isn't any because there is. The film moves along at a reasonable pace, while not exactly fast it maintains one interest through a strong story & some decent if restrained action. Now, the major talking point is the climax, the cop-out climax where no-one is forced to make any kind of decision which after investing an hour & forty minutes in it feels a little bit of a let down. The character's are quite well balanced with opinions & views, surprisingly not every naval officer wants to go to war & the dialogue is pretty good too.The one aspect that really adds to The Final Countdown was that it was actually shot on the USS Nimitz which gives it amazing authenticity, the real crew were used in shots & the makers were allowed to film training exercises & the like. This really looks authentic because basically it is. Apparently footage from the Pearl Harbour war film Tora! Tora! Tora! (1970) was edited into The Final Countdown presumably to cut costs or to represent scenes they were unable to film. The special effects are pretty poor, the storm effects in particular look very dated. The aircraft flying scenes however look good & were probably mostly real except for a few model shots.Filmed in the Atlantic Ocean on the real USS Nimitz, Virginia & Florida the film looks good with the actual Nimitz location invaluable, I doubt set makers could have done anywhere near as convincing a job. The cult song The Final Countdown by Eruope is not featured anywhere, bummer. There's a good cast on show including Kirk Douglas, James Farentino, Katharine Ross, Charles Durning & Martin Sheen who in this really looks almost exactly like the way his son Charlie would during his mid to late 80's films.The Final Countdown is a sci-fi fantasy drama that tried to experiment with the time travel concept & was one of the first to explore the consequences & decisions surrounding it but a seriously none event of a climax & a slightly slow pace may leave some frustrated, an interesting & watchable curiosity but not a must see. "},{"Title":"Great movie, one of my all time--time travel movies","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have enjoyed this movie ever since I first saw it in 1980. Just wish the laser disc or the video where still available. Also if you can find the paperback the last two chapters will clear things up for you or will confuse you even more.Check it out. If someone has any knowledge of where to obtain a laser disc or vhs video PLEASE post the place on the message board. "}{"Title":"Wonderful movie!!  Just wish I could purchase the video.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie is very believable and the cast does a fantastic job.  It is a wonderful blend of sci-fi and reality.  This is a must film for anyone that enjoys history as well as possible future ventures through space! "},{"Title":"To watch, or be apart of history.","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The title of the movie might be that of a super-cheesy song, with that highly catchy chorus by the band Europe in the 80s. Forget it because this came first, nor does it submit to cheese/silliness in what could've been a nonsensical premise. Gladly it doesn't, however for a fantasy / Sci-fi film that's impressively ambitious, and grand in scope. Talk about a cop-out for an ending! Or was it? The novelty of the concept flourishes with intelligence and vision, but it felt like something you would find in an episode of The Twilight Zone. Maybe it would've been better suited so. The story begins with a freak storm transporting a modern American nuclear-powered aircraft carrier back to 1941, just before the Japanese fleet bombed Pearl Harbour. Now the question is should they get involved, and fear changing the face of history. Tough call. Too bad the film doesn't really take up that challenging stance with much aplomb, and somewhat takes an easy way out. On an ethical note, the question raised is do we really have the right to change what has already happened. The paradox brings up many interesting possibilities, and drums up unimaginable suspense. It's an anxious waiting game for the decision, and that's what its all about. After deciding, it suddenly changes and leaves you hanging there with what could've been. The final note to me, made it all the forgettable. The material might not have been wholly satisfying, but technically it mainly came off with dazzling results. What was spectacularly done was the work they managed to get while filming on the actual U.S.S Nimitz. It feels, and looks authentic&#133; because it is. They filmed at sea on the boat, at certain intervals. The background features at times seemed to be more interesting, than the actual story. Watching the crew going through their manoeuvres was magnetically displayed. Also the aircraft scenes were remarkably done, and excitingly high powered. The special effects are dated, but managed to be atmospherically eerie and moodily colourful. Figure heads Kirk Douglas (in a durably solid turn), Martin Sheen and at a lesser extent Charles Dunning give the film some stalwart class. Also showing up in the profound cast were Katherine Ross, James Farentino and Ron O'Neal. John Scott's heavy handed music score, was hit-and-miss, but Victor J. Kemper's expansive cinematography was professionally executed. Don Taylor's direction feels automatic, but breezy. This boy's own adventure is an enjoyably, attention-grabbing what if predicament. "},{"Title":"just gets better with age","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think the first time I saw this movie was when it first made the cable circuit, I think I was seven or eight at the time. My father was an ex-navy carrier rat and loved any movie with planes and boats. I enjoyed them too, but not as much as he did, I was a sci-fi geek. So imagine my reaction when my father was goading me into watching another Navy movie. Sure dad, yes dad, I'll watch your movie with you because you say it's gonna be cool. My attitude changed drastically after the storm swept them back to December6,1941! There it was the ultimate father son bonding experience. He got his boats and planes, and I got my sci-fi.The acting was top notch, with brilliant performances by Kirk Douglas and Martin Sheen. The dog fight scenes between tomcats and zeros was excellent, although if I remember right the Zero's were actually dressed up T-6's LOL! But it all paled in comparison to the story and the history of those days just before the attack. The moral, and ethical dilemmas facing a captain of the most powerful destructive force in 1941 just hours before the sneak attack. Should he stop it and save Pearl Harbor and all of those lives that will surely be lost, and possibly negate his own existence? Or simply ignore it and let history take it's course? All these years later this is still one of my favorite movies, and I will drop everything I'm doing at the moment just to watch it whenever it is on. I watch, remember, and smile. Thanks dad! "},{"Title":"An extremely memorable movie, one of the best I've seen.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie several years ago, and it is one of the few that has 'stuck'. I would recommend this to anyone interested in a different type of plot to the normal 'run of the mill' stuff.The technical effects are awesome, considering that the movie was produced in the early 1980's.  "},{"Title":"Plot Holes","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **This is all more or less a spoiler, so beware.**I enjoyed this film when it first came out, even though its tone was sometimes skewed too much in the direction of Navy recruiting.  It is best when it takes its premise and the realities of the Navy seriously.There are loads of great movie moments, including the Tomcats vs. Zeros dogfight, the captured Japanese pilot continuing to act like he's at war, the time-traveling pooch and, especially, the many moments of idiocy from the rescued Senator who can't believe he hasn't been let in on the secret of the Nimitz and--horrors--that at least one senior officer of the vintage 1980 carrier is African-American.But there are problems in the script that could have been addressed to make it a more convincing movie.  The characters spend way too much time pondering should we or shouldn't we change history? when in reality as intelligent, pragmatic problem solvers they likely would have been addressing other immediate difficulties1)  Traveling through the time storm, the Nimitz arrives in 1941 without its accompanying destroyer escorts.  While the film pretends that the 1980s technology is pretty much invulnerable, that isn't the case, particularly given carriers' status as large targets.  Not only would the carrier have launched air patrols (as done in the film) but its officers immediately would have been spending considerable effort in trying to decide how to defend against possible submarine attack.  (The Japanese had excellent torpedoes, quite capable of sinking or severely damaging a carrier of any vintage.)1a) One possible solution would have been to rendezvous with the existing 1941 American carriers at sea (remember, the Nimitz has a Pearl Harbor expert on board who would know their location), thus gaining a destroyer screen *and* being able to lead a combined attack on the Japanese fleet. (BTW, this follows the military principles of concentration of force and surprise, both well known to serving officers.)2) However, this introduces another difficulty.  Tensions were fairly high at the time, and a strange aircraft carrier appearing near Oahu would have been assumed to be a hostile Japanese ship and likely attacked on sight (just as an actual Japanese miniature sub was sunk before the air assault on Pearl Harbor).  Thus the other big problem would have been how to make contact with American forces and provide warning.  This should have engaged considerable attention, particularly given that even their historical expert wouldn't likely know specific codes, frequencies, recognition signals and the like.  The many possible plot complications are obvious.  Since the characters don't know that the Nimitz will return to 1980 at film's end, they would be assuming contact to be necessary.  (The Nimitz can't wander around unseen and unsupplied for the rest of WWII.  It will have to make contact.)3) I won't say too much about the possible violations of the space-time continuum involved, but all of you who are Back to the Future fans can fill them in.  If we take these seriously contact becomes very difficult and the movie actual ending seems almost inevitable.4) A possible solution with minimal effect on the continuum and taking advantage of the contact difficulty would have been for the Nimitz to launch its own mock attack on Pearl Harbor in advance of the Japanese attack (preferably before dawn, so its planes could not be identified as alien to the time).  This would alert US defenses and greatly reduce US casualties and damage.  (However, this assumes more or less that the Nimitz knows it's going back to 1980.)5) Whatever the Nimitz's possible intervention, it would not be able to prevent US entry into WWII, since other Japanese attacks on US bases, most notably in the Philippines, would bring the US into the war, as would any hostile action by the Nimitz.  The historical expert on board would know this, as would all the senior officers, products of an excellent educational system.  Figuring this into their deliberations would have added considerable interest.  Destruction of the Japanese fleet aircraft carriers six months before it actually happened (at the Battle of Midway) might have considerably shortened the war.Thus, the biggest logical flaw in the film is not that aircraft carriers cannot go rocketing through time portals.  That's a part of the film's premise and we have to accept it or immediately leave the theater. Rather, the film doesn't take the very real problems that would be faced by its decision-makers quite seriously enough, as suggested above.  (I could go on, but there's a word limit here.)  The more seriously these are dealt with within the limitations of screen time, the better the film would have been.That said, it's still a cool film.  Much, much better than Pearl Harbor, which doesn't take any of its subject matter seriously.  But that would be another review. "},{"Title":"An A movie mistaken for a B classic","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'd disagree with the qualification that this film is a good B-grade flick. I think really this film is solid A material, but is often panned or overlooked because of the time travel plot.  The effects are for the most part (with the exception of a model shot or two of the Nimitz herself) are on par with todays' visuals.  In addition the F-14s and other U.S. craft you see in the film are real!  No need for fancy CGI, nor their plastic model fore fathers in this film!In addition some good solid performances are given by Kirk Douglas, Charles Durning, Martin Sheen, and a list of other well known and readily recognizeable actors (too many to account for).  Performances which are topnotch, even though there's no deep emotional angst to speak of in the story nor plot.  The performances are energetic and real, as can be expected by such a fine cast.The plot is farfetched, but intrigueing; and begs the question of the viewer; What if some of our modern firepower were able to avert or alter events in the past?Also of note is the incredible film score, composed and orchestrated by the extremely talented and well known John Scott.  After some 20 years of limited showing on HBO, various independently owned UHF stations across the nation, and an extremely limited video casette release, the film is now out on DVD.  And John Scott's soundtrack to this film will also be made available very soon.In any event, this is a must see for fans of sci-fi and action. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Totally awesome ... Hollywood never makes movies like this anymore","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the past 2 decades, the only film that's come close to this sort of freaky what if coolness (respectable military sci-fi), is possibly  1994's Stargate (Roland Emmerich's best work)... but even that comparison is a stretch.  This long-lost, underappreciated, almost forgotten classic really deserves full-feature deluxe DVD treatment.The producers of FINAL COUNTDOWN were able to team up a stellar cast of quality Hollywood actors with a full Navy crew and full Pentagon participation, thanks to an enthralling storyline that raises all sorts of daunting issues, yet deals with those challenges in a sincere and reverent fashion that tickles the mind and emotions.FINAL COUNTDOWN is flawed and in some ways seems dated now (i.e. cheesy, slow, not glossy enough).  But its heart is in the right place and that makes up for any contemporary imperfections.  (John Scott's luxurious orchestral score also helps.)I never saw FINAL COUNTDOWN til I was in 5th grade when it came on TV, so I'm not sure how much money it made in its theatrical run*, or if United Artists still owns the rights (enabling MGM to release a Special Edition DVD with remastered 5.1 soundtrack and interviews with the makers).  (* = The producer only made movies for a short period, and none of his others were successes, so it seems that Final Countdown must have been financially mediocre since his career was so brief.)When the commercials for FINAL COUNTDOWN's TV airing revealed the movie's story concept, every kid at school was freaked out, so we knew we had to watch.  But I remember being so upset when I looked at the clock and realized there was only 15 minutes left, and therefore there was no way the movie could possibly contain a full satisfying epic dogfight battle over Pearl Harbor while still returning the characters to their rightful places in time for a happy ending and final credits.  So when the actual ending arrived I was phenomenally disappointed. Aawww, man!  It seemed like such a cheat. Then again, not every movie can afford a budget of Star Wars-level special effects, so perhaps this movie did the best it could.  After all, real-life veterans groups probably would have complained if the movie had actually dared to rewrite WWII and provoke a scenario glimpsing at a world in which America had successfully nailed the Imperial Japanese fleet, thus enabling the US to stay out of the war... What would the movie have hinted at as the aftermath of this alteration of history?  Would Hitler have conquered Europe, or would the Allies have been able to hold off the Axis powers without American help?  It's comic-book fantasy obviously, but at least on that level it's still spooky.Still, the younger boy within me still fantasizes about the unmade version of Final Countdown, featuring a climactic spectacle of heavily-armed F-14 Tomcats surprising the you-know-what out of primitive Zero squadrons over Honolulu while American soldiers on the ground look up at this sight in frightened befuddlement wondering what the heck is going on. "},{"Title":"I would like to see it reissued for purchase or viewing","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was wonderful!!  The acting was great and the idea very believeable. It was historical and entertaining combined and I enjoyed watching it with my teenage children. "},{"Title":"Could We Or Should We Change History?","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Only a Timelord might know the answer to that and The Final Countdown bears no small resemblance to a big budget version of a Doctor Who episode. All that was needed was the TARDIS and one of the Doctors Who to provide an explanation for what was going on.Kirk Douglas heads the cast in his own Bryna films production of The Final Countdown. He's the captain of the U.S.S Nimitz, finest nuclear powered aircraft carrier in the fleet and on this cruise they've got a VIP aboard, Martin Sheen who works for a mysterious Howard Hughes hermit like defense contractor named Tideman. Once out of port they encounter a storm unlike any other in history and though they're slow to comprehend it, the U.S.S. Nimitz and crew are transported back in time, precisely to December 6, 1941.What to do? The mind boggles with the possibilities. Complicating things even further the Nimitz rescues United States Senator Charles Durning and his girl Friday Katharine Ross who are the only survivors of a cabin cruiser that got shot up by Japanese planes. Oh. and they also rescue the pilot of one of the Japanese zeroes that sunk the cabin cruiser, Soon Teck Oh.The Final Countdown is a good science fiction film that raises some interesting conundrum like questions. Would you kill Adolph Hitler or Joseph Stalin as a child if you got the chance? Should the Nimitz with the firepower it has go wreak some havoc on the Japanese fleet before they strike?Other good performances in the film besides those mentioned are James Farentino as the air group commander and amateur historian and Ron O'Neal as the Executive officer of the Nimitz. My favorite in the film however is Soon Teck Oh. He speaks only Japanese in the film and he manages to invoke both menace and fright in his performance of a man, also not knowing what's happening but knowing he's with the American enemy.You'll be scratching your head for days after seeing The Final Countdown. I won't say what happens to the Nimitz and its crew, but Martin Sheen gets the biggest surprise of all at the very end of the film. "},{"Title":"When You Walk Through A Storm ---","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nice opening to this modern-day science fiction adventure -- scenic views of Hawaii and Key West, impressive shots of the monstrous aircraft carrier USS Nimitz, a Tomcat slamming onto the carrier's flight deck. Air/Sea Rescue supported by triumphant music. The helo crew save two survivors of a strafed yacht. They save Katherine Ross's dog too. Well-done aerial shots, illustrating refueling procedures. And a glance or two at the bridge of the Nimitz.Frankly, I was astonished. It's all buttons. If the skipper, Kirk Douglas of the cleft chin, sings out, Give me twenty-five knots headwind across the flight deck, the quartermaster (if that is in fact what he is) simply punches a course into some kind of electronic junk the shape of a reclining refrigerator. There is nobody at the helm because there is no helm for anybody to be at. Nothing even remotely resembles the equipment of the destroyer-sized Coast Guard cutter I served eight unforgettable months on. I don't think it would be much fun to work on the Nimitz. No sense of the sea, more a feeling of living in a huge, congested, immaculate iron city, cluttered with industrial yellow heavy movers and fire trucks. It might as well be a construction site.Martin Sheen is a civilian systems analyst (read efficiency expert) assigned to the Nimitz. Sheen is welcomed aboard by Douglas but has a contretemps with one of the pilots, James Farentino. Shortly after Sheen's arrival, the Nimitz runs into an extremely odd electrical storm that produces generous lightning and a horrible screeching sound. Everyone is knocked about for a few minutes and when they recover, still dazed, everything seems normal again. Douglas sounds general quarters, launching a period of organized chaos. The fulsome score borrows from Patton and from 633 Squadron. It begins to look like a long and lavishly budgeted episode of the original Twilight Zone -- and it stays that way. It's December 6th, 1941, and the Japanese fleet is on its way to attack Pearl Harbor. Douglas and his men figure this out shortly, when they pick up the Japanese fleet on radar.Cut to an old-fashioned wooden yacht, shellacked and painted, with Charles Durning and Katherine Ross, after whom Senator Durning lusts. They're listening to a speech being broadcast by President Roosevelt warning the nation of the danger by foreign aggressors. (Kids, that's President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who served out almost four terms between 1933 and 1945. The foreign aggressors he's talking about must be Nazi Germany and Japan. President Roosevelt had had polio and was unable to walk, but the press never showed pictures of him in his wheelchair. That's what journalism was like in 1941.) Two lone Japanese zeroes sink the yacht but are in turn shot down by two modern Navy fighters. One Japanese pilot is rescued.It would have made a fascinating episode of The Twilight Zone but the movie goes awry before too long. Katherine Ross and Charles Durning are the survivors of the strafed yacht. They're brought up by winch into the helo compartment. I'm sure glad you were out here, remarks Durning. At the time there were virtually no helicopters, just a few private toys held together with spars. And Durning is sitting in the spacious compartment of this big helicopter, being cared for by men in modern Navy uniforms, evidently oblivious to his surroundings. It's not until he's taken aboard the carrier that he activates what Ivan Pavlov called the orientation reflex. That is, he takes notice of what's around him.So does the resolute Japanese prisoner, who grabs a gun and some hostages and demands access to a radio. Clearly he wants to warn his fleet of the presence of the Nimitz. There is considerable concern over this by Douglas and the rest. Should they allow him to warn the Japanese attack force? Well -- if they gave it any thought, they probably would. What would be the consequence? The attack force of six aircraft carriers might try to bomb and torpedo the Nimitz but given the difference in technology they probably wouldn't do much damage, if any. OR, having been warned, Nagumo might realize that he now lacked surprise and might have turned the fleet around -- thus averting, for a while, America's entry into World War II.At any rate, I can't help wondering how this film went over in Japan, redintegrating, as it does, some of the anger and resentment of the war years. When two of our most advanced jet fighters down the two Zeros, the order is, Splash the two Zeroes, and the Navy aviators chuckle with joy. The triumphant music gets louder. You can almost hear a theater audience as they grit their teeth and shout, That's right -- kick some ASS! And when Douglas orders the Nimitz to prepare for battle, and we see the crew rushing around arming bombs while horns honk, drums pound out a march, trumpets blare, and the notes of the national anthem creep into the score, there is the same emotional charge. Douglas orders an air strike against the Japanese fleet but then recalls the flight. Damn, they're going to let the Japs do it again!, complains one of the aviators. The writing, the direction, and the score promote the kind of child-like enthusiasm that one finds at a high school football game. It's an appeal to some of our basest instincts. "}{"Title":"The Final Countdown","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A movie that bears a similar resemblance to the legend of the USS Eldridge and the Philadelphia Experiment flick of 1984, in some aspects. That movie saw an experiment on board the US warship to try and make it invisible to radar. Of course it goes wrong and two crew members are sent into the future of 1984. In this time travel adventure the USS Nimitz is on training operations in the Pacific when a mysterious storm comes out of nowhere and sends the ship back to 1941.The casting is impressive with this old sci-fi, Martin Sheen is a civilian observer, a systems analyst who is on board for reasons unknown frankly. Charles Durning plays a fictitious senator back in 1941 and the epic Kirk Douglas is the USS Nimitz Commander. All three of these actors add much needed impetus to the project as lets be honest...this is total B-movie fluff. Although I still can't for the life of me work out why Sheen's character is required, and here lies one of the plot issues.In this movie the USS Nimitz was designed by an aged Mr. Tideman who we don't see. Now this chap has made sure that Sheen's character gets on board the Nimitz for its training run. The reason being because what happens on board the ship and in the past (when the ship gets there) will effect the future. You assume Sheen's character will obviously somehow effect someone or something that will cause a time ripple, but he doesn't as far as I could see. Sheen doesn't really do anything throughout the whole movie accept stand around and offer the odd bit of advice. The only thing I can think of is the fact that the Nimitz was delayed by two days waiting for Sheen's character to arrive and board (according to Douglas' character the Commander), by order of the mysterious Mr. Tideman. So maybe that delay was required so all the following events would be set in motion at the right time.Naturally time travel paradoxes may arise in a story like this and I'm pretty sure the main twist in the tale here doesn't work. Basically it turns out one of the officers on board the Nimitz is a younger Mr. Tideman who gets stranded back in 1941. Tideman helped design the Nimitz because he served on board her as an officer up until the point he gets stuck back in time. So it was the older Tideman back in 1980 who wanted Sheen's character to travel on the Nimitz for her training ops...although I don't get why as I already said Sheen does nothing.So here is my issue. Young Tideman goes back in time and gets stranded (in 1941), he then must pretty much relive his life through to the present of 1980. Thing is in the present of 1980 with Tideman now an old man, at some point many years earlier, another younger version of Tideman must be born so he can join the Navy, join the Nimitz and eventually go on the training ops mission back in time. So this would surely mean there would be two versions of Tideman living in the same time, is that possible? I'm sure the older version would know not to try and meet his younger self so maybe it would be OK?There is much that isn't really explained in the movie, whether that's because its left up to your own imagination or not I don't know. The mysterious storm is never explained, the fact it seems to be aware at one point because it tracks or homes in on the Nimitz when they try to outmaneuver it. The whole event is simply written off as a mystery or freak of nature. Also I noticed that when the Nimitz goes through the time portal, even jets that aren't on board her go through too. At the end there is an entire strike force of jets up in the air and nowhere near the Nimitz when the storm time portal thing catches the ship and they go back through to 1980. So even if these jets aren't on the ship and not even close to either the ship or the portal...they still go through? Is that because the ship goes through and they just materialise along with it? maybe they are foreign objects in time and time knows they don't belong there? Admittedly most of the run time is taken up by military prowess and military hardware porn, put it this way if you like big guns, jets, aircraft carriers, warships, old planes, helicopters, flybys etc...you're gonna have a field day. Its basically a US Navy recruitment campaign combined with a training video showing you all the cool fun stuff, life on a carrier and errr...all the cool fun stuff. You could also say it was a long homage and love letter to one of the USA's best supercarriers, one of the biggest warships around. A day in the life of the Navy at sea and how it runs. I can't deny it all looked very impressive though, very slick, very cool, it gives 'Top Gun' a good run for its money...and this was 1979! imagine what they're like today.Anyway back to the movie, it was fun, an enjoyable little Twilight Zone-esque escapade which I find agreeable on most days. I knew there would be problems along the way with this, you can kinda tell, but it doesn't detract from the fun too much. Very well put together, nice effects for the time, cool aerial camera work on various military toys and it keeps you thinking.7/10 "},{"Title":"Squanders itself","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie.Great premise, good acting, film work, pretty realistic depiction of navy operations, good 80s military porn (tomcats zooming around, etc), good cooperation from the Navy giving the film crew the Nimitz.Unfortunately it just throws itself away. Basically it works up to a great premise, approaches some interesting topics.. and then at the end basically just says.. oh yeah.. you know what? never mind.. let's just not go anywhere interesting after all.Toss in the unnecessary clichs (like the Japanese pilot predictably getting the gun from the guard.. wow I totally didn't see that coming).. plus the incompetent, red-faced Senator (well I guess that part is realistic), the indecisive yet decisive military commander, etc.. and well.. it's a fun ride, but ultimately unfulfilling. It's like someone giving you a big fancy basket of chocolate all wrapped in cellophane and ribbons.. and then when you open it you realize it's a bunch of tasteless Hersheys.Though it is fun getting there. That's what's ultimately disappointing. Great camera work, direction, and acting just wasted on an unsatisfying story. "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity, could have been a lot better.","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that this was a fair execution of a interesting concept. As in all in all time travel movies the question of What if? is the heart of the movie. In Back to the Future, the question was What if you meet your parents when they were teenagers and alter them falling in love?, In Time after Time, What if Jack the Ripper stole HG Wells' machine and escaped ?, and so forth. In The Final Countdown, the What if? is, What if a 1979 air-craft carrier, fully armored, mysteriously found itself transported to Dec 6, 1941, intercepting the Japanese fleet headed for Pearl Harbor? Lets look at the good and the bad.The Good.First and foremost, the concept alone is the best thing going for this flick. The discussions about what to do are very well written and the unavoidable consequences for altering the past are played out very well. The acting is adequate but i really found Martin Sheen and Chales Durring to be the most convincing.The Bad.Despite a great idea and decent acting the movie shoots itself in the foot by not going all the way. The entire premise is that this lone carrier is sent back in time to intercept and defeat the attack on Pearl Harbor. The captain and the crew decide to do that very thing and just before they are about to attack they are thrown back to the future. It is such a major cop-out for the movie. I would have loved to have seen the ramifications of stopping the attack. Now i know that changing the past would be the wrong thing to do in most time travel movies. But, in this movie, Time itself is granting this opportunity. If the movie had let the carrier attack the Japanese fleet and then transported them back to the future leaving the open question, What will they find?, it would have been a great change. It is because of the cheap cop-out that really dismantles this film from something special to mere mediocrity. All in all, if you like time travel movies, its worth a glance but be prepared for a very weak pay-off at the end. "},{"Title":"The U.S.S  Nimitz carrier  trapped in a time warp  goes back just  time before the bombing Pearl Harbor","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic film about a weird , powerful storm winds up throwing USS Nimitz into past world during WW2 . Caught outside the boundaries of time and space, all mission , 102 aircraft, 6,000 men , are transported back to 1941. On December 7, 1980 the nuclear carrier USS Nimitz disappeared in the Pacific and reappeared December 7, 1941 ,the day the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbour . The events go wrong , causing an USS naval battleship to disappear in Pacific Ocean by means of a warp time. The motley crew as Wing Commander Richard Owens (James Farentino) , Lasky (Martin Sheen), Cmdr. Dan (Ron O'Neal) commanded by Captain Matthew Yelland (Kirk Douglas) find themselves thrown into a temporary hole . Then they find in the past world of 1941 and they can change the course of history but also to generate a cataclysm that threatens to destroy it.This is a far-fetching but acceptable story about an U.S nuclear-powered aircraft carrier traveling forward in time to just to discover famous incidents and change the world. It is developed with intrigue, suspense , thrills and noisy action with interesting screenplay by Thomas Hunter. Familiar but satisfying and agreeable Sci-Fi yarn , including a surprisingly final . Just amusement enough to cover production gaps and some flaws. Fine special effects by the time and liking acting by the leads manage to keep this one afloat. Nice performance of Kirk Douglas as Captain Matthew who must face the ultimate decision , leave history intact or stop the known events . Good support cast as Charles Durning as the Senator, Soon-Tek Oh as a Japanese pilot , Ron O'Neal , among others and early appearance of Lloyd Kaufman , subsequently producer of B films with Troma Productions. Colorful cinematography by Victor J. Kemper and atmospheric , spectacular musical score by John Scott. The picture achieved big success at Box office and had ripoffs and imitations , being followed by Philadelphia experiment and inferior sequel titled Philadelphia experiment II . The motion picture is professionally directed by Don Taylor. He was an actor and director as TV as cinema and an expert on adventures genre as Adventures of Tom Sawyer , Terror as Damien  Omen 2 and science fiction as Island of Dr. Moreau, Escape from Planet of Apes, and of course The final of countdown. Rating  6,5 . Acceptable and passable fantasy fare although better viewed in big screen . "},{"Title":"Time travelling on the USS Nimitz","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hadn't seen this film for a long time so when it was on television recently I decided to watch it again. I expected it to be cheesy with some fairly ropey special effects... I was wrong, the story was good enough and what special effects there were were decent enough. The real highlight though was the lack of CGI, this means we get to see a wide range of real US Navy aircraft.The plot about the USS Nimitz, a modern nuclear powered US aircraft carrier, going through a strange storm which leaves it back in 1941 on the eve of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour. A pair of the carrier's F-14s intercept and shoot down a pair of Japanese Zeroes which have strafed an American boat which happened to have a Senator on board. A rescue helicopter picks up the senator, his aide and one of the Japanese pilots, all of whom are shocked at the technology they see.The senator is adamant that they must warn Pearl of the imminent attack and the Japanese pilot; who has managed to grab a gun and take a hostage wants to warn his fleet. The captain and senior officers must decide whether they should intervene and change history or stay out of the fight and leave history to take its course.The action is pretty exciting and seeing all of those Navy jets would have been enough to get anybody who likes military aircraft watching. The acting was good enough with Kirk Douglas putting in a good performance as the captain of the Nimitz. I think it is a shame that there was less discussion about what the consequences of stopping the attack might be; both good and bad, still it was a pretty good film; a must see to any fan of military aircraft. "},{"Title":"Best time travel-movie of all time!","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not a war-movie, but a movie about traveling through time. And the best of its kind in my opinion.So other recommendations should rather be sci-fi movies of the same kind, and not just war movies.The great thing about this one in the genre of time travel, is that its made in a so epic and serious way. I know first time seeing it on the screen and it looked to be a huge drama, action-thriller or something in the beginning, and then suddenly the most unexpected thing happens. It was awesome.I never get tired of this movie. Only wish there had been much more of it. "},{"Title":"Good sci-fi naval picture/holds-up well","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently saw this film for the first time since seeing it many years ago. In addition to its being entertaining, enjoyed seeing Kirk Douglas, who although in his mid-60's, still looked vigorous and hale.The USS Nimitz is a nuclear aircraft carrier, sailing in the Pacific, on a routine assignment contemporary to the making of this film, in 1980. At the beginning, a civilian, played by Martin Sheen, has been assigned aboard as an observer for training exercises. His boss, a Mr. Tideman, observes his departure from a limo. Anyone who has ever heard the word foreshadow, knows that this scene will have some effect by the film's end, that Mr. Tideman's not being shown on-screen at this point is significant, and that the fact Sheen has not ever seen his boss face-to-face also portends something significant later, and is likely essential to the development of the plot. Sheen's position as an observer is of some minor disturbance to the ship's air wing commander, James Farentino, worrying about disruption to operations, but we know that there will be some sort of dramatic aspect in subsequent operations involving them with one another.The ship is destined to time travel, sailing through a vortex, a shrouded fog, which transports it from the present (1980) back to early December, 1941. They encounter Japanes aircraft, fighter craft in advance of the Pearl Harbor attack force, and all are initially nonplussed by their mint condition, whereas they should be 40-year-old relics. Captain Kirk (Douglas, not Spock's boss) dispatches three jet aircraft, one to Pearl, the others to fend-off the Japanese planes. The Japanese attack and sink the nearby yacht of an important U. S. Senator (Charles Durning), his assistant (Katherine Ross), her pet dog, and another companion. The Senator, Ross and the dog dive to safety, the other passenger is killed. This indicated hostility, and intent of same towards the naval vessel, necessitates the carrier's craft to blast the two enemies - one is destroyed by missile, the other shot down with bullets, allowing the pilot of the latter to survive (along with the two humans and one canine from the sunken yacht). The prisoner/Japanese pilot is rescued by a helicopter, and the Senator/Durning, his comely assistant and the cute doggy are rescued by another, and all taken on-board.There is a lot going on in this film. The plane sent to Pearl Harbor returns with photos. Farentino recognizes one is the same he has in-file for a book he is preparing - showing the port as it was, in-tact, just prior to the December 7th sneak attack. The Senator, an important, informed senior politico expert on all matters military, is obviously nonplussed by the jet aircraft and all other aspects of the carrier and everything else, beyond the contemporary hardware with which he is familiar.The crux of all these time travel stories, whether an inexpensive 22 minutes within a half-hour TV presentation, or an expensive, A-list big-screen offering like this one, presents the same dilemma -- whether to use the ability now at-hand to stifle some occurrence and save lives, etc., but alter the future in so doing? Might changing things - such as precluding the terrible events at Pearl Harbor on 12/7/41, make things worse than they became for future generations, or even in the relatively near term? Sheen even recalls previously reading about the Senator's loss, missing at sea, in 1941. If he survives now, he might well become the one who would succeed FDR in 1945, having supplanted Harry Truman on the party slate in 1944. What paths might he have taken differently from HST, towards using the A-bomb, ending the Pacific war, in Korea, etc., etc? All the while Kirk has to be the one to decide on the basic question regarding the impending Japanese squadrons, and the viewer knows that at some point the ship probably will return to present (at filming) time. But when? In the middle of what? To what avail?Suffice to say, in my opinion, this story has handled an often-used theme in a clever, engaging way, with fine performances. Also, the picture is just plain entertaining - something I think we sometimes overlook in our analyses.The end is clever, and the transportation of some folks back to the 40's, and their subsequent fates is done as logically as possible within science fiction. Without revealing the end, one 1980 character stays back in the 40's but reappears again (older) in the 80's. Another original 40's person also appears in the present at the end. And the doggy, who even if young and destined to a long life, would have originally made it at best to, say, 1954 or so, remains in the 1980's, is still young at the flick's end, and participates in the happy aspects of the story's conclusion "},{"Title":"What a fabulous movie!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was such a surprise the first time I saw it. I'd never heard of it, but the cast seemed fabulous so I watched it. Wow, was I engrossed. It has some of everything Bermuda-triangle-like mystery but in the Pacific, time travel exceptionally portrayed, historical intrigue (what IF we change things?), war action, romance, a great dog, great acting, great leadership, great flying, great story telling, and great visual effects! What more can you want? Personally, I spent hours thinking about the potential incongruence of being in two places at the same time. And the end is just perfect. I can watch this one many times over. "},{"Title":"Action Fans Need Not Apply","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many people who saw this back in 1980 came away disliking it since the trailers and TV commercials made it look like a modern aircraft carrier took on the Japanese navy. There is in fact only one real  action sequence that brought cheers to the theater I saw this in when a certain line of dialog was spoken.Assuming that you're seeing this because you want a good dram of the science fiction variety I heartily recommend you watch this film. Its a very good movie in the what if... genre of films. Best of all, it plays rather straight with what might have happened had this sort of thing actually occurred.If one must quibble then I have to agree that things are not that far removed from what would now be considered a TV movie. Also there are a few plot points that don't make a whole heck of a lot of sense. I'd like to explain but it would reveal too much.This is a popcorn movie of the highest order, so if you're smart you'll go get some and watch this good little film. "},{"Title":"Nice,really really nice","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This music is one of the few unique movies.The plot as something else,the susbence is great.Unique movies are my favourites.Do see it,it's worth it,it's not like any other movie (Like those movies that have the same thing over and over again so you get bored,like killing car chases,a zero gets hero,a guy does the unexpected).So you will enjoy it cause it's nothing you have ever seen "}{"Title":"You will never find a better movie!!","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my all time favorite movie!! I know, it is not considered to be a big hit, but it had just about everything that I like in a movie; time travel, war and a big what if. I am a history buff and that is one of the most favorite things about history. You can argue what if all day long! The performances were excellent as well. Kirk Douglas is one of the best actors ever and he really delivers a home run here. And, Martin Sheen! Has he ever not given a great performance? Charles Durning also does a good job and Katherine Ross has always been great eye candy, but she can act. But, the best performance of the movie was James Farentino. You can really feel the angst that he had as an amateur historian and whether they should stop the Japanese or not? It was really simple for the Captain, but not for him. He knew that his world would change as well as everything else.And the ending!! All I can say is WOW! The best ever!! "},{"Title":"Good in a different kind of way","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Final Countdown is a good movie, but in a different kind of way. It's good in the same way you might find a Twinkie or a double-fudge brownie good; that is, it's a guilty pleasure.  You like it, but you know it probably isn't doing much for you.The film itself is little more than a wonderful montage of naval aviation. The implausible plot finds a modern nuclear aircraft carrier myseriously (and conveniently) transported in time to December 6, 1941 just a short hop from Pearl Harbor.  This turn of events sets the stage for the real point of the movie; many scenes of carrier flight operations featuring a triumphant musical score any time a piece of military hardware is on the screen.  One of the best scenes features a dogfight between American F-14's and Japanese Zeros.  The scene is great but let's face it, it has all the drama of a boxing match between Mike Tyson and Dr. Ruth.  Sure, she's a scrappy old broad and he hasn't fought in a while, but c'mon - it would be Iron Mike winning every round with a TKO in the 8th.  Bet on it.The film features very little in the way of exploration of their time travel predicament or the consequences of their actions.  Such notions are mentioned and forgotten in short order.  They would only distract the viewer from the great aviation scenes, anyway.  They debate whether or not to defend the US from what they know is about to happen and engage in a very brief debate about the consequences and that's it.  No one even thinks of flying one of those planes to Pearl Harbor (or Hickam Field, maybe) and talking to someone there.  If I were a soldier in 1941 and an F-14 landed in front of me, you can rest assured I would pay attention to whoever got out of it.The ending is every bit as implausible as the beginning.  I've never been a film student, but I dimly recall from my college humanities classes something called deus ex machina (God from a machine).  They used this contrivance in old Greek dramas.  They would weave a complex morality plot with no easy resolution; so they would simply have the gods (represented by a machine lowered onto the stage) swoop in and impose a neat and tidy ending.  This movie seems to be the modern incarnation of that ancient plot device.In summary, think of this movie as junk food for your brain.  If your looking for serious exploration of the paradoxes of time travel or the geopolitical consequences if Pearl Harbor turned out differently, then pass on this movie.  If you just want to be entertained by a naval aviation spectacle, then watch and enjoy it!  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been better","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I always enjoy watching this film when it comes on TV, even though, in some respects, it is wildly frustrating. Having set up an intriguing situation, the film makers seem unsure what to do with it. However, the ending, if predictable, is highly gratifying. Great special effects and acting. "},{"Title":"I loved it!!","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watch this movie every chance I get - especially to see the vintage aircraft. The best scene in the movie is the dogfight between the Zeroes and the F-14's. Some of the best film flying ever (eat your heart out Tom Cruise).A definite what if movie.Others have commented on the historical impact, the silly premise, and other negative thoughts. End was pretty weak - but who cares.Kirk Douglas, Martin Sheen, Charles Durning, Katherine Ross and James Farentino are all accomplished performers.It's a movie - get over it! Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Logical Time Travel.","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thoroughly enjoyable sci-fi romp. Balanced dose of wonder, humor and action. Nice to see some images on older film stock and hear a slightly bombastic score, with the sci-fi parts of the score sounding just like you would expect from something made in yesteryear.The time-travel logic has been elegantly wound up with minimal loose ends. Logic can evade us often with time travel. Even though this story has been very satisfying, it would be interesting to see the same story but with the butterfly effect in play after the Japanese fleet gets hammered instead.Can't complain though. Lots of fun. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable Boy's Own type adventure","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A largely historically accurate account of the US Navy aircraft carrier Nimitz's accidental trip back through time to December 1941, this is a hugely enjoyable Boy's Own type adventure. It has a cracking script, which resembles a feature length episode of The Twilight Zone or The Outer Limits. It's basically The Philadelphia Experiment in reverse. Don Taylor was a good if not exactly innovative director but he does a great job in this, his final film. After Escape from the Planet of the Apes, this was Taylor's second time travel film, incidentally. It was made on a rather low budget but the fact that the Nimitz played itself meant that this is far from obvious. It has a great cast such as Kirk Douglas as the Nimitz's captain Matt Yelland, Martin Sheen as the civilian systems analyst Warren Lasky, Charles Durning as Senator Samuel S. Chapman (a shoo-in for the Democratic vice-presidential nomination in 1944), James Farentino as Commander Dick Owens (an expert on the attack on Pearl Harbor) and, the only woman in the film, Katharine Ross as Chapman's assistant Laurel Scott.The film features several discussions of the ramifications of altering history by potentially either preventing the attack on Pearl Harbor from taking place or by using the Nimitz to aid the 1941 Navy vessels to defeat the Japanese but there is not as much done with this idea as there could have been. For instance, no one raises the issue of the impact that the US remaining neutral throughout the war would have on the timeline e.g. a very, very big and negative one. The flying scenes are all very impressive, which is hardly surprising considering that the Navy allowed the use of its planes for the film. Oddly enough, it was used as a recruiting tool but I don't know how effective the film was on that score! The brief scenes of the attack towards the end of the film are taken directly from the earlier Pearl Harbor film Tora! Tora! Tora!. I was able to recognise them immediately since I watched that film only last week.Overall, this is great fun if you don't take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"Will things ever be the same again?","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Countdown takes what would have made for a very entertaining Twilight Zone episode and manages to turn it into a surprisingly effective full length feature, one that poses that old scientific dilemma if you had the power to prevent a catastrophe in the past, would you do so, knowing full well that the future would be irrevocably altered in the process?Kirk Douglas, as aircraft carrier captain Matthew Yelland, is faced with precisely this decision after he and his crew travel through a time portal on their vessel, arriving on the eve of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour during WWII. With modern planes and missiles at their disposal, should they intercept the enemy or let history take its course?With a superb cast (Charles Durning, Martin Sheen, James Farentino, Katherine Ross), an intelligent script, and a real aircraft carrier and its jets at his disposal, director Don Taylor delivers a thoroughly absorbing tale that offers both exciting action (the flying scenes are wonderful&#x97;who needs CGI when you have the real deal?) and intense drama.While those expecting an action packed battle between modern jets and Japanese fighter planes will undoubtedly feel a little cheated by the film's less than spectacular denouement, which solves Yelland's awkward problem with the introduction of a second very timely time portal, the fun twist ending should leave most viewers with a big grin on their face. "},{"Title":"Great real stuff in interesting sci-fi concept","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Capt. Matthew Yelland (Kirk Douglas) is in command of the American nuclear aircraft carrier USS Nimitz. Warren Lasky (Martin Sheen) is on a special assignment from the DOD. He has a mysterious benefactor Richard Tideman who helped design the ship. They go out to sea and is caught in an unusual storm that sends them back in time to right before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Laurel Scott (Katharine Ross) is the assistant to Senator Samuel Chapman (Charles Durning). They are on a yacht attacked by the Japanese. Cdr. Owens (James Farentino) is the lead jet pilot.There is some great footage of an aircraft carrier and real fighters. This is most notable for all the real work considering this is pre-CGI. Everything is in camera. It's probably the only time that jet fighters get into a dogfight with propeller fighters on screen. When the music comes up, it's all done with so much energy. There is some drawback with using the regular crew as extras and Farentino isn't the most charismatic actor. I do like that they have a discussion about time travel. This is probably the second best real fighter planes movie after 'Top Gun'. "},{"Title":"What a great film","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie had me hooked as a kid, and growing up, I've come to appreciate the nod to historical events, the aircraft on display like a time capsule, and the sci-fi plot that presents a host of interesting questions for the viewer. That, and a great musical score....I have to wonder though.....How does Yelland end up explaining the dead Marines and the body of the Japanese pilot to his superiors? His gear? The lost helicopter and crew? Not to mention, the pilots who splashed the two Zeros...what will they tell people? Also, the entire ship's crew that was told they were prepping for war with the Japs, the recon photos, the radio transmissions of old 1940's broadcasts....Yelland makes the comment at the end that They'll never believe it, but I think in the end, there's bound to be swift reaction to what happened on that ship in the present day. I'm tossing that one up as a bit of a good though, because I think the intention of the filmmakers was that they come back with no real proof that it ever happened outside of the dog.....and the curious case of Mr. Tideman.Even historical evidence remains, as there's the downed Zeros in what is probably shallow waters, and the remains of the helicopter that exploded off the island, and also the equipment/supplies left behind that were intended for the Senator and the girl? "},{"Title":"Major time travel paradox flaws!","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun movie. But I'm surprised I haven't seen anyone else comment about the major time travel paradox flaw. In the first minutes of the movie, we see a mysterious figure in the back of the limo, who we hear designed the carrier. In the last moments of the movie, after the Nimitz has returned from 1941, Martin Sheen enters the limo to meet said mysterious passenger, and who is it but Cmd Owens from 1980 who got stuck back in 1941 -- now 40 years older! And rich from designing the carrier. Slight problem -- the now-80 year old Cmd Owens/Mr. Tideman could not have been in the limo at the beginning of the movie, because the Nimitz had not yet gone back in time to leave him in 1941. The writers of Final Countdown would have been well-served by waiting 5 years to make this movie so they could have learned a little from the Back to the Future story writing&#x85;.. "}{"Title":"They're leaving together, but still it's farewell&#x85; And maybe they'll come back to their own time, who can tell?","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My sincerest apologies for the inevitable song lyrics in the comment's subject line, but one simply cannot resist secretly singing the cheesy rock-classic by Europe when reading the words final and countdown. The film is hardly to blame for this, though, as it predates the song with at least five years. Anyways, The Final Countdown is a movie that I had laying around on DVD for several years already, but I always delayed my viewing due to the incredibly grotesque and implausible time-traveling plot description. I need to be in a certain light-headed and tolerant mood to watch a film about an entire aircraft carrier (we're talking about a massive warship with a full-length flight deck here) that gets sucked trough a time-warp and ends up near Pearl Harbor on the 6th of December 1941, merely hours before the Japanese surprise attack that led the United Stated into World War II. Before properly realizing &#x96; and believing &#x96; what exactly happened, Captain Yelland and his crew have to decide whether or not they will prevent the attack and thus drastically alter the course of history. Admittedly, the elaboration of this crazed concept was a lot more realistic and compelling than I expected, but it does of course remain a hypothetical Sci-Fi movie. The script obviously features paradoxes that are big enough to fit a few more aircraft carriers and the climax *** additional spoiler alert *** is a rather cowardly letdown, since director Don Taylor and the four-headed crew of authors retreated from the change-history plot possibilities. Instead of coming up with a few courageous and innovative plot twists, they apparently preferred to use The Final Countdown as a publicity flick to promote the Navy! There's a lot of padding footage of planes taking off, cruising through the skies and landing on the impressive USS Nimitz. Perhaps the film crew was only allowed to use the ship if they included appealing and proudly patriotic images? The acting performances are &#x96; in sheer contrast to the plot &#x96; dead serious, straight-faced and very powerful. Kirk Douglas once more represents pure testosterone, while both Martin Sheen and James Farentino give away integer performances. There are also remarkable supportive roles for Charles Durning (as an ambitious 40's senator), Katherine Ross (as his secretary) and Soon-Tek Oh (as a confused Japanese fighter pilot). "},{"Title":"Slick, compelling entertainment.","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Countdown does offer up one of those classic dilemmas common to time travel stories What if you went back in time with knowledge of events that were going to unfold? Would you do something about it? Or let history take its course?That dilemma faces the men aboard the aircraft carrier The U.S.S. Nimitz, which somehow or other is sent back in time - with a fair amount of razzle-dazzle special effects - to just before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. Involved in the mounting drama are the crafts' captain (Kirk Douglas), a civilian observer (Martin Sheen), assorted personnel (including Ron O'Neal and James Farentino), and a senator (Charles Durning), whose rescue might set in motion a different chain of events.The cast, writers, and crew were clearly having a great time with this fanciful premise. Led by director Don Taylor (Escape from the Planet of the Apes, Damien Omen II), they take full advantage of official Navy cooperation. There's some exciting action, very nice widescreen photography (this is the kind of movie that needs to be seen in its intended aspect ratio, 2.351), and soaring music by John Scott. Pacing is effective, the dialogue intelligent, and the story completely absorbing. One will want to keep watching this just to see how things develop.The acting is effective in every major role. Douglas is solid as a rock in the lead; his company Bryna produced the picture. Katharine Ross provides a female presence to add just a little bit of romance to the plot. If one is a fan of the low budget, schlocky productions of the Troma company, they'll definitely note the presence here of Troma president Lloyd Kaufman, who's the associate producer, unit production manager, and a bit player.It's worth sticking with just for the twist ending, even if some viewers are able to predict it.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas and the USS Nimitz go back in time to Dec. 6, 1941","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although not without a few faults, The Final Countdown is a fine sci-fi movie that one can watch again and again. The U.S.S. Nimitz, near Pearl Harbor and headed by Kirk Douglas, goes though a time portal to Dec. 6, 1941. Kirk, James Farentino, a visitor Martin Sheen and Ron O'Neal, are perplexed and have to figure out what's happened. Then they face a momentous decision about what to do about it.The story is very clever and very captivating in its use of certain small things that create some delicious time travel quirks and tie-ins.The faults are a little too much film spent on airplanes taking off and landing and music that's too adulatory to the military might on display. The military rituals of command and action are written into the script too, but they play pretty well. It looks as if using the Nimitz was had only for a price of playing up to the navy. Another fault is a subplot involving a captured Japanese pilot that really doesn't connect to the main story.On the other hand Charles Durning is in fine form, as are Sheen and Farentino. Katherine Ross, well, she's in there. There are not a lot of special effects needed, but they are handled well.I've seen this one 3 times and it's still fresh. I definitely recommend it for sci-fi or time travel entertainment. There are no deep themes brought out or even characterizations, but Kirk and Sheen manage to keep things interesting. The cleverness of the time travel quirks carry this. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining & Thought Provoking Film","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have loved this film since first seeing it on t.v. in the early 1980s.Not only does it have a great cast (Kirk Douglas, Martin Sheen, Charles Durning), the footage of the carrier & its airwing...and the flight scenes is truly awe-inspiring.The story - based on the novel by the super-intelligent Martin Caidin (who created The Six Million Dollar Man) was a piece of brilliant sci-fi and historical conundrum.The idea of (in 1980) a modern-day nuclear-powered aircraft carrier being time-warped to December 6, 1941, less than 24 hours before the Imperial Japanese Navy attacks the U.S. fleet at Pearl Harbor - and the commanding officers (and a brilliant civilian military systems analyst) trying to make sense of the situation, and deciding whether or not to change the course of history was a great idea (H.G. Wells' The Time Machine, comes to mind).When making the fateful decision to change history, or leave things as is, the Captain (Kirk Douglas) states This is a U.S. warship. Our job is to defend the United States of America against attack...past, present or future.If, like me, you are an avid follower of military aircraft, then you will love seeing all of the jets and helicopters that served aboard the Nimitz in the late 1970s - F-14 Tomcat, A-7 Corsair II, A-6 Intruder (various versions for attack, refueling and jamming of enemy radars), S-3 Viking Anti-Sub warfare, H-2 Hawkeye (airborne radar & communications), and the Sikorsky Sea King helo used for Search & Rescue and anti-sub warfare.One thing I wish the film did that was in the novel would have been to have more of the technical talk that Martin Sheen's character (Warren Lasky) used when explaining how the storm happened, and how the Captain and crew could figure it out using the technology available to them.Also, in the novel, there was much more graphic detail of what happened to the ship & her crew when they went through the storm the first time.The novel also gave a sense of closure to the Commander Owens / Richard Tideman saga that ended the film.It is for these reasons that I give the film 7 stars, instead of 8 or 9. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful & Exciting.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What if a modern day naval carrier found itself(through a mysterious time-portal on the sea) back on that fateful day of Dec. 7, 1941, when Japanese forces attacked Pearl Harbor, killing scores of soldiers and civilians, and plunging the U.S.A. into World War II? That is the question this intriguing science fiction yarn presents, in a highly imaginative, engaging, and intelligent way. Story sounds like it could have been on The Twilight Zone, and something like it was, but this authentic looking film(made on a real carrier with real aircraft) can stand nicely on its own. Kirk Douglas, Martin Sheen, James Farantino, Charles Durning, and Katharine Ross also star, and all are well cast.Twist at the end is most clever, logical, and satisfying. A winner. "},{"Title":"Concept is good, some FX a bit daggy","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this at the cinema when it first came out. Just saw it on Blue Ray. It still holds up pretty well considering. I love the ideas it conjures. And of course the jets, which were not CGI. I had to laugh though when they send a reconnaissance plane to photo Pearl Harbour using their most sophisticated camera's and they come back in grainy black and white just like the 1941 photo's look. The basic premise is would you change history and stop something tragic? And then the paradox comes in.Would you still exist, and if not how could you have changed history.And the dog is a major player. "},{"Title":"Wonderful show; terrible title","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like many others, I could watch this film many times and enjoy it. It's just fun. The best part, and the part that stays with me, is the last scene. What would I do if I knew what was going to happen over the next 40 years? And the reaction of Charlie the dog is priceless. Dogs never forget, I guess. I also like the little subplot with the bombastic U.S. Senator, and Durning does it just right. No imagination whatsoever. Just bust your way through. But the title is terrible. I don't even know what it means and it describes nothing about the movie. The Last Countdown??? When I want to look up some trivia or cast member I have to start with the name of one of the stars, like Martin Sheen then go to IMDb and search. "},{"Title":"Who the hell are you people?","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kirk Douglas is the captain of a nuclear powered aircraft carrier who gets caught in a time warp and sent back to the day before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour. With a premise like that, you just can't fail. Stuck in 1941 with a crew of five thousand men and nearly one hundred aircraft, easily tracking the Japanese fleet as it nears its target, Douglas faces a dilemma - does he mess with time or does he sit back and watch history repeat itself? Others in the crew, including Martin Sheen, offer their own theories, and Charles Durning shows up as a 1941 era senator, obviously perplexed at what's going on. This may have turned into a snooze-fest, but I was glad that the plot zipped quickly along, with American jets and Jap zeroes going at it, and the capture of a Japanese pilot that turns very violent (this is supposed to be a PG, but this part had Robocop-level blood letting). You can't go wrong with a cast like that, and I really enjoyed this film (I'd never heard of it until someone gave me their copy). Can be picked up really cheap in the UK, in widescreen (great cinematography too!). "},{"Title":"Standard Time Travel Dilemma","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In so many ways this is really little more than a pretty standard time travel movie that contains all the dilemmas such a movie usually contains basically, how much can you change history without, well, changing history - or even, can you actually change history?Most of the action is set on board the USS Nimitz, a modern (1980) US aircraft carrier that encounters a mysterious storm in the Pacific and is somehow transported by the storm back in time - quite conveniently for the sake of the story to December 6, 1941, the day before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The Nimitz and its commander, Captain Yelland (Kirk Douglas) realize what's happened fairly quickly, and while not quite believing it are forced to make the inevitable decision - do they intervene? They find the Japanese strike force, so do they attack it? If they do (a 1980 aircraft carrier with fighter jets going against a 1941 Japanese fleet) they'll obviously change the entire course of history. Yelland is conflicted over what to do and the movie largely follows his decision making process.There are, of course, story lines added to make this more interesting I guess. I wasn't entirely clear on the need for the character of Lasky (Martin Sheen). In my opinion, he added little. Yes, he was inevitably connected to the end of the story (which was entirely too predictable to be interesting) but the character struck me as entirely superfluous. To add some extra historical tension, the Nimitz rescues a US Senator who's believed to be in the running to be Roosevelt's next running mate in 1944 and thus potentially the next president (Charles Durning) and his assistant (Katharine Ross), along with a Japanese pilot shot down in the only engagement between modern US forces and old Japanese forces.Basically, I thought this was all right, but not really any more than that, and for some reason all the way through I had the feeling that this was a made for TV movie (which I was surprised to discover that it wasn't.) 5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent time warp flick","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the negative side, the repetitive musical score was very cheesy and was detrimental to the film. That said, it was a very good movie. Kirk Douglas is a gifted actor and was very convincing as the ship's skipper. He can carry a film with his face. Sheen, Farentino, Durning, Ross - all delivered great performances. The plot was silly, but they carried it off very well....one thing, though - the storm caused men on the USS Nimitz to writhe on the ground as they were transported in time - they clutched their ears and were in semi conscious agony. There is no way that a squadron of F15 fighter planes would have been transported through the storm from 1941 to 1980 unscathed. They would have all crashed because the pilots would have writhed in agony in their cockpits and promptly lost control. "}{"Title":"a strong entry in the time travel sub genre","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is one of the best time travel movies i have seen.it's vaguely similar to the Philadelphia Experiment but on a much larger scale.i also think it's a much better movie.for one thing,there's way more tension and suspense and you really can sense the fear and desperation of the ship's crew.this one will have you on the edge of your seat.the acting here is very strong all around.there's no weak link in the bunch.there no slow spots either.the movie flows at a nice steady pace,and keeps you interested right to the end.i'd highly recommend it as a rental at the very least.i purchased a copy which was more than worth it.for me,The Final Countdown is a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying","Date":"24 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Other comments have made my main point this movie takes a fascinating concept with innumerable possibilities and then fails to make much of them.Great science fiction usually makes one assumption - it might be time travel, or slow glass or human miniaturisation - and builds a logical world around it. In The final countdown, the base assumption is that a nuclear aircraft carrier is somehow transported back in time to just before Pearl Harbour. The plot line is developed from this impossible position - but doesn't actually make very much of the paradoxes that are part of the assumption.In fact, the plot appears in many ways to be merely an adjunct to a documentary on carrier operations the doc. is interesting in its own right, but take it away and the actual plot development is rather sparse. And the ending is signalled loud and clear from halfway through! I bought the DVD since I remember seeing the film on TV years ago I will watch it again because it's interesting, but will once more be left with the feeling that much much more could have been done with the concept. "},{"Title":"I Heart Chuck","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The brunt of this movie feels like a recruiting film for the US Navy. There's lots of shots of planes taking off and landing on an aircraft carrier set to stirring music. And if you didn't get enough of those shots during the course of the movie, they saved some for the end credits. The plot almost feels secondary. The characters are all underwritten and the lines that come out of their mouth aren't very inspired -- I must be dreaming! says a bewildered Kirk Douglas at one point. The climax is a big let down. Just when the US of A can finally stick it to the Japanese before they bomb Pearl Harbor that darn time storm shows up again. What's up with that? You might assume I don't like this movie, but I actually do like it. I'm just not sure why other than I may be a bigger Charles Durning fan than I realized. "},{"Title":"Zipang is an alternate take on Final Countdown","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've enjoyed this film in the theater and on TV and recently acquired it on DVD. One of the nice extras is a commentary track by the film's director of photography. He provides fascinating details about the actual shooting such as the fact that all the shipboard scenes were filmed on board the Nimitz during a brief layover and a week-long training exercise. The technical aspects of the DVD are well done.Some story elements may have been overlooked or perhaps altered in the editing. The Nimitz' strategic policy was initially nonintervention and self-preservation. The F-14's were ordered to shoot down the Zeros, not in reprisal for their attack on the yacht, but in order to stop them from finding the carrier with its armament-laden deck. The decision to engage the invading force came about only when attack was imminent. When the captain learned that the time vortex was actively pursuing the ship and escape was impossible, he recalled his men in order to avoid stranding them in time. The only time-altering consequence of the whole scenario was to deposit Commander Owens in a situation where he could affect the future. The reason for that action and the nature of the intelligence behind it is left to the imagination.If you enjoyed Final Countdown, check out the recent anime series Zipang. It's an alternate telling and role-reversal of this story. A modern Aegis vessel from the Japanese Self Defense Force is transported back to the Battle of Midway and presented with the opportunity to alter the outcome of that engagement. It's a well told story with realistic animation, unlike typical Saturday morning action cartoons. "},{"Title":"Still my all time favorite","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Any time I get a couple hours, I pull out the now well worn videotape and enjoy myself. God I am so glad that a DVD is now available. Anyway I wanted to comment on the idea that Tideman/Owens CAUSED the event. I saw a couple references to additional information in the book form, but as for the movie what I got was not that Tideman/Owens CAUSED the event but rather that once the chain of events was initiated he was obligated to made sure that Laskey got on the ship at exactly the right time. ( Our departure was delayed two days at the request of your mysterious Mr. Tideman.) See where I'm going with this? We don't know if we're seeing the first incident, the second, or the hundredth. Once it started it must occur as before. In order for the events to unfold correctly (from Tidemans viewpoint) he must delay the ship or (speculating now)the ship would go back to December 4th 1941, they would miss the rondeview with the survivors of Sen. Chapman's yacht, and he would miss meeting Miss Scott. If they left later, then the attack force would have reached Pearl Harbor in time and messed up history. Meting Laural would certainly be motivation in itself, cuz Kate Ross was still a doll at the time of the movies' production. Sorry if this has been discussed before, I did look. "},{"Title":"Nice war movie","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is based on the idea of time-travelling. There were lots of such movies and novels, but this one is somewhat different. There is USS Nimitz, nuclear carrier, equipped in jets, reconnaissance planes, marines, and so on, everything that is needed in modern warfare. Somehow Nimitz is taken back to 1941, just before Pearl Harbour battle. Now it is a super-weapon that can change history and alone destroy all the Japanese fleet.One interesting question is if it is possible to change history. The crew are soldiers and want to participate the battle. In movies such Back to the Future characters were able to change history, in more real, like Twelve Monkeys -- they were creating it. Is Nimitz able to win the battle that was lost? What would happen to people who lived then? With some senator, who is going to win presidential elections, but was missing after the battle? Will he survive it and lead his nation after the war? The main question is not will Nimitz finally go back to its time but will Nimitz join the battle. One does not think about future but about soldier's duty.The movie consists nice photo shots. The carrier itself, its planes, dogfights between Japanese motor-planes and modern F14. Even if it is not even a candidate for the Oscar, I think it is always a good SF and war movie. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous premise but fantastic concept","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, yes its sci-fi. Yes the idea of an aircraft carrier going back in time is ridiculous.BUT, what a concept to consider. If you have the opportunity to change history and prevent an attack such as Pearl Harbor, do you do it? Not knowing what else you will change in the future? That's the entertainment for me in this movie. I own the DVD, have watched it several times, and it's always entertaining.The acting is well done, the flying sequences are fantastic, it's a realistic view of operations on an aircraft carrier, even it it is a little dated by today's standards. "},{"Title":"A Great What If movie","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was so good to see all these closet sci fi fans extollong the virtues of this film. I thought it was absolutely great. Good acting (not quite great), nice taught script, novel plot line with a tinge of The Philadelphia Experiment, marvellous sets and locales and a fine sound track. I suppose what made my enjoyment more was that the actors all looked like they were enjoying themselves. How many good movies have we all seen which are spoiled because the cast look as they would prefer to be somewhere else.Overall for sheer enjoyment, you would have to give this flick an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The inspiration for John Birmingham's Axis Of Time Trilogy","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What if a modern carrier battle group, (circa 2021), was thrown back in time to the Battle of Midway through a time travel experiment gone horribly wrong? The plot of The Final Countdown? No, but close enough to it. It's the plot of John Birmingham's The Axis Of Time trilogy. The 1980 science fiction movie The Final Countdown was the inspiration for John Birmingham's The Axis of Time trilogy. The USS Nimitz, a nuclear powered supercarrier, is briefly thrown back in time to December 6, 1941, the day before Pearl Harbor. When I was in high school, I had a history teacher who didn't like what he called iffy history. The Final Countdown is iffy history. The Final Countdown asks the question What if the United States shot down the Japanese planes before they attacked Pearl Harbor? Harry Turtledove's latest alternate, iffy history, novel, Days of Infamy, is about a Japanese invasion of Hawaii after Pearl Harbor. He asks the question What if the Japanese invaded after the attack on Pearl Harbor? Back to The Final Countdown. The Final Countdown is about the USS Nimitz. While on maneuvers off Hawaii, it enters a wormhole, and is sent back in time to December 6, 1941, the day BEFORE the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The movie is good. I saw it on television in 1983. So why didn't they stick around and fight? Kirk Douglas' character was afraid of changing history. "},{"Title":"Entertaining B-movie what-if","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" *mild spoilers ahead*This film is still enjoyable twenty years after I first saw it in the cinema. It's wildly fantastical, often cheesy and in parts plain dumb, but I still feel affectionate towards it and probably always will. The USS Nimitz (not a very old carrier at the time the film was made) gets to go back to 6 December 1941, meet up with the Japanese fleet &#150; and wonder what to do about it. Do they bomb the kerblooey out of the Japanese attack and save Pearl Harbor, or do they sit on their hands and let history play out? You can probably work it out right now, but that's not the real heart of the film. Of course, if they had saved Pearl, we wouldn't have had Ben Affleck inflicted on us two years ago, but you can't have everything. And interestingly, if they had prevented the battleships from being destroyed, the post-war dominance of the American carriers might not have happened &#150; and there may have been no Nimitz anyway. Paradoxes galore. What The Final Countdown is all about is cheering for US Naval aviation, and the film delivers the rah-rah stuff in spades, to the accompaniment of some pretty corny music, but who cares. It's fun seeing two F-14s razzing all over a couple of Japanese Zeros, and I for one always let out a chuckle when Captain Yelland mutters little bastard as the Zero pilot is taken in for interrogation. The pacing is good, the whiz-bang-look-at-our-toys stuff works well, and the acting is well, adequate for the most part. Good to see Kirk Douglas as a suitably austere and gruff skipper, and Martin Sheen has a nice turn as the civilian analyst playing exposition fairy for most of the plot. James Farentino, Charles Durning and Katharine Ross round out the supporting cast, but the best actor of all is the USS Nimitz, which despite the hokey special effects, looks like the classy lady she always has been. A deck full of Tomcats, Intruders and Corsairs &#150; those were the days. A far better tilt at the world of naval aviation than Top Gun ever will be. "}{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw it in High School. I then read the book. Between the both is is confusing but the outcome was different. I loved it though and still do. Just bought it on DVD. I fell in love with the VF-84 F-14 Jolly Rodgers. If you ever notice that they (TV) people still use the scene where the F-14's are launching. I didn't notice all the little mistakes then but, now I have. Even saying that it is still my all time fave movie. I also love the scene where the F-14's have to play with the Zero's...awesome footage! Blows Top Gun out of the water! The CAG is way better than Maverick will ever be....He's a hotshot! or Slacker! Paul "},{"Title":"The storm that changed time","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've just seen The Final Countdown for the first time and found it very enjoyable. It has to be one of the best sci-fi movies of the 1980's.The aircraft carrier, USS Nimitz goes through a strange storm and then realise it was a time warp as the year is 1941 and the Japanese are on their way to invade Pearl Harbour. Now the captain has a dilemma either let history run its cause or change history forever and attack the Japanese fleet. Two Japanese planes appear and blow up a small ship and two survivors and their pet dog are rescued and the planes are shot down. One of the pilots survives and he is taken on board which is not a good idea as he kills two of the crew and is then killed himself. The Captain takes the decision to attack the Japanese fleet but the storm reappears just as the attack commences and they end up back in the present day.The Final Countdown has a good music score and gives you an idea on what life like must be like on an aircraft carrier.Now to the cast. Kirk Douglas, who appeared in several sci-fi movies around this time (inluding Saturn 3 and, back in 1954, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea) plays the Captain and is joined by Martin Sheen, Katharine Ross, James Farentino and Charles Durning as Senater Chapman. Excellent performances from all.The Final Countdown is a must for all sci-fi fans. Absolutely fantastic.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Totally engrossing...","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" How did I manage not to run into this movie all these years? I saw The Final Countdown for the first time today, and I must say I was glued to the screen the entire time. I'm a big sci-fi fan, and really enjoyed this film on that level. It also helps that I was in the Navy Reserves from 1983-1989 and so it's nostalgic seeing ops aboard a Navy vessel somewhat within that time frame.Very well done overall, although certain elements of the film were a bit on the cheesy side (the whole side plot with Senator Chapman was just silly, and I thought the part was overacted by Charles Durning). The movie is only 102 minutes long, and I would like to have seen many plot elements further developed... around 140 minutes probably would have done it. I'm wondering if there are some deleted scenes from this film floating around somewhere -- unfortunately there will probably never be a special edition of this one, so we may never know.Really quite good for many reasons, which I'll leave you to find out for yourself -- as long as you're not too spoiled by today's computer graphics, this one is well worth a rental. If you enjoy both sci-fi and watching scenes aboard an aircraft carrier ca. 1980, you may even find yourself owning it. "},{"Title":"clever, time paradox based, hidden classic","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS Every person who has ever lived has wondered what life would be like if events were different. Hollywood in particular has thrived over the years with films dealing with this subject. Whether telling the story of an observer from a different time meddling with history, or simply telling a story where the change has already happened, Hollywood loves to do these what if stories.In 1980, a film was released called The Final Countdown. Considering the change in events if the attack on Pearl Harbour had been stopped, the film was cleverly made and with a solid cast and acting. Seeming perhaps slightly dated 20 years after it's release, The Final Countdown is still a solid film and well worth viewing.In the 1980s, the USS Nimitz, captained by Matthew Yelland (Kirk Douglas), is cruising 200 miles off Pearl Harbour. Suddenly a mysterious storm hits the ship and the crew are stunned to realise they are back in 1941. Now, with the Japanese air forces in their sights, Yelland, Commander Richard Owens (James Farentino) and civilian observer Warren Lasky (Martin Sheen) must decide whether to change history for the better.Legends in their own rights, Douglas and Sheen is certainly an interesting pairing. Made 20 years after Douglas's most famous film (Spartacus) and only one year after Sheen's (Apocalypse Now), The Final Countdown has brought together two actors who nearly always perform superbly. Working as two parts of a great trio (Farentino being the third), these two actors are brilliant as the hardened captain wanting to take events one stage at a time, and the civilian who feels out of his depth.The Final Countdown however is a good film not just due to it's actors, but because it is a well written story which ticks along nicely until it's predictable conclusion. There's no denying that it's eventual solution regarding the attack feels slightly rushed, whilst the one deeply philosophical scene is also cut short, but as a complete piece, it is entertaining enough, and well thought out enough, to keep the audience interested.As entertainment, The Final Countdown really shouldn't be criticised. Telling a well written story and containing some great acting, it has all the makings of a traditional Hollywood blockbuster. Slightly dated compared with modern films, it might not have the special effects which recent ones do, but it has enough action and story in it to make you want to watch it numerous times. Well worth watching on a quiet Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"A hardly trustworthy story, but a movie worth considerations.","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie is quite hard to believe, i mean to travel back in time and they refer to Einstein's theory. As i know that theory only means you can travel forward in time, not backwards. Well well as a science fiction lover i can accept it though, and the acting is great and truthful. The merely thought that one single ship could wipe out the entire Japanese fleet before the attack of Pearl Harbor is astonishing. What consequences would that have to the posterity? Would USA have joined the WW2 as they now actually did after Pearl Harbor? Then would Europe be in the rule of the Nazi now? This movie gives a lot to think about, and i like such movies. The reason why i didn't get more than 7 of ten is the fact that i don't really believe the story. For me it goes against the nature laws. "},{"Title":"A modern day aircraft carrier, on maneuver off Pearl Harbor, gets time-warped to the same locale, December 6, 1941","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Countdown has a very interesting concept take a modern day aircraft carrier, in the case, THE USS NIMITZ, and time warp it back to the eve of the impending Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The possibilities would be endless; there, of course, would be no Japanese surprise attack on the morning of Dec. 7, as the NIMITZ would have known, in advance, of the attack scheme and taken counter-measures to combat it. Also, the history books, as we know them now, would have undergone some drastic mind-boggling changes. Time travel, and its supposed existence, has also been a fascinating subject for movies, and this film plays that angle to the hilt.Kirk Douglas portrays Captain Yelland, the modern skipper of the aircraft carrier NIMITZ. On routine training mission outside Pearl Harbor, his command, and all the men, planes, equipment, etc., are mysteriously time-warped back to the same locality, but the date is December 6, 1941. Douglas,Martin Sheen, an expert from the Defense Dept., the other members of the crew, James Farentino, who is a Pearl Harbor historian as well as being a wing commander of a group of jet fighters, begin to realize the infinite possibilities of what they could do by stopping the Japanese attack in its early stages. However, they do encounter some 1941 era people, Katherine Ross, a secretary to a Senator Sam Chapman, played by Charles Durning. According to the history, as Farentino recounts it, Sen. Chapman disappears mysteriously during the attack, and would have been in line for the vice-presidency under FDR. Other matters complicate Captain Yelland's decision regarding the situation, and at the moment when matters could not get worse, the mysterious time-warp cloud is on the horizon in the path of the NIMITZ, and heading straight at them.Sci-fi at one of its better moments, a solid 8/10 "},{"Title":"Should rate higher IMHO","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies that the critics savaged but most people I ask who have seen it, liked it as opposed to the movies that the critics loved and most people despised. (The English Patient or Tess comes to mind.) And many people that I talked to loved this movie. Now most people you ask about an older movie can't even remember if they saw it, let alone rate it. People who saw this one DO remember it and remember it well enough to remember the premise and some of the stars. I have watched The Final Countdown a number of times and today just got the VHS tape (eBay) and will watch it once again. Ignore the 6.6 rating and watch this movie. See if you don't agree with me, it's a keeper.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, though it could've been better...","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie as a kid back in 1994 when I was nine years old and I loved it. Sure it has some lame effects (The 'storm' fx) but that's understandable, seeing how it was shot in 1980. I love time travel movies and The Final Countdown (Or U.S.S Nimitz, Forsvundet i Stillehavet as it's called in Denmark) is no exception. As it is pointed out in almost every entry on this commentary-page, it is a classical What if movie. What if Captain Yelland really decided to change history? If he did then there would have been no reason to change history in the first place since the attack on Pearl Harbor never would have taken place. But then again... Perhaps it was part of history that they were supposed to change the events in 1941 and NOT doing it would be catastrophic. Or maybe they were supposed to not having been going to do it and... This gives me a headache... But I love making my own endings to the movie... In my head of course but still...  "},{"Title":"A What if scenario...","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What if the worlds' largest aircraft carrier, armed to the teeth, went through a time warp and found itself back in time, just before the attack on Pearl Harbor during the Second World war.Kirk Douglas' character faces a hard enough decision after having to come to terms that he, his crew AND vessel have traveled back in time...to intervene and alter history, or let time remain unchanged?Not one to be watched by those who a plot that is water tight, it's meant to be viewed as a great fantasy film, not a true to life documentary that's made to give you a philosophical awakening. Sadly underrated, and under-aired! "},{"Title":"Not bad at all, really!","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's the Final countdown..dunnah, durrrnah Sorry, wrong one!! Anyway, this movie is alot like the other time-travel movies around like Back To The Future and even Star Trek First Contact. The story goes that an aircraft carrier, the U.S.S Nimitz, encounters a storm on supposed calm waters then the skies and waters turn calm again. Thinking its strange phenomena, they still think they're in 1980 but...it don't look like they're in 1980 anymore...! Starring Kirk Douglas and Martin Sheen, this is one of those 'what if..' movies. I mean, if you had the chance to change something in you're life, would you take the chance and do it? Or would you let nature take its course? It all goes back to Doc Browns theory If you change an event in the past, it could have serious repercussions on the future and could threaten the very existance of mankind. I haven't seen the last twenty minutes of it yet....but I intend to!!! "}{"Title":"This was a great movie except for the last scene...","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was a teenager. The local newspaper critic thought the movie as stupid, but I thought the movie was great and I still think it was a great movie. The only scene I did not like was the final scene when you find out what happen to Commander Owens. "},{"Title":"I liked it more in 1981","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I saw this movie in 1981, I loved it. I remember discussing it with friends, trying to decide if we would have changed history (if we had been in charge of the ship).I just watched it again on TV, however, and it seemed silly. The acting was stiff. The special effects (like the storm) were dated (since the movie is 23 years old, I guess I can't fault them for that). And the stock navy footage made me glad I was watching it on TiVo (so I could skip ahead).If you're looking for an action-packed time-travel movie, this probably isn't it (I would recommend Frequency). "},{"Title":"Favorite Time Travel Movie","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like time travel movies in general and The Final Countdown in particular.  I first saw it at the theater when it came out and I have seen it many times since then.  It's always as good as the first time.It is, of course, the tale of the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz that goes through a strange storm and emerges on Dec. 6, 1941 a few hundred miles off Hawaii.  A modern nuclear aircraft carrier carries as much fire power as the whole Pacific fleet did in 1941.  The potential for ending WWII in the Pacific before it even really began was not lost on Kirk Douglas, the captain, and the other men on the Nimitz.  Their ethical and time paradox dilemmas and their meeting with some very startled inhabitants of the 1941 world makes the best time travel movie I have ever seen.  But it was also a positive military movie at a time when Vietnam agonizingly fresh in the American mind.  It is a tribute to the honor and integrity and professionalism of the men of the United States Navy.  As a lover of science fiction it was enjoyable, but as an American still hurting from Vietnam, it was a small step in a healing process that may never end. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I vaguely remember seeing this quite a while ago (maybe even on mystery science theater 3k.  Whenever it was and however dumb it sounds, it was actually interesting.  IF you have nothing to do on a tuesday night it will fill the time. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite films","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE FINAL COUNTDOWN suffers from some problems but overall is a fine film. Fans of time travel and military aviation will enjoy this film in particular. The premise of the film hurls a modren nuclear powered aircraft carrier back in time to one day before Pearl Harbor. The film deals with the concept the ship and the crew have the power to alter history but walk softly not to. Many have complained the end was predictable yet so is the average end to any A LIST action movie. THE FINAL COUNTDOWN has enough good moments to be watched more than once and to be a acceptable as a film overall.  "},{"Title":"Very good film about time travel.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion, this is the best film about time travel after Back to the Future. I saw this movie on tv when I was a child and I felt a proof emotion, I don't know exactly why?, but this film is one of my favourites. The storm, the aircraft carrier, the sensation of power, the majestic fleet of Japan crossing the sea... This movie speaks about technology, about time and even about love... If you like Time travel movies, this film is essential. "},{"Title":"Not bad for an 80s flick","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not bad for a time travel movie. Good cast with an interesting plot involving time travel into the mist of the Second World War. I think you really need to take into mind that this film was made in 1980, so some of the special effects do look very dated. Although the twist in the end could have been played on/explored a little bit more, it is overall, an enjoyable movie for a Sunday afternoon   "},{"Title":"OUTSTANDING SUSPENSE THRILLER","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was an excellent suspense thriller. It focused on what if and on moral judgement  The action sequences abort the aircraft carrier were very well filmed.  WHAT IF there was a modern U.S. aircraft carrier in the Pacific ocean on the day before the attack on Pearl Harbor. Should the crew of the ship fight the battle, knowing that their accidental presence, through mysterious circumstances, alter history?  Should modern day knowledge and firepower by used to change the outcome of what they knew was a horrific event in history?  This film addresses these issues, and does so in a spectacular manner.  This was definately a top notch film, with a twist. "},{"Title":"Fun movie.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The dogfight scene between the F-14's and Zero's is excellent, I have watched it over and over... Yes, the plot is pretty unbelievable but note that it is science FICTION. I don't think I would go out and rent it, but go ahead and watch if it pops up on HBO. "},{"Title":"A distinctly interesting film with an amazing musical soundtrack!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen this film many times since the age of about 2 and hence can appreciate it from a multitude of levels. The quality of acting is extremely high and very convincing, the real crew of the U.S.S. Nimitz were used to fill the rolls of the extras adding to this. One of the best scenes in the film is the dog fight between Tom-Cats and Zeros!! It has a marvellous musical score which greatly adds to the mood of some of the scenes.I would definitely recommend this film, but when you see it do pay attention to the opening few minutes as these prove to be highly significant.  "}{"Title":"Beware the green mists at sea....","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, so I settled down to see the movie last night. I'd seen it before, but years ago. And afterwards, I was left feeling a little cheated.The DVD cover showed the Nimitz emerging from the storm, aircraft at the ready, and looking for trouble. What I actually got was much more thought provoking - the main thrust of this movie comes from the potential time paradoxes and not from the exhausts of the jet fighters. The action scenes were limited to one dogfight and a gunfight aboard ship, and the rest of the time it was kind of 'Should we, shouldn't we' as far as trying to stop the Japanese forces. None of these questions were particularly answered, although there are instances where the timeline appears to be trying to reassert itself. But then the cheesy ending goes and throws all that out, by letting you see the results of leaving someone there.As I said, disappointed and a little cheated. It was like a thinking man's Top Gun for the seventies. "},{"Title":"Having met DON TAYLOR in person once","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was impressed with this film. The films one flaw has always been the ending. THE FINAL COUNTDOWN has had another version aired on ABC between 1979-81 which uses edited footage which for this tv version./ The footage was replaced in the film. Two home video versions through VESTRON were released on VHS. THE FINAL COUNTDOWN went through many script changes and edits yet through this process the producers managed to make a movie which was good but not everything film audiences thought it could have been. A cult classic on video and overseas DVD this film enjoys a core audience of fans to this day. "},{"Title":"The tide's come in for Tideman !!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An excellent film. After checking it for logical irregularities, I wondered how the sailor who was present at the moment of departure could at the same time and in the same place be present, old, in the black car under the name of Tideman !!! The scriptwriter seems to have overlooked this point. Apart from this the film holds well together, events happen in such way that the course of history is not altered (how could it be otherwise). The battle between the modern jet fighters and the old japanese warplanes was just far out, especially the look on the japanese pilots' faces ! The introduction of the dog which inadvertently travels through time and recognises its mistress at the end was a very good idea indeed !! One senses the `inevitability' of what is going to happen but this does not necessarily detract from the spectator's pleasure once he or she is engrossed in the chain of events. It's above all the reaction of the various characters in the face of a situation that they believe unimaginable is nevertheless true that gave me the most pleasure, especially Senator Chapman when he sees the year `1984' on part of the aircraft !! I felt the same pleasure when watching the protagonists of the film `Philadelphia Experiment' when they entered the desert caf and saw the video machines, or when Malcolm MacDowell in `Time After Time' enters a MacDonald's restaurant in 1979 and starts `feeling' the plastic counter and ordering a `Big Mac' like the fellow in front of him ! Nevertheless these time travel films must be hard to make scriptwise, as a certain logic must be maintained, without which the whole thing just falls apart and becomes a source of ridicule !  "},{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great film in which it asks the question. What do you do? All the time your asking yourself this you are still entertained with a dynamic plot.  The only reason I can't give it a 10 vote is that there are a few technical things that I didn't feel were correctly done. "},{"Title":"starring child writer katharine ross","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Katharine ross author of the 1970's classic...grover, grover come on over. (reprinted 1991) katharine Ross is in this film wich is a tale that could have been better but suceeds on many levels. The story is a twlight zonish story of a nuclear carrier caught in a time warp storm to december 6 1941. never released in the grand rapids michgian area theatrically this film was seen in a laternate version circa 1979-1981 on ABC sunday night at the movies. circa 1981. This version featured alternate scenes and a deepening of the love story. Ross is good in this film yet in the alternate version her character is more pronounced. Never mentioned is her connection to law enforcement. In august 2000 i bumped into her in ottawa county michigan wearing a uniform. Perhaps she was in american pie 2. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first caught this flick late one night when I couldn't sleep. I turned on the tv just as this movie was starting. Maybe it's because I love time-travel yarns, but I was engrossed in this excellent tale. It's certainly not Academy Award material, but it's a fascinating story that combines aspects of war, love, philosophy and science fiction. What would you do if you had an opportunity to stop one of the most terrible events in history? Would you risk tinkering with the future? I love this film and catch it whenever it's on.  "},{"Title":"What if it happened, what if he did.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An interesting workmanlike scifi movie, with a clever script and a solid supporting case.As it has been over 20 years since I first saw it, it is one of those rare film that have aged very well, and still comes across as nice and fresh.The principle cast members all seem to have immensely enjoying there roles, as did the ships crew bit part cast members, and the film music's main theme was one of those tunes you find yourself humming after the film is over.An unusual film to say the least, and I particually liked the nice and gentle endnig to the film, and thought it was a lovely touch. "},{"Title":"Great for it's day, music was excellent and acting was superb","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Considering that the movie was made before the unversality of computers, it was amazing in terms of the F-14 scenes and the acting of Douglas, Sheen and Ross.Musically, the score was  stirring and the editing was seamless and perfect.Had the ending of the film kept pace with the ending in the book, it would've been excellent. "},{"Title":"Clever","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not often that the time-travel paradox idea can be given a new twist, but here's a decent use of the Nimitz plus an interesting clean getaway from the possible historical time-line problem.  Decent music as well.  Hard film to classify it has elements of sci-fi, service drama and old-time action thriller. "},{"Title":"Excellent aerial photography","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not only does this movie have some big name stars (Kirk Douglas, Katherine Ross, James Farentino, and Martin Sheen), but it is a good blend of science fiction and drama/action. For it's time, this movie had some of the best aerial photography I had ever seen, especially when the F-14s were dogfighting with the Japanese Zeros. "}{"Title":"The modern, nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz, on maneuvers near Hawaii with its full complement of jet fighters, find itself thrown back in time to December 6, 1941.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fun, well-done time travel movie that's no sillier in its premise than any other time travel movie.  The story is internally consistent and plausible, given the sci-fi situation.  If such a thing could happen, a real Navy captain might very well handle it just as Kirk Douglas's character does.Good script and solid acting from a stellar cast. "},{"Title":"A fun movie.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you have ever wanted to go back in time and change anything and you enjoy stores about such could have beens, then you'll enjoy this movie. The ending is a tiny but frustrating until you realize that sometimes it might be better to leave things as they are. "},{"Title":"You'll watch it over and over","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is hard to describe exactly what works so well about this movie. I saw it in real movie theatres about 5 times before it disappeared from sight. It has an excellent cast but what is compelling is the reaction of the 1941 characters who confront a nuclear aircraft carrier from the future. They continue to be themselves. Even the Japanese Zero pilots who encounter U.S. Navy jet fighters remain in character; they try to shoot the jets down! For science fiction, the film is very believable. I wish it was available on VHS or DVD. Along with Local Hero it is one of my favorite films.  "},{"Title":"Pretty doggone good","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Time travel is something which I have often fantasized about, and I don't think I'm alone in that fantasy. I have also often wondered what if there'd been just one .50-cal machine gun at Shiloh...but I digress. This film is about the US aircraft carrier USS Nimitz, along with it's modern aircraft, being thrown back in time to December 6, 1941. It takes a little while for the crew to figure out what happened to them and where and when they are now. They then begin to realize that the Japanese will attack Pearl Harbor in a matter of hours. What to do? The USS Nimitz certainly has the power to stop the attack. Do they change history or just let the attack go on? The acting is pretty fair in this film. The best performances were by Katharine Ross, Kirk Douglas and Martin Sheen. I gave it a 7. This is one to rent when you just want to be entertained! "},{"Title":"A very positive review","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A truly amazing movie... One of the best EVER. I highly recommend this. You will find yourself amazed and frustrated. Now that it is out on DVD, it is a must-own for any movie collector.A US Aircraft Carrier (USS NIMITZ) gets sucked back in time to (you guessed it) Dec. 7, 1941. They are faced with 1) trying to believe they are actually stuck in 1941 and also whether or not they should attack the Japanese fleet that is about to attach Pearl Harbor. The rest makes for a fantastic flick.The cast is one of the best and has many old favorites. Worth it, worth it, worth IT!!!!NOTE Don't watch it on cable... they cut it to death. Rent it if you can find it. You will thank me!!!! "},{"Title":"A cool little movie","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like this movie. I think I saw it on video years after it was released in the theatre but I was impressed by the good story and the interesting time travel aspect of present day going back to WW2. I also liked the tricky ending. Id reccomend it for people who like time travel stories.It's too bad that its not on DVD. "},{"Title":"Some flaws but still great.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has a very creative story line that raises some questions about the idea of time. Well, maybe it won't make you want to conduct extensive research into the subject, but the story line is still interesting.There's a few plot holes that don't add up at all, but this should be overlooked since it's bound to happen when a movie deals with going back in time.A good portion of the movie is made up of stock footage (probably from the U.S. Navy) but this should be expected as well.Finally, I was disappointed at the ending at first, since it gives a feeling of being left hanging, but then again, it leaves a lot of unanswered questions (which is probably what the directors wanted to do).All in all, this is a movie that might make you think about what your own actions would be in such a situation. Quite entertaining and provocative. "},{"Title":"Excellent, don't miss it","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	Judging by the very '80s like box cover, 'The Final Countdown' appears to be one of those cheap sci-fi flicks wannabe studios pump out at the rate of a dozen per month. I can assure you that the actual product is  much, much more. Though it sometimes has the look and feel of one of those low budget actioners, and the script is often less than what we are used to, the movie is quite well done with an extremely compelling and intriguing story.	Kirk Douglas (another indication that the movie has class) plays the captain of the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz, circa 1980. During routine patrolling of the Pacific Ocean off of Pearl Harbor, they come across an uncharted storm, concentrated in one small area. They enter the storm and once they do, they can't get out, until finally it passes. After nearly twenty hours of trying to contact Pearl Harbor, they build up the evidence suggesting they aren't in 1980 anymore, instead that they have taken a time portal back to 1941. December 6, the day before America entered the war.	Though that summary may sound cheesy, the movie actually handles the subject very well. The acting is dead-on, the music moves the scenes along perfectly and some of the aerial photography (one battle between two F-14's and two Zeroes) is unbelievable. Even the stock footage of the Nimitz, there is a lot of it, looks realistic. The entire film is like 'Top Gun' with a plot.	Since 'The Final Countdown' was made, there have been several forays into similar time-travel themes, such as the two 'Philadelphia Experiment' films. As far as the special effects go, they were probably state of the art twenty years ago when it was made, but it seems sort of dated now, still passable, but a bit dated.	The movie would play out very well on widescreen, there's a widescreen DVD version, but it's PAL only and in German, so for now you'll just have to put up with the grainy VHS version, if you're lucky enough to know a video store that has it. So the movie is highly recommended, by me, apparently by IMDb users, and by external reviewers. If you can get a copy of the movie, don't pass it up, or say 'Maybe another time', as you might not have another chance. The video has been out of print for years, and the remaining copies are likely very scratched up.9/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but the details derail it","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has a neat basic premise; a modern, nuclear powered aircraft carrier gets thrown back in time to 1941, just before the attack on Pearl Harbor.  Its kind of like a science fiction version of Top Gun.  Unfortunately, other, more detailed aspects of this film are not as promising.  The special effects aren't effective by modern standards, although this film was made back in 1980.  The dogfighting scenes aren't bad, but the writing isn't really good, and the films fails to answer some of the questions and dilemmas that it raises.  The editing was pretty poorly done, and a lot of this film came out looking goofy. But the goofiest thing of all in this movie was Martin Sheen's hair.  Now that was weird! "},{"Title":"An unforgettable time-travel epic.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sitting here, twenty years after first seeing THE FINAL COUNTDOWN and having just viewed it again, I am amazed by my reaction which equals that of my first impression of this  wonderfully mounted cinematic adventure into time.	All the elements are beautifully placed, a fine cast, sets, locations, direction and most of all, England's John Scott's magnificent soundtrack score and original music.  I've searched for the soundtrack off an on for the past 20 years and am convinced it was never issued by itself, which if true, I would find deplorable.  	This is an inspiring, thoughtful adventure that although falls into the Science Fiction genre due to its theme, must certainly be placed at the very top of the history of the genre.         It is a special must see for history buffs and all those who have served in the U.S. Navy, and enjoyed their tour, as did I. "}{"Title":"I really enjoyed this.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of science fiction and war films, this one is a treat, because it combines both genres in an entertaining way. The carrier USS Nimitz, with all her nuclear might, gets transported back in time to 1941, just before the Japanese bomb Pearl Harbor. Sure, the timing is an incredible coincidence, but hey, it's a movie...Anyway, Kirk Douglas as the captain is faced with a dilemma; does he unleash his superior weaponry against the Japanese, thus altering history? Or does he allow them to bomb Pearl Harbor, preserving history as we know it? Meanwhile, we do see F-14s engaging some Zeroes, and some taut, well acted scenes by Charles Durning, James Farentino, Martin Sheen, and one of my favorite character actors as the Japanese pilot, Soon Teck-Oh. The climax, and all the time paradoxes are wrapped up nicely, maybe a little too tidy, but overall it's fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A very original story....kept me entertained","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Final Countdown has one of the most original stories ever in a movie imagine if you suddenly went back in time right before the japanese were about to attack Pearl Harbor. Would you change history and stop it or would you let history repeat itself and allow them to attack and kill thousands of american soldiers? This movie answers that question and perfectly puts you in that situation. Another out of print classic..too bad they took good movies like this and stopped making them but kept on making the same corny, annoying garbage that's for sale today. Well, that's life I guess. "},{"Title":"Good points of this film.......some spoilers","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is a good one. It has a few flaws but, what film doesn't? The film has great cinematography, good acting, and a intruiging TIME STORM sequence. The one flaw was that the writers took the easy way out with the end, yet, made up for it (in a small way)in the last scene. I wish the 90 minute version could have been expanded to two hours. The one sequence I really enjoyed was the dogfight between the two japanese zeros and the two F-14 tomcats. I also enjoyed the sickbay hostage situation. The most interesting characters were those of LASKEY, TIDEMAN, CAG, and LAUREL. I wish more could have been done to flush out and enhance their characters. This is definately worth a view and if you are lucky, you can pick up a previously viewed copy in a auction on one of the DOT COM shopping sites. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun! One of the best!","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is without a doubt one of the best movies ever made. The plot is the kind that rarely appears. What drew me into this movie so much is that it combined sci-fi and naval aviation (my favorite!). I love naval aviation but was always disappointed that none of the naval aviation movies were any fun and were always so fake. The Final Countdown is the most realistic, and it gives such an accurate demostration and show of naval aviation. The music was cool too. This was one of the movies that gave a lot of thought. For example, it has an ending that is pretty confusing, but you can make up your own ideas. I wish it could be released on video or DVD. If you see it in your TV guide, watch it! "},{"Title":"One of the world's most powerful warships is transported back in time.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Final Countdown is one of the more unique movies of our age. It's genres is sci-fi, but it's characters and stuff is completely contemporary. That means no weird aliens running around with laser pistols. The movie itself focuses on the misadventures of the most powerful weapon of war in our day short of the atomic bomb the nuclear powered aircraft carrier. The USS Nimitz, with a crew of 6000, an air wing of 90 attack, fighter, electronic warfare, rotary-wing, tanker, and radar aircraft is mysteriously transported back in time to December 6, 1941, just hours before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The captain, ever cautious, sends out two fighters to investigate, only to discover Japanese Zeros strafing a yatch. Immediately, he orders his planes to attack. With the then-unheard of helicopter rescuing the passengers of the yatch and the pilot, the plot thickens. The passengers turn out to be a Senator and his assistant. According to history, the Senator mysteriously disappeared. If the Senator did not die, the future would be unknowingly altered. With the morning of December 7, 1941 fast approaching, the Captain of USS Nimitz must make a decision that may affect the world for generations to come. "},{"Title":"A Real Thought Provoker","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For fans of time travel, world war II or naval aviation this is a great movie. It realisticly blends the three into a compelling and thought provoking piece of entertainment. The acting is good, the effects are great and the plot is extremely interesting. Charles Durning, Kirk Douglas and the F-14 Tomcat all give memorable performances. "},{"Title":"It could happen!","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To begin with, I am a sucker for time travel stories.  Throw in stuff about world war 2 and some aviation, and I'm hooked.  What struck me about this movie when I first saw it was how realistic was all the activity on the ship (been there, done that).  I could watch the dogfight scene over and over.  I hope it gets re-released on DVD.  "},{"Title":"If you can find it, watch it!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With so many garbage films cluttering the shelves of the video rental and retail stores, it is a disgrace that United Artists has not yet re-released this thought-provoking film.  With the popularity of DVD on the rise, I can only hope that they will go ahead and make this fine film available for the general public to view again.If you're a science fiction fan and you can find this film, watch it!  I promise you an ending that will make the little hairs on the back of your neck rise! "},{"Title":"Pointless film, great photography","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unfortunately even though there is plenty of air action, one is left flat with this film. The build up is great, however as the movie comes to a close and the viewer realizes the final outcome, one cannot help but feel cheated.The paradox at the end is good. Kirk Douglas is (as always)a great presence. Marting Sheen's acting on the other hand, has a lot to be desired. Katharine Ross is adequate, but I would have liked to see more involvement with her character. Charles Durning's character was very good, if not a little over the top.This movie really had a lot of potential. It's unfortunate that the writers didn't work up a better ending. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie not available on VHS???","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it came out in 1980. I only saw it once more years later on TV. All I can say is that it is well done and comparable to such time travel films as Somewhere in Time and Frequency, let alone the all time grandaddy of them all, The Time Machine. Kirk Douglas does a superb acting job in a movie that was done way past his prime as an actor.The only other comment I have to make is that I don't understand why this film is not available on tape. It just doesn't make any sense. I go into eBay and people are clawing to get VHS copies of this. This tape isn't cheap either; they usually sell between $20 - 30 on eBay and Amazon has used copies between $44.99 - 99.99. Why??? If this movie is so popular amongst the masses, why not market it on tape for public consumption? I wish someone could give me an answer to this enigmatic question.  "}{"Title":"Fun film; great story; not best acting.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the pretext.  W.W.II & time travel!  What else could one want?  Fun movie to watch and some thought provoking stuff too.  They didn't spend too much time instructing the extras though.  And I bet they didn't do too many re-takes.  It appears they did  quick shoots with The Navy and unable to re-shoot any scenes.  Even so, I really liked the movie; me being a sucker for history, in particular W.W.II.  Just watch it for what it is, and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Two points for being Pointless and Disappointing!","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What's the point of this film? Not a bad premise but then they do NOTHING with it. They could have had some fun with it but no, they futz around in the past and then return leaving practically everything unchanged. I would have liked some action but none was delivered. Considering this is science fiction of sorts, I rate this a poor movie that wasted its decent cast with a dumb script and NO imagination. They could have at least provided some laughs bit there's none of those either. Everyone who sees this film is probably hoping that the Nimitz kicks some butts and saves Pearl Harbor. Then we could have some fun with what would happen if history was changed in that way but again ... no. "},{"Title":"Good concept, poorly executed","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The kind of movie that has a pretty good idea at its center, but doesn't do all that much with it. That idea is that a modern day aircraft carrier runs into a wormhole and ends up in the Pacific on December 6th, 1941. Should they stop the bombing of Pearl Harbor, or should they not reveal their presence, lest they change history? Unfortunately, most of the movie consists of the characters figuring out what has happened, and no one really asks the kinds of important questions you'd think they would. The cast is good, including Kirk Douglas, Martin Sheen, Katharine Ross and Charles Durning, but none of them has much to do. Sheen in particular, what was the point of his character? He adds little to the movie, except that he is Martin Sheen and Martin Sheen is pretty awesome. Just out of curiosity, I checked out Roger Ebert's review of the movie. Hilariously, he reveals the ending and every secret the movie has in the second paragraph. He also doesn't seem to understand the concept of time travel whatsoever. Was this like the first time travel movie ever? He is right that it's not very good. I'd say more forgettable than bad, though. "},{"Title":"Pure, undiluted, escapist, time-travelling, Kirk Douglas-mugging fun","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I'm going to make this quick. You could drive the USS Nimitz through the plot holes in this very entertaining entropy-effect sci-fier. I won't go into the plot in any detail or why the movie's title makes absolutely no sense; suffice it to say that some sort of time storm plunks a modern aircraft carrier off the coast of Oahu the day before the attack on Pearl Harbor. There's lots of anachronistic technology clashes, confusion, scene chewing, and general (or admiral) fun. Kirk Douglas looks to be having a blast, as well as Martin Sheen (yech), James Farentino, Charles Durning, and Katherine Ross (Gawd, it's good to be straight!) Seriously, I have only one complaint; a logic flaw so great I wonder why the screenwriter(s) let it by Why, oh why did the Nimitz launch a strike against the Japanese using fighter aircraft and bombers . . . and send them all to meet the Japanese aircraft converging on Pearl Harbor? You send the Tomcats to Pearl to slaughter the Japanese force and send the Corsairs to the Japanese carrier force to sink them. But, in the long run of history, who cares. Just watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Good Film that Has not Aged","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1980, the assistant of the Department of Defense Warren Lasky (Martin Sheen) is assigned by his mysterious chief Richard Tideman to visit the aircraft carrier USS Nimtz commanded by Capt. Matthew Yelland (Kirk Douglas) as an observer of the routines. Lasky finds that Wing Commander Richard T. Owens (James Farentino) has a great knowledge of history. Out of the blue, the vessel faces a weird storm and they find that they have traveled back in time to the eve of the attack of Pearl Harbor on 06 December 1941. When the two Japanese Zeros attack the motorboat of Senator Samuel Chapman (Charles Durning), the crew of the Nimitz rescues the senator and his assistant Laurel Scott (Katharine Ross). But sooner Lasky learns that the senator had disappeared on that day and Capt. Matthew Yelland is planning to attack the Japanese. Will these actions create a time paradox?Today I have seen The Final Countdown maybe for the fifth or sixth time, and it is impressive how this good film has not aged after more than thirty years. The story has time paradox but is engaging supported by a magnificent cast. The DVD released on Brazil by New Line distributor is excellent, with audio Dolby 5.1 and DTS 6.1 and a documentary with the unit production manager Lloyd Kaufaman (Troma) in the Extras. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Nimitz - De Volta ao Inferno (Nimitz &#x96; Back to Hell) "},{"Title":"Stays afloat despite holes in its logic","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film features a rather intriguing premise; what would happen if a modern (circa 1980) aircraft carrier were to be transported back in time to Pearl Harbor on December 6th, 1941? The how and the why of this is given almost no focus, so you really just have to shrug it off and go with it.'The Final Countdown' is at its best when the principles are debating the Should we or shouldn't we of attempting to thwart the attack. Unfortunately that aspect is given too little focus, robbing the third act of its drama. It's still a relatively entertaining film, boosted significantly by stars Kirk Douglas and Martin Sheen. "},{"Title":"It's a film","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a film it was decent. Another great display of the American military arsenal. But what ruined the experience for me were the inaccuracies. How can those AIM-54's lock on to targets WITH NO RADAR!!! or infrared missile to targets that do not generate enough heat that they could lock on to them. I know this is a film and that they get to take some artistic liberties, but to create a whole new missile homing system is too much. Just use those cannons! You have a faking 20mm Vulcan Gatling gun! And then some filler text to please the IMDb people, why does a review have to be 10 lines of text if the movies plot can be written in just one. "},{"Title":"The Twilight Zone did it first.","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" And better.That said, anything with Martin Sheen is worth watching. He's even brilliant in his small yet key role in THE DEAD ZONE. And of course he's brilliant as Pres. Jed Bartlett throughout the entire run of THE WEST WING.As for THE FINAL COUNTDOWN, it's basically two TZ episodes -- The Odyssey of Flight 33 and Back There -- mashed together ... with a WW II spin.Skip TFC and check out TZ. TFC is okay, but Rod Serling was a one-in-a-million genius. "},{"Title":"A Good Sci-Fi War Movie","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1980 Worst of Episode, Gene Siskel said that the Final Countdown suffered from the idiotic plot. Now you could consider the plot to be ridiculous, but I personally don't think the plot is idiotic in any way; in fact the plot is quite interesting.Although the Final Countdown is not a particularly great movie, it is entertaining and interesting. The whole idea of trying to stop a historical event (in this case the bombing of pearl harbor) is something that has been done in fiction before. But it's always interested me. What if you had to opportunity to stop a great disaster, would you?The cast is great. You got Kirk Douglas as the gruff Captain, Martin Sheen as the Skipper whose the most intelligent member of the crew, James Farentino as the Wing Commander, Ron O'Neal as the other commander, Katherine Ross as a woman from 1945 who doesn't serve any real purpose until the end and seems to be their just so they can have a female in the film, Charles Durning as a senator from 1945 whose very important to the plot of the film. Lloyd Kaufman (who was an associate producer, back when he was still involved with mainstream films) also makes an unrecognizable appearance as a member of the crew. His character being named Kaufman in the credits was obviously intentional. He didn't really stand out though, so I didn't notice him on first viewing.The music by John Scott is great too. It gives me a heroic / war feel.The time vortex scene is cool, even if it does feel somewhat outdated by today's standards.Course this being a time travel film, means there are plot holes, but I was able to enjoy the film regardless. It's somewhat silly, but it's entertaining.Plus it's a better Pearl Harbor movie than Pearl Harbor was. "},{"Title":"The Final Letdownn","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is this cool old Sci-Fi flick I found on Netflix from 1980 The Final Countdown. The premise of this is pretty simple. You have Kirk Douglas as the captain of the USS Nimitz. They are cruising 200 miles of the Pearl Harbor and suddenly hit some sort of storm and are mysteriously transported to 1941. Now it's December 6th 1941 just 3 days before Pearl harbor.This ends up being a time travel movie that deals with some moral issues. Do you try prevent the Japanese from attacking Pearl Harbor? If you do it could change history forever. I wouldn't say this is a bad movie.I was expecting more to happen in this movie. These people are left with the possibility of stopping the Japanese from attacking Pearl Harbor but instead decide it's better not the mess with history. I felt like there was something more that could be done to make it better. There was some action in this movie so it's not totally boring. Maybe you will like this movie better than I did. "}{"Title":"Grooming","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since when did the US Navy allow for full facial hair ? ie full beards etc..??? I guess in the 80's anything goes. I think mustaches were OK. I know it's only a movie. But being more realistic would have been nice.I thought this movie was pretty interesting. I can only imagine what it could be like if a futuristic war machine came back into the past. I guess it would be like if an actual UFO landed during our current time now and let us take a real clear picture or movie of it and post it on youtube.Maybe a real interview with Larry King too.Neato Jiffy Keen. "},{"Title":"Minor Correction to Prior Comment","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Please note that F16s are single-engine fighters and that the Navy specifies that such are not flown off carriers any longer. Only twin-engines and up. The fighters in The Final Countdown are F14 Tomcats, same as Tom Cruise flew in Top Gun.All in all, this is one of my favorite sci-fi movies of the middle years. But I agree with another commenter above Would have been fun to see the Nimitz and its planes crush the Japanese navy and prevent Pearl Harbor.Then the rest of the movie might have dealt with the possible future that would have proceeded from that. Perhaps the US would never have entered WW2 and Hitler would have taken over Europe and finished the extermination of the Jews. Or Perhaps, alternatively, Hitler might have been cowed by the mysterious destruction of the Japanese fleet and might have pulled back from his advances into France and elsewhere. All interesting possible outcomes from preventing Pearl Harbor.Such suppositions have possible implications for today What if we had NOT gone into Iraq? Would the terrorists have been emboldened, plotted further major attacks, and would we have had even more loss of life and disruption of the country than has proceeded from the decision to invade? Seems at least a reasonable chain of events. "},{"Title":"competent adult kids movie ;)","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Basically an epic take on Einsteins classic time travel paradox, the premise of THE FINAL COUNTDOWN (FC) could have easily sunk to the level of an adult kids movie, complete with a row of former A-list faces at the bottom of the poster, an audience drawer aptly applied by the AIRPORT disaster series. Nevertheless, it breathes the atmosphere of a classic spectacle thanks to good acting and competent execution.THE GOOD As mentioned above, the cast does its best with a script where often standard characters serve a script focusing on special effects, anachronism humour and deadlines to return to one's own time which are invariably endangered by an era-crossing romance. These elements can all be traced in FC. Martin Sheen is still in his younger years here and this movie is the definitive acknowledgement that his son is his spitting image, capable of arousing confusion on the screen. As a civilian on an I.A. assignment, he takes on the task of the nearly clairvoyant scientist who is instantly capable of explaining the facts on time travel and his company's current whenabouts. James Farentino (who I mixed up with amongst others James Booth in Zulu) as commander Owen is responsible for the romance. An elder Kirk Douglas portrays the stone-cold disbeliever, quite in accordance with his rank. Of the three, he gives the least enthousiastic performance. The unorthodox thing about these characters is that they evolve under influence of the circumstances in a believable way. Douglas' initial Cold War sceptism makes way for a daring battle plan, Sheen, maybe because KIA wasn't his favourite way of altering history for the benefit of the nation, grows weary of his time travel enthusiasm and Owen learns not to make as big a risk out of such alterings than he used to. They have a tendency to correct themselves in nasty ways to begin with, a few minutes of the movie which I'd forgotten about. All 3 they're realistic portrayals and people worth rooting for despite their differences. The movie points towards an inevitable direction anyway.THE BAD The pace is at times a bit too tight to my liking. A more elaborate take on the normal duties aboard the USS Nimitz, on the opposing parties in 1941 and the battle preparations might've been welcome. Also, senator Samuel Chapman is a neglectable issue in terms of alterings when compared to preventing the attack on Pearl Harbour and beyond. All we needed was a girl and a stubborn man. THE UGLY I guess a lot of people stumble over the special effects (obviously done with time-lapse photography and its brethren) but they didn't look that bad in 1980 given FC didn't have the budget for THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK. The ending is a mixed blessing too. It's cute for sure, but it lacks explanation and all in all... I WANTED TO SEE THE USS NIMITZ BATTLE THE Japanese FLEET !!! (sob) At least there was the fine Japanese fighter pilot running intelligence amok....did I mention that F-16's picking a duel with Mitsubishi Zero's and all the pieces of evidence for a time-warp of 40 years is a lot of fun ? "},{"Title":"Top notch What If movie","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lets forget the how the ship got to where (or when) it was. The story here is of the conflicts that arise as the evidence mounts that for whatever reason, a modern aircraft carrier has found itself 280 miles from Hawaii in the afternoon of December 6th 1941! Will the captain order his men to attack the incoming Japanese force and thus change the course of history, or if not, what then? Have they already changed history by their actions presiding the decision to attack or not. Lets face it, if this could have happened, WWII would have essentially been over in about 20 minutes. Suspend your disbelief and enjoy the ride. Make sure to stay with it to the end for the surprise twist at the very end. "},{"Title":"I've Seen Better Student Films","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm absolutely flabbergasted that this film was ever released, let alone given good ratings by anyone. Don't be fooled by the great sounding cast. I saw this when I was purposely watching obscure films, and it is probably the second worst film I've ever seen.There's very little if any acting going on here. The entire cast delivers their lines like they are bored. Most dialog consists of realistic but dull carrier business (i.e. orders to launch and retrieve aircraft and the like). The rest is just ludicrously, laughably bad. Emotion is virtually absent. From just sitting and talking, to exchanges during death and gunfire, the mood is decidedly flat. You know when something is SUPPOSED to be exciting by the use of raised or hushed voices and possible profanity. Character development is nonexistent. Visual effects consist mostly of inter-cut shots of real aircraft doing their business so there's no problem with realism there, but there's almost no interaction between aircraft. All special visual effects (atmospheric to blood squibs) look very poor. The film's score is no better than the rest. It's often wildly at odds with the tone of what's happening, though that may not be the case if the tone weren't so flat.Perhaps this film's biggest downfall is that it completely sidesteps venturing into the territory it promises to tackle early on, and thus has no significant climax!I don't know what film those giving this high ratings were watching, but I know I've rarely seen such a universally pitiful film. "},{"Title":"Wasted Plot!","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a terrible movie. The filmmakers had everything going for them. The full cooperation of the US military. A great what-if plot. And they squandered it all with nothingness. This movie is like the Seinfeld of action movies - an action movie about nothing. Don't waste your time with this. It takes half an hour for the ship to finally jump into the past, and then another hour for the long-awaited climax where the ship's advanced fighter jets might confront the 353 Japanese planes headed to Pearl Harbor - only to have the ship jump back to present time before anything could happen. What a waste! Yes, I realize that the movie's more about time-traveling paradoxes, but the plot summary promised more and failed to deliver. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Minor SpoilersNot to take anything away from the excellent cast, the real stars are the aircraft and the Nimitz actors. The flight scenes are what make this movie. While some may be disappointed that the Big Battle was aborted the premise was interesting and the characters were believable. Coincidently, there is a scene in the movie Midway that mentions two Japaneese scout planes which didn't return. "},{"Title":"IMDb board needs to stop giving members the run around.","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cannot provide constructive criticism because you can not get it through to anyone. 10 line minimum is stupid and impractical, most movies do not warrant that much of a description of personal viewpoint. Super dense material able to exist with earth's gravity well simply is not possible would pass through in extremely short time, to attribute cognizance to a Black Star or alien device capable of affecting space/time again highly unlikely. Danger of telling people completely ignorant of your technology about going through a Black Hole to their present from a time in the future is foolish, because how could they explain the workings of devices they were completely ignorant of. Onto the comment Kirk Douglas's character made to the ship's Meteorologist, nah, Black Cloud could not have been his real name had to have been a nickname, I digress, Black Cloud, have you been doing some unwarranted rain dances. Breaking recent news, some casino revenue gathering, bar fly native from Oklahoma suing OK Dept. of Transportation for registration plates with picture of rain god, 1 would think the natives would take that as a compliment, does it not portray part of their heritage, or is that part something they feel shame for? Clearly the guy is irrational and they is being considerate, more to the point he is nuts. Back to the topic if anyone were to make such a comment today they at the very least would be labeled racist, particularly by the media, considering what the native from OK is trying to do such comments might even get you charged with a crime. My reckoning is that by European standards the natives here were at least 350-500 years behind them, this continent did not even have horses until the Spaniards brought them across, glass, forged metal, paper, hewn lumber, a written language and ways to mass print literature all modern conveniences if Europeans had never come across. My personal opinion is unless you are mainly self sustaining you have no right to refer to yourself as a nation. I know this has very little to do with plot of movie, oh well, do not feel obligated to explain my reasoning, you and the Oklahoma native can simply get over it. "},{"Title":"It's OK, but the Song by Europe is better","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The USS Nimitz and her crew find themselves flung for no apparent reason whatsoever into the past, D-Day to be precise. It's good for what it is, which is a pure escapist popcorn B-movie. Martin Sheen can't help but pale in comparsion to REAL men like Kirk Douglas and especially Charles Durning. Furthermore Martin shouldn't be able to be in any movie that the military is involved with, but that's just my opinion. Anyway, the movie is enjoyable enough, the ending was so very disappointing though.Blue Underground Limited Edition DVD Extras Disk 1)Audio commentary with cinematographer Victor J. Kemper and David Gregory; 2 theatrical trailers; Teaser trailer ; 2 TV spots Disk 2) Starring the Jolly Rogers Interviews with The Jolly Rogers F-14 Fighter Squadron -documentary (31 minutes) ; Lloyd Kaufman Goes Hollywood Interview with Associate Producer Lloyd Kaufman -featurette (14 minutes) ; Poster & still galleries Kirk Douglas Bio DVD-ROM Zero Pilot's JournalMy Grade B- "},{"Title":"Nimitz by minute by minute","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Final Countdown is a great Aircraft Carrier movie. I really like Kirk Douglas as an actor. Imagining F-14 Tomcats shooting down Japanese Zeroes shows that America is still grouchy about the surprise attack at Pearl Harbour. Well it turns out that I have some Japanese DNA and that makes me neutral on the Battle of Pearl Harbour. Imagine if the day after President Jack Kennedy was supposed to have been assassinated, on November 23, 1963 when Captain Morrison took command of the Bonhomme Richard aircraft carrier it was really a still alive President Jack Kennedy. In 1963 the Boney carried nuclear weapons. I am sure that JFK had a super cruise. Then in 1964 according to the book Who Shot JFK? President Jack Kennedy was spotted at author Truman Capotes birthday Party still alive. No word of a lie it turns out that President Jack F Kennedy is my Great Uncle. A big hi to Clive Cussler in the bunker. I heard that the Secret Service agents had to carry you to the transportation. Now you know that my Great Uncle the American Shadow President Jack F Kennedy like lifeguarding like former President Reagan. I hope you are coping with the fact that we Democrats saved your republican behind. Remember that freedom of speech still exists so have fun writing or don't if you choose that course of action. It is rumored that the original creator of the Universe reads your books and is in our Solar system. If you look at the names Ki and Et aliens you can get the word kite, like they are someones kite, but do not be misled, the Care Rank Ki and others are highly likely to be some of the top sentient species in the Universe. If they encountered other aliens, the thought that they were someones kite might give the other guy a moment of pause. The other movies of Kirk Douglas are also good. "}{"Title":"In a few ways good, in many ways a bummer...","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first heard of this movie I thought it was goingto be an awesome time-traveling movie with lots off dogfighting featuring WW2 Japanese planes on American jet action!But do I get that? HARDLY! I found this movie boring and unimaginative. I mean, fantastic, COME ON! I could pull more fantastic sh!t outta my @$$ with less material! It has a good premise but doesn't strecth the limits of imagination. I'm not saying this is the worst part, but this movie isn't really that great. It could never sdtand up to time traveling greats like Back To The Future or H.G. Well's The Time Machine. In my opinion, go with The Philly Experiment, It looks, and feels more interesting... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had fond memories of THE FINAL COUNTDOWN after seeing it as a teenager but after seeing it again last night I was very disappointed . The cast are rather wasted especially Kirk Douglas and they`re not helped by the script`s dialouge which usually consists of  You`re not going to believe this but... and  Whaaaaaat ?  , oh and lets not forget the ropey science involved or the obvious fact that when confronted by the Japanese fleet the script decides to have a major cop out . It`s hard to believe one of the screenwriters was Gerry Davis a former script editor on DOCTOR WHO who created the cybermen for the show and who later went onto co-create DOOMWATCH perhaps the most realistic sci-fi show in the history of televisionThe premise is a very good one but spoiled by laden direction which often seems like a recruiting film for the US  navy and script ( And let me repeat the ending is a cop out ) which is a shame . This actually one film that could have benefitted from Jerry Bruckheimer at the helm  "}]