[{"Title":"First-Rate Haunted Horror","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"78 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George C. Scott loses his wife and daughter in a car accident, moves to Seattle, and rents a gigantic old mansion with a haunted secret past.  This film is skillfully directed by Peter Medak who gets more that even he probably bargained from a solid cast of actors, a wonderful script, and one great-looking eerie old house.  Medak creates tons of suspense with the barest sight of blood.  This film reeks atmosphere.  The house reeks atmosphere.  Scott's performance and that of veteran Melvyn Douglass reek atmosphere.  Doors creak, balls mysteriously bounce, water runs, windows break in the old house trying to tell Scott about the secret of a young child that once lived there.  The script is fanciful yet well-written and very creative.  Scott gives an atypically subdued performance that suggests passion, heartbreak, and tenacity.  The rest of the performers are very good too.  I cannot remember the last time Mr. Douglass gave a poor performance.  Some of the scenes that really stand out in my mind are flashback sequences showing the terrible secret that has been hidden in the house for over 70 years.  Medak doesn't have a huge budget to work with here, but this movie beats out newer haunted house films like the remake of The Haunting by leaps and bounds.  This is one classy scare film! "},{"Title":"Chilling ghost story","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"75 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling tells the story of a composer (George C. Scott) who, as the film opens, loses his wife and daughter in a tragic accident. Getting away from it all, Scott buys an old home to get his mind right and to get back to doing the work he loves. Soon he discovers that his house is haunted and filled with secrets waiting to be revealed. To say much more then that would be unfair to the first time viewer.Suffice to say this is a chilling film with several good scares that aren't achieved by manipulating the audience. By that I mean loud chords of music on the soundtrack or the unexpected cry of a cat or something like that. The Changeling works for its scares and succeeds. Another big reason the film is so well done is the performance by Scott. For a change the hero in a ghost story is not a wimp but a strong, self assured man who is going to fight to the bitter end to find the truth and get his life back. Very few actors could have pulled it off better then Scott.The supporting cast is headed by Melvyn Douglas (in one of his last roles) and Scott's wife, Trish Van Devere who projects a look of total terror as well as anyone I have seen.Two moments that stand out are the séance scene which is eerie and the unexpected arrival of a child's toy ball. This film will give you shivers. If you are a fan check it out and make sure to watch it with a loved one cuddling up against you with all the lights turned out. "},{"Title":"Very scary and atmospheric horror film","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"68 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this sadly forgotten horror film, George C. Scott plays a music composer who has just moved to Oregon to escape the painful memories of his wife and daughter who were killed in a car crash. He rents an old and secluded mansion from the historical society as a place to live. Soon after he moves into the house, strange occurrences begin.This is one of those horror movies that can be scary without being bloody and gory. It simply relies on atmosphere and frightening, but subtle images to deliver its chills, and it works. I will never be able to understand that R rating mainly because there is only very mild profanity and there is no blood or gore. Anyway, I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a good scary ghost story. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Nice and Spooky","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"60 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite ghost stories, right up there with The Innocents, The Haunting and Ringu. George C. Scott plays John, a famous pianist and composer who has lost his wife and young daughter in a freak car accident. Grief stricken and heartbroken, he moves to Washington state and rents a wonderful old Gothic mansion. Surprise surprise! It's haunted.This movie has everything. Dark, spooky stairways draped with dusty cobwebs, a boarded up room with a terrible secret, a shadowy seance scene, ghostly voices and frightening noises that echo through the huge house, political intrigue and a very solid looking ghost who scares the absolute hell out of anyone he shows himself to. It boasts a well thought out plot with several great twists and a very angry murder victim, who doesn't want to be at peace - he just wants revenge, and boy does he get it. Fans of Ringu will enjoy this tale of murder, ghostly revenge and bodies thrown down wells. Just watch it, preferably on a dark and stormy night with all the lights turned off. I dare you. "},{"Title":"Does for Ghosts what AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON does for Werewolves!!!!!","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"55 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE CHANGELING is by far the scariest film I have ever seen.  It's not because of scary monsters or gory F/X.  This film has very few gory moments or F/X. It scares with great story telling, sounds and dark corners.  It's actually quite a sad story as well.  The acting is excellent and the director is quite accomplished.  I am a huge movie fanatic and HORROR is one of my favorite genres; and I realize there are very few actually good horror movies, so take my word this is great film making.  WATCH IT ALONE and you will be very unpleased by how scared you are.  This is not a film to watch with a group.  I tried that once and everyone thought it was boring.  You need the quiet to pay attention to build the natural tension and fear.  Enjoy.  They don't make them better than this.  This is up there with AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON as the best of the horror genre!!! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrifying.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, I was about four years old.  I'm not sure if I have slept right since, I am now twenty four and it still haunts me.The tale of a lonely musician, who loses his wife and daughter in a terrible accident, and then decides to rent an old mansion in the pacific norhtwest, only to find the house has a history of it's own.  The film is paced well, set perfectly, and reveals a darker side of the bourgeouis than most are willing to explore.  A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A powerfully shocking movie if you let it be","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   I first saw 'The Changeling' in the mid-eighties and it has lost none of its edge. A few of the reviews I see below seem to be written by those who have read glowing reviews but just didn't get it  Comparisons with 'The Exorcist', a story of demonic possession, are inappropriate. This movie isn't a visual shock feast nor a gore fest,  this is a powerful psychological drama. The penultimate ghost story. If you just sit back in a defensive posture and challenge the movie to scare you, you will lose out completely. If however you choose to get involved, you will find yourself going for one hell of a ride. Few scenes in moviedom rival the poignancy, for instance, of the disbelieving George C. Scott character when he is reviewing the tape of the seance and comes upon the inescapable evidence that there IS a paranormal presence in the house. Here I will make my own inappropriate comparison In the context of this story, Scotts ultimately human and believable response and the collapse that follows is far scarier than Exorcist's Reagan spewing green puke, by a long shot.  And the little girl going alone, summoned into the haunted room in her house at night? Forget about it. My hair stands on end.  If 'The Changeling', watched at night doesn't give you a fright, then there are at least six 'Hallowe'en' movies on the rack that should suit your particular needs.  The Changeling is something else the fear of the spiritually macabre. "},{"Title":"More Chilling Than I Had Remembered","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I found this to be a pretty solid haunted-house thriller...and better than I remembered so I have changed a few things in this review. The cinematography was admirable, mainly in the first half of the film and the special-effects near the end were excellent. That was capped off by a wheelchair chasing Trish Van Devere and a railing catching fire. In all, kind of bizarre and interesting scene.George C. Scott stars and Van Devere and an aged Melvyn Douglas provide noted supporting roles. There are very few dry spots and overall, its a decent horror film and not an expensive DVD purchase - so grab it, if you can. The suspense build beautifully. Nice direction by Peter Medak. "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable edge of the seat spooky","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Never seen the late George C Scott in a film like this before,but i think he just about got away with it.Before you watch it make sure you can watch it without interuptions,prefarbly when its dark,that way you'll get more involved.The film is about a ageing music composer who,after a car accident in which is family are killed,buys a mansion,all is well to start with but soon there is loud banging at night and soon we see a medium being called in to find the ghost of a young boy called Joseph who was murdered in the house 70 years ago,Mr. Scott then trundles through the film trying to find the reason he was killed and by who.A totally enjoyable super natural movie that as a few twists and turns,a few scenes will make the hair on your arms stand up,having said all this the ending was a little predictable. "},{"Title":"A Real Haunted House Thriller!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror films have become caricature's over the years. They contain characters, situations, and elements you've seen before. The exceptions have been THE SIXTH SENSE and SCREAM. THE SIXTH SENSE cleverly turned the ghost genre on it's head and SCREAM mocked the slasher genre while still providing some good thrills. However, there is only one film when it comes to the haunted house genre.Peter Medak's THE CHANGELING is everything a horror film should be. It's suspenseful, well acted, contains an intelligent plot, and uses no special effects or gore to obtain it's objective. It generates real fear.George C. Scott plays John Russell. He's a man trying to endure the tragic loss of his wife and daughter. He rents a mysterious, old house from the Historical Society where he can compose out of. He's an accomplished piano player and takes a job teaching piano at a University. He's got quite the reputation as the size of the class is monstrous.Soon, things begin to get strange. Every morning there are loud, banging noises from upstairs in the house. These noises lead to a bedroom where a child's wheelchair is found and an old music box that plays an identical song to the one Russell's been composing. It gets even more terrifying from there as Russell investigates the history of the house with the help of Claire, a beautiful member of the Historical Society, played by Trish Van Devere. Scott and Van Devere have a natural chemistry and it may be due to the fact that they were really married.Russell finds out some surprising secrets after a terrifying Seance. The secrets lead him to Senator Joseph Carmichel, played by the great Melvyn Douglas. Carmichel tries to keep everything quiet but the dead have a way of tormenting the living and keeping old secrets alive.A great horror film can derive fear from even the simplest things. In this film a child's ball rolling down the stairs will make your hair stand up on end. There's also a piano striking a chord without a player, and a glass flying off a table and shattering during a Seance. This film is filled with those simple things and a whole lot more.Today's films are filled with quick cuts, computer generated effects, and loud scores. This film achieves it's objective in a much more subtle fashion. It's characters are real people and not just reactors. It's story is intelligent and well told. Finally, it's effect is chilling and stays with you long after the experience, the mark of a truly great horror film. "}{"Title":"Well written, atmospheric ghost story/mystery.","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw this film I was playing sick to stay home from school and watched this by myself. It really freaked me out and I wouldn't leave the living room until people got home. I was 11 or 12 years old and wish films still scared me as much because it is so much fun to be fascinated by them. In re-watching the film, it still gives me the chills. Damn, George turn on some lights! There are some great scenes in this film and the supernatural mystery is excellent. There is an awesome séance scene that is quite creepy and the revisiting of this scene later in the film is insightful, as well as disturbing. The actors in this film give excellent performances and the directing is equally superb. Anybody who really enjoys ghost stories should see this film. "},{"Title":"Literally chills the soul","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  May contain spoilersI haven't seen many haunted house movies in my time.  I love horror films but either there aren't that many about houses with personality or I have just been to Jasonized.  Either way, that is going to change for me. Because after experiencing how this movie made me feel, I am going to go out and rent as many of the classics about haunted houses as I can find.  The Changeling is everything that The Haunting (99) should have been.  This film creeps you out sometimes more than you can handle.  Where as the Haunting used 80 million dollars worth of special effects, The Changeling used lighting, sound, subtlety and an intriguing and scary story to achieve the ultimate in horror, scares, chills, shivers and your hair standing straight on the back of your neck.George C. Scott plays a man who has just recently lost his wife and young daughter to a freak accident on the highway in the dead of winter.  He leases a rather large house supposedly for some solitude so he can work on his musical piece.  But then strange things begin to happen.  At first he passes them off as just an old house having a personality of its own.  But then when the noise persist at the exact time of day and for the same amount of time, he gets suspicious.  After doing a little research, he realizes that not only is the house haunted, but it may be trying to tell him something.  And this is where the story becomes creepy.  I haven't really felt a sense of unease in many movies.  The Blair Witch was one of them, and The Changeling made me feel similar to that experience.  What this film does to perfection is uses what it has to its advantage.  There are lots of darkly lit rooms, strange noises that apparently come from the upstairs bedroom, and bouncing balls.  The Changeling is a scary movie and it would have been without the ball, but when you put the ball into the scenario, you are frozen with fear.  And for the first time in the film when the ball comes into frame, Scott looks petrified.  Before this incident, he seemed bewildered, almost curious.  He couldn't understand why all this was happening.  But after the ball, he is frightened.  Even if whatever it is that is haunting this house seems to be somewhat friendly towards him, he is still scared.I found myself yelling at the screen,  Get OUT!   I wanted them to leave the house.  That is how frightened I was for the characters in the film. And when a movie can do that to you, you have to admire it.  I loved The Changeling.  I love how it made me feel and I love how it altered my physical appearance ( hair standing straight on end ).  If you want to see a scary film that will restore your faith in horror movie, see this one. This is a perfect example of how horror films were so amazing in the 70's and 80's.  They are scary and pay attention to details.  I am not sure why films today can't do that, there are exceptions of course ( Blair Witch, Sixth Sense ) but mostly we get crap like Urban Legend and Idle Hands and whatever.  This film however knows the true roots of horror and it knows how to scare.  My recommendation is to watch this with all the lights off on a stormy night.  You will be afraid.  You will be. "},{"Title":"A Truly Creepy Experience!","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By today's Standards, The Changeling would seem tame and unscary, but truth is, this film is scarier than anything that's been out there for years! It's a ghost story, about a crippled child who is murdered by his greedy father to replace him with a healthy boy. The ghost of this child roams in the attic of the old house where he was murdered. George C.Scott's character, a music teacher who has suffered the tragic loss of his family in a freak accident, rents the house and becomes aware that there's something wrong there. Again, you've probably heard this story line a dozen times before, but The Changeling is brilliantly executed and the performance of George C.Scott is, in my opinion, very down to earth and real. Someone in this section said that his performance was wooden (and gave Keanu Reeves as an example), but I beg to differ. He is an old man who, like many of us would, refuses the idea of having a ghost in his house. His acting was very realistic. Although the movie moves at a rather slow pace, it never ceases to be interesting. It's one of those movies that needs to be seen late at night, surrounded by darkness and put full attention to. I remember I was scared out of my pants when I saw it 20 years ago and I've recently purchased it and have seen it many times again, now with my wife, who also happens to love it. One thing I will never understand is the R rating this film got. There are no nude scenes, no graphic violence, virtually no blood...there's not one curse in the dialog! Anyway, it still is a very creepy movie and if you'd like to see a well done suspense story, don't hesitate in watching this one! "},{"Title":"How did you die, Joseph?","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is directed by Peter Medak and co-written by Russell Hunter, William Gray and Diana Maddox. It stars George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere, Melvyn Douglas, John Colicos and Jean Marsh. Plot finds Scott as John Russell, a music composer whose life is shattered when an accident kills both his wife and young daughter. Relocating to Seattle, Russell rents a large Gothic style mansion from which to bury himself in his work. But he soon discovers he is not alone in the house, there is a ghost here and it desperately wants his help with something...Not a teenager or a scantily clad bad actress in sight here, for this is a traditional haunted house spooker for the adults, one that has a distressing mystery at its core that's just aching to be solved. Chief writer Russell Hunter has based much of the film on an incidents that happened to him in real life when he moved into a house in Denver. If you believe him or not is not really the point, because it does not take away from just how well executed The Changeling is, both as a scary movie and a well thought out drama. There's limited characters in the narrative, thus keeping the film free from filler and the clumsy character set-ups that mar so many horror films these days. It's also worth noting that it doesn't suffer from dating either, as Nicole Kidman starrer The Others proved 21 years later, a haunted house tale can be effective in any decade if the writing and direction is spot on. The Changeling has both, plus a towering and believable performance from Scott leading the way.Medak clearly knows that an imposing house is a key element. Utilising the big spaces to emphasise Russell's loneliness, he sweeps his camera around the sets (this is not a real house, it's a brilliant mock-up creation by the designers) to give the feeling of a spirit observing proceedings. The house is always a main character and acts as the perfect backdrop to some ghostly goings on (excellent work from the sound department too). The chills are genuine, the attic room is creepy personified, a rubber ball, a wheelchair, a bath sequence, an old water well and even the gentle tinkling from a music box, all induce the hairs on the back of the neck to stand to attention. And there's a séance! Oh yes indeed, a séance that's tape recorded, more chills down the spine on the way there as well. All played out to some lush unholy musical arrangements from Ken Wannberg (the music box theme composed by Howard Blake).Setting it apart from conventional haunted house movies is that it has a most intriguing story to tell. One of murder, greed, deception and grief. The latter part is often forgotten when talk of The Changeling arises. John Russell is absolutely stricken with grief, this stops him from being one of those characters who you shake your head at because they refuse to leave a clearly troubled house. His grief process, which makes him the ideal host for what this spirit wants, means he has no fear, some unhappy ghost can't hurt him anymore than he is hurting anyway. It's a neat and seamless meditation on grief that's threaded into the story. The last quarter of the film slips into action territory, which is a little jarring given the smooth pacing Medak has favoured up to that point. But although the scares have gone, the intelligent story has come full circle and the film closes down triumphantly without copping out or having resorted to unimaginative formula.An essential viewing for those who like haunted house movies; especially if you like slow build and genuine mystery as well. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This film is worth more credit that it's given (Revised)","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you're looking for an honest, classy horror film with charm...then look no further than Peter Medak's The Changeling. And don't let its age fool you, it still holds up beautifully well in this day and age.The premise is fairly simple. George C. Scott plays a grieving composer who has just lost his family in a traffic accident. He moves into a large house to hopefully find some peace and quiet. But if we already know one thing, it's that we know he isn't alone in the house, or else we wouldn't have our story.Indeed, there is more than one occupant in that house. And they are not among the living. At first it's your typical haunted house fluff. Doors opening and closing, piano's playing by themselves, etc. But suddenly, it's not that simple anymore. The movie takes a very unexpected turn from horror drama, to murder mystery...and suddenly our hearts are beating as fast as the plot is thickening. The film does not let up until the very end. In short The Changeling does not disappoint. It is a film that has unfortunately slipped through the cracks of obscurity and into the shadows where only the most well informed horror movie buffs are able to find it. Which is truly undeserving considering it's production value and how well it's made. There are several scenes in the film that are enough to give one intense goosebumps. The Seance scene in one such example. It's unsettling and eerie. This, among other great scenes like it...is the foundation where upon the makings of a great horror film come from.The acting is great and completely authentic. The film features a great cast and solid performances from the immensely talented George. C Scott and his wife Trish Van Devere. Both actors are well fit in their roles and add a touch of originality and sincerity to their characters.The atmosphere is just incredible. It induces such spine tingling terror without showing hardly any gore or violence whatsoever. The Changeling relies on sound, tension and slow burning thrills to scare. And it does so very effectively. Also, don't be surprised if you suddenly acquire a phobia of wheelchairs after viewing this film. You will never look at them in the same way again. This Canadian horror film is worthy of just as much praise as classics such as The Shining or The Sixth Sense. Give it a chance and you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"The BEST horror movie EVER !","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I´m 29 years old, and i REFUSE to watch this movie alone !Who needs special effects, when we have a movie like this ?! This movie is the proof that an horror movie doesn´t need any special effects to be scary. And boy, this IS scary !I love this movie and i recommend it to anyone who wants to get truly scared. Forget the stupid teenager slasher movies and watch this alone in the dark if you dare. It has no blood, no gore, no violence, but watch it alone and i dare you to go fetch a glass of water in the kitchen in the dark afterwards.This is about a good creepy sceenplay and an incredible atmosphere. Don´t worry about the age of this movie. In this twenty years no one has ever made an horror movie as good as this.A true haunting movie.If you´re not afraid of ghosts, after watching this you will. "},{"Title":"This Is One Creepy Film.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hey, wanna have a snowball fight? Yeah, YAY!!! BAM!!!!! I must say, other then the fact that George C. Scott cannot operate a phone booth door, I have nothing bad to really say about this film. I must give thanks to Destiny for recommending this one. I grabbed a copy from a friend of mine who told me that it's kind of like The Sixth Sense, so I'm going into this movie thinking that the guy is dead the whole time. It plays out, for me at least, more like Stir Of Echoes. It's nice to see where those films grabbed their influences from.While the film plays out slowly and may turn some people off, I was surprisingly hooked from start to finish and was honestly nervous during certain scenes that were spooky as hell.Even after watching the recent Changeling from Eastwood, I still did not know what it meant, thank you George C Scott for clearing things up. Speaking of Scott, he does a great job here. for some strange reason, even though there is no real indication of this, I got the sense that this guy is a bad ass. Which could be the complete opposite of what they were going for, since he was suppose to be a tormented soul that connected with the dead.The camera movements in this film were probably the scariest thing about it. Certain scenes that play out as if they were P.O.V shots that seemed to float around the house, simply terrifying. Also, the house itself is scary. Great atmosphere and tone help bring this film to another level.As I said earlier, you can see this film's influences everywhere, like with The Ring. I'm surprised it took me this long to see this film, and it's Canadian too, shame on me. "},{"Title":"Changeling Review","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I used to be terrified of horror movies when i was younger, i think everyone can remember their first glimpse of a scary film, but gradually as i grew up horror films no longer had the same effect on me. It now takes a hell of a lot for me to be scared by a movie and The changeling took me completely by surprise. I had no idea what to expect, i had just heard that it was a forgotten classic of the genre and it truly is an extremely creepy and unsettling horror. Unlike modern movies that rely on gore and cheap scares to entertain their audiences, the changeling showcases how an emphasis on psychological scares can be far more terrifying for the viewer.As well as being a disturbing horror, the changeling is a clever mystery film with George C. Scott playing the role of John Russell, a distraught man who has recently lost his wife and only child. Attempting to escape the trauma and leave the past behind him John moves into a new house but in doing so is confronted by a spirit that constantly plagues the house with strange disturbances. I do not want to reveal too much of the plot but it is a very intelligent movie, with a lot to offer for the avid horror fan. This is an exceptional film, genuinely unsettling and thoroughly entertaining throughout. Not many people have heard of the changeling which is a shame, i would rate it as one of the scariest films i have ever seen, not to be missed.9/10If you liked this film, you will also enjoy theseDon't Look Now, Poltergeist, The Orphanage, The Shining "},{"Title":"Original and inventive film, not your typical ghost story.","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While on vacation, composer John Russell helplessly witnesses the death of his beloved wife and child. In an attempt to process his grief and start over, he takes a job offer across the country. He rents an immense mansion and starts work at the local university.Things which at first seem typical of an old house start happening, noises, etc. But as these occurrences intensify into undeniably supernatural events, John finds himself pulled into a complex and terrifying mystery that he puts all the usual fears aside and purses the answers to relentlessly.What struck me about this film is how really heartbreaking it is. You feel George C. Scott's devastation over and over again. His grief is so palpable that it seems this is the very reason that the spirit in the house connects with him. He is told by outsiders that the house doesn't want anyone to live there, but he alone is permitted to stay, and he is the one resident of this house that the spirit reaches out to because he is a man who would give anything in the world to have been able to save the ones he lost.This is a classic, and by far superior to many films in this genre. An interesting side note is that the reel-to-reel recording of the séance is the earliest foray I've seen into what would now be EVP. "},{"Title":"Creep City!","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This ghost story has some of the creepiest moments I've ever seen in a horror - and it does so without blood, guts or torture.There's a full-blown mystery for George C. Scott and his real-life wife Trish to solve, after his character moves into a new home in the outskirts of Seattle. Who knew a rental would come with so much baggage.Most importantly, the story is solid, the acting is first-rate and those little moments or terror and fear have a lot of impact.If you love horror, especially ghost stories, do not pass this one up. I'm very selective about the movies I choose to own and this was one of the first DVDs I ever purchased. The film does not disappointment. Shut off the lights, curl up on the couch, and get ready for creep city. "}{"Title":"How a horror film/Ghost story should be made!","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The late GEORGE C. SCOTT plays a music teacher who's wife & kid are killed in an accident, moving away from the town where it happened, he moves into a very large mansion out in the middle of nowhere, where a ghost haunts the place, the spirit seems to be trying to tell him something, but what? Arguably this is one of the very best ghost stories ever shot on film, the creepy music, excellent acting, great characters, dialog & directing & some really spooky moments to raise the goose flesh & several neat plot twists make this a very memorable movie. The atmosphere is splendid & there's always something of interest happening in the picture to keep you watching & guessing until the closing credits. A MUST SEE for all horror fans & should stand as a lesson to Hollywood film makers that you don't need a huge A list cast, a hundred million dollars & an over abundance of CGI to make a good scary ghost story. Forget all the recent crop of Hollywood horror movies that offer no scares or suspense, THE CHANGELING is what I want to see! **** stars "},{"Title":"terrifying","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i don't usually get scared in the movies, but the changeling is the only film to give me nightmares since i first saw it when i was seven years old.i love how there's no special effects, leaving a lot to the viewer's imagination, unlike recent horror movies that have failed miserably, like the grudge. i love how the camera angle gives the ghost a perspective. i love the creepy musical score, and the wheelchair, the wheel, the attic, and the red ball. good lord, i'm getting scared just thinking about it. and hearing that it was a true incident terrifies me to no end!highly recommended! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT to this day!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my all-time favorite scary movies! I wish they'd make MORE just like this one! It has no blood/guts, gore or cussing yet it's an incredibly frightening movie!)Memorable scenesThe wheelchair The bouncing ball The Seances The House! That Music Box! The Well The MedallionMemorable and unforgettably chilling sounds in the movie That rhythmic banging! The ghosts voice The musicbox music The sound effects The sound of a ball bouncing Water runningThese are among the most frightening ever filmed! (imho) I watch this movie to this day and STILL get goosebumps! My kids also love it. Do not watch it at night in the dark, alone, I warned you!) You will never forget this movie! Watch it only alone or with others who really like quieter,spooky haunted house type movies.I literally wore out my VHS copy and got it on DVD. WORTH IT!I wish they would've made a sequel. Why more movies of this exact genre aren't made, I don't know. "},{"Title":"terrifying and thrilling","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George C. Scott gave us many great performances over his brilliant career and this is yet another. Scott stars as John Russell, a middle aged music professor who witnesses the tragic accidental death of his wife and young daughter. Four months after this happens he decides to move to Seattle, Washington and teach college there. He looks for a house to rent and finds one with the help of a young, beautiful realtor named Claire Norman (his off-screen wife Trish Van Devere). It is a very large mansion with a unknown past and Russell is happy living there at first. But all is not well at Chessman Park. A malevolent spirit soon makes its presence known to John and it is not at rest. John believes it is trying to communicate with him due to his previous traumatic experience and he feels it wants him to figure something out most likely its own death. As Russell starts to dig deeper into the house's history and he slowly yet steadily begins to unravel an evil conspiracy which is as powerful as it is mysterious and threatens to destroy Russell and Claire before they can escape its deadly grasp. There are three or four scenes in particular that will shock and frighten you especially the bathroom scene and the attic scene. I would not recommend this for small children or sensitive adults. And I feel compelled to mention the stairway scene with the ball is a legend in horror films and was even parodied in Scary Movie 2 if anyone would like to know. The wheelchair scene is also horrifying and cleverly done. Certainly one of the most scary and haunting films you will ever see it makes my own top ten list of best horror films ever made. "},{"Title":"One of the finest ghost stories ever filmed","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE CHANGELING Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby StereoWhilst recovering from a recent tragedy, a widowed composer (George C. Scott) takes residence in a brooding mansion haunted by the spirit of a little boy who was murdered for political reasons in the 1920's.Peter Medak's elegant chiller ranks alongside THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER (1941) and PORTRAIT OF JENNIE (1948) as one of the most accomplished ghost stories ever filmed. Sidelined on its original release by a glut of low budget shockers dominating US theaters at the time, the movie has since been rediscovered on TV and home video, where viewers have responded with enthusiasm to its stylish visuals and classy production values.Like the mansion in which its horrors unfold, THE CHANGELING is a grand and stately affair which forsakes all-out supernatural mayhem for quiet, creepy details (a door creaking open of its own accord in broad daylight; a cluttered attic room festooned with cobwebs where a child's wheelchair betrays evidence of a guilty secret, etc.), culminating in one of the most frightening scenes of the entire movie, in which Scott replays an audio recording of an especially memorable seance and hears... well, let's just say, it'll keep some viewers awake long into the night! For maximum impact, try to hear it in the original Dolby sound configuration...Performances are top-drawer, including Melvyn Douglas as the ageing politician whose career was constructed on the foundations of murder, Trish Van Devere (Scott's wife at the time) as the real estate agent who becomes mixed-up in the inquiry, John Colicos as a cop who thinks Scott's investigation amounts to little more than an assault on Douglas' integrity, and Ruth Springford as an elderly patron of the local historical society who provides vital clues to the mansion's tragic history. Jean Marsh cameos as Scott's ill-fated wife. Hungarian-born director Medak - who began his career with a number of critically acclaimed black comedies like NEGATIVES (1968) and THE RULING CLASS (1972) - later distinguished himself with the intense true-crime dramas THE KRAYS (1990) and LET HIM HAVE IT (1991), before getting lost on the Hollywood treadmill. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Haunted House Film!","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is my all time favorite haunted house film! George C. Scott plays a grieving widower who has lost his wife and daughter in a freak car accident...he picks up and moves to an enormous mansion in Seattle and gets more than he bargains for! Not only is this a great haunted house film(complete with strange noises, dark stairways) but it's an intriguing mystery as well. The casting, acting, and directing were all superb. However, one of the best things about this movie is that they were able to achieve suspense and thrills in such an intelligent manner without using flashy special effects or blood and guts.This is a must see in my book! "},{"Title":"Probably the scariest ever!","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw this film back in 1990 and became so scared by what I saw I had to turn the TV off before the film finished. I saw it again two years later and managed to watch it all the way through but it still remains the only film that has genuinely frightened me, and I've seen all the so-called scary films such as The Exorcist, The Omen, etc. I don't wish to say what happens in the film-as this would ruin the impact it will have when you first watch it-but I will talk a little about the plot. Musical composer John Russell (George C Scott)-after suffering the loss of his wife and daughter-moves into a mansion owned by a local historical society and soon realises that the house holds unpleasant secrets which Russell feels compelled to expose, and so begins a chain of horrific events which not only uncover the secrets of the house's past, but threaten the very reputations of Russell (for being considered insane by the police) and two other key characters, played by Trish Van Devere and Melvyn Douglas. Personally this has become my favourite film, and I feel it is also underrated as most people haven't even heard of it. Most horror films I know take a while for the 'frightening' scenes to happen, but The Changeling runs for only ten minutes before the ghostly occurrences begin. This film in my opinion is a lost classic, as it has everything a genuine horror film should have. Fightening scenes, brilliant acting and an excellent plot. If you haven't already watched it, order the DVD and see it for yourselves. "},{"Title":"Very Haunting Movie","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie with my brother on TV one night in the early 1980's when we were only about 6 or 7 yrs old, and it haunted us both for many years! I have never seen a movie since, that haunted me that much. I watched it again 20 years later on DVD, and it was still very haunting.I found this to be a very chilling and haunting tale, that for the the most part was very intense. I very much felt wrapped up in the movie, feeling the same emotions as the characters.This is a movie with excellent direction and camera work, coupled with a compelling and plausible plot, great acting (George C. Scott), and an excellent musical score.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"on a dark n rainy night","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this really is a spooky scary whatever you wanna call it movie,i wish they would re release this movie and show the new kids what a ghost story should be like,i.e the grudge witch is OK but nowhere near as scary as this,please if you can get your hands on this movie,!!!GET IT!!you will not be disappointed!!!its an oldy but a goodie!!the ball coming down those stairs is enough fer mee!!!!!!!!i cant look at stairs in the dark through this movie,honest!!and I'm 44!!!u have bin warned!!!also the late george c scot is areal gem in this one,he comes across as the kinda guy who will not be pushed about yet has a real want to understand whats going on,,he was also great in exorcist 3,,another truly scary film,,lots of quiet and bang!!major heart jolt!!!go get this movie!!NOW!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Best Haunted House Movie Ever. Period","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My all-time favourite haunted house pic. First, let's start with the house itself. Huge, ominous, creepier in broad daylight than Hill House at night. Forget boarded up rooms. How about a boarded up staircase, leading to a dark room, at the top of the house, with a wheelchair, and a music box that plays by itself. Good Lord I'm getting chills just thinking about it.Scenes. There's so many good ones it's hard to choose a favorite. Best seance scene of all time. That droning voice saying Did you die in this house? Who needs special effects when you've got that kind of atmosphere? The ball bouncing down the stairs, AFTER he's thrown it in the river. Absolute perfection. Trish Van Devere running from the wheelchair. Creepy as hell.The score. Music really makes this film. Juxtaposition of the warm classical piece John is working on with the intrusion of spooky Omen-esque choral work and the occasional soaring string section.Acting. George C. Scott. Probably one of our greatest actors giving a totally believable, passionate performance. Melvyn Douglas is no slouch either.Heck, even the poster is creepy.I've seen this movie over 20 times and it never fails to totally creep me out. Watch it with the lights on.  "}{"Title":"Chilling, frightening, lavish.","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Talk about FUN...this one is FUN.I'm with the people who say this is one of the most frightening haunted house movies ever.  For me, it really is, and it's influenced many movies that came after it, including The Others.Like Robert Wise's The Haunting, this film's ethereal manifestations are largely auditory unidentifiable, rhythmic booming sounds coming from deep within the house, etc.; and in this case there is an amazing stereo mix that exploits 3D effects and pulls you into the scenes.  It sounds great.  I wish The Haunting (the real one, not that other thing) had such a mix!George C. Scott is amazing as a composer who absolutely refuses to be frightened by the weird phenomena, ever.  Watch his face throughout the proceedings--this character is a tough cookie, but most people who watch this one don't fare so well.  Well worth a rent or a buy. "},{"Title":"One of the most frightening horror films...","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They don't make 'em like this anymore. Devoid of screaming teenagers, gratuitous T&A, and gore, The Changeling is a winner because of great acting, writing, and direction. Sadly, it was one of the last great horror films (there was perhaps just one more, The Shining, that came after it). If you've never seen The Changeling, all you need to know is that it is a superb haunted-house thriller. George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere, and Melvyn Douglas turn in excellent performances, and director Peter Medak maintains an austere tone throughout the film's nearly two-hour running time. No, it's not a horror comedy and it's not Friday the 13th (thank god!). This is not for everyone, but if you enjoy being scared, The Changeling gives you a lot of bang for your buck. It has the same vibe as some of Peter Straub's early novels, like Julia and Ghost Story. "},{"Title":"This movie, forever changed my view on the horror genre!","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is one of those movies that sort of lives on the back shelf of the movie stores' horror section. I am a huge horror movie fan but I do not usually find a movie that is actually really scary. I have tried for a very long time to find a movie to watch that will put a chill in my bones and give me goosebumps, and although that sounds very cliché it is true. This movie achieved that goal, I was freaked out and it made me think. Usually the only thinking I do when I watch horror movies is to try to figure out why the masked manic has an issue with the campers. I love those movies too, but The Changeling challenged my mind and that made it even more scary. I would suggest this movie to anyone who would like to see a real scary movie....but be warned this is not a movie to watch alone! )'  "},{"Title":"Great Ghost story, great mystery but with an ending typical for films of the times.","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a lover of ghost stories and have seen all of the best ghost story films plus I have read numerous short and long ghost stories. I recently added the DVD of The Changeling to my collection and saw it for the first time. The photography as well as the sets used in this film are very good. George C. Scott's character motivation and his acting are also very good. This brings me to the story and script. As a lover of ghost stories I found this story to have for the most, all the elements that I feel are necessary for a good ghost story. Good ghost stories should have a subtle sense of spookiness coupled with an intriguing and often puzzling mystery. Where this film fell short from my personal tastes is right in the ending scenes and ultimate climax. Without (I hope) putting any 'spoilers' in my comments here, the ending scenes and ultimate climax are typical of the trend of modern film makers feeling that they have to take every sensational film story and build it up to a tremendous climax such as in the film Poltergeist. As a person who is well read on ghost stories and also on real life accountings of the paranormal, I just do not feel that ghosts if they exist, especially ghosts or spirits of children have the kind of powers that were depicted in the ending of this film. I was dissapointed however I must say that the ending is typically good and in line with films made during this modern era. I still liked the film and will certainly watch it again and every time I see it I will imagine what I would have done with the ending and climax if I were the director.Trailrider "},{"Title":"Best Haunted House Movie Ever Made","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was working at the movie theatre in Winnipeg, Canada that played this film in 1980, and I can honestly say that except for the original Halloween, I've never heard audiences scream so much as they did watching this film.Being a Canadian film, it got a pretty decent release in Canada, and played to packed houses at the Odeon Theatre in Winnipeg for months. The first time I actually sat down in the auditorium and watched, I was just as terrified as everyone else.I've since seen it numerous times, and while nothing will ever match that 'initial' high, it still scares the crap out of me every time (and I am a horror movie fanatic) - especially that damn red ball and the bathtub (you just KNOW Robert Zemeckis has seen this movie - how else to explain the homage that is What Lies Beneath?). I LOVE gore films, suspense films, thrillers - ie every different permutation of the horror film - this one stands out in my Top 5 - it's right up there with Halloween in terms of clammy-hands-inducing terror.If you're looking for other under-rated gems of our youth, seeLet's Scare Jessica to Death, Don't be Afraid of the Dark, Deathdream, Black Christmas, Someone is Watching Me (John Carpenter's terrifying and almost impossible to find made for tv movie), Rituals.  "},{"Title":"One of the most chilling and spooky movies ever put on film! (spoiler)","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (spoiler)Yes! This is one of the most chilling and spooky movies ever put on film!Unfortunately, many people after reading raving reviews on IMDB by sincere reviewers who compare The Changeling to such films as The Exorcist are often disappointed. The reason for this is misguided expectations.The Exorcist is a masterpiece of soul disturbing shock and sheer visceral terror of an innocent little girl who is possessed by a malignant demon. The changeling, on the other hand is a magnum opus of the mysterious, macabre, and the eerie realm of the unknown. Each film a masterful achievement, however each of a very different type of horror film.The Changeling is a well crafted and enigmatical story of a man who moves into an old gothic house after the tragic loss of his family. He is then confronted by a haunting from a malevolent ghost of a murdered child.Atmospheric and chilling, this gem is best viewed when you're alone, when you're in the dark as the rain patters against your windows and the wind howls through the rafters, only then, while you are watching 'The Changeling', you must ask yourself, `are these ghostly sounds coming from my television, or the dark areas behind me?'  "},{"Title":"One of the two best","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Along with The Innocents starring Deborah Kerr, this is one of the  two best horror movies ever made. I hesitate to call them horror movies because of what that term has come to mean with today's slasher movies. These are more like psychological thrillers.  You'll want to watch them with all the lights on and the blinds closed. I originally taped The Changeling from T.V., but was very pleased when it was released on DVD. The T.V. version had edited out some of the original movie, probably for time purposes. At least rent The Changeling. Once you've seen it, you'll buy it! "},{"Title":"Is liable to scare you s***less!","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is quite well known among American horror aficionados but it is really mind-boggling how this didn't become a bigger success in the rest of the world. When it comes to sheer scares this ranks up there with such classics as The Exorcist, The Omen and Poltergeist.If you're anything like me, the first time I see a horror film - if I see it on the small screen - I have to see it alone. Having someone else in the same room takes away the 'edge' if you will. I just love the thrill of being scared silly and for me to get that sensation I can't have anyone holding my hand, or pulling me out of the movie with a disturbing cough or sigh. There are however times when I regret this self-induced terror, such as the time when I was 16 and rented Candyman and ended up turning the lights on (to this day I still can't look into a mirror and say his name five times), or when I finally saw Hideo Nakata's Ringu and actually started hyperventilating when you-know-who came crawling out of you-know-what.The Changeling is another one of these wonderful experiences of unspeakable horror when I found myself wanting to turn back the clock and wish I in stead was watching something a little more harmless, like The Amityville Horror. For years I've had fond memories of George C. Scott when it comes to scary movies, as he starred in The Exorcist III Legion, one of the most underrated horror films in modern history (that scene when the nurse gets it in that hospital corridor really sent my popcorn flying). And as always Scott is great in The Changeling and so is his real-life wife Trish Van Devere, Hollywood-legend Melvyn Douglas and the rest of the sturdy cast.But Scott really isn't the star here. What makes the show here is that house (which gets a 10 on the creepy-scale), that wheel-chair, that little red ball, that tape recorder, that seance and every thing else imaginable. You name every haunted house cliché you can come up with and The Changeling has it, but it's the fact that it does it so much better than any other that makes the end result so memorable.It is also worth noticing that the movie includes a scene with a well that almost certainly must have inspired the Japanese (above mentioned) modern horror classic Ringu (1998). On top of that it depicts a harrowing murder scene with a child that left me quite disturbed and I thought I could stomach anything, so be warned...*BOOO!*Hehehe... "},{"Title":"Yes, it IS the scariest ever","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't need to say ONE OF the scariest ever for this movie.  This is it.  #1.  It's scarier, to me, than The Exorcist, The Shining, or either version of Ringu/The Ring (which were obviously influenced by The Changeling).  I'm not going to tell you anything about the plot, because you'll enjoy it more without knowing too much...just know that it's a haunted house movie, and leave it at that.With no gore and limited special effects, The Changeling focuses on creating fear through sound, music, and identification with the characters.  And perhaps most amazingly, it's a fast paced thriller that is scary right from the first 10 minutes on...the first hour has to be the most intense of any film.  It's pure nail-biting entertainment. WATCH IT!!!    "},{"Title":"wheelchairs are creepy","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this is quite possibly the scariest movie that i have ever seen. the first time i saw it i was really young and was completely traumatized. i practically had nightmares about it and would think about it a lot. i refused to ever watch it again, just seeing the cover in the video store would make my heart beat faster. many many years later, a friend of mine convinced me to watch it again, it was still very creepy. the worst part is that since then i keep seeing all these abandoned wheelchairs in the creepiest places. in fact, there is one outside my window on the side of the street. i keep expecting wheelchairs turn and start moving on their own!! ( "}{"Title":"Terrifying","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No movie deserves better than it gets more than this. No movie has been so visually clever. The guys who did The Others and The Ring must have learned their visual ideas from this. There's just a dash of blood in the movie, and that's good; because this movie doesn't need it. Not only ids the haunting atmosphere excellent, but the story is very good. A ghost reaching out from beyond to have his murder solved genius. The Ring reflects this greatly, only with it's own supernatural touches. You must leave this site and rent it. Now.Rated R for thematic elements, minor violence, and brief language. "},{"Title":"Second best scary movie I've seen.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With the exception of The Exorcist, The Changeling is in my humble opinion the scariest film I've ever seen.  Judging by the lack of posts for this title I assume that not many have seen it.  If you haven't, then get down to your local Video/DVD rentals and get it.  You'll be glad you did. Spooooky... "},{"Title":"This is one spooky film","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  People say the Exorcist is the scariest film of all time well when i watched that film in the dark on my own i was not even scared one bit but when i watched The Changeling last night i was really scared and could not sleep very well. George C scott played very well in this film and the rest of the cast did there job well and i thought Amityville 2 was scary this is much more with high atmosphere. I must say if anyone comes across this film on tv or in a video shop this is a must see film for a spooky night.Giving this film 10/10 EASY  "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies ever","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen just about every horror film ever made, from the mainstream to the obscure of the obscure. The Changeling remains in my Top 10 for good reason. When i first saw this film i was about 12 or 13 years old and it literally scared me to death. I don't think i could even sleep that night. I can only say that about precious few horror movies.I would call The Changeling a Mystery mixed with a chilling Haunted House story...combined for the ultimate creepy Horror Movie. George C. Scott is amazing as usual, Trish Van Devere and Melvyn Douglas also do a great job.Watch this masterpiece alone, with the lights turned off! "},{"Title":"Beware the wheelchair from hell","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie - I rented it not long ago and I watched it twice before I took it back.  I will probably buy it one of these days. Effectively creepy and suspenseful, it is one of the best haunted house movies I have ever seen.   "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Taut, unrelenting and extremely suspenseful ghost story movie about a old Victorian house haunted by the ghost of children. The plot line is simple but its development, the twists and turns in the story, makes you sit on the edge of the seat all along (watch your nails, pal!). A good and sober direction by Medak and Scott is correct as usual. I give this a 8 (eight). "},{"Title":"Extremely well crafted.","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Though I think some of the praise is a little too lofty, this film certainly compares with some of the best ghost/haunted house stories of all time.  It doesn't use violence or elaborate special effects, but rather skilled acting and general crafting to evoke a chilling response.  Few films really make me uncomfortable, but this film succeeds in sneaking up on you and freaking you out when you least expect it. The ending is a little outlandish, but overall this is a gem of a horror film. "},{"Title":"The Changeling","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Superb ghost story starring George C Scott as a recently widowed pianist who moves to Seattle in an old mansion. That mansion is haunted by the restless spirit of a male child who will not stop until Scott seeks out the truth regarding his demise. The truths Scott finds along the way are quite stunning. Trish Van Devere plays Claire Norman, the woman who was his Realtor, and assists Scott in his pursuit of the truth. Melvyn Douglas(outstanding in his limited work on screen)is Senator Joseph Carmichael, someone who might have more to do with the ghost's identity than realized.It's everything I expect a good ghost story to be. The camera visuals and lighting of the house(especially that spooky attic Scott finds hidden and closed up where the ghost child's room was)are splendid, but the special effects are also solid. But, it's how the story develops that really worked for me. It isn't merely a special-effects laden exercise, but a legitimate mystery as well.Most ghost stories wish to show off their fancy effects, but this film slowly lets it's spooky stuff happen throughout the film more carefully. Scott is very good(not just sleep-walking like a lot of once-prominent actors tended to do in horror of the 80's)and his traumatic character's past is etched in pain on his face. A perfectly executed film on all counts. "},{"Title":"Indeed the scariest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" History I saw this film the first time on TV when I was about 16. I had never heard about this film before, so I had no certain expectations.But uuuuaaaahhh what happened to me? This movie pushed the teardrops of fear out of me!!! No film before it and after it had this real body felt effect to me! Not even for example The Ring or the classic Don't look now which also are superb, excellent and very, very scary.For months The Changeling was on my mind, and I wanted to see it again, so I even made a call to the TV station to show it again. But they showed the film just some years later.. I was about 20. And I watched it again. And although I knew the whole plot, I was scared to death a second time! And, as you can guess, my teardrops of fear ran over my face a second time! (Does anyone have the same experience with some other movie? I want to know) I won't bore you, but the film was shown some days ago again on TV, and it was like the two times before! Frightening, disturbing, scary.....There is no real violence in this film, but there is this certain thrilling atmosphere which chills up my spine (and the teardrops, you know..)! Again and again, from the very sad beginning until the dramatic ending.I don't have to tell the whole story, I don't have to mention the good acting, I only want you to know that this film was really the only one that made me feel my fear.. And I have seen a lot of similar films in my life.. You gotta watch it! It's a hidden treasure in film-making! Of course 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The second most terrifying film I've seen","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I won't give away much of the movie, since many comments here have said it better than me. But I must say it's a fantastically scary movie.I saw The Changeling for the first time when I was 10 or 11. It made a lasting impression, to put it that way. It's truly scary, and I didn't even get to see the really scary parts until I was older...The really good thing about this movie is how well it stands the test of time. I have watched this movie several times over the years, and it still gives me chills. Not knowing there was a DVD out I even created my own from our pretty worn VHS copy just in case something should happen to it.Masterpiece. 10/10, thumbs and toes up. Scott is excellent, as is his wife and Douglas. The soundtrack is beautiful, and the camera work is a treat. The story - so often overlooked in modern movies - is intricate and full of twists and revelations.Go see it. In a dark room, volume up - like any good film should be experienced. Especially horror films. "}{"Title":"Nice haunted house flick","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" - George C. Scott plays John Russell, a fairly well known composer who has recently lost his wife and daughter in an auto accident. To begin his life again, he decides to move and start teaching. He rents an old house from the local historical society. It's not long before he realizes that something is not quite right with the house. The house seems to be haunted. Russell learns that the spirit haunting the house is that of a young boy. A boy that insists he was murdered in the house.- This is one of the better haunted house movies I've seen. In fact, I would rank it in the top five haunted house films of all time. The large, old house, with its hidden attic, makes the perfect setting for this kind of movie. The backstory of the boy that died and the house's history are presented in a series of very spooky and effective flashbacks. Other moments that really stand out in my mind are the ball bouncing down the stairs on its own and the wheel chair chase scene. The ball bouncing scene, in particular, is one of those very subtle creepy moments that can make a movie like this.- The Changeling co-stars Melvyn Douglas in one of his last movie roles. It's a real treat to watch him at this point in his career. Back in 1932, he appeared in a one of my favorites - The Old Dark House. "},{"Title":"Pretty creepy horror film.","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Medak's The Changeling is a highly entertaining horror film that truly creeps and this is not an easy thing to do.George C.Scott plays a widower,who moves into an antique Washington mansion.Unfortunately his new home hides a deadly secret that refuses to remain buried...The Changeling is easily one of the best haunted-house movies ever made.It mixes horror elements with mystery without relying on explicit gore.The acting is nothing short of perfect,the music is involving and curiously film-noirish and the frights are plentiful and effective.So if you like classy ghosts stories like The Legend of Hell House or The Woman in Black give this one a look.Highly recommended.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best ghost tale ever","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is pretty much as good as it gets.  The feel to this movie is creepy and the story gets under your skin.  It's chilling and haunts you.  Don't watch it alone.  I have seen many films of today that have tried to copycat the brilliant ideas in this film.  The Ring wasn't first, this was.  See it for yourself.  The original, the best- The Changeling. "},{"Title":"Classy Ghost Story","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the death of his beloved wife and daughter, hit by a truck in a snowing road upstate New York, the composer and music professor John Russell (George C. Scott) moves to Seattle to teach music in the local university. He leases a huge mansion in Chessman Park that belongs to the Historical Society and has been empty for twelve years. John hears some weird noises always at 600 AM and later he experiences the contact of the ghost of a child that lived many decades ago in the house. He researches the history of the house, and discloses a despicable secret.The Changeling is a classy ghost story, almost a classic of the 80's. The horror of this scary film is actually psychological and shows no gore, but really frightens a lot with the suspenseful atmosphere tied in a great screenplay. One of my favorite sequences is the one of the ball, when John throws it in the river and when he comes back home the he hears and sees the same ball descending the staircase. I had this movie on VHS, but the recently released DVD is worth because it benefits the dark cinematography. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Troca (The Change) "},{"Title":"Worth your time","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie, and I have it on DVD. I saw it when I was a sr. in high school. I went with my fiancé' and on the way home from the movie, riding on the back of his motorcycle, I was afraid. I was afraid to look around, I rode almost all the way home with my eyes shut! This movie is different from a lot of other supernatural stories. I was on the edge of my seat just about the entire movie. The interaction of the characters is smooth and seamless, which makes sense as the main characters were married in real life.The language is pretty clean, especially for a horror movie. The hair on my arms stood up and I got chills in several scenes during the movie. One of the best scenes for me was the séance. It is one thrill after another. "},{"Title":"A true spooky story","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I understand people see Patton in George C Scott, however, this film stands on its own. without giving any details away this story is about Scott renting a house and bit by bit he discovers the supernatural residing in this creepy place. though most would run away of course Scott uncovers a dark old mystery. Hey go rent this one on DVD or tape if you must.Yea its a bit dated with the big hair big cars etc though this takes nothing significant from the plot. Scott is an actor that we can all feel safe with though in this film there are times that would scare anyone. Another good point is that this film doesn't get bloody or gory the art is in the suspense though there are a little bit of skeletons in the closet of the film.If you like Six Senth or the other spooky type films this one is a class act you will enjoy this flick. A great deal for a cheap old rental! "},{"Title":"Terrific Supernatural Thriller","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is a film which comes with my highest recommendation possible. This film can easy become one of those rare ones who really scares you. A few preparations need to made first, though. Watch this film late at night if possible. Don't turn on too many lights and make sure no other sounds then those coming from the movie can ruin the atmosphere. This really was one of the best stories I ever saw. It's a known film but not so much as the Amityville Horror, which was released around the same time. Well, in my humble opinion, The Changeling is much better. Much more intense to say the least. Director Peter Medak proved himself to be a great storyteller more than once already. I remember the Krays biography to be very good and Romeo is Bleeding too. The Changeling belongs to his earlier work but still is one of his best films. A respected musician, Russel, loses both his wife and daughter in a terrible road accident. Only 4 moths later, he accepts a new job at a university and he moves into a new and very large house. Right after Russel moves in, the house starts to act strange. Weird and disturbing noises wake him up in the morning and he discovers a secret attic, with a mysterious wheelchair and music box in it. Russel is intrigued by these objects and, seeing that the secret room belonged to a young child, he feels related because of what happened to his own daughter. He starts to dig deeper and more intense. To find out more about the whole case, he even holds a séance to get in contact with the mysterious child. This particular scene is really breathtaking, I assure you. Actually, the whole evolution of the horrifying house is breathtaking. It really gives you the creeps. George C. Scott gives away an excellent performance. When he loses his family at the beginning of the movie, you can really feel his pain. George was one of the greatest actors who ever lived and he was able to carry a complete movie all by himself, like he did here. If you like his acting as well, you should really check out the Changeling. "},{"Title":"I don't understand why so many people think this movie is scary, cause its just not...","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just finished watching this film about 10 minutes ago. I was compelled to add my comment here so as to offset some of the reviews here on IMDb that claim this movie is the scariest movie ever. I know now that I am vastly different than most of the people who saw this film and commented on it, because at no point during my viewing of this film was I all creeped out. The Exorcist was creepy. The Omen was creepy. The Texas Chainsaw Massacre genuinely disturbed me. This movie is not only boring, but TOTALLY predictable. The story is also quite pointless, leaving anyone with a brain to wonder why the ghost is doing what he is doing, and what the general point of the film was to begin with. As for the acting, I have no complaints. And if it wasn't for the decent acting, this movie would have sucked 10 times more than it already does. Maybe if I was like 8 years old, this movie would have been a little scarier, but at the ripe age of 29, and with hundreds of GOOD horror movies watched, I have to rate this film with a 4 out of 10. If you want a really good haunted house film, watch The Legend of Hell House. "},{"Title":"Adequate, but overrated","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I sought this film out based on all the high praise it has garnered and now find myself scratching my head over all the fuss.  This is standard haunted house fare at best.  Competent for the most part, but nothing particularly special.  Only the considerable screen presence of George C. Scott elevates proceedings above TV movie status, though not enough to overcome a very ordinary script and Peter Medak's by-the-book direction.  To be fair, the film does provide a few minor shivers along the way, but most of the time we're treated to jingling chandeliers, swinging doors, haunting voices and a music box that plays on its own.  Hardly what I'd call original.  There's a mysterious back story at the center of the conflict, but when the big secret is finally revealed, it proves less than satisfying.  Worth a look if you happen to catch it on late night television.  Otherwise, pass on a rental. "},{"Title":"This is going to get a little complicated!","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ********************** Major Spoilers ********************This was sure one of the most difficult movies for me to rate, strength points are up to the best cinematic pieces, and weak ones that wouldn't fit even in the worst B slashers. Unfortunately those weak points are deep into the structure of the movie that they sweep all the strengths!This is of course an original film, you can see the influence it made on such films as The Others (my all time favorite), Stir of Echoes, The Ring and What Lies beneath.It also is one of those Realistic movies, where when people find a body, they call the police, not just keep moving bodies around and kill each others as if they were on another planet!Add the chilling scenes (wheelchair moving, the ball falling on stairs and the boy killing scene), and this would be all about it with Ups of this movie.Downs, on the other hand start with one big question What was the boy trying to do? Whether he was trying to get revenge by killing those involved in his murder, or trying to expose the reality about the murderer father and stain his name forever. It can't be the first one, or he would have easily killed the senator the same way he killed the dirty -or the misled- cop! And it can't also be the second, or he would have tortured the musician until he forces him to go to police/press with story and evidences! or at least if the guy fail him, he wouldn't have just burned the house (crime scene) burning all the evidences and ending his last hope that one day someone may help him expose the truth!Similar contradiction arises about whether the senator knew about the crime or not. If he didn't know, why pay the woman at the (whatever) to tip him that a man and a woman are researching the past owners of the house? So he knows, but then how come he died of shock when he saw what he already knew his -alleged- father did? I tried to excuse this contradiction by assuming that he knew that he was adopted and passed as the real son, but did not know that the father Killed the real son. But points like this shouldn't be left for assumptions, that's why it was another Down of the movie.Also, what is the significance of choosing a guy that has lost his daughter to help him? Wouldn't any one help exposing a murder unless he was a father who's lost a daughter? meaningless and unnecessary addition to an already weak story line.So, its good as a Friday night pastime, but if you are looking for masterpieces of cinematic craftsmanship, this won't be the answer for you.  "}{"Title":"One of the most scary movies ever","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"21 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is one of the most scary movies ever. The acting was great from George C. Scott and the rest of the cast. This movie gives thrills and lots of scares. It scared me so bad, which is very hard to do sometimes. I've seen many horror movies in my days, but this one is one of the best. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie.  "},{"Title":"Above average chiller in which a music professor moves to Seattle  mansion where takes place weird deeds","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Effective horror movie about a strange house located in Seattle that causes creepy goings-on in a new tenant . The film contains restless terror , thrills , chills and usual poltergeists phenomenon . This is the classic version about the infamous house with lots of screams and rare deeds in which a composer falls into supernatural terror . After the death of his beloved wife (Jean Marsh) and daughter, a man named John Russell (George C Scott) hires an impressive house to a landlady named Claire Norman (Trish Van Devere , in real life married George C. Scott) . John rents the old turn of the century house and staying at the secluded historical mansion . Russell finds his life being haunted by the presence of a spectre and suffers experience beyond total fear . John and a Police Inspector (John Colicos) investigate mysterious circumstances surrounding a strange death . .Suspense , mystery , shocks and grisly horror is this splendid terror film about a haunted mansion . This is an interesting , suspenseful and horrifying story , based on a story by Russell Hunter and screenplay by William Gray and Maddox . The movie is partially based on actual events which supposedly took place at a house in Denver, Colorado, in the 1960s . The Chessman Park neighborhood in the movie is a reference to Cheesman Park in Denver, where the original haunting transpired . The film contains restless terror , usual poltergeists phenomenon caused by a ghost and the usual ghastly shenanigans result to be strange sounds , doors suddenly slam , running wheelchairs manifest as attackers , among others . The movie begins slowly and grows more and more until the twisted , creepy and eerie finale . Good picture , thanks to magnificent acting , right pacing , well mounted edition and skillful special effects . Excellent support cast formed by notorious secondaries such as Melvyn Douglas as Senator Joe Carmichael , Jean Marsh as Joanna Russell , John Colicos as Captain DeWitt , Roberta Maxwell as Eva , Barry Morse as Dr. Pemberton and Eric Christmas as Albert Hammond . It is produced with acceptable budget by Mario Kassar and Andrew J Vajna , Carolco , and well recreated with high grade special effects that are frightening and horrifying to spectator . It's actually a decent terror movie that achieved enough success at the box office and it will appeal to ghostly and eerie events fonds. The picture packs a colorful as well as dark cinematography by John Coquillon and eerie musical score by Rick Wilkins . The original ¨Exorcist¨ film (by William Friedkin) spawned a wave of demonic possession movies that continues unabated today as this ¨Changeling¨ (by Peter Medak), ¨Amytiville ¨(by Stuart Rosemberg) are two further examples of this sub-genre and following a great number of clumsy, stupid sequels .The motion picture won best picture in the Canadian Film Awards and was well directed by Peter Medak , but before he was given the job, two British directors were considered; Tony Richardson declined due to creative differences . The picture has had a great influence of wide range , for example , Spanish filmmaker Alejandro Amenábar has claimed in several interviews that this is one of his all-time favorite Horror movies, up to the point of inspiring several scenes of ¨Tesis¨ and ¨The others¨ . "},{"Title":"Finally someone gets it","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What sets this movie apart from other horror films are the little things. It's never overly gory. It's never overly anything. But it's the subtleties that make it outstanding. The ball coming down the stairs. The banging that starts out small but gets louder as if to say, Look at me. My personal favorite is the clairvoyant, who is just doing her job but manages to summon the frighteningly present, Joshua. And of course, George C. Scott manages to offer us his pain from his loss, but his discovery of the unseen in his house. I like that it layers many stories, but it's George's pained character that manages to out the ghost and set him free, which also sets George's character free.This to me is horror at it's finest. "},{"Title":"Surely one of the gems of the spooky genre","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now I know the third best ghost-story movie in the world it's The Changeling. The other two masterpieces are Hasta el viento tiene miedo and Lady in White, each of which has its own strong side Hasta el viento... is realistic and mysterious, Lady in White is beautiful and touching, The Changeling is atmospheric and solid. As others said, it has a really, really nice cinematography (especially I liked the use of wide angle lenses), lighting is also top-notch (no Holliwoodish darkness with tons of light from the behind!), acting is incredible, in a word, as I said very solid and very very atmospheric. As to the plot it's also very intriguing and convincing, not like today's screamy-bloody Hollywood trash. And chilling, yes, it's chilling as only a few of other movies are. The first sight of the ghost face is amazingly scary. Absolutely worth watching even if you think ghost stories are stupid. "},{"Title":"The Amityville What?","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While I am not a big fan of haunted house films, the American public has always been fascinated by the notion of restless spirits at work where we sleep. I consider Mario Bava's Shock the high point of this subgenre, though Peter Medak's The Changeling comes awfully close in terms of suspense and atmosphere. George C. Scott plays John Russell, a NYC composer/pianist who loses his wife and daughter in a freak accident; decimated, he relocates to Seattle, quickly assuming a teaching position and living in a vacant mansion owned by the local historical society; not long after, Russell is awakened by an inexplicable loud banging, and uncovers a boarded up attic room that portends a revelation I won't give away. The film avoids convention very well (for example, the relationship between Russell and Realtor Trish Van Devere never turns romantic), instead opting for an old-fashioned campfire-story quality where the supernatural is left to our imaginations. While Shock was awash in Bava's painterly image overkill (which suited his purposes), Medak is minimalist to a fault there are some spectacular high- and low-angle shots taken from inside and outside the mansion (like omniscient POV shots from select crevices and corridors) that turn it into a character unto itself; also note the claustrophobic emphasis placed on characters in narrow corridors and stairwells. The first hour of The Changeling is very effective, building slowly to two brilliant scenes the first involves a chest-tightening séance; the second involves Russell listening to the recording of it. But, as is inevitable with film, the plot begins to unravel in its second half, as a string of dark secrets implicating a U.S. Senator (Melvyn Douglas) comes into play. The screenwriters admirably keep the developments as spare as possible, thus maximizing their intended effect--by the end, we are fully convinced that Russell, in his attempts to 'liberate' this spirit, is also trying to purge himself of the grief over his loss. The Changeling is a straight-faced, wonderfully subtle horror film, buoyed by fine performances--Scott especially, whose unlikely presence here lends the character and situation a pathos it might not have had otherwise. Think of it as a refreshing alternative to The Amityville Horror (both versions).(By the way, The Changeling's R rating is deceptive; while some scenes are intense (not explicitly violent), it would drift between a PG or PG-13 by today's standards.) "},{"Title":"A recently widowed man moves into an old mansion, trying to reestablish himself. As he settles in, an unknown force tries to communicate with him.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember this movie when I first saw it. It was not quite what I expected, but has since become one of my all time favorites! It has a nice mix of suspense and intrigue, along with a realistic and believable storyline. The music adds to the haunting sadness of the story. The setting for the movie was incredible, and I found myself reading through the credits to see where the movie had been filmed. I have since attempted to purchase the soundtrack, but was unsuccessful. George C. Scott is very believable in his role as his character becomes increasingly dedicated to discovering the truth behind the activities in his new home.I strongly recommend this movie, for anyone who enjoys a scary movie that doesn't depend on special effects and gore! If you enjoy this movie, try Black Christmas, When a stranger Calls,or the original Dead Zone. "},{"Title":"Simply a great film","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't believe it has been over 25 years since this film was on the big screen, but it still holds water. I have been seeing more comments recently about this movie and how well written the script was. This was a smart and some same brilliant movie that didn't get its due at the time but like many movies is making a comeback. Like other great movies of its time,(The Shining) this movie doesn't leave you hanging at the end. It carries out it's mission and leaves you feeling fulfilled. I hope they do a remake of this sometime in the near future, it doesn't need to change much, just a technical makeover, plus it would be good to see this replayed on todays screens. "},{"Title":"just follow the bouncing ball","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Need chills that are multiplyin'? might lose control......and actually scream...? the electrifyin' CHANGELING is your film. Quite simply this is THE haunted house chiller of the late 20th C. The Robert Wise thriller from 1963 THE HAUNTING is a very good close second and for laffs thrills and screams for fun you might find it's a dead heat between the 1958 HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL and the 1973 LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE....but...kiddies...THE CHANGELING is the one that will have you climb up the seat grimacing and making weird 'oh no oh no' sounds. This haunted house film delivers. I used to run a cinema and the thrill of screening this pic...especially on a midnight to dawn marathon was glee itself. Teens just freaked out completely with genuine fear. Some would come into the foyer and admit it was too scary and would not go back into the cinema. Then the whole placed would lift with some terrific shock and the noise of really scared people would burst through the whole building. You should try this at home. Invite friends over, turn off all the lights and ...enjoy. . THE CHANGELING is also one of the most genuinely sad and heartfelt films about family tragedy so skilfully created. Director Peter Medak has pre dated THE SIXTH SENSE by 20 years with a tale of dread and ghosts and creatively, powerfully drops real frights one after the other onto the startled faces of his audience. The séance is one of the most chilling ever...and I defy anyone to be in the seat when they 'follow the bouncing ball'. See this one tonight.....late. "},{"Title":"This certainly scared me","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've just watched The Changeling for the first time and it certainly scared me in parts.After losing his wife and daughter in a car crash, composer John Russell moves into a creepy mansion that hasn't been lived in for 12 years and he is not aware of it being haunted. It's not long before strange things start happening when he heres strange banging sounds. He then finds a sealed off door to an attic room and in here there are plenty of cobwebs. We then learn about this building's past in 1912, a 7-year old boy was killed by his dad after he drowned him in the bath and it is this boy who is haunting the place. After more strange and creepy happenings including the boy's wheelchair chasing a woman down the stairs, the mansion burns down. But the in the ruins, a music box starts playing on its own accord...The Changleing is very scary in parts, more so the scenes in the mansion, complete with thunderstorms.The cast includes George C Scott (The Hustler), his real life wife Trish Van Devere, Melvyn Douglas and Jean Marsh (Return To Oz).One surprising thing is that somebody who I know hadn't even heard of George C Scott, and this person worked in the cinema in the 1950's/60's, when he became a big star. If you want a real good fright, The Changeling is certainly one of the best. Brilliant.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Classic spook","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A very well executed ghost story of the classic haunted-house kind. A strong central performance by George C.Scott gives it a sense of reality often missing from FX dominated movies. If you like M.R. James or Shirley the Haunting of Hill House Jackson, I reckon you'll enjoy this. Slowly growing tension, a few scary bits, and the ubiquitous oh my god the stupid woman's going back to the house scene. A terrifically eerie seance, exploding windows, a disturbing flashback and the scariest chair in the business - how can you resist it? I see that it was released in 1980, the same year as The Shining. One thing I really enjoyed was the use of sound and Medak's creeping camera - very reminiscent of Kubrick's use of steadicam in The Shining. Wonder if they'd seen each other's film before shooting started...? "}{"Title":"A Beautifully Filmed Masterpiece Of Suspense","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is a beautifully filmed masterpiece of suspense.I saw this movie many many years ago, and it held my attention throughout the movie. I purchased the video so I could sit down and watch an excellent thriller whenever I want to see an above average film.I have not seen this shown on television in such a long long time.The Changeling appeared to be filmed in the northwest in the Seattle area.That was the first smart thing about this movie. The scenery and the setting are just wonderful to see. The huge house that is at the center of the storyline is what appears to be a magnificent old mansion. I do not know if it was real, but it is something to see. A whole town could live in this mansion.The writing and the setting and the actors just made this movie so good. George C. Scott was really good in his role. Trish Van Devere was wonderful as the lady.Melvyn Douglas was very very good in his role.I do not want to give away anything about the story so people who have not seen this movie will be surprised.This is a 1980 movie that is far superior to many movies.Horror fans check this film out. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Incredible","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night. I purchased an original 1979 VHS copy to get the real effect. After watching the movie I was astonished at how smart the screenplay was and how a suspense/ horror can actually make you think. The acting by George C. Scott was great, as well as the acting from the historical society lady. Her reactions to the wheelchair scenes were very believable and made you just as scared as she was. Terrific job.SPOILERSThe best and scariest scenes were the seance (the lady scribbling the words from ghost, Joseph), The several wheelchair scenes (the wheelchair appearing at the top of the stairs and scaring the historical society lady stiff, the wheelchair chasing her out of the house), the utterly creepy little boy and girl voices emanating from the house, and the final scene with the Senator entering the attic and witnessing his father's murder. Very memorable!The intensity this film presents is amazing. There are very few 'down-time' scenes. Those scenes were quick segways into the eerie parts, which filled most of the movie. Highly recommended if you enjoy well-made movies and especially the horror/ suspense genre. One of the scariest and believable I have seen. This is in my top 4 scariest movies of all time, right along with Poltergeist, The Exorcist, and House on Haunted Hill. GOOD BYE!  "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is a wonderful horror movie. Great acting abounds in this movie. George C. Scott is a master of his craft and his performance in this movie is superb! Melvyn Douglas and Trish Van Devere are wonderful as well. The Changeling is great in part because it takes itself very seriously. It's a great script that is backed up by excellent acting talent. This movie is a classic haunted house flick. One of the best ever. I personally rank it up with the 1980 movie The Shining! Great story, great acting, and truly being scary are a few of the reasons that anyone that is interested in great horror movies really should check this little gem out! 9 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"Excellent Supernatural Thriller","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many years ago I happened upon this sleeper while watching tv in the wee small hours of the morning.  I was transfixed.  Yesterday, I happened upon the DVD in a bargain bin and, once again, I watched, transfixed, into the wee small hours.  But this time it was widescreen and uncut...This is an outstanding example of the 'supernatural thriller' genre, and certainly in the same league as another sleeper from the era, the excellent Don't Look Now.  My list of movies that meet the terror threshold is a short one1.  The Exorcist 2.  The Exorcist 33.  Don't Look Now4.  The ChangelingThe men that directed these movies understood the importance of silence and stillness as tools for building tension and suspense.  Furthermore, although children play a crucial, and curious, role in each of the movies I've listed, the movies are adult in nature  with the exception of The Exoricst, the protagonists are exclusively middle aged to elderly.  Of course, Megan is certainly a protagonist in The Exorcist, but she shares her prominence with both the Priest and Megan's mother, both middle-aged.  There is little of the modern horror movie's frenetic, youth-oriented, sex-soaked, gore-filled, slash-fest overtness. I wonder if Hollywood is even capable of making movies like these anymore?  I seriously doubt it. "},{"Title":"suspensful","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie ... although i'm from a different generation then it was originally made to scare, i found some scenes incredibly effective.  There are many parts where you can feel chills run down your spine... if you're spooked easily by hauntings this is a great movie!! although some may found it a bit boring compared to the hgih budget action movies that are now our horror movies, it has a good story line.  There is no music, which adds even more suspence, surprisingly ... the way it was filmed makes the movie! "},{"Title":"If only they still made horror movies like this","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently bought The Changeling on DVD because I first saw it when I was much younger at around 3 in the morning. I was flipping channels when I found this movie just starting. The first 5 minutes sucked me in and I watched the whole thing. I found the movie to be pretty good and quite freaky as well. Based on that memory I decided to take the plunge again and I was not disappointed. The Changeling displays a quality of movie making that is sadly becoming rare. George C. Scott delivers a fiery performance as usual as Jack Russell, our tormented protagonist. The sets are moody and perfectly fit the tone and atmosphere of the story. This film manages to be spooky without descending into camp, and suspenseful without overdoing it. The supporting cast brings up the rear with fine performances all around, and the music contributes to rather than distracts from the film. Bottom Line If you're looking for a obscure old movie to curl up and watch with your significant other with the lights out, then you can't do much better than this.    "},{"Title":"Oh boy....","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  not for the faint hearted. just when i thought only japanese horror was truly scary, this film gave me a heart palpitation. ranks with 'Dark Water' as one of the scariest ghost films ever (and im not easily spooked). track it down if you can.  "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An old film but a good one nonetheless.Not concerned with over the top pyrotechnics or CGI ghosts and ghouls, this film delivers a great cinematic experience that has you jump out of your seat on several occasions.It works on your nerves by introducing simple things like a constant banging sound from one of the unexplored rooms and an eerie looking wheelchair that looks uneasily out of place.This film is not like your Freddy and Jason slash em up horror films but rather a clever psychological spook story based around a powerful family and it's history that has literally come back to haunt them.Don't miss this classic gem. "},{"Title":"Really good movie","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really like this movie. It freeked me out the first time I watched it. I had never heard any thing about it until my mom bought it one day. I watched it with her and there were some parts that really gave me goose bumps. This is a great movie and I think every body should see it! "},{"Title":"One of the Best Ghost Movies","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was one of the best Ghost Movies I have ever watched.  I saw it back in 1980 when it came out and it scarred me then. I still get a bit spooked when I watch it.  I usually like to turn off all the lights and watch it alone, it is great.  I thought Scott did a great job as well as the others.  In my opinion this is one of the greats in the horror genre. "}{"Title":"Classic haunted house story.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a film that doesn't really break any new ground, but is a great example of avoiding cliches in a tired genre.  This was the last example of a classic atmospheric haunted house film.  I only wish Hollywood would put out more films like this and less bad remakes i.e. The Haunting, House on Haunted Hill. "},{"Title":"3 words creepy as hell","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A great ghost story/mystery. This movie was creepy plain and simple. It didn't rely on shock or gore, just an uneasy feeling that the film projected throughout. I didn't want to write a long review on this film though I love it and could go on and on. Even a childs ball seems sinister in this flick. I have turned on anyone I know that likes scary movies onto this gem. Just watch it and be prepared to be scared. "},{"Title":"Better Than The Shining","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**   One of the best,if not the best, haunted house film of all time.Excellent acting by George C. Scott,really brings this story to life.I dare you to watch this in the dark it will scare you senseless.And watch out for the ball rolling down the stairs and wheelchair scenes.One of the most spine tingling scenes in a horror film period.This movie is great since there is no blood and gore,only the isolation that works on your mind gives the house a living presence all its own.A must have,pick this up,you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"This is a great scary film.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am at a loss why this film hasn't been given the credit its due in the world of spooky film. I consider this, the film that all others of the genre must measure up to.  It still gives me a shiver which is so rare nowadays. Its a truly great scary movie. "},{"Title":"Mature and Intriguing","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is not a teen/slasher film.  It builds slowly, but the movie is not slow.  This is the first 'ghost' movie I ever saw in which I actually cared about the ghost.  'The Others' and 'The Sixth Sense' came much, much later...and in that way, this film is similar.  The reason for the haunting is heart-breaking and may even bring you to tears.  And yet, the creepiness factor is in full force as well.  I watched this on Halloween with my boyfriend, who doesn't care for 'old movies' meaning anything before 1985.  He liked it very much.  Most definitely this is in my top five of all horror/ghost movies.  I need to get the DVD version. "},{"Title":"Underrated horror movie","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is a truly underrated horror (or if you prefer, terror) movie that will scare the crap out of even a jaded viewer. Evidently recent films such as Stir of Echoes and The Others were inspired by this film. Admittedly I rented The Changeling for a reason George C. Scott, who was great in Dr. Strangelove and Patton. I for one don't understand the film's R rating from the MPAA. This movie have no gore, no profanity, no nudity -- just genuinely frightening scenes that would give small children nightmares.As an adamant horror fan, there are few films that are truly scary and almost unbearable to watch because of nerve-racking tension, dark mood and dreadful atmosphere. The Changeling succeeds without resorting to lame and phony scare tactics like throwing a cat out of nowhere.Other genuinely frightening films to recommend are The Haunting (1963), Night of the Living Dead, Black Christmas, Don't Be Afraid of the Dark, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Halloween, The Shining, Dawn of the Dead, The Thing, Nightmare on Elm Street, Stephen King's IT, Ring (1998) and Dark Water.The Changeling is a great movie to watch with a partner in the dark on a stormy night. It's terrifying to watch this movie alone late at night like I did...almost gave me a heart attack.        "},{"Title":"Really spooky","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not many modern films are as spooky as this flick. A wonderful movie that scares you without the gore commonly seen in horror movies.  The first time I saw this movie I couldn't sleep. The second time I saw it was in a stormy night.  It was even scarier than the first time.  If you like scary movies this film will really do its job. ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Joseph.....","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Halloween was never this scary.(seems impossible)This is terrifying! The scariest movie I've seen so far.Suspense, shock, and terror.CLASSIC! No useless nudity or useless gore in this!Sheer class. "},{"Title":"Finally","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie at some point in the eighties and was stunned. I'm a big fan of horror movies eventhough I usually get dissapointed in them as most horror movies are, in fact, bad. I have forgotten most of the movies I've seen at this early age, but this one stuck to my memory. When I saw it again in the mid-nineties it was even better. Most people don't know about this film and a girl that watched this movie with me at that point recently said to me do you remember that movie The Changeling? It still haunts me. Believe me - the title is difficult to remember for Norwegians and she still remembered it. Now I have finally purchased this wonderful movie on DVD (thank you IMDB and Amazon) and will enjoy it again with friends tonight. This film is right up there with The Exorcist and The Shining. And I just love the subtleness of the horror. No greasy mess or loads of blood. Just plain chills like WHAT was THAT? "},{"Title":"Best haunted house film ever made","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Since the first time I saw this film when I was 6, I've been trying to find a haunted house film to top this. I still get chills in certain scenes (not going to spoil it for anyone) nearly 20 years later. They don't make 'em like this anymore, only wish they did. Until they do, nothing will beat this one in the haunted house genre for me (and I've seen a bunch). "}{"Title":"Terrific movie.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's not much else to say about this movie except that it's a very fine film that deserves more attention. Horror fans might find it a little hard to swallow at first, I know I did. If you like blood, gore, and a body count, try this and see what a movie can do without it. At first, the slow pacing of this film almost made me turn it off. Nothing was happening. But it got a little more interesting. As I kept watching, the movie just kept getting scarier and scarier, all along building up the tension to heart-pounding moments. After a while I realized what a great film I had rented. This movie scares your pants off without any zombies or excessive gore, and there's not even a killer. Great direction, good acting, and eerie music pull you in and chill you to the bone. This movie packs a punch and it hits hard. I sat alone in the dark as the seance scene played on my TV and I have to say I was freaked out. And I have watched horror all my life. Nothing really gets to me. Another moment when a character stops and finds a wheelchair on the stairs landing is handled so well, it still gets me every time I watch it. This movie builds and builds to heart-stopping scenes that are well worth the pay-off for its slow pacing. It works its way up to give you the full effect. If you want to see how great a horror movie can be without all the conventional garbage, see this. It is a superb haunted house flick that hasn't lost its touch. In fact, the 2001 film The Others might have been inspired by this. Great movie. Don't watch this alone like I did. Trust me. "},{"Title":"Take it from me...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie in like 5 years, and while just thinking about it, I'm scared to walk to the next room of my house.  That is what a profound effect this movie had on me.  I will never watch this movie alone.  I might have a coronary if I do.  This movie is not recommended for those with a physical condition, because it will trigger a symptom.If there is only 1 horror movie you ever watch again, let this be it. Good luck. "},{"Title":"A not-so-well-known Classic...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When discussing great ghost movies, very few people I talk to have seen or even heard of this film. I then proceed to tell them that it is one of the scariest of creepy ghost movies and a must-see for all those who enjoy a good scare. This is a great haunted house movie, with mystery, politics, seances, bouncing balls, wheelchairs, and plenty of frights. Hard to find sometimes but well worth the search. George C Scott is great in the lead as a man with a troubled past and tenant of an old mansion (with more than one occupant). So if you're planning a video night of ghost flicks, this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Looking for a good companion piece?","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you are, try 2001's The Others and remember, you saw Mr. Tuttle and automatic writing here first! This overlooked film is quite underrated. I've watched it many times and it never fails to impress! I believe Alejandro Amenabar, director of The Others, must also be a fan of The Changeling. "},{"Title":"The best horror film ever made","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has a wonderful cast and it's plot line is chilling. It's simplistic approach to the supernatural makes for blood chilling terror. George C Scott is magnificent as John, and Melvin Douglas is cast in one of his best roles. This is a must see for any horror film fan. I give it 10 stars. "},{"Title":"The other side of... the Others","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the few thrillers that actually had me biting my nails, the Changeling is a spooky story about a haunted house, that sounds a bit ordinary, if you just hear about it, but is actually more complex than the average ghost story; that's mainly due to the element of drama that's been added to the story, even though the main character ends up as a caricature of himself, as he gets sucked into the ghost story (he abandons his work and personal life) too quickly. There is mystery, eerie atmosphere and a lot of suspense, so I guess these make up for any shortcomings.By the way, it is quite remarkable to observe so many similarities to last year's flick The Others... There are also some scenes reminiscent of the Shining (which, of course was based on a novel) and even Coppola's the Conversation. Weird...7 "},{"Title":"Spooky Movie","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first got to see this film when it was shown on British television on BBC2 as a late Saturday night movie. I was alone and thinking it will be pretty feeble as a few ghost story films are this one scared me to death. Very spooky and the seance was all to chilling. Definitely a must see, you guys in the States are lucky as its out on video and DVD I am still trying to hunt it down over here as it is unavailable to buy at present. "},{"Title":"Spine Tingling","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have been aware of this film for years, but for some reason, have never seen it.  Until now.  Wow!  What a perfect example of what a scary movie should be.  Understated, without excessive gore, profanity or violence. Plenty of atmosphere and real chill-inducing moments; AND a mystery, too!  So, George C. Scott stars in TWO of the creepiest, underrated films ever made (this and Exorcist 3).  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Go buy this movie on DVD!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After reading all the raves, I decided to pick up the DVD ($10 at Best Buy...you cannot beat that).  I am a huge horror movie buff, and after one viewing this is already in my all time favorites list.  Featuring great performances across the board, a tight script, and a lot more plot depth than your average haunted house movie, there is nothing of note to complain about.  The DVD, while lacking any features, has a solid (if sometimes annoyingly grainy) anamorphic transfer, and a good Dolby Surround soundtrack (though a 5.1 track would have made it even better).  And if you're worried you'll get Scott doing an over-the-top hammed up performance like he did in the also underrated Exorcist III, don't.  Though when he was looking through the files on the house in one scene, I was secretly hoping he'd scream IT'S NOT IN THE FIIIIIILE! for no apparent reason.  I still don't understand why it's rated R, as it has PG level cursing, and no real gore whatsoever.Anyways, bottom line, if you can't stand the lack of truly scary and suspenseful horror films around, pick this one up. "},{"Title":"My Number 1 pick for every Halloween!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that I am sad this movie has not gotten the attention it rightly deserves as one of the few *GOOD* horror movies.  It didn't even make it to the top 50!  I think the problem is that it hasn't been widely seen.  If you haven't seen this on a dark night with your friends, you owe it to yourself!  This is one of the few movies that still scares me and I've seen everything from Amityville Horror to Psycho.  If you're waiting to discover a great horror movie, this is it.  I will leave you with this...George C. Scott is excellent as always and it's not your typical gory horror movie--the psychological creepiness is so exciting!!  Very intense and definitely one to cuddle up under a blanket with.  "}{"Title":"Ranks up with the best of them","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe I hadn't heard anything about this movie other than seeing the box in the movie store.  This film is fantastic.  You could say its a 'ghost story' or 'haunted house movie' but those terms wouldn't give this film justice.  It is so much more.  Great direction and camera work, wonderful acting by George C. Scott, an exceptional music score, and enough chills to appease any horror/thriller movie fan.  I've been watching horror films for most of my life and I thought I knew all the 'ground-breaking' and 'seminal' films of the various sub-genres until I saw this.  Its a shame that The Changeling doesn't get the proper respect it deserves.  Very well executed and chilling, I would recommend this movie to virtually anyone and highly recommend it to any horror/thriller fan.  Do yourself a favor and rent it.  "},{"Title":"Classy, stylish, and utterly terrifying","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has got to be the most shamefully underrated horror movie ever made. Everything good that other users have said about this film is true. Changeling pulls off the task of scaring the hell out of you without the use of gore or excessive violence. It's also surprisingly beautifully filmed--taking full advantage of the natural and architectural beauty of Seattle and the American Northwest. You also couldn't ask for a better story-line, or more capable actors. I've watched and appreciated this movie many times since it was first released, and it still gives me the willies.If you want to have a really enjoyable time being scared, don't miss seeing The Changeling. Just don't watch it in a big house all alone. "},{"Title":"All of the good scarey stuff, none of the gore.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has it all, if you're looking for a spooky good time.  There's a terrible family tragedy and the man who's left somehow to deal with it;  There's a really gorgeous & at the same time chillingly creepy old house - and of course there needs must be a discontented ghost rattling the rafters and generally making life frightening for the main characters.  All of this is achived without a single exploding skull or ripping out of even one person's guts. The story is so good I gave the film a rating of 10 in spite of the over-blown dramatics of leading lady Trish Van Devere, and a very late '70's dated feel of the musical score.  George C. Scott is at his gruff-voiced, understated best - he really carries this film nicely on his substantial shoulders.Watch this one alone at night ONLY if you don't have a faint heart or otherwise get creeped out easily.   "},{"Title":"One of the Top Three Ghost Stories Ever Made!!!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is one creepy,suspenseful and scary movie! The first time I saw this movie, I was with my cousin, My mother recommended it, she loved ghost stories. Anyway, we both had our feet braced against the chairs in front of us. The music box melody, the ball, the pounding noise and the wheelchair were all so subtle and yet so terrifying. This along with the original Haunting, and the Innocents would be perfect Holloween film festival fare. I bought this tape as soon as I was able to find it. It is a good story, with good acting and very little special effects. Other commenters on this being sa truly scary movie are correct. Those who are critical about it have probably seen too many Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street blood, guts and nudity flicks to know the difference between truly horror and scary things as opposed to shock for shock values sake. This low budget, by Hollywood standards movie, proves you don't need CGI and gross blood and guts to tell a very good story.Subtlety like a door opening by itself, a strange noise and voice coming from nowhere can achieve the same results. This is a truly great movie. One of the best ghosty-horror movies ever made. Four stars. If you haven't seen it rent it. You will be enjoyably scared!! "},{"Title":"Haunting and Chilling","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was 8 years old when I first sat down to watch this movie and here I am, almost 20 years later, still affected by the subtle chills that enveloped by senses. I've never forgotten this movie and it still gives me chills when I curl up to watch it. It's haunting... ~~Warning to those of you who haven't seen this! The following contains a *few* spoilers~~ John (George C. Scott) is a music professor living in New York State with his family. While on vacation, his wife and young daughter, Kathy, are taken from him suddenly in a tragic car accident. Trying to deal with his grief while attempting to somehow move on, he moves to Seattle and finds a job there at a local college, teaching music again. His friends mention to him that the local historical society rents out old homes and maybe, if he'd like, he could rent one. He agrees and soon we are introduced to Chessman House. Things are fine for a little while and we see him settling in with his music, his lessons, etc.  It doesn't take long for the hairs on our little heads to start rising and the goosebumps on our arms to begin forming...little by little. John is dreaming about the day he lost his family and wakes himself up, crying. Suddenly he begins to hear a loud banging and decides to check it out. A repairman tells him that he should remember that saying about old houses...They make sounds,. He shouldn't worry about it because it's probably nothing. But John isn't satisfied, especially after hearing it two days in a row, at precisely 6 in the morning. Not after what he's seen in the attic room. Or the ball that once belonged to his daughter, bouncing down the stairs. Is it just a coincedence that the same piece of music he's playing on his piano is also the same on the child's music box?  He further decides to do some investigating, see about the history of the house. The woman who first showed him the house at Chessman, (Trish Van Devere) gladly helps him and he two begin an aggressive investigation, leading us on while our hearts continue to beat just..a little...bit... faster. We not only recieve a history lesson, we not only learn about The Changeling...we're given a real treat that so few of us can say we've had in the last 10 years.It's refreshing to put this movie into my DVD player and know that I'll be just as scared now as I was when I was 8.  For those of you who are 20 and under and who haven't seen this movie, I'd like to point out that just because this was made in 1980 and doesn't have the usual gore factor, the usual cliches, etc..that doesn't mean it isn't worth watching. Pick it up on a Friday night, turn out your lights, get under the covers and be prepared to have your imagination tweaked. This movie relies on atmosphere, the little things that you don't notice right away--but will, soon after you've pushed the stop button and tried to get a good night's rest. Remember to have an open mind when you're watching and, if possible, leave those recent 'horror' movies..at the door. This movie delivers, plain and simple.  "},{"Title":"Most Memorably Scary Movie Ever","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was finally able to locate the title of this movie, only recalling that it was centered around an old house with a ghost named Joseph and frightening scenes involving a bathtub, a wheelchair and fire.  I remember watching it when I was a little kid and being literally afraid to step on the floor or get off the couch.  For years, when I opened the attic door, I was afraid that a wheelchair would come crashing down after me.  If you're into new movies like the Sixth Sense or Stir of Echoes, where dead people try to communicate with reluctant new residents of old houses, check this classic out. "},{"Title":"Scaring me takes some effort, and this film pulls it off with flying colors.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I read about this little-known film called The Changeling and heard the plot synopsis, I can't say I was terribly interested.  A while later, I looked it up again out of boredom and found some very positive reviews on this site. I decided I'd give the film a chance after I found out it starred George C. Scott.  I thought he was absolutely fantastic in Patton and Dr. Strangelove.  So last night, I rented The Changeling.This film absolutely blew me away!  The acting was top notch the atmosphere and story were scary throughout.  The film put so much up in front of you and left it all to your imagination to figure out what was going on.  The story follows Scott's character, a piano composer named John Russel, a man who moves into a house in Seattle after his family wife and daughter are killed in a car accident.Strange things begin to occur in the house and Scott discovers the house is infested by an entity.  He begins to dig deeper and deeper into the houses past and makes a shocking discovery.  This film has plenty of scary scenes to blow your mind, I will tell you no more.  If you were disappointed by the special effects crap fest that was The Haunting and hate the moronic teen slasher films we are force fed, go out and rent this undiscovered classic. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best haunted house movie ever!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this back when I was a kid and it scared the hell out of me.  Years later I have watched this movie more times than I can remember and it sill gives me the willies every time.  I have made all of my friends watch it and every one of them has been very pleasantly surprised.  The best way to watch of course it late at night in the dark by yourself.  The actor's performances are stellar and the house, as the main character of sorts, steals the show.  It is rare to find a film that will scare you like this one even though it has no masked killer in it, no blood and guts and no half nude teenagers running around.  A true classic of the genre. If you like to be freaked out by haunted house stories and you have never seen this, you must go rent it immediately! "},{"Title":"This one is the BEST!!!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen this movie dozens of times over the years and it still gives me shivers and makes me jump.  Psychological thrillers can be way more scary than any gory film!  If you are thinking about renting/buying this movie - DO IT! You won't regret it!   "},{"Title":"Prepare for goosepimples!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This exemplary movie harks back to the best of Hitchcock in that it frightens with few if any special effects and a minimum of blood and gore. The chills come from the small things, the significance of which can only be understood as the story unfolds. The music, too, is brilliant as it is essential to plot rather than merely an accompaniment to the action.  The performances, particularly that of George C. Scott, are restrained and beautifully economic. The Changeling is on my 10 best films list.  "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had to watch this movie in my high school English class and while it scared the living daylights out of me, I absolutely loved it!  It is so hard to find a very good horror movie...one without a killer who slashes everyone to death.  This is your classic ghost story with such a good storyline that you will be glued to your TV, wondering what will happen next.  The séance scene is great, but what happens next when John Russell is alone, is one of my favorite scenes!  About 8 years ago, my best friend found this movie and bought it for me (knowing it was one of my all-time favorites) and I while we have upgraded to DVD's, this is one VHS movie I won't let go of!  It's a must see!!! "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this from Hollywood video, cause I heard alot of good reviews on it. Well, it was great, 1 great horror film. Well, I quickly had 2 buy this & then I found it 2 buy at Hollywood video-SP mode & all. If u like haunted house/ghost movies-U MUST SEE THIS! This is 1 of the best hanuted house/ghost horror movies ever made. Was it me or was there a few scenes taken or copied in movies like Sixth Sense, Stir Of Echoes & What Lies Beneath? I could say those scenes but I dont want 2 spoil anything from this great film. Its definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"A ghost story that will scare even the most jaded film watcher","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a rarity.  Not only is it scary, I mean goosebump scary. George C. Scott is great but the real star of the film is the house.  Now that's a haunted house!  Not at all like the house in the remake of the Haunting - which was just a hydraulic gimmick.  This is also one of those rare horror movies in which the suspense is built slowly and there is little to NO blood!  I can't recommend it enough.  The only downside to the film is the music and well, you just can't escape that crappy 70's, early 80's instrumental theme music when watching a movie, well....filmed during that timeframe.  Do yourself a favor and watch it! "},{"Title":"A superior thriller","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A great ghost story with the late George C. Scott and his wife at that time Trish Van Devere. It's great watching them work together. It's a wonderful puzzle That keeps you guessing all the way. One of the most frightening films I have ever seen. Don't watch it alone. And of course Melvyn Douglas is Great. Winner of 8 Genie Awards! Have fun.   "},{"Title":"the classic ghost story","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you ever see a scarier film than the Changeling it's either The Shining or your kidding yourself! This film is about as good as it gets in the scare yourself silly department. Everything about the movie is perfect.The cast are tremendous,led by the incomparable George C Scott,the directing is subtle yet powerful and the story itself is clever demanding and above all chilling. I won't spoil you with the details of the plot,the fact that it involves a haunted house,political intrigue and murder is enough.If you like your movies to scare without the need to gross you out then see this film,If all the critics in the world got together to list the top 10 scary movies of all time this one would be in the top 3! "},{"Title":"A Canadian Horror classic","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing this film on the CBC when I was a kid...scared me to death.  I recently rented it not long ago. Yes the film is dated but it is still far pretty than most of the horror films that have been made since.BTW for Sundance from Kansas, this was not a Hollywood film...it's Canadian my friend. "},{"Title":"A movie every fan of ghost stories should see.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although some comments would call this a great horror movie this one doesn't.  However, it is a very good one that relies more on mood and tension than big effects.  There is virtually no gore, and we don't see the ghost until about halfway in.  If you are a person who like to have the monster or killer pop out every twenty minutes or so, then steer clear of this one.  It works more on your nerves than on shock value, although I can think of one part that the ghost pops out that does work.The acting is outstanding and there are some great parts of tension (with the seance and the red ball that won't go away being the best).  Altogether a very good ghost story without needing the high budget of most of today's ghost story movies.  It probably didn't want it anyway.  "},{"Title":"THIS IS MY ALL TIME FAVORITE MOVIE (and I have seen a lot of movies).","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George C. Scott.  ----> He alone is a reason to see this movie. See this movie.  It is the scariest, spookiest, non-gory horror flick that I have ever seen.  The plot includes a combination of frightening paranormal activity with a believable tone that will make you look over your shoulder when you go to bed tonight.  If you don't see this, YOU WILL MISS OUT. "},{"Title":"Super Spooky","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film when I was about eighteen years of age, and I have never forgotten it, that's how spooky it is!!Basically, George C Scott is being haunted by a child who died in tragic circumstances, so there is no blood or gore, but very haunted house type scenes of objects moving by themselves etc, that start off quite chilling but get more so as George C Scott gets closer to the reason why the child is in so much pain and cannot rest in peace.An old film, but definitely worth watching.   "},{"Title":"We never tire of this one; it is scarier and more intriguing each time we visit Chessman House.","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen this movie four times now, and each time is a more satisfying experience than the last.  The first time I watched The Changeling, I had to go to the dictionary to find out just what a changeling was.  Over the course of our viewings, I have learned the meaning of a changeling, and I have finally followed the entire plot!The special effects and music are appropriate to every part of the story, sufficiently scaring us again and again.  Several members of my family have even taken to enacting scenes from the movie here in our own house.  These scenes (which I will not reveal here) scare my daughter to death every time. She has threatened to never watch this movie with me again, but each time she relents.  For those who love being scared -- and by the old-fashioned power of suggestion, not a bunch of gore --this movie is one of the best!I would call the music deliciously eerie.  Congratulations to Rick Wilkins and those who performed the score.  George C. Scott is perfect for the lead role.  His wild-eyed appearance and gruff voice, along with his virile determination to get to the bottom of a mystery hypnotically carries us along. Trish Van Devere is excellent also.  I am especially impressed with her fits of fright and panic!I don't really like the inclusion of a medium and the supernatural because these things can be really real in our world and are best left alone. However, these elements are essential to the story.  I don't know why the film is rated R - only once is there the kind of profanity that would be edited out for broadcast TV release.  Perhaps it is the supernatural element or the (small amount of) violence; I don't know.I am reminded of another one of my favorite movies when watching the Changeling The Uninvited with Ray Milland and Ruth Hussey.  Enough said. I would like to watch The Changeling again tonight -- with my sister -- who has not yet experienced this thriller delight! "}{"Title":"Outstanding work by Scott","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Patton was his best.  This is next.The Changeling is one of the best horror movies ever made.  It scares you the best way possible through your own imagination.Outstanding work.  Make sure that you go to the bathroom before you watch this movie, because if you don't, you certainly will about halfway through! "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time when i was 13 years old, it totally freaked me out. Even on the way home in the car i was still horrorfied.Defenatly the scariest movie i have ever seen. I'm into all kind of horrormovies, but never made a movie such an impression on me like this one did. Now almost 20 years later, i still haven't seen a horrormovie that comes even close!! See it and believe it. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Most horror movies don't scare, they shock. A movie that can make you AFRAID and not just jump is something rare. After watching The Changeling I turned all the lights in the apartment on. Even though the ghost isn't evil, he's still scary. I never thought a ball bouncing down the stairs could be so frightening. Very little special effects are used, and compared to The Haunting(1999), this is way better. Here, the actors are the stars, not the special effects.  "},{"Title":"This movie is a thrilling ghost story.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some movies use special effects to bring us to the edge of our seat. Others try to frighten us by catching us unawares over and over.  This movie needs none of those devices.  Brilliantly acted, by Oscar-award winning actor George C. Scott, this haunting tale makes the hair on the back of your neck stand up with a flawlessly crafted tale of ghosts and things that go bump in the night.  I saw this movie in the early eighties and it has always been one that I share with my friends and family when we want a good scare without being inundated with blood and gore.  The plot is one of intrigue and discovery that will surprise and thrill you.  It's worth seeing... and worth owning if you can find a copy. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of all the great movies George C. Scott has done The Changeling has always been overlooked but not by lovers of great horror movies AND Scott.If you love good ole spooky movies and Scott,see this movie.The only other thing left to say is,turn out the lights and bring on the popcorn. "},{"Title":"If you like ghost stories, this is a must see!!!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just knew that when I checked the user comments for this film that it would be filled with praises of high acclaim. I only noticed a few who didn't like it. In fact, when I checked one of their other reviews they described Anaconda as a movie with good acting.......need I say more????The truth is, The Changeling one of the best haunted house ghost stories there is. I remember seeing it on television back in the 80's during Horror Week on a local TV station; I've never forgotten it. George C. Scott plays a grieving music professor who is trying to move on with his life after the death of his wife and daughter. All is fine until he moves into a haunted house and thats when the thrills, chills, suspense, creepiness, and even mystery begins.In short An interesting plot, an old house, with disturbing sounds, a creepy soft spoken ghost, moving objects, creepy cob webs, and a mystery that will have you guessing till the end. How can I tell that you'll like this film?Easy, the first tell tale sign is that you'll start touching your face with your hands. You might even close your eyes a little often than normal, and if you're really effected, you might even jump right out of your seat. -If you're a fan of good writing, good acting, and are more effected by creepiness than gore, then you have my word The Changeling delivers!!!!!I've seen this many times and I still think its equally creepy each time. I can't say that about many films, The Exorcist and The Changeling are the first things that comes to mind.  "},{"Title":"Top Notch Horror!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being a fan of G.C. Scott, I can't help but love this one.  It will scare the socks off of you in no time.  It has all the perfect elements of good drama to compliment the spooky parts too.  Much, much realism! If you should rent it...turn off the lights, grab your honey...and get ready to be SCARED.    "},{"Title":"It gave me chills","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why can't Hollywood still make scary movies like this? My sister recommended this one and the title sounded like some cheesy horror movie with a bad latex monster in it. Was that ever a misleading title. This movie really creeped me out! If you've ever found yourself disappointed by Hollywood's latest slasher film (I don't CARE what you did last summer!!) or special effects extravaganza (The Haunting of WHAT?? Not me!), I highly recommend checking out this story of a man haunted by his own past as well as someone else's. Good performances all around and an intriguing mystery make this worth a look! "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers ever made!","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Look up spine tingler, hair raising and spellbinding in the dictionary and it says, See The Changeling. No gore, no ghouls, no blood and guts all over the place, just good cinematography and story telling. "},{"Title":"Scary, creepy then as now","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Another movie I saw as a child that I located on video again as an adult and fully enjoyed. This movie is suspenseful, quite sad at parts, and also EXTREMELY CREEPY...I recall the scene that seemed the most freakish to me as an 11 year old was the cobweb-encrusted child's wheelchair moving on its own... it still freaked me out as an adult, as well as the scene where the ball bounces down the stairs after George C Scott has thrown it over a bridge.  This type of poltergeist or haunted house type of scenario scares me more an any of the slasher type horror films, really. George C. Scott's character solving the mystery behind the house is excellent, as well as the ending.  "}{"Title":"One of the best suspense/horror films ever!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Along with Rosemary's Baby, this is the horror film I recommend to anyone looking for a change of pace from the typical slicin' and dicin' horror flick. It has everything a haunted house, a cool seance scene, moving inanimate objects, and of course the people without common sense who want to investigate the creepy noises coming from the fourth floor attic room that's been locked up for decades. A brilliant performance by George C. Scott and great supporting work make this a must for anyone who likes horror. "},{"Title":"Still frightening after all these years","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen The Changeling at least a dozen times since its release, and it never fails to frighten me.  The story is wonderful, the plot is tightly constructed, the performances are excellent, and, best of all, the film never descends into the ridiculous gore typical of horror films.  This film is not comparable to Poltergeist or the dreadful Amityville Horror -- it is far superior to them, and to the earlier The Haunting.  The Changeling is so good, so effective, that I wouldn't classify it as a horror movie at all.   "},{"Title":"Frightening!","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This truly is one of the great scary films!  No gore, no chopping off heads and other body parts.  No gratuitous nudity.  Just plain old white-knuckle suspense.  Well defined characters and an excellent story all around.   "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies I've seen!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is one of the scariest haunted house movies ever made.  If you were going to rent movies that were comparable to it, I would suggest poltergeist and possibly Amityville.  George C. Scott moves into a giant house he is leasing from a historical society.  It turns out the house is haunted by a spirit not at rest.  The climax of the movie will have you gripping your partner's arm!  I live for horror movies, and almost thought I was beyond being scared.  This great horror flick put me back in my place. A must for all horror fans! "},{"Title":"Intelligent, suspenseful thriller.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Remember when you were young and you'd see a scary movie? And years later, you'd see the same movie again, and you'd wonder how you could ever be scared of something so foolish? THE CHANGELING is the exception!  I saw it when I was about ten, and again when I was twenty-seven, and it's every bit as scary now.George C. Scott portrays a widower, grieving the recent deaths of his wife and daughter.  A composer and professor of music, he relocates to Seattle and rents an old mansion for its conservatory.  While coming to grips with his own daughter's death, he finds himself the unwilling caretaker of the ghost of a child haunting the house.This extremely well-written, well-acted, and well-directed film manages to frighten even after you know who the ghost is and why it's haunting Scott.Despite a somewhat unnecessary shock scene and a coda that doesn't completely satisfy, this is arguably the best haunted house movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"The essence of horror","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie captures the essence of terror the sheer unwillingness of the mind to accept simple, but impossible facts that DO happen. This primal contradiction is the key to the terror I still experience whenever I watch this movie.After watching this one, you'll be scared to be left alone with any inanimate object, because you'll _know_ you'll have a heart attack if it moves... and it may well do!   "},{"Title":"wonderful show","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This show scared me half to death when I first saw it in 1985.  It is the best ghost story I have ever seen on T.V. It won Canadian awards galore, and deserved every one of them. I highly recommend you rush to your local video store and rent this fine flick!  "},{"Title":"Bone Chilling","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a prime example of a classic ghost story.  It is scary, suspenseful, and eerie.  I remember watching this flick at a young age, and this movie was scary to me back then.  It isn't often that a movie scares me, but this is one of them.  I recommend this to people who love to be scared w/o all the gore.  This movie doesn't need violence and gore to be sucessful.  Get a bowl of popcorn, start a fire, get a partner, and watch this one if you dare!!! "},{"Title":"If you could create the perfect supernatural film it would be this!","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When you put together a great story with great technicians including superb actors you can't go wrong, and the changeling has it all in abundance. No need for blood and guts,nudity or profanities this film doesn't need gimmicks to scare you, but scare you it will! Special mention must be said for the sound department only when the noise subdued did I realise the speed of my heartbeat! I am bemused that this movie was not a huge hit when originally released in 1980 this says to me the marketing boys were not as special as everyone connected with it. My one criticism, and believe me it's hard to have any,is that despite the fact the film is scary I believe it could have been scarier,yes I rate it one of the ten scariest films ever made(see my list)but the opportunity was there to make it the movie that others would try to emulate. "},{"Title":"Oh, God! You're Not Going Back In There, Are You?","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I picked this title up from play.com looking for a good horror film that I have never seen before, craving some thrills, excitement and horror, but also with a good story woven in.What I got was a great horror film/psychological thriller that delivered on every level - and more!George C. Scott was in some amazing films and, even though this is not as well-known as his earlier work, such as 'Dr. Strangelove' (1964), 'Patton' (1970) or 'The Hindenburg' (1975), I believe his role as heartbroken composer, John Russell to be both one of his warmest and his most unsettling performances out of those of his films that I have seen. He even works well with his real-life wife, Trish Van Devere, who I recognised from the final episode of the original 1970s run of 'Columbo'.In supporting roles, Jean Marsh makes a key dramatic impact as John Russell's tragic wife, whilst John Colicos is in full creepy mode in the small, but important role of Police Captain DeWitt. If, like me, you admire and enjoy old Seventies television series like 'Columbo' and 'Kojak' (to mention the best), you may remember Colicos as a grieving, homicidal father seeking revenge in 'Charlie's Angels'.With the benefit of not having even been born when this film was released, I can say that, for its premise, it sets the scene perfectly, Sure, at times you may feel a bit of deja vu for other, more modern horror films - but those more modern films clearly used their predecessors, such as this, as their templates.The story soon gains depth on a brilliantly unexpected scale, so much so that in it's gripping finale, I felt truly horrified when certain things began to happen that, in other horror films, seem purely routine.However, despite the beautiful blend of both expected and unexpected thrills and chills, what makes this film stand out, in my mind, is the fact that, alike so few other horror films of its time, it does not lose sight of the human side of the plot. Russell's tragedy is absolutely horrifying and instantly makes him a sympathetic character for the audience, which is central to driving his curiosity-turned-obsession about the grand, but lonely house that he has rented in the wake of a personal tragedy.Well-made, very well directed and well acted. Should be on the watch list of every fan of horror and/or psychological thrillers! "}{"Title":"Incredibly Realistic Ghost Tale","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is one of the best of the classic ghost-related horrors. It's an incredibly realistic story and beautifully shot film with excellent acting from George C Scott.It tells the story of a composer who purchases a historic old house, after losing his family in a freak accident. Being a rationally minded academic, he starts to investigate when a number of unexplained occurrences take place. His curiosity leads him to uncover an old room, which had been padlocked, boarded up, and hidden away. In it, he finds a music box that plays the exact piece of music that he had seemingly just composed. This confounds him.Under the impression he is being subject to a haunting, he gets in contact with a medium, who uses the automatic writing technique to connect with the spirit which has been trying to get his attention. She discovers that a boy named Joseph Carmichael occupies his house- particularly the room in the attic, where he was killed. The man corroborates this with his own audio recording of the séance- which actually provides him with more information that he can use to further his investigation.By researching both the history of the house and the Carmichaels- a now Senatorial family with their own empire- he is lead to an old parcel of land that used to be the site of the ranch owned by the Carmichael family. He is particularly interested in finding an old well, over which a house has since been built.He manages to convince the homeowner to let him dig up the well. Within it, he finds the frail bones of a long dead young boy. Further investigation leads him to uncover an old medallion that had belonged to the boy.Through these actions, he has gone beyond just helping the spirit with his unfinished business...he is also revealing a deadly conspiracy that will out the skeletons hidden in the Carmichael family's closet.It turns out that the father of the current Senator (the heir of the Carmichael fortune and legacy) had secretly murdered his frail, arthritic son, by drowning him in a tub in the room in the attic; before burying him in the well on their ranch; and replacing the boy with a Swiss orphan, whom they claimed was the miraculously healed Joseph. Though really being his changeling; having replaced the boy and gone on to become heir of the Carmichael empire, himself.But it's clear Joseph's spirit will not rest until the truth is revealed, and vengeance has been reaped. Ultimately leading the film's fiery conclusion.This is an incredibly realistic tale of haunting that focuses on the experience of helping a traumatized spirit with it's unfinished business- one of the numerous types of very real, well documented, ghost-related phenomenon. This discerns it from something like The Entity, which covers a different aspect of the phenomenon- and type of spirit- altogether. The incorporation of a political conspiracy into the story only acts to make it more compelling. The acting in the film is quite solid, the cinematography is beautiful- especially those tracking shots through the house- and the special effects are simple, but effective. For these reasons, the film has deservingly become one of the most renown and respected ghost films of all time. It's an absolute classic that must be seen.9 out 10. "},{"Title":"Haunting in Every Way.","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE CHANGELING is one of the great classic haunted house stories, and arguably the last of its kind of supernatural thrillers. Here you will find all the classic ingredients that went into the best horror stories that ever made you brown your pants as a kid.George C. Scott is composer John Russell, who suffers the accidental deaths of his wife and daughter and moves into a secluded, rambling mansion (aren't they all?) to forget, reflect and compose.The presence in the house won't let him do any of it.What makes rambling, hardwood-floored mansions so intrinsically eerie? Director Peter Medak doesn't have to go too far to create a foreboding atmosphere; every scene holds trepidation, every camera angle on every darkened corridor and whispery staircase seems to cry out that something inexplicable awaits to skew normalcy.That's how the conceptual anomalies of ghosts and poltergeists achieve their scare factor - they shatter what you hold innately to be normal. When you enter your house in the evening gloom, you don't expect a red ball to come bouncing at you from the top of the darkened staircase.And when you take that ball - that belonged to your dead daughter - and throw it into a river to flense her memory, when you come back home, you don't expect that same ball to come bouncing at you from the top of the stairs again! Oeeuuh! I feel the tears brimming my eyes and the hairs on my arms rising! The soundtrack and sound design lends volumes to the eeriness; piano-based motifs and subliminal whispering and lots of knife-like violin jabs.Claire (Trish Van Devere, with a voice like tinkling crystal) is the real estate agent with whom John shares revelations he uncovers about the history of the mansion. The haunting is to right a wrong.And Patton's the man for the job! The mansion's haunted past is revealed as gradually as the supernatural phenomena escalates. There are no sensationalistic hillbillies with axes or elaborate special effects; all the scares are wonderfully subtle and built on solid primal terrors. Loud banging noises awaken John at 6 a.m. every day, a piano note plays itself, a psychic woman scribbles cryptic clues, a tape recording picks up a whispering infant's tragic pleas, a boarded-up attic room is discovered with a tiny cobwebbed wheelchair, doors slam, the P.O.V. camera goes bananas... there's even the old batsh*t-crazy lady who warns The house doesn't want people. And then - Baltar from BATTLESTAR GALACTICA! This movie has everything! But it's not that the house doesn't want people. The house is trying to get the attention of anyone who will listen. And John is psychically shown a true story of real horror that walked the house in 1906. Thus came the changeling. (Oh my God! A changeling! What unspeakable, indescribable, horrific beast that can morph into terrifying... uh, what's a changeling again? Thus did I grow up thinking 'changeling' was some kind of monster...) Written by Russell Hunter, William Gray, Diana Maddox, THE CHANGELING sometimes stoops to silly horror movie conventions during a séance, a steel tube is placed on the table specifically for a ghost to throw against a wall (no strings attached); a woman goes into a dark attic without turning on lights; the obligatory fiery finale. And of course, every time the rule-less world of spirits is breached, my head nearly explodes with the contradictions. Regardless, this movie is so well executed and stands the test of time so well that even though I know what's coming every time I watch it, I still have to change my pants at the end. "},{"Title":"A superior supernatural horror shocker","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Distinguished composer John Russell (superbly played with admirable restraint by George C. Scott) loses both his wife and daughter in a terrible automobile accident. Russell moves to Seatle, Washington and leases an opulent old house. Russell soon discovers that the house is haunted by the vengeful and unrestful spirit of a crippled boy who was murdered by his father in the attic 70 years ago. Director Peter Medak, working from a smart and absorbing script by William Gray and Diana Maddox, relates the gripping story at a slow, yet steady pace and does an expert job of building a genuinely spooky and unsettling atmosphere which becomes more increasingly scary and unnerving as the startlingly nasty plot unfolds. This film works remarkably well as a well-sustained creepy mood piece, with a welcome and refreshing emphasis on a supremely chilling and brooding flesh-crawling tone over graphic gore, flashy special effects, and cheap scares. Among the picture's most jolting moments are a ghostly whispered voice on the tape recording of a séance, ominous banging noises ruminating throughout the house at precisely 600 a.m. in the morning, a disturbing flashback set piece with the little boy being drowned in a bath tub, a ball bouncing down a flight of stairs that Russell disposed of by tossing in a river, and a rickety wheelchair coming to fierce life. Scott brings real dignity and intensity to his juicy lead role; he receives fine support from Trish Van Devere as sweet and helpful real estate agent Claire Norman, Melvyn Douglas as rich and powerful Senator Joseph Carmichael, and John Colicos as browbeating police captain De Witt. Sumptuously shot by John Coquillon, with an elegantly eerie orchestral score by Rich Wilkins and a rousing fiery conclusion, this film in its own deceptively quiet and low-key way proves to be a truly potent and hair-raising fright feature winner. "},{"Title":"The Changeling Sound Track","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Can someone out there, who is as great a fan of the most awesome, scariest movie ever, The Changeling, as I am PLEASE tell me if the soundtrack is available. I have checked online, followed link after link, all to brick walls and now feel it's becoming an obsession just to find this lovely, haunting soundtrack. Anyone who has watched the movie knows exactly what I am talking about. The music box music alone has to be one of the loveliest pieces ever composed for a movie. I know it was released as a limited edition... but I found that information out way too late!!! I have even checked Kazaa, without success. If anyone has it or knows where to get it, please let me know! Thank you. "},{"Title":"Well made and effective ghost story","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While today's films attempt to use quick editing and CGI effects to scare viewers this film made in 1980 instead applies the old fashioned method...a spooky house and a script with an interesting story! After loosing his wife and daughter in an auto accident John Russell (George C. Scott) heads to Seattle to start teaching and composing music once again and with the help of real estate agent Claire Norman (Trish Van Devere) he moves into a huge house because of the size of the music room.*****SPOILER ALERT***** It doesn't take long before John starts hearing strange noises and finding faucets running by themselves and as he snoops around he discovers a hidden room boarded up inside a closet. He opens it and finds a dusty place seemingly once occupied by a sickly child which prompts him to head to the county records office to investigate the history of the house. He starts to think that his dead daughter is trying to communicate with him but after a spooky séance is performed he finds out that a child was murdered there years earlier and that it was probably done by the father of Senator Joseph Carmichael (Melvyn Douglas) who has to re-think his own identity.This film is directed by Hungarian Peter Medak (The Ruling Class) who even today is still considered a solid director working in both film and television and his professional hand is used well here to create a good ghost story. Along with the splendid cinematography of John Coquillon this film often has the Gothic feel of a ghost story that usually takes place in the New England area and the house that this story takes place in is especially effective. Some consider this one of the best films ever made in this genre but I think there is one or two things that keep this from being truly great and the stoic performance of Scott being the main flaw. After all the creepy things that occur in that gigantic house most would flee in shock but Scott's character just keeps returning and hanging his coat like nothing has ever happened! If ever a film needed an actor to go overboard (even just a little bit) it's this one. Where's Rod Steiger when you need him? Arguably the creepiest scene comes during the séance sequence and it's a lulu that genuinely adds to the chilling atmosphere that is created effectively for the film. Well made film takes time telling it's story but possesses some truly eerie scenes that today's filmmakers hopefully will take note with because all the CGI effects in the world cannot create an atmosphere as good as this. "},{"Title":"Possibly the scariest film ever","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out and then again a couple of years later in a London cinema. It had me squirming in my seat. The film was deeply upsetting and connected me with my deepest fears. When the ball bounced down the stairs I could have run out of the picture house then. When he plays the piano and hears the pipes banging and realises something dark and very bad is visiting him I found it frightening. When he eventually gets into the room and understands what happened to the child he knows there is no going back or getting away from it.Just brilliant and I ask anyone to watch this on their own and say it's not scary. "},{"Title":"Ya know....","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A successful composer suffers a deep loss and finds himself relocating.  Unfortunately he has been drawn to a house where a troubled spirit is attempting to communicate with him through a series of increasingly bizarre manifestations.The Changeling really ought to be a first class horror movie, except...what is the deal with George C. Scott?  This is the second movie I've seen him in where he delivered a performance that was unintentionally funny and hammy (the other one was The Exorcist III).  Especially in the closeup shots, he looks like he's going to burst out laughing at any moment, even during the emotionally tense scenes.  More than once I made the unhealthy connection between George C. Scott's performance in horror films and Keanu Reeves's mood-destroying work in Bram Stoker's Dracula.Other than this factor, The Changeling is an excellently crafted ghost story that has not aged well, mostly due to the fact that the story elements were already cliche at the time of its making.  Since 1980, we've seen all of this stuff so much that it's beyond passe (the hidden room in the attic, the ghosts of children tossed into boarded-up wells, jewelry from dead people left as clues, the obligatory seance scene).The best thing about The Changeling is the script.  The story unfolds like clockwork, although I got the impression that the director was trying to make it seem like the main characters were in some sort of danger, when really the intention of the ghost was pretty obvious.  There really was no big conclusion to the plot, and the ending had no surprises.On the plus side, I guess it is the mark of a great movie that it has managed to retain some of its creepiness, and even the aforementioned cliches are very well done (especially the seance).  I can remember this being a lot scarier when I was a kid, which could mean this is a great horror film and I've just seen too many of them to appreciate it anymore.  The movie really captures the gothic allure of a huge, foreboding mansion, and Trish Van Devere's performance is particularly appealing.  I do think the movie is a little overrated, but no fan of the ghost story/horror genre should be too disappointed with this one.  "},{"Title":"Scary ghost story, released at the same time as the Amityville Horror, but 1000 time better.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is a great scary story, with a great performance from Scott, as a man who moves into a haunted house where a boy was killed by his father. So much better than The Amityville Horror, which raked in 80 million at the US box office, leaving this eerie film unnoticed. Highlight scene is the 'free-writing' scene.PLOT 7  DIRECTION 8 SCRIPT 7 ACTING 7 SOUND/EFFECTS 6OVERALL 7.5 "},{"Title":"scary doesn't begin to describe this movie. Scott proves he sees ghosts!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie might have succeeded with the creepy house.  It might have been scary with the story of the little boy lost and the seance that lets him come home.  The music alone from that haunted music box might have made me turn on the lights - but what puts this movie over the edge is George C. Scott throwing that ball off the bridge and then having it bounced down the stairs at him the moment he returns to that God-forsaken house. "},{"Title":"Super and Natural","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is close to being a good movie, but for me it isn't close enough. What it has to recommend it is a real plot outside of the spooky stuff, so we don't have to rely on simple terror. That terror is conveyed the way we like, without resorting too much on the startle, or repulsive, gory violence. In theory, it should be more effective as a result. It also should be able to boast good actors. There are two chilling moments, both of which involve animated objects. The most chilling is the appearance of a ball that we know has been discarded. It happens early in the film, before the clumsy plot takes over and when we are still unfamiliar with the house ourselves. The second is at that period in the end where things get frantic and a woman is being chased by a small wheelchair. Its less effective because it does startle, and we know she is only in the story so that she can be in the fully awake haunted house alone at night.But there are some serious flaws. The plot really is quite clunky in how it gets folks lined up in the situations we see. If the house is seen as making things happen supernaturally that wouldn't naturally, then the effect is emphasized by having the plot mechanics be natural. And the acting style as well this surely isn't Scott's best. (His style was apt in They Might be Giants.)Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "}{"Title":"It's a definite gooder!","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For those folks (like myself) who like the old, spookier than hell movies without all the blood and gore, this is a gooder.  Just enough of a poignant storyline, grief, and a good HEALTHY dose of scarey stuff.  You'll really love this one.  If you liked Ghost Story, this one is along those same lines with a better plot and better spooks!Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Some Creepy Moments, But...","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'll start off by saying a few things... I am a HUGE George C. Scott fan, the guy could do nothing wrong as far as I am concerned! His deeply intense style of acting is just what I have always liked about great actors like him. As for this film... There were a few very creepy and scary moments scattered throughout that made the whole film worthwhile. But, I also found it to be too long and convoluted for the story that was being told. It took more than 30 minutes before anything actually started happening. The slow start increased the yawn factor and reduced the over-all rating factor.Several characters just appeared, and it seemed as though they would be important to the story, only to disappear in the convolution. After the séance it became clear that the unfortunate circumstances that befell the original child led to the child communicating with Russell through his grief. Apparently, the child wanted to have things set right so that he could rest in peace. As the film progresses, whenever Russell attempts to set things right, the spirit that is guiding Russell becomes angrier and angrier. Escalating to the violent conflagration at the end. With the complete destruction of the house and it's contents.One is left to wonder why this happened. And it was just downright silly to have the senator show up walking up the stairs. Only after some consideration did I come to the conclusion that the negative angry things that were happening MAY have been caused by the father. But, this was not made clear in the film. Hence the convolution I mentioned earlier. It was a scary film to be sure. A bit confusing and convoluted at times but, definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged well","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm stunned that after all these years The Changeling is still considered an effective horror movie by so many IMDb users. I watched it for the first time a few nights ago and wasn't very impressed. Sure, it's got a great moody score and the tracking shots through the big house are kinda nice, too, but the story itself leaves a lot to be desired. I was especially turned off by the huge amount of unintentional comedy displayed by George C. Scott's ever so earnest face in contrast to Trish Van Devere's scream queen-performance. And you know, as soon as a haunted house movie has the ghost communicating with the inhabitants in a whoo-hoo-Casper-The-Friendly-Ghost kinda voice, I don't take it too seriously anymore. There are a lot of little things in The Changeling that wouldn't make it into any movie anymore these days, because people wouldn't buy them. (MINOR SPOILERS Like when the policeman comes to John's house and has an accident after he leaves, it only takes five minutes until the police and the medics are there. Stuff like that. END OF MINOR SPOILERS). I reckon that everybody who has seen The Changeling twenty five years ago has still a soft spot for it, but judging it objectively this movie certainly hasn't aged as well as The Shining or The Omen, which still manage to creep me out. "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but days of a bad plot","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling started off in a promising way.  It was spooky, was filmed at interesting angles, and seemed to have a touch of class.  I was very interested for about half the film.However, once the mystery was over, the movie devolved into a farce.  I wish I could say that I enjoyed it, but for the last half of the movie, there was no there there, to quote a famous line.  The end was completely ludicrous, to boot.The supposed villain of the film was not villainous at all, and the viewer winds up feeling sorry for him rather than satisfied.  In retrospect, i suppose that could be in keeping with the identity of the ghost in this haunted house story, but it just didn't work.5 out of 10, based on the first half being pretty good.  "},{"Title":"You're the beneficiary of the cruelest type of murder......","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Russell, a composer and music professor, loses his wife and daughter in a tragic accident. Seeking solace, he moves into an old mansion unoccupied for twelve years. But a child- like presence seems to be sharing the house, and trying to share its secrets, with him. Through research into the house's past and a séance held within, Russell discovers the horrific secret of the house's past, a secret that the presence will no longer allow to be kept........If your a horror fan, there is nothing more refreshing than a good old fashioned haunted house movie, without any CGI to spoil the atmospherics.The Woman In Black aside, it's been so many years since we had an effective haunted house movie, and from watching this really effective horror movie, I'm really surprised that more haven't been made.......without the use of CGI.Scott is as impeccable as he ever is, and he brings more to the films atmospherics due to his emotional performance. There are times when he's edging towards the hammy side, but he restraints himself, especially toward the end.It's a slow burner for sure, but it's consistently eerie, from the banging heard at six in the morning, to one of the most wonderful séance scenes I have seen for a long time, to John playing back that séance on tape and hearing other worldly noises not spotted first.If you are a fan of everything Blumhouse, with all their quiet..........quiet............quiet...........bang!! Cow prod scares, see this, this is what proper horror looks like, and the film doesn't force you into jumping.Your just too scared to notice that your not doing it. "},{"Title":"creepy and chilling","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is without a doubt the most frightening movie I have seen to date. The only other that comes close is Dark Night of the Scarecrow which is very hard to find...I find that most movies today classified within the horror genre are just blood and gore...I can go to the local butcher shop for that.....I couldn't sleep after seeing the Changeling as I found it unnerving..and creepy...It is probably the last of the great horror films that accomplish an atmosphere of horror through suggestion of imminent danger with only sound,minimal chilling visuals and acting....actual acting, not the histrionics of individuals qualifying for anger management therapy. One will not be disappointed by this film,..I have not seen another like it "},{"Title":"one of the greatest classics of  horror and a unrelenting ghost story .","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw the Changeling in 1981 I was 11 years old and this movie has stayed with me ever since. a Better horror story then the Amityville horror . And a greater ghost story then the Haunting.John Russell is a world famous composer and conductor who loses his family in a tragic auto accident. four months later Russell decides to make changes in his life. He is given a teaching job at a university in Seattle. Russell decides to look for a house providing the rent is cheap and a friend suggests the historical society that would rent him a older historical home cheap. With the help of the lovely historical society agent Claire Norman John finds the perfect house at Chessman park road. t s a sprawling four story mansion. The kind they don't make anymore. Russell falls in love with the house and signs the lease. Almost as soon as he moves in mysterious things happen. And these things lead to a unthinkable end. John finds a old room a child's room hidden in a attic. a wheelchair fitted for a small boy sits in a corner. the ghost shows John how and reveals why he was murdered and demands vengeance even at the cost of John's life.The Changeling is that rare instance of a horror movie so full of suspense and fear. and it stays with you. the originality of it is still fresh even 35 years after I first saw it. a true guilty pleasure. Very few films in my mind can even equal it. Worth seeing again and again. "},{"Title":"Great ghost film!!","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will advice you to see this film in the complete darkness and with a good sound home theater, it deserves a good big screen, and a great sound. This movie is based on the sound and what you cannot see. It delivers the kind of scare that continues with you when you have to go the kitchen in the darkness and you feel forced to turn on the lights of the hall to get to the kitchen. It is scary, but in a smooth way and it builds more and more until you feel really scared. I invite you to see this movie but with a good sound, because without it, it lost the 70% of its Art, yes this movie is art. We need this kind of artists working on the current horror movies. "},{"Title":"The mystery was revealed too soon!","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I quite enjoyed this movie. OK the story or mystery isn't what I would call the most clever thing I have ever seen but it was passable. The first part with George Scott wandering around in the old mansion seeking to find out what dark secret it keeps certainly was very interesting with the best thing the séance and eventually the revelation of the drama to the main character in some kind of dream sequence. Once the truth is revealed the movie becomes more of a crime movie and a lot less interesting and also too long. Good atmosphere and camera-work whenever we are in the house. The way the scenes are put together and going from one scene to another seems quite unfitting at times and rushed. Except for main character John the characters stayed rather bland including his female colleague played by Trish Van Devere. I wished they did something more with the drama of John losing his wife and daughter, some flash backs would have helped this movie. The girl who also could see the dead boy it's a pity that is such a small part of the movie. the ending for me was not really satisfying. Enjoyable but could have been much better. "},{"Title":"chilling old fashion haunting horror","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" John Russell (George C. Scott) loses his wife and daughter when their car breaks down on the side of a snowy road in upstate NY. He rents an old house to write music and recover from the loss. The large mansion turns out to be haunted by the ghost of a murdered child. Claire Norman (Trish Van Devere) from the historical society helped him get the mansion. She helps him in finding and solving his spirit problem. They discover a book from 1904 in the sealed attic room. The boy had been killed and replaced with another boy who is now Sen. Joseph Carmichael (Melvyn Douglas). There is something cold and desolate about the style of this horror. It's old fashion. There are some funhouse stuff especially with the wheelchair. There isn't much blood and gore. It's a solid ghost story. The mystery is a little bit obscure. The movie needs an extra scene where Russell explains the entire story to Claire or somebody. George C. Scott holds it all together with a solid performance. "}{"Title":"The Changeling is a superb ghost story of atmosphere and suspense.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A man staying at a secluded historical mansion finds himself being haunted by the presence of a spectre. It was the perfect family vacation for composer John Russell and his family when a freak automobile accident claims the lives of his wife and daughter. Consumed by grief, John, at the request of friends, rents an old turn of the century house. Mammoth in size, the house seems all the room that John needs to write music and reflect. He does not realize that he is not alone in the house. He shares it with the spirit of a murdered child who has homed in on John's despair and uses him to uncover decades of silence and deceit. With the help of Claire Norman, the one who aided John in procuring the house, they race to find the answers and soon learn that a devious and very powerful man guards them. Roger Ebert wrote If it only took craftsmanship to make a haunted house movie, The Changeling would be a great one. It has all the technical requirements, beginning with the haunted house itself. Atmospheric and chilling, this gem is a masterpiece of soul disturbing shock. Taut, unrelenting and extremely suspenseful ghost story. "},{"Title":"Sins Of The Fathers.","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A reasonably good ghost story involving a haunted house in Seattle but it's difficult to call this a hidden gem because there is so little in it that's innovative.George C. Scott is a composer and teacher who has just lost his wife and child in an auto accident, which has nothing to do with the story. It's true that when he moves into this mansion his dead daughter's favorite ball keeps bouncing down the stairs while he gapes at it. The ball is harder to get rid of than my credit card debt. He even tosses the ball into a river but it come bouncing back down the stairs. But Cathy is dead and gone and her ball is soon dropped from the narrative. There are some things man was never meant to know.The ball is just an example of what I mean when I say it lacks novelty. After he moves into the house, Scott hears loud booming noises that last for a minute. (The Haunting.) The queer noises change to a fluttering, as of bats or birds in the attic. (The Exorcist.) A woman alone, hearing odd noises, follows them helplessly into dark rooms for no particular reason. (The Birds.) A shuddering chandelier finally drops from the high ceiling and the unconscious man beneath wakes up just in time to roll away. (The Haunting of Hell House.) The musical score is generic haunted house. The script at times is not only routine but a little bizarre. Scott, learning for the first time that a boy was murdered in the house seventy years ago -- faints. Trish Van Devere, when she learns of it, staggers away in a torrent of sobs.The spirit that walks the house is that of that crippled boy who was killed by his father. It's a little tangled and I won't go into it, but when he was young, Senator Melvyn Douglas inherited the whole kit and kaboodle because he was passed of as the true son. Douglas didn't kill anybody. He may not even known what was going on, since he was only a young child at the time of the impersonation. Yet the movie requires his death.But before he succumbs to a stroke or something in his opulent Seattle office, Scott sees Douglas at the mansion, walking in his bath robe up the flaming stairs to a fiery death. The ghost of the murdered boy has powers that evidently extend beyond the haunted mansion, since he can cause lethal auto accidents on a freeway. And when Scott's attempts to lay the ghost reach a dead end, the murdered kid seems to turn against him and tries to kill Scott before deciding, the hell with it, and burning down the whole mansion.I hate being this negative because in some ways it's a very well-done film. Trish Van Devere is herself. She's pretty in a conventional way and has the somewhat sharp but reassuring tone of a customer service representative. Scott is very good. No bombast here. He's quiet, deliberate. Anything else wouldn't fit the character of a puzzled but curious, introverted music professor. He's perfectly believable in the role. "},{"Title":"A Flawless, Ghostly Masterpiece","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Over the years there have been a number of Hollywood takes on the realm of ghosts and spirits. Some have been good, others have been hokey but still fun. Then there are the very exceptional few that are so well done, they truly deserve the right to be called haunting. One of them is a little film produced in 1980 called The Changeling. Written by Russell Hunter and directed by Peter Medak, it presents a tale of mystery, horror, tragedy, revenge from beyond the grave and in the process, becomes the epitome of what ghost films should be.Our story begins with composer John Russell (George C. Scott) witnessing the loss of his wife and little girl (An especially gut-wrenching scene). To try to put his life back together, he decides to move to Seattle so he can teach at his Alma Mater and perhaps even compose once more. Russell ends up renting a large, Victorian house by way of Historic Society agent Clare Norman (Scott's real life wife Trish Van Devere). The house is beautiful, spacious, comes with a piano, and is the perfect place for Russell's needs. However, not long after moving in, it becomes apparent that not all is right with the place when Russell hears loud banging sounds every morning as well as having the sensation that he is not alone in the big place. When he takes his concerns to Ms. Norman, what begins as idle concern soon morphs into the realization that the house is haunted by the spirit of a young boy named Joseph. Who Joseph is, how he died, and what his death has to do with powerful Sen. Joseph Carmichael (Melvyn Douglas) becomes an obsession for Russell and Norman in a race to find out just what the truth is. Only thing is, will they figure it all out to appease the increasingly angry (and powerful) spirit in time?Having seen the film more than once, I can honestly say this movie never fails to enchant, spook, and haunt me no matter how many times I see it, largely because of the little things. In The Changeling you will not find any extravagant effects, no awesome looking make-up or monster, and certainly no fancy CGI. Instead, The Changeling works by having a well crafted story combined with simple effects ( a door opening by itself, strange sounds, misplaced objects, etc.) while our imagination does the rest. In fact, you hardly see the ghost at all. However, believe me when I tell you you'll have no doubt that he's there! Director Peter Medak deserves to be placed with the likes of John Carpenter, Wes Craven, and William Friedkin for creating what has to be one of the creepiest films of all time, as does writer Russell Hunter who reportedly based this story on a personal experience. Through Medak's direction and Russell's writing, the film develops a tone of tragedy, hurt, loss, and creepiness that is prevalent throughout the picture due to the loss of Russell's family and also because of the obvious pain and torment of invisible resident Joseph. As far as acting is concerned, you could not have a better cast. George C. Scott compellingly plays Russell as a man whose world is shattered while having to deal with something beyond his knowledge or understanding. The sadness in his eyes matches the overall tone and feel of the film perfectly and undoubtedly this has to rank as one of his best roles. As for Scott's real life wife, Trish Van Devere, she was never lovelier than here, due to her ability to convey warmth and absolute fear when the occasion calls for it. In addition, Melvyn Douglas is splendid in one of his final film roles as Sen. Joseph Carmichael, a powerful man who's always suspected something doesn't quite make sense in his past and doesn't want anyone to know about it. Whether you believe in ghosts or not, I can guarantee you that The Changeling is a film that will stay with you long after the credits roll and I would even go as far as to say you are robbing yourself by not seeing it. So watch this lovely gem and while you're at it, check under the bed, in the closet, basement, and attic to make sure you don't have something that goes bump in the night. "},{"Title":"Sensational, Brilliant, Low-Key and Terrifying","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In an era of blood and gore horror films (which are just fine in their place; in fact some of them are my favorite movies), director Peter Medak and star George C Scott gave us the best, most intense low-key haunted house movie since Robert Wise's THE HAUNTING (1963). This film gave me goosebumps that lasted for days when I first saw it in the theatre and it still has that effect on me when I put the tape in my VHS thirty-four years later.As with all really great haunted house films, it is the house that is the star. George C Scott, the human star power of the film, appears here with his wife Trish Van Devere, and delivers a subtle, low-key performance in which a raised eyebrow is as eloquent as Hamlet's soliloquies.Scott plays John Russell, a composer and professor of music. The film begins with a tragedy Russell and his wife Joanna (Jean Marsh) and young daughter Kathy (Michelle Martin) are pushing their disabled station wagon to the side of a snowy road; they are on vacation, presumably headed for the ski slopes. Russell goes across the road to a telephone booth to call for help, and a truck comes along, slipping and sliding on the icy road, and smashes into the Russells' car, killing Joanna and Kathy as John looks on in helpless horror.Scene shift Seattle. John has taken a professorship at the University of Seattle in the hope that the change of scene will shake his depression. With the help of a Claire Norman (Van Devere), a lovely woman from the Historical Society, he finds a handsome old mansion to rent, completely furnished and with a functioning music room, an amenity which attracts the music professor. He moves in.But all is not peaceful in the somewhat gloomy but otherwise handsome old house. The ghostly shenanigans start with nothing but a series of loud bangs that awaken Russell early in the morning. He goes in search of a source but finds nothing.The tension builds from there in a simply brilliant and measured fashion. A woman at the Historical Society warns him that the house does not want people. The events keep escalating until we are deep in a really scary and mystifying story. There is a seance, a voice that appears on a recording even though it was not heard when the recording was made, John and Claire go digging into the house's history, and there is even a real excavation in a child's bedroom, of all places.Add to all this a political connection there is a link between the goings on in the house and the Senator from Washington, Joseph Carmichael (Melvyn Douglas in possibly his last great role). The tension builds until it is almost unbearable, and I won't give away the ending except to say it has a certain feeling of inevitability.George C Scott's performance in this film has been much talked- about; Roger Ebert felt he was too reserved, and that his lack of emoting detracted from the impact of the story. I do not agree. Scott (no doubt with Medak's approval) made the choice to play the educated man as the skeptic, drawing him slowly and unwillingly (also disbelievingly) into the truth of what is happening, and why.I do enjoy a good old fashioned gore-fest, but there is something special about the horror movie that terrifies the viewer without resorting to blood and guts. Sometimes a whispered suggestion is more powerful than a scream. And the passage of thirty-four years has done nothing to diminish the impact of this fascinating and frightening film. "},{"Title":"Musical scares and a low-key performance...","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's got habits. It's an old house. It makes noises. A good summation of THE CHANGELING. I was more impressed with the movie just the other day than I was the night I saw it in a theater it's better than I'd given it credit for. The house itself is the real star of the movie it's one of the more subtly impressive structures to be featured in a Fright Film. Medak's unobtrusive direction is nice, too (what I found boring as a kid, I find well-paced as an adult). One can't overlook George C. Scott's low-key performance, either he was capable of doing more with a quick glance or a lifted eyebrow than most thespians with a monologue by Shakespeare. (One of my favorite performances by Scott was as the Beast in a televersion of BEAUTY AND THE BEAST in one scene, he's trying to convince Beauty that he ain't so bad as the local villagers make out and he's wolfing down roasted meat, grunting like an animal, when he realizes that she's staring at him. It's a poignant moment, and one I've never forgotten.) "},{"Title":"its not what you see.","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember renting this out on video when I was 16 in 1982 and watched it and it scared the crap out of me. Its the sounds and constant banging of the pipes that really got to me even though the movie doesn't have much dialogue its just creepy with tension building gradually through out the film. A music teacher moves into a large house after the deaths of his wife and child and soon learns there is some strange goings on in the house, I cant go into detail without a spoiler but if you like spooky movies with lots of jump of your seat bits in it, this is the movie for you, some good performances in the movie and good storyline. "},{"Title":"Dreary, sad and creepy, a thrilling horror film","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I got The Changeling in a boxed bunch of films Audrey Rose (1977), the Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane (1976), Magic (1978) and the Changeling all seem to have similar-sounding background scores, although composed and performed by different artists. The Changeling tells the eerie and melancholy story of a lonely and depressed man who has lost his wife and daughter in a freak automobile accident. He moves to Oregon to teach music, only to find that the ancient and decrepit old house he's bought isn't just old, it's haunted by a ghost who needs his murder solved. As the plot goes on, it turns out that this murder was beyond disturbing, and that it was so planned out that somehow the murder victim was never on record... instead he was replaced with someone else before the cops could find out! This frightening and mysterious story, filmed in Washington, isn't the most popular movie but it has a 7/10 overall user rating for a reason. The soundtrack was amazing and beautiful, the foggy scenery mystifying and spooky (at first I thought the film was Canadian because it shares many of the same types of scenery that you see in Eastern Canada), excellent acting and a thrilling and at times disturbing plot that keeps you watching from beginning to end.Just how far will things go in The Changeling? Well, you'll have to watch it to find out! "},{"Title":"One of the most well thought out chilling ghost stories ever.","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie grabs hold of you in the first minute and doesn't let go until the end credits. Terrific acting, cinematography, scares, ideas, twists, EVERYTHING. Everything looks great and the outlay of the house drives the story in more than one way. You feel for Scott's character and every time something happens your heart stops dead. The scene where George c. Scott returns home after tossing his deceased daughters toy ball off a bridge is terrifying, you know something is going to happen and it does , he opens his door and the same ball bounces down the stairs to rest at his feet. Every time the ball hit a step you could hear the sounds of the ghost slamming his fist on the side of the tub where he died. Cilling indeed. This is film- making at its absolute best. Watch the Changeling and be prepared to experience the greatest ghost story to be filmed to this day. "},{"Title":"Spine-Tingling Horror","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was 8 years old when The Changeling came out... I recall being scared and freaked out after the movie was over. I was afraid of empty wheel-chairs for a few months after - afraid that it may be haunted with a ghost like the film. The movie is very scary for it's time period and is just as spooky as any modern ghost movie out today.I re-watched The Changeling not that long ago after a period of long-time-no-see and found myself engrossed in a thrilling mystery of what happened to the boy in the chair.Yes The Changeling is a spine-tingling horror film and a must see for those interested in ghosts and haunted houses.9/10 "},{"Title":"Chilling and Atmospheric Ghost Story.","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my top horror films ever made, which stars George C. Scott as composer John Russell, who loses his wife and daughter in a freak car accident while on vacation. Four months later, he rents an old house where strange occurrences involve him in a long unpunished murder of a young boy, whose spirit seems to be reaching out to him for help...George C. Scott is superb as usual, showing how this poor man still grieves for his lost family, yet reacts with sympathy then rage at this ghost, who has caused him much trouble and new grief as a result. This man is not a scared victim, but finds the inner strength to investigate the mystery.Memorably melancholy piano score, highly effective and inspired direction by Peter Medak, and intelligent script make this a classic, to be viewed many times over. "}{"Title":"A memorably frightening film","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Terror is a state of mind. The unknown and the unexpected are far more frightening things than what we can see. Open the door to something that is disturbing or unsettling and our imagination will take over and fill in the blanks in an all too scary manner. That's the genius behind The Changeling directed by Peter Medak. Rather than shock us with blood, gore and violence, this film provides just enough visual, auditory and emotional cues to not only frighten the viewer while watching it, but also to leave enough unspoken that the mind can't help but continue to scare itself long after the film has been seen. The plot is fairly standard haunted house fare. George C. Scott plays a recently widowed husband that takes refuge by renting a large mansion. The mansion is simply a beautiful home that has a dark past. Medak doesn't resort to making it a creepy, ugly place. Rather, he lets small events build the tension and tell the frightening story. Scott provides a subtle performance that lets us feel his emotions without hitting us over the head with them. The result is a character that draws us into his life. We are interested in what happens; through careful pacing and editing we are drawn into his sadness and fear. As the story progresses and a resolution becomes evident, we begin to feel hope that the terror might end. Our hope is satisfied in the end; the cause of the haunting is revealed; an old sin is exposed and the perpetrator both atones for and is punished for it. Equally importantly, our hero not only solves the mystery, he comes to terms with his own pain and begins to heal. As the old wound that caused the haunting is assuaged and no longer painful, so too is the loss that drove him to the haunted mansion. Only memories of the fear and pain remain. This is a brilliant, nuanced film well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Very well made haunted house/mystery story","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ** a few minor spoilers ** After his wife and daughter die in a tragic accident, composer John Russell (George C. Scott) moves from NY City to Seattle to teach at his old university and start his life over. His friend finds him a large old house giving him the privacy and solitude he wants. After a few days he discovers that the house seems to be inhabited by a restless spirit. He finds a secret stairway to an attic room which belonged to a crippled child. He also discovers that the house once belonged to the wealthy father of a US senator (Melvyn Douglas). It's at this point that the haunted house story becomes a legitimate mystery story. Russell slowly pieces together the how's and why's of the tragic history of the house and it's inhabitants. The well done visual aspects of the film are profoundly accented by the film's outstanding score. The music alone is reason enough to watch this film. But even still, it's a really well done piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"The Changeling","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film starts with our main character (John Russell) who is with his wife and daughter on a snowy road. Their car breaks down and John leaves them to go call for assistance. Tragically, a truck and car collide on the road right near them, killing both the wife and young child. After their deaths, John moves out of their home and moves into a huge mansion. Right from the start, strange things begin to happen. Doors open on their own, loud banging noises start occurring at exactly 600AM, taps to the kitchen sink start pumping out water all on it's own, etc. The moment John realizes that something is seriously wrong is when he see's the image of a little boy drowning in his bathtub. John investigates further and discovers a chilling tale of murder.'The Changeling' is a genuinely eerie ghost/haunting type of movie. You have to be invested in sticking with it though in order for it to be. When I first saw it years back, I got bored with it and thought it was highly overrated. However, on another day I took the time to really sit and give it my full attention. That was when I realized it was a good scary movie. It doesn't have the special effects or the gore that other horror films do, so you have to use your imagination at times.Acting was well done by all, with George C. Scott leading the way. 'The Changeling' is a movie I'd recommend depending on a person's mood. If you're in the mood to sit and be really invested in a movie, than catch this. It can drag a bit which turns some people off to it. Give it a try and see for yourself.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was actually a really good movie.The plot is about a man who retreats to Seattle after the tragic deaths of his wife and daughter and hopes to slowly get his like back in order. However, the spirit of a dead boy murdered by his father prevents any peace and he feels he needs to solve the mystery of the spirit boy.The only odd thing about the movie is that it was given an R rating. There is nothing in this movie that would warrant an R rating. I understand it was a different time back then, but come on! Poltergeist was more intense and quite gory in one scene and got a PG rating. Yet, this movie which isn't gory or violent, has no strong language or any sex scenes, gets an R rating. This film should have received a PG rating (I'm going based on the movie ratings of that time). "},{"Title":"A Good Horror/Mystery Flick!","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This one has some great scenes which have been copied in a string of movies over the time. The ball-dropping scene, drowning scene all are epic.Director and his crew have pondered upon the minutiae very well. The plot is very good but there is one unanswered question that I won't reveal to save me from the spoiler alert tag.You gotta watch this movie if you love mystery genre because more than a horror movie, it is a crime centered thriller!Look out for Scott and his real-life-wife! )For more bit.ly/TEJAS "},{"Title":"Although I strongly doubt this was based on a real story, I will admit that it sets a wonderful mood and is very effective.","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" According to IMDb, this story was based on a true story about an actual reporting of a haunted house. As for me, I find that beyond belief but it doesn't mean I disliked The Changeling. It is a very spooky and effective horror film--and is much better than a typical film in the genre.The film begins with a senseless tragedy--a man (George C. Scott) witnesses his wife and daughter's death in a traffic accident. In the next scene, some time has passed and he's now taking a teaching position at some college in some other part of the country. While things are beginning to look good for the man, he doesn't realize that the mansion he's living in is haunted...I mean REALLY haunted. It seems that a child was murdered here many decades earlier and a Senator might be connected somehow to this death.The film worked very well for several reasons. The music was very effective, the acting very nice (I especially liked Melvyn Douglas' performance during the confrontation scene with Scott) and the story was just plain creepy. My only objection is that a few times Scott's character seemed to behave a bit oddly and seemed to connect the dots with the tragedy a little too easily. Still, a dandy horror film from start to finish. "},{"Title":"A Masterfully Directed Ghost Story","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is just one of those films that was overshadowed by titles that were deemed superior at the time. The Changeling was a film directed by Peter Medak in 1980. The reason for its lack of audience was due to the rise of the slasher genre in the late 70's. Much like The Shining it was unsuccessful at the box office and was forgotten for a few years. The Changeling has been developing a cult following since the late 90's and it was about time that it got the respect it deserves. The film is well acted with a well put together story that gives me the chills every time I watch.The film opens with John Russell(George C Scott) who is driving down a snowy road with his wife and daughter. The car breaks down and John walks to a phone for assistance. He is then forced to watch as his family is killed by a snowplow. The film takes place nearly a year later with John now a university music teacher moving out of his apartment, it is to small to handle his new job. His search for a large house is brought to Claire Norman(Trish Van Devere) who works for the historical society. John accepts the offer and is brought to his new home, a large towered Victorian style mansion. The house is fully furnished and includes a piano and a music room big enough for John's students to practise. Soon John begins to experience strange happenings in the house. John soon begins discovering the dark secrets buried in the house that date back almost 70 years ago.The acting of the film is great for its small amount of characters. George C Scott delivers one of his best performances along with Trish Van Devere and Melvyn Douglas. Despite the little amount of characters in the story, the film develops them and makes them interesting.The most significant aspect about The Changeling is the atmosphere. I am never going to forget the first shot of the house in the movie. The film does what horror films today should do, create atmosphere. There is nothing scary about a mindless slasher killer or a pool of blood every 10 minutes. The Changeling contains no blood, no gore and little violence yet it still is one of the creepiest films I have ever seen. Peter Medak understood that a spooky atmosphere is the key to truly chilling the audience. Take the séance scene for example. There is no jump scares or scary music needed to creep you out. Medak allows the scene to breath and allows the audience to become engrossed in the scene as if they were sitting alongside the characters. The film has plenty of scenes like this that continue to unnerve me. If you are in the mood to watch an intelligent ghost story, see this movie. I wouldn't recommend watching it by yourself as this film has the tendency to linger with you, even after it's over. But hey, that's the sign of a great movie in my book! "},{"Title":"Best scary movie I have ever seen, hands down","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They do not make movies like this anymore. All the technology and special effects have been almost a problem if you ask me. The plot was very well written, the acting was great. The house is spooky. There is nothing cheesy about the movie. There also are no cliché's. No cats jumping out when the music gets intense or any cheesy stuff like that. The music is also pretty chilling.If you turn the lights out, grab your significant other, maybe have a couple friends over, be quiet and just watch the movie, you are in for a treat. The séance is spooky. Just the whole movie is so well done! This movie rates in my top 5 of all time for sure. I wish movies did not get lost in all the special effects now days. I like older movies generally. They did not have the special effects to rely on so they did it the old fashioned way, a good, clever plot.The good thing about this movie is that while it is scary, it is not evil. The séance pushes it, and I choose not to watch that scene, but it is not like an excorcist movie or anything like that.I won't say much about the plot, you can read that on the website, I will just say that this movie is one of the best of all time. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Excellent film with many plot holes","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The cast, production values, direction, musical score, special effects,and overall atmosphere are all first-rate. I saw it for the first time today and was stunned by is innovation for the time period, and its unflinching insistence on slamming the audience with weird and creepy. The séance scene is one of the best I've ever seen, right up there with the one from Night of the Demon. However... * SPOILER ALERT* The plot became confusing and convoluted. What seemed at first to be a straightforward ghost story turned out to be a political/police drama and murder mystery. Also, at first the viewer is led to believe the ghost might be a little girl who dies tragically outside the house, but it turns out she lived there after the original occupants which included a boy who had a sister, which added to the confusion because I thought the girl who died, Cora, was his sister, because they said his sister died. But she was the daughter of a doctor, and not the evil Mr. Carmichael. And why did Carmichael want to kill his son? Wouldn't it be easier to control the fortune inherited by an invalid child rather than a healthy one? Perhaps he felt the boy might die, triggering the request in his father-in-law's will that the money would then go to charity. But the situation with the little girls, both of whom died, was not explained well at all. Otherwise, a superb and unusual film. "},{"Title":"A Trip Back To When Films Could Scare Without Resorting To Cheap Shocks","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have seen many a horror movie in my day, and few have actually succeeded in scaring me. I will go to the grave with my opinion that PARANORMAL ACTIVITY was terrifying, as well as parts of both versions of THE WOMAN IN BLACK. THE CHANGELING was recommended to me one day by a bearded man with an eye patch (who was a complete stranger) at a book store. Needless to say, I watched it ASAP.John Russell is a composer who has recently lost his wife and daughter in a truck accident and decides to move into a huge, old mansion. Soon, strange things begin going on and John begins to dig into the history of the house, discovering its shocking history.I went into THE CHANGELING expecting just your standard, things-go-bump haunted house story. I knew it could be scary, but I didn't know anything about it. I also saw it was 115-minutes long. That's way too long! I proclaimed. How are they going to keep this running? Well, as it turns out, there's a whole lot more to the story than I expected, and I loved it. I can't say much about what separates this from other haunted house movies because half the enjoyment I got out of it was being surprised at where it went.There aren't any jump scares in THE CHANGELING (from what I remember it). It's all creepy things like doors opening by themselves, strange noises coming from the attic, and a child whispering. However, it's not limited to just these things, which are creepy enough. There's one scene where a woman just stops and stares up a flight of stairs, and then we get to see what she's staring at and it scared me to death! THE CHANGELING is certainly very professionally made as well, with likable characters, great acting, very spooky atmosphere, fantastic camera shots, and a solid pace. It may seem slow by most standards, but the time really flew by when I watched it. It's one of the few films that have actually made me afraid to go near my closet for fear of what might be inside after watching this.This is essential viewing for all horror fans, even if it's not a film you'll find yourself revisiting every week. It's a good nostalgia trip back to the days when films didn't rely on blood, gore, or even cheap jump scares to frighten audiences.Quintessential viewing for all ages. "}{"Title":"The best ghost story I've seen on film.","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the ultimate ghost story as far as I am concerned. It has the Gothic undertones, the creepy mansion, and an engaging ghostly mystery at the center of the plot. All of that pales in comparison to the performance by acting great George C. Scott. He really takes what would have been an average ghost story and turns into something far more with his performance, he is an absolute pleasure to watch in this movie.This one is not well-known in all but the most seasoned of horror circles so if you are a casual horror fan and someone happened upon this page and are reading this review please do yourself a favor and find some way to watch this movie on a dark, stormy night. It does what few horror films have managed to do it transcends the horror genre and simply becomes a good film that isn't qualified with it's a good for a horror film. This is just good cinema. "},{"Title":"Chilling ghost story that is scary as well as touching.","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When New York music professor George C. Scott moves to Washington State after a tragic accident that takes away his wife and young daughter, he leases a large but mysterious house from the historical society. It is soon very clear that someone (or something) lives there besides him, as loud banging noises start recurring, balls begin bouncing down the stairs, and doors mysteriously start opening with nobody present but him. Scott begins to work with the historical society representative (Trish Van Devere) who rented him the house to solve the mystery, and what he finds out is more shocking than the initial research he did. Scott befriends the unseen spirit after finding a mysterious room behind a wall, and does all he can to help unleash the obvious agony this ghost is in. This brings on revelations concerning a powerful local man (Melvyn Douglas) that could destroy a dynasty.Gripping from the start, The Changeling is both horrific and sad, with its ghost story evoking compassion and anger from its leading character. Scott is outstanding as he goes from grieving widower and father to antipathetic resident of the obvious haunted house to someone whose own grief makes him want to solve the mystery he has uncovered. His real-life wife Van Devere offers fine support as she realizes that the house holds a secret that goes way beyond the records she had access to at the historical society. Once the mystery begins to unfold, the film becomes extremely tense, not letting go of its audience until the final credits roll. The revelation is simply too intense to even give hints about, so I will only go as far to say that it is something the viewer will not see coming.I was also delighted to see the wonderful Madeline Thornton-Sherwood (Cat on a Hot Tin Roof's Sister Woman & The Flying Nun's Reverand Mother) in the small role of Van Devere's mother. John Colicos, whom General Hospital fans would see soon afterwords trying to freeze the world as Mikkos Cassadine, has a small but memorable role. This is perfect Halloween viewing for a cold, rainy night, and certainly much better than the rampage of slasher movies that Hollywood began making around the same time. Like Ghost Story, Burnt Offerings, The Amytiville Horror, and Poltergeist, the house, too, is a character, one that might look inviting during the light of day, but becomes sinister as night falls. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Excellent ghost story. George C. Scott stars as a composer who has recently lost his family in a car accident. He moves into a large, long-unoccupied Seattle mansion soon after and starts to have weird experiences. He decides to investigate the house's history and see if he can put the entity at peace. The film is at its best when it's just about a really creepy house. The convoluted history that Scott unravels is not especially interesting, and eventually the film starts to go too big (the musical score, while often very good, becomes way too oppressive during some of the big scare sequences). Still, while I wouldn't quite rank it up there with the best ghost movies like The Haunting or The Innocents, it's not too far below them. Scott is great, and Melvyn Douglas has a good role, too. I liked Trish Van Devere, the lead actress, in some of the scenes, but whenever she got hysterical she was annoying. I mean, she knows damn well that the house is haunted, and that she's scared witless by it, but she continues to enter the house every day. I think I'd just stay the Hell away. "},{"Title":"change that we dare not believe in","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hungarian-born Peter Medak -- he fled Hungary after the 1956 uprising -- has directed a number of movies. There are three that I have seen The Ruling Class (which lampoons the class system), A Day in the Death of Joe Egg (about parents considering a mercy killing for their child) and The Changeling, based on the experiences of writer Russell Hunter in a house in Denver. This last one is usually listed as a horror movie, but that description doesn't do it justice. It has a number of the characteristics of horror movies creepy old house, unexplained sounds, and a protagonist trying to find out the truth about what happened. But the movie focuses as much on those as it does on the effects that the events have on the protagonist.George C. Scott plays John Russell, a composer whose wife and daughter get killed in an accident. So, he moves to Seattle and takes a job with a university. Claire Norman (Trish Van Devere, Scott's final wife), a woman from the historical society, helps John find a house. But sure enough, this house has a terrifying history...and the answer is closer than he realizes.The Changeling eschews the direction that horror flicks were taking in the '70s and '80s it contains no sex, and limited violence. The main focus is on how John experiences the mysterious occurrences, and how he slowly but surely finds out what happened in his new residence so many years earlier. Some scenes did make me jump a little bit. The movie is a bit like The Ring, but more interesting the non-emphasis on special effects gives it a more realistic feeling.All in all, this is definitely one that I recommend. It's not absolutely frightening in the vein of The Shining, but definitely chilling. For this movie and the other two that I mentioned, every citizen of the Magyar Republic (that's Hungary) should hold Peter Medak in high regard.Also starring Melvyn Douglas, John Colicos, Jean Marsh and Madeleine Sherwood (Reverend Mother on The Flying Nun). "},{"Title":"well done... underrated, acceptable horror","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" genre here, directed by Peter Medak. At the time this film came out there was also release of The Shining which overshadowed any other horror films. But to be fair, the story here is interesting and there are some believable horror scenes of the old Seattle mansion.Melvyn Douglas is very good as a senator who is hiding a secret. There are flashbacks, and a horrible murder is at the root of all these incidents. We are only given hints of it through the film.Trish VanDevere and George C. Scott is believable. VanDevere a bit anemic, and as in her performance in sub-par movie The Hearse, another lesser known horror film, seems to be real in some scenes superficial in others.Overall though, the sets of a cathedral-like forest, a dark cavernous mansion and what may or may not have occurred in it are suspenseful and hold audience interest. 8/10. "},{"Title":"What is your name?","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is directed by Peter Medak,has a screenplay by William Gray and stars George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere and Melvin Douglas.This 1980 chiller is a seriously underrated horror film.The classic haunted house situations are all in place here,including strange noises and a dark history.This is a film which cleverly plays on our fears of being alone in such a vast building, it is filled with moments of extreme terror, tension and suspense.After his wife and daughter are killed in a car accident,music professor John Russell(George C.Scott)moves into an old house that's been empty for many years.Soon after his arrival John realises the house is haunted and he stumbles upon the disturbing truth about the previous occupants.His search for answers leads him to the door of popular Senator Joe Carmichael(Melvin Douglas)and along with his friend Claire Norman(Trish Van Devere) Russell uncovers the shocking reason behind the haunting.There's a solid lead performance from Scott,perfectly cast as a weary man reaching breaking point thanks to what's going on his home.Highlights include a creepy seance sequence recorded on tape in which John hears a ghost talking to a medium he called in. The other really creepy moment is the ball bouncing down the staircase(truly unnerving and frightening when seen).Unfairly overshadowed by films like The Haunting, The Changeling is one you should seek out, once again proving that blood and gore do not really make a horror film, suspense and atmosphere on the other hand certainly does. "},{"Title":"A simple, gripping, chilling story","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Kindly skip the fourth paragraph if you don't like spoilers.I accidentally went through the IMDb page where I got a glimpse of The Chengeling movie. The movie was 30+ years old, plot was appealing and so was the reviews. Needless to say I saw the movie at once and now its in my horror library and I wouldn't rank it for the simple reason that its story is not fresh any more and cant be compared with any of its contemporaries.Yet this movie will seduce you! from frame one; for its simplistic still power acting and direction. Like any other vintage movies this movie too travels on the sensible script and acting. but then, the camera, music (at times loud), and editing sets the right tone from the beginning. Even the pace of the movie is questionable for first 20 minutes or so, but then the drama grips you till the end even though its a predictable yet likable one. its one of those gems which can set benchmark for a decent horror movies and I will call it so coz there are some spooky moments which are scary even if your lights are on and you have a accompany watching the film.Spoilers ahead - plotThe first scene starts with an accident where Jonh's (George Scott) wife and daughter are killed. He moves to a town where he teaches music in a university. Claire, a local women working at the historical research center helps him to lease a old house. john encounters unusual sound and movements and later comes to know the house is possessed by a 6 year old boys spirit. on further exploration he finds out the startling revelations about the boys death.Verdict watch it for its simplistic plot and powerful performance. "},{"Title":"UNDERrated movie!!!  Awesome!","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" great story! great acting! great musical score! awesome movie! watch it! this movie and the exorcist are the 2 scariest probably!(filler) what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline. 1 what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline. 2what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline.3 what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline.4 what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline.5what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline.6what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline. 777 what do i have to have to have 10 lines of text? what a stupid new guideline. (filler) "},{"Title":"a perfectly constructed ghost story","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you consider yourself a fan of ghost movies and haven't seen this gem, shame on you. This is truly a classic ghost story in every sense of the term. The plot follows John Russell, a widowed composer who moves into a big spooky house on the outskirts of Seattle (this is really the only part of the plot that stretches belief - why would a single man move into such an enormous house?). After several bizarre happenings it becomes apparent that the house is haunted, and he determines to find out why. The movie is a more old-fashioned ghost story, with a central mystery to solve and a spirit who is tragic as well as terrifying. There's a steady Gothic feel to the whole film, with the main character's loss of his wife and child casting a pall of gloom over everything. The location also helps - the house they chose is equal parts gorgeous and creepy. The film (thankfully) does not overreach the special effects of the day, and everything looks perfectly real. There are few scares (there is maybe one scene that will make you jump), but enough creepy scenes to maintain the atmosphere. In particular, a séance scene about halfway through is one of the best I've seen in a movie. Save this eerie little number for a dark night or cold, cloudy day when you want to chill your bones just a little. "},{"Title":"Shivery ghost story...perhaps too complexly-plotted to be truly scary","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Retired composer tries to rebuild his life after witnessing his wife and child die in a freak auto accident; after moving into a renovated, historical mansion, he is drawn into the 70-year-old murder of a child which took place in the attic of his new residence. Solid scare-story with slamming doors and banging pipes. The obvious question comes up soon enough (though not with any of the characters on-screen) why would one man want to lease such a large estate, full of rooms he would never have any need of using? Plot-holes aside, as well as the brackish cinematography, there are many good scenes here, particularly an intense séance (and its aftermath) and the digging up of human remains in a nearby house. In the lead, George C. Scott keeps a calm head throughout; he doesn't exude much of his personality with this role, but he acquits himself well with the spooky goings-on. As a paranoid politician who figures in the mystery, Melvyn Douglas has even less to work with than Scott. However, when these two splendid actors face off it makes for grand entertainment indeed. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Perfect Horror Film","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first watched this film in the early eighties on television. I've thought of it time and again through the years; I remembered how frightening it had been and how wonderfully told the story was. I wasn't sure that it would still hold its own over the years, and I watched it again this weekend to see how it stood the test of time. The film is sensational! It works so well on so many levels the story is edge of your seat frightening, without the aid of gore or special effects. The acting is sublime; the music of Brahms and Mozart add to the ambiance like nothing else could. It's an enormously successful film. I'm not sure how it did in the theatres, I doubt it did very well at all. But it should have. It's one of the best of the genre. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Nicely acted and terrifying....what are you waiting for?","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 70's sure was an interesting time for horror. After The Exorcist managed to stomp through the box office like Big Foot on a raping spree through a school yard, it showed that the genre didn't have to be relegated to the second bill on a B movie matinée to make some serious cash. It was the perfect coupling of big budget, hot young director and a talented cast, and this formula was thankfully to repeat again throughout the decade with the likes of The Omen, Jaws, Alien and The Amityville Horror following closely on it's heels.By the time The Changeling hit the big screen, many a 'respected' director had taken a stab at the often ridiculed genre, with Philip Kaufman turning up the chills with his Invasion of the Body Snatchers remake, and the 'other' haunted house flick of 1980, The Shining, being directed by a nobody called Stanley Kubrick. So, how does The Changeling hold up to all these heavy weight horror contenders? Taken on it's own merits, The Changeling punches holes through the skulls of the likes of Amityville Horror like Ricky Oh pulverizing a bunch of badly acted prison inmates. We get off to a grim start, with John Russell (George C Scott), a music composer, who loses his family in a freak car accident on a snowy road. Several months later he seems to be on the road to recovery, and is offered a university lecturing job in Seattle. He decides to rent a stately historical home to stay in, and hopefully start him off fresh in his new life. It's not long though before he gets woken by loud banging noises, and soon he discovers a boarded up door leading to the attic. Here he finds a dust covered child's wheelchair, and other ancient curiosities.It seems that there is the spirit of a young boy trying to communicate with John, and the more he delves into the history of the house, the darker the past seems. How did Joseph die? and how is it connected with the state senator? Will John escape with his marbles intact? Watch it and see, yo! What we have here is a seriously creepy haunted house slow burner. The film takes it's time to build character, and allow the atmosphere to creep up nicely with excellent use being made of the central location. The scares may seem standard at this stage, but they are well executed, and it makes a damned scary use of a séance scenario that always manages to get a bit of pee out of my willy. Another stand out scare moment involves the clinically eerie wheelchair, and scene when a younger girl foolishly wanders into her haunted bedroom late at night. Don't worry little girl, I was screaming along side you! One of the great things about The Changeling is Mr George C Scott. He carries the emotional bulk of the film on his hefty shoulders, and really lets loose when required. It's refreshing to see an actor as established as Scott was delving into the genre and really giving it his all. To see an elderly actor cast as the lead in a horror film is quite a surprise, it's something that would never happen in this day and age. His performance really helps sell the latter stages of the film that don't work quite as well as the first half. Unfortunately the film slightly derails in the last act, after a great false ending that will remind eagle eyed horror fans of the climax of Ringu. Don't worry though, the problems are only minimal and won't ruin the film for you, it just felt a tad OTT.If you are fans of films like The Haunting, The Innocents, or even The Amityville Horror, you need to see this. It's serious, scary, and well acted. And really, when it comes to haunted house flicks, these are the essentials. Not big, flashy special effects or gore, just straight up old fashioned chills. "},{"Title":"Genuinely Scary, Not Gory","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a great film for those who like frightening, non-gory flicks. The Changeling is an atmospheric chiller of paranormal phenomena and a ghostly mystery. The intelligent and highly competent film-maker avoids showing too much, thereby encouraging the viewer's imagination to churn out fear.The haunted mansion becomes a character in its own right, and George C. Scott is utterly convincing as the composer who seems summoned to the house after the deaths of his wife and daughter.This movie contains several scenes that will truly make the hair on the back of your neck stand up. Much more effective than most newer horror films - and no decapitations or spurting blood!If you enjoy getting the bejabbers scared out of you but are turned off by the gory overkill of films like John Carpenter's Vampires, watch The Changeling.Best viewed when you're alone in the house on a dark, quiet night. "},{"Title":"A Dramatically Under-Rated Movie","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the genre of ghost/horror movies, there occasionally comes a truly wonderful picture that doesn't rely on gore, special effects, and shock to tell a truly gripping tale. It is a mystery story of why John Russell, the widowed composer/teacher is haunted by a spirit who is only explained once he sees to having a medium come to his house to communicate with the ghost. It was discovered who the ghost really was after the seance, and the rest of the story consisted of finding out what the spirit really wanted. Slowly, the bits of the story come together as one clue after another is added to the whole mystery, and it all begins to add up as the people in the film are revealed for who they truly are, and what their motivations end up being. I won't spoil it with revealing the ending. All I'll say is that the OUTSTANDING cast makes this a very watchable picture, with a very satisfactory ending which leaves nothing to the imagination concerning what it was all about. Unlike many movies of this type, which try to titillate us with squirrelly endings that don't fully explain what it was all about, this film didn't fall into that trap. It doesn't have to explain anything, because following the plot is not at all difficult. You don't have to continually try to figure out what's happening, which is a welcome relief from all the films of this type that feel they have to make us figure it out as we go along, and then leave us hanging at the end with a silly plot twist, or some completely out of the blue scene that leaves us unfulfilled and scratching our heads as we leave the room. This film delivers completely on all counts. Great story line, great acting by a truly professional cast, and nothing left to the imagination, except why don't they make more movies like this? "},{"Title":"Excellent film!  Up there with the original 'Amityville Horror!  Needs a blu ray re-release!","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Excellent film! Scott's portrayal of a broken man on the verge of breaking down was superb. The direction was fantastic, kudos to Mr. Medak. The story itself is very good and the script is well written. Covers all the bases and makes a lot of sense at the end. Betrayal in the sickest form is what basically drives the motive for our villain. But is he really a villain? I'm glad his point of view is shown and after doing so, I can understand how he feels.The cinematography and production value blew me away, especially during the finale. The way the flames came down the staircase and how the mansion was ablaze after the ambulance drove by with the changeling in it. Very well shot this film was indeed.I recommend this to all, especially fans of old school real horror like amityville or the shining. "},{"Title":"Not bad,but not nearly as chilling made out to be","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When so many reviewers praise a movie there has to be something that is deserving of that praise. And I have to admit that there are elements that make this a solid movie. But overall I was quite disappointed with this movie. Now I do think it has to do with the fact that this movie relies on using your own fear and imagination. You could perceive this movie as scary as you like since this movie gives you room to interpret matters on different levels. And this is probably it's strength and at the same time it's downfall. If you are an avid fan of horror movies than i'll doubt you will find this movie scary or chilling at all. Because the presented events aren't really original or refreshing. Casual viewers will be more impressed I think. The mystery itself wasn't that compelling either. With movies concerning haunted mansions you know that there is a story behind it and finding out what that story is part of the fun. This finding out part in the movie wasn't that interesting in the first place. It also didn't help that George C.Scott was far too calm and accepting when he was confronted with the so called scary events. Keep your expectations low with this one. "},{"Title":"If You Like Haunting Films, This One Is Decent","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Composer John Russell (George C. Scott) loses his wife and daughter in a freak accident, and moves from New York to Seattle to start over. But the historical mansion he moves into hides a nasty secret not only is there a ghost, but a murder and a family secret that could have major consequences for a political empire.I picked this movie up a few years ago after hearing my friend Trixie speak so highly of it. I am not really sure why I give her opinion so much weight, as she has mostly led me to watch horrible garbage like Lucky and Red Riding Hood and hideous films like Slaughtered Vomit Dolls. She did show me Strings, though, so I guess she did something right.Now, do not get me wrong. The Changeling is a good movie. It has a slow, suspenseful pace and interesting characters. But it is a horror film that requires the right viewing environment. It has to be savored like a fine wine, not watched at a party or while getting drunk with a friend. There is plenty of effort going into the mood and atmosphere, but no blood and no body count. I watched this film a second time and enjoyed it much more than the first, knowing ahead of time that I had to savor the pacing. This is not a film for those with ADD.The atmosphere, as I said, is key. This is a mood picture, with the musical score really carrying the film. On top of the score is the incorporation of classical music -- the protagonist is a composer -- and that only adds to the layered feel of the film. How much the music carries the film may be overlooked if you do not open yourself to it, as it is both powerful and subtle.I found George C. Scott to be a wonderful and capable actor, although his Patton voice was distracting at times. I kept waiting for him to say Americans traditionally love to fight, but he does not. This is not Scott's fault -- this is my fault for listening to Jackyl. Yes, you can hold that against me. Chainsaws as musical instruments are cool.The character of Minnie Huxley also set a nice tone. I appreciate the ominous elderly person in a film, especially after Crazy Ralph in Friday the 13th. This film not only anticipates Friday, but more so Stir of Echoes -- Russell composes a song not unlike the music box (Kevin Bacon plays the Rolling Stones on his guitar) and both try to find a murder victim by digging in a house.Director Peter Medak is now considered one of the masters of horror. He may deserve this honor, he may not. His career is varied so that I do not think he necessarily gets thought of as a horror director. But, I will say The Changeling was notable and influential -- Martin Scorsese, for one, considers it inspiring -- and for that Medak deserved recognition. I would personally suggest you see this film, though do not go out of your way. "},{"Title":"he could have got away with it if it wasn't for that meddling pianist","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dogged by a vague feeling of emptiness - of mobile fisheye lenses and dutch angles overcompensating for flat patches, of Scooby-Doo like sleuthing rationalizing the horror away. Perhaps because of the latter, some of the supporting performances bring to mind seventies TV rather than Val Lewton - shallow and silly. But you don't really go looking for depth or high seriousness in a haunted house movie, do you? You go looking for the creeps. And there's some real good ones here. I'm partial to the extended sequences centering on the rubber ball and the well; the wheelchair is a good idea too but they milk it a bit too hard. George C. Scott may not get much of a workout, but he does carry the film almost single-handedly for long stretches, and the leads are each given one fleeting emotive moment to heighten our engagement. In short, a shaggy dog with a couple new tricks, executed with economy, a dandy sense of rhythm and composition, and that special Drabinsky touch of chintzy 'class'. "},{"Title":"Finally someone gets it","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What sets this movie apart from other horror films are the little things. It's never overly gory. It's never overly anything. But it's the subtleties that make it outstanding. The ball coming down the stairs. The banging that starts out small but gets louder as if to say, Look at me. My personal favorite is the clairvoyant, who is just doing her job but manages to summon the frighteningly present, Joshua. And of course, George C. Scott manages to offer us his pain from his loss, but his discovery of the unseen in his house. I like that it layers many stories, but it's George's pained character that manages to out the ghost and set him free, which also sets George's character free.This to me is horror at it's finest. "},{"Title":"The eighties were so cool!","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, Shining, The Poltergeist, all those other haunting movies of the 80's... and also the attitude. The best scene in the movie is when the haunted guy talks to a specialist who explains to him that even if 99% of all ghost stories are hoaxes, 1% are not. To which the reply was OK, OK, but what am I supposed to do about it?. See? No hysterical fright, no moral imperative to do something or irrational behaviour there is a problem, we have evidence to determine that, so there must be a solution. The 80's, the time when being rational was still cool.Anyway, back to the movie George C. Scott plays this composer who just lost his wife and daughter to an accident. He comes to live in a haunted house and attempts to communicate with the restless spirit. A very solid movie of both tension and great acting.It is hard to feel scared these days and even harder to relate to the characters. No sexy scared blondes in bikinis that get turned off creatively, either. Think Poltergeist meets The Ring and you get a pretty good picture of what this film is about. "}{"Title":"how to do a haunted-house movie just about right","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Strange that I should see the same director that made this ended up doing stuff like Species II. Where did he go? At one time this hired hand made one of the underrated horror films (or just not as hugely popular as the other crazy-ass house horror flick of 1980, The Shining), The Changeling, which took a pretty recognizable premise (widowed man, George C. Scott, takes up residence in a big house that, color us shocked, is haunted by the presence of a boy who died in a room locked away with dark familial secrets soon to be revealed) and made it invigorating with real scares and sharp direction. It's sometimes even close to intoxicating direction; not quite Argento but just enough to get the blood boiling the fingernails curled up for the next big shock that may or may not occur.And while, as mentioned, some parts of the plot are predictable (not least of which if one has seen the slightly superior The Beyond by Fulci), the performances from Scott and especially Melvyn Douglas are terrific and many scenes are unforgettable as should-be horror bits like the séance or the wheelchair possessed chasing after the woman, or just the creepy ambiance given by the boy's spider-webbed bedroom. It relies on a lot of moments of tension and unrest in a conventional sense, but always pulled off with professional skill (no crap logic to the supernatural things or the special effects, or the writing for that matter) and lack of hackery. Hell, the death of the boy alone is worth recommending the film alone... that doesn't sound right, but it makes sense in context of the movie. "},{"Title":"An intense, frightening ghost story","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just finished watching The Changeling. I'm a huge fan of horrors and subtle ghost stories, and appreciate subtle scares. This film, though it was made like 30 years ago, was truly terrifying and (in my opinion) not dated at all.The whole movie contains an eerie atmosphere. The house is really creepy looking, especially at night. And once the ghost comes into play, the movie takes a terrifying turn. It's complete with an eerie tone, creepy voices and tele-porting objects. This film is not for the faint of heart.Sadly, films like this aren't made anymore. Except for a few films recently made (The Others, the Sixth Sense) horror movies have lost subtlety and are relying on cheap scares. Hopefully more films are made like this one. The Changeling was a very scary movie that is perfect for people who love a well-done ghost story. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie - A True Classic That Ages Well","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The late George C. Scott stars as Dr. John Russell, a music professor living in New York City, who moves cross-country to Washington State after the tragic traffic deaths of his wife and daughter in upstate New York. In suburban Seattle, Russell rents a massive, and eerie-looking Victorian-era mansion and attempts to piece together his life. However, he soon discovers that he's got unexpected company in his new home when the ghost of a long murdered child appears, shattering windows and abruptly opening and shutting doors. Russell investigates and finds that the mystery is linked to a powerful US senator. What starts out as a supernatural mystery soon becomes a murder mystery.Although set in the US, The Changeling was produced by a Canadian production company and filmed largely in Canada. The interior scenes at the university were filmed at the University of Toronto and the Historical Society scenes at the Flatiron shaped Hotel Europe in Vancouver. The Changeling won the first ever Genie Award (Canada's Oscar) for Best Canadian Film. It also won the 7 other Genie Awards including Best Foreign Actor &#151; George C. Scott, Best Foreign Actress &#151; Trish Van Devere and Best Adapted Screenplay &#151; William Gray and Diana Maddox. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a recent widower (the wonderfully over emphatic George C. Scott ) moves into an antique Washington mansion, his realization that he may not be the only resident leads him toward a deadly secret that refuses to remain buried....The best haunted-house film since the legendary Haunting, this potent, classy combination of the mystery and horror genres eschews explicit gore and dumb shocks in exchange for a subtle creepiness that occasionally builds to a terrifying peak (watch out for that séance scene!). The result is a satisfyingly intelligent horror film with an intriguing dash of Watergate-era paranoia. Director Peter Medak went on to direct the considerably more gratuitous and somewhat less effective Romeo Is Bleeding and The Krays. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the finest supernatural horror flick around","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dang, this is one hella solid ghost movie. Maybe the best ever. A mix of supernatural horror, suspense and crime/mystery.George C. Scott is pretty legit, the story's pacing is excellent, the score is really fantastic (consistently inspired, eerie, ominous, discordant and sad stuff -- contrasted by the cheery classical music the main character writes) and the house is absolutely creepy.This movie evokes the fears of childhood and like many ghost stories you heard when you were a kid, only comes back to you when you go to the bathroom in the middle of the night. Good stuff. If only there were more like this. "},{"Title":"Great atmospheric underrated genre piece.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The atmosphere is amazing and about as good as it can get within a genre movie such as this one is. It's the sort of dark and uneasy atmosphere, that at the same time feels also really natural, which makes it perhaps all the more creepy and effective. The movie is definitely helped by its most excellent cinematography and eerie musical score by Rick Wilkins, that is a great example for its genre. Who is this man and why did he composed for so few movies? It's truly an horror movie that is made great by its atmosphere. This also means that the horror within this movie is more implying than anything else really. This means that the movie is filled with mostly returning eerie sounds, sudden opening doors and other strange unnatural things that are occurring. So a lot of things are also being implied without actually showing too much. These type of horror movies are often among the best and most effective within its genre. The movie also does a good job at making the haunted house and all of its rooms and elements within it a true character within the movie.It also helps the movie that it still has- and is made in a typical '70's style, despite the fact that this movie was released in 1980. The style of this movie should remind you of other genre classics from the '70's such as The Omen and Don't Look Now for instance.The movie of course also gets uplifted by the fact that the movie its main character is being played by George C. Scott. Melvyn Douglas also plays a role. Douglas is mostly known for his roles in '40's movies so seeing him in this movie, in the 80's, was quite a pleasant blast from the past. Also Jean Marsh makes an appearance within this movie.It's definitely true though that the movie sort of gets 'worse' and looses some of its power throughout the movie. The first two-thirds is truly excellent and basically couldn't had been better, with its excellent implying horror and atmosphere. In the last third the mystery already gets sort of explained, which of course takes away some of the tension of the movie. You can say that the movie is perhaps overwritten and the movie would had been better, or at least more effective, without a cleverly written and constructed story that explains its mysterious things and all. The movie could had been a real true perfect genre classic but it's now more sort of a semi-classic and semi-must-see.Quite a shame that this movie just isn't any better known, since its definitely among the best and most classy genre movies.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Scary parts","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was personally one that was scary for me. Blood and guts don't do it, but ghosts do. I try and find movies that actually give me a scare. It's hard to do. I love ghosts and stuff in general, Halloween being my favorite holiday. I visit many haunted attractions, but it doesn't give me the thrill I'm looking for.Every time I talk about this movie, I get chills. This is the thrill I'm talking about. There are three parts in particular that got to me the most.The first was the voice on the tape during the séance. The second was the wheelchair chase. But the thing that does me in the most was when Scott tosses the ball in the river, and walking back in the house, it comes bouncing down.I gave this a 10 and will always recommend it! "},{"Title":"A classic for me!","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I still remember the first time I saw this movie. It was an HBO movie in the early early 80's. I could not sleep that night so I put on HBO. I am so glad that I did not change the channel when it began. I recently purchased this in a bargain bin. I think all movies should be in a bargain bin, but anyway, this movie could be a good starter movie for first time rated R movie watchers. No gore or nudity, and it has a sit around the campfire type of story. This was always a good movie to share with my friends because most of them have never even knew it existed, and it is not the typical Hollywood vision. I would watch this movie with no more than 3 people. Keep the lights out and the room warm, and if it is snowing, you would have the perfect night to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent Ghost story, well done, scary.","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Cerebral ghost story with a good performance by George C. Scott. Haunted house, sudden death, old mysteries, etc. spice this one up. If You are a fan of old fashion ghost stories, by all means, give this one A try. I put it in the category of the Haunting, and Uninvited. This is also very much in the mystery genre, with a well paced secret to unravel. My wife also enjoyed this movie. It is not of the eye popping graphics, or slashing, bloody guts kind of movie, rather it gets its chills from quiet, out of the ordinary happenings. Supporting players are strong with George's wife, actress Trish Van Devere, playing a love interest. The great Melvyn Douglas must enjoy Horror stories because if I am not mistaken, He also played in the movie Ghost Story, before his death.Rick "},{"Title":"Terrific Ghost Story","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you don't believe in ghosts, this film might change your mind. It's a terrific and very understated movie that doesn't go for the cheap scare and no blood is spilled. It's a very thoughtful, methodical and eerie exploration of a haunted house. George C. Scott (one of the finest actors EVER) is a music composer who, after the tragic death of his wife and daughter, moves across the country from NY to Seattle to rebuild his life and get away from the torment. He soon finds that he is hearing strange noises and is drawn to things in the house he cannot explain.Research and the help of a medium help him uncover a tragedy and vile crime that took place in the house many years prior. In an effort to set things right for the hapless victim, Scott's character exposes a sad yet serious fraud taking place.This film is one of, if not the BEST ghost story ever committed to the big screen and it's all because it's not flashy, gory nor silly. It's simply very good. "}{"Title":"Simply the best haunted house film ever committed to film; scary as hell, too!","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The late George C. Scott (one of my favorite actors of all time) didn't dabble in the horror genre too often, but when he did, he picked really classy projects (EXORCIST 3 for example; an under-appreciated gem). THE CHANGELING is his best. In this film, Scott plays one John Russell, a composer/teacher who loses his wife and daughter in a horrific roadside tragedy (gut-wrenching, but thankfully un-gory). Seeking solitude, a grief-stricken Russell then moves into a remote, creaky, old house near Seattle. Soon after, unexplained sounds and poltergeist activity plague him (in subtle ways by today's standards; that single, ominous ball dropping onto the steps!). He tries to research the house (and receives cryptic warnings). Finding no real answers in that avenue, he turns to the parapsychology department of his own university. A very 'productive'(i.e., trouser-soaking) séance soon convinces Russell a young, disabled boy named Joseph Carmichael met a hideous end at the hands of his father, who replaced his sickly heir with an adopted one (hence the title) who grows up to become a powerful, wealthy senator. Russell means to confront the senator and try to give Joseph (and himself) some peace. George C. Scott conveys the vulnerability and grief of his character beautifully (especially the scene where he's sobbing after a nightmare of his family's death); a total 180 from the confidence and arrogance of Scott's PATTON. The ghost voices, and the sight of that empty, cob-webbed wheelchair viciously chasing Trish van deVere (Scott's real-life spouse) down that narrow staircase will cure any and all types of constipation! Guaranteed! This is the type of ghost story they simply DON'T make enough of anymore. Mood is allowed to build. The acting is top-drawer. No gore. No obnoxious, fresh-off-the-Mac CGI effects cluttering up the screen. And watch this movie at night, in relative darkness, and I DARE anyone NOT to have cold chills run down the their spinal cord! THE CHANGELING's closest cinematic relatives would be STIR OF ECHOES (a very good, modern horror film; seems like a contradiction these days!) and to a lesser extent, LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE (1973). If you can get CHANGELING on DVD, and you have an attention span greater than a common house fly, there will be many, truly hair-raising scares awaiting (and rewarding) you. After THE CHANGELING came out in 1980, the old-style, subtle ghost-story went into a long slumber, revived properly (after 19 years) with SIXTH SENSE and STIR OF ECHOES (ECHOES is the better film of these two in a near photo-finish). Some new millennium Japanese horror (RINGU, JU-ON) have also tried to revive this sub-genre with mixed results (seriously; ENOUGH with the long-haired, green-skinned dead girls already!). Despite this new competition, George C. Scott's CHANGELING is still (almost 30 years later) the finest (and SCARIEST) ghost story ever made. "},{"Title":"1/2 a Great Horror Movie...","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Recently widowed George C. Scott rents an enormous, historic home and soon finds out it's haunted by a child and his creepy wheelchair. Like something out of Val Lewton, the first 1/2 of the film is terrifying without any blood, gore or boogey men even being shown. There's a lot of loud thumping, a very disturbing child's ball, and a really creepy séance. Unfortunately, the second half of the film degenerates into an all too logical wrap up reminiscent of an early 80s TV crime show. Scott is very good and Trish van Devere is great as the building's preservationist and his only ally. Medak is a classy director and the film is extremely well-made, although the fact that the recently widowed Scott decides to rent such an enormous house is a bit of lapse in logic. The reliable supporting cast includes Madeline Sherwood and Melvyn Douglas as a sneaky senator. Jean Marsh appears briefly as Scott's wife. "},{"Title":"Creepy as hell!","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is scary as hell. It's up there with THE SHINING, SUSPIRIA and THE EXORCIST. I covered my face like almost every scary part in this film. The big twists that happen are clever and it works.What makes it scarier is to know it's based on actual events, but the most disturbing part of it is when the little boy gets suffocated underwater by his own father.Also, this movie has been ripped-off several times (some of the scenes, not the storyline) for instance; 50% of the great horror flick THE OTHERS, is very similar to this, they even have one character called the same, and it has the same position!Anyways, THE CHANGELING is a movie you won't regret watching! "},{"Title":"If this ever sees the light of day you'll wish you were never brought into this world!","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (Major Spoilers) Chilling haunted house movie that has a secret that dates back to the turn of the century, 1900-1909,involving a brutal murder of a crippled nine year old boy! A murder committed by non other the the boy's father.Music professor John Russell, George C. Scott, is trying to get over the terrible tragedy of the deaths of his wife and young daughter Jaonna & Kathy, Jean Marsh & Michelle Martin, in a traffic accident in upstate New york. Taking some time off and then moving to Seattle Washington John rents the Chessman House outside the city from the local Historical Society.Desperately needing peace and quite to both compose his music and forget his past, the deaths of Joanna & Kathy, John ends up getting neither with the house suddenly coming to life in the form of the ghost of a young boy who was murdered there some 70 years ago. At first thinking that it might be the plumbing John soon realizes that what's happening in the Chessman House is not of this, or of the living, world.John getting in touch with Seattle Historical Society curator Claire Norman, Trish Van Devere, the two find this secret room in the attic that housed a young and crippled, with his wheelchair still being there, boy. Checking out the records of the Chessman House it's found out that the house belong to the now powerful Washington State Senator Joseph Carmichael's, Melvyn Douglas, parents! Something just doesn't check out here with the house through it's strange and unexplained noises as well as a reading from world famous medium Leah Harmon, Helen Burns, that shows whoever is making these sounds has been dead for over 50 years! If the dead child, or ghost, in question making these strange sounds isn't Senator Carmichael, who's very much alive, then who is he? Did the senator have a twin brother that nobody knew about?John who at first would never believe all this ghostly and supernatural hogwash is now convinced that there was something to the story about a murder at the Chessman House and that somehow Senator Joseph Carmichael, who was just an infant when it happened, gained the most out of it. With the information that he got from the medium Leah as well as his recording of it, that picked up sounds that were inaudible to the human ear, John tracks down the remains of the murdered boy to Elizibaeth Gray, Frances Hyman, house. It's the Gray house that was once the property of Senator Carmichael's father and it's there, in a now sealed and buried well, where the young boys body was found! Also found there is evidence that the murdered boy, also named Joseph Carmichael, not Senator Carmichael was was the elder Carmichael's son!With this discovery on both John and Calire's part the awful truth about Senator Carmichael starts to come out and the Senator then uses all of his power and influence to keep it from seeing the light of day even if he has to resort to bribery or even murder. The movie The Changling takes a while to get off the ground but it has so many loose ends to tie up, before it really gets down to business, that you can't be critical of it for it's almost snail-like pacing.When the film explodes in the last ten minutes you already know what's the secret behind the house and Senator Carmichael's connection to it. John whom the Senator completely misunderstood, in what his actions were, was more the willing to put the whole thing behind him. But it was the ghost of young Joseph that wouldn't let go and it was that ghost that in the end saw to it that pure justice, as brutal and indifferent as it is, without as much as a glint of mercy was finally done and done at the Senator's expense. "},{"Title":"Another haunting","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw the changeling when it was theatrically released and I liked it.At the time ,it was unfairly overshadowed by the release of Kubrik's Shining but actually ,Peter Medak's film belongs more to the tradition of Robert Wise's the haunting (1963!)with a small political side,probably inspired by the omen (1976) .All the first part ,when George C.Scott (as good as ever) wanders in the huge spooky mansion where he can hear strange noises at night is nicely filmed ,and it's almost silent.The discovery of the room with the wheelchair and the music box is a good disturbing moment.The medium scene,while it cannot hold a candle to that in Jack Tourneur's Night of the Demon (1957) ,is rather good ,and the sequence when Scott is alone with his tape recorder is even better.Melvyn Douglas shines in his almost scary performance.Roman Polanski had cast him as a shady neighbor in the tenant (1976) "},{"Title":"Underwhelmed to say the least","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This wasn't a bad film, but it really wasn't what I was expecting. Given all of the reviews, I was expecting a really scary horror movie. However, this movie would be best described as a mystery/thriller rather than horror as it offers very few genuine scares. In fact, change the musical score and it could pretty well play out as a straight up mystery. I would have to call this pretty lightweight horror. If you're really a fan of horror and are looking for a good scare, this movie will likely disappoint you. It tries to generate tension and atmosphere through the use of relatively well-done cinematography and a menacing score, but it's all talk and no real payoff. The suspense ultimately just peters out and part of the problem is that the protagonist never seems genuinely afraid. I found the set piece with the wheelchair chasing the female character more laughable than horrifying. Overall, I was quite disappointed as this film didn't meet the expectations that I had based on other reviews here. "},{"Title":"Must See for lovers of this genre!","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is definitely one of the best chillers you'll ever come across. I only bought this a few days ago, but I was pleasantly surprised! George C Scott stars as a composer, who after his wife and daughter die in a tragic accident, rents a house from the Historical Society and makes it his home. However, loud bangings, eerie images of a corpse in the bathtub, and a terrible wrong done form one of the best ghost stories ever made.Get a copy of this, along with The Haunting (1963), The Woman in Black (1989), Rosemary's Baby (1968), Taste of Fear (1961), and The Innocents (1961), and you will have one of the best chiller collections ever!Unmissable! "},{"Title":"The best scariest ghost stories ever...EVER!!!","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Definitely the best scariest ghost stories ever...EVER!!! I watched this movie since I was 11 and it's scared begesus out of me. Now I'm growing up and still the same...heh-heh-heh! Unlike other horror movies I don't like such as slasher movies or so called teen horror movies is not my taste. The Changeling is a non-blood n'gore fest, only eerie sounds. Just sounds. Chilling soundtrack (I've got to find this soundtrack, please someone post me). Finest characters. Plot thickens. And more freaked-us-out moments like the séance, the bouncing ball, and the camera moves faster to the attic. I do love only-this-one ghost stories of our time. The Shining (original), The Others, The Sixth Sense, The Ring (both versions), The Grudge (original) and The Haunting (original) are include my list. The Changeling is great scary haunted house movie and it's also a message for everyone movie lovers who want to be alone on a living watching the same movie is now on DVD and if you want a brief intermission or a dinner break but somethings banging above....DON'T GO TO THE FREAKING ATTIC ALONE!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best ghost stories ever","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Since its first apparition in horror fiction around the 18th century, stories about ghosts have become one of the most important elements in the genre, and as such, soon they were portrayed in every single media available. Film was not an exception, and so movies with ghosts or a haunting as plot device have been done since the invention of cinematography. The Changeling continues this tradition of stories, following the Gothic approach of the haunting and the mystery that goes with the journey. Apparently it wasn't well received when it came out (although it won the Genie award), but fortunately, it's finally getting the recognition it truly deserves as one of the best ghost stories ever put on film.The Changeling is the story of John Russell (George C. Scott), a successful musician and composer who one day during a vacation lost his wife and daughter in a tragic car accident. Still recovering from the shock, he moves to a huge abandoned mansion in Chessman Park that belongs to the Historical Society in an attempt to rebuilt his life, however, he begins to experience a series of supernatural events that seems to be related to the house's past and the mysterious events that took place there. While reluctant at first, soon Russell will discover that the dark presence that inhabits the Mansion has a very specific purpose for him.Based on a story by Russell Hunter, the movie was written by William Gray and Diana Maddox, who cleverly built a captivating mystery that slowly unfolds as Russell's investigation takes place. Putting the genre's conventions to good use, the writers follow closely the Gothic pattern for ghost stories without moving away from the mystery. This focus on the secrets and Russell's research really make the story very interesting, and the fact that the characters are likable and very well developed just adds to the effectiveness of the movie. Like a hybrid between detective novel and horror film, The Changeling not only offers a creepy and scary story, it also allows the audience to identify with Russell and feel the excitement of the investigation.Director Peter Medak creates an enormously atmospheric movie that really takes good advantage of the story's Gothic style, making it one of the scariest films of the 80s. With and elegant and classy cinematography (by John Coquillon), Medak uses the location to make the Mansion itself an important character in the movie, and like Robert Wise did decades before in The Haunting, succeeds in making a horror movie where the terror comes from subtle and simple objects instead of complicated special effects. This focus on the suspense and the Gothic elements of the movie perfectly fits the mystery of the plot, resulting in an overwhelming atmosphere of dread that doesn't end until the secret is revealed.Better known for his amazing performance in Patton, George C. Scott once again shows his enormous talent as the tortured John Russell. Scott's acting is natural and realistic, and easily makes the character come to life with a charm that makes hard not to feel identified with him. Scott's real life wife Trish Van Devere plays his character's counterpart, Claire Norman, in a character that easily could had become a cliché. Like Scott, Van Devere's natural performance enhances the film's mix of realism with dark fantasy, and while her screen time is considerably smaller, her performance is effective. The film has also great performances by Melvyn Douglas, Jean Marsh and John Colicos in the supporting roles.The Changeling has slowly build up a reputation as one of the forgotten great films of the 80s, and for the most part the film lives up to the hype. It's certainly creepy and director Medak really conveys great doses of suspense in the story, although fans expecting something more graphic will be sorely disappointed. In a way, the film can be seen as the opposite of Spielberg's Poltergeist (another great ghost story, in my opinion), as both films tell the story of a haunting, but with completely different styles. The Changeling's restrained Gothic style will definitely not be appealing to all, but those familiar with The Haunting will find a good heir to that awesome movie here.Lately this film has quickly finding it's well deserved recognition, as this modest Canadian film can truly stand proudly among the classics. It's often said that one should not believe the hype surrounding films, but in this case, the hype is right and The Changeling is great. Fans of Gothic films, this is a must. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Scary thriller is a chilling ghost story...","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE CHANGELING sets out to frighten the wits out of you, and it largely succeeds. At least it was frightening enough to cause a friend of mine not to continue watching it, as she was alone in the house and didn't want nightmares of things that go bump in the night.She missed a good ghost story, extremely well acted by GEORGE C. SCOTT, as a man who, after the tragic death of his wife and son in an accident, visits a realtor (TRISH VAN DEVERE) and purchases an old house in the country. Sure, there are the usual horror clichés but they're all done very effectively and keep you watching and wondering what the hauntings are all about.Other films have dealt with this sort of material before, including the well-known THE HAUNTING (which I, personally, found disappointing and pretentious in its efforts to chill). Or the more blatant chills of THE HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL or any of the John Carpenter films. But THE CHANGELING, in its own quiet and creepy way, is the scariest one of them all.GEORGE C. SCOTT is often guilty of overacting, but here he plays the role well within the bounds of the script, and is nicely supported by his own real-life wife, TRISH VAN DEVERE. Some may not be too satisfied with an ending that attempts to tie up the loose ends, but as a sheer study of the supernatural (including a seance scene which is quite powerful), this ranks among the best of its kind.Well worth staying up to watch--unless you're afraid of being alone. "}{"Title":"stratospheric","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The changeling is one of those quiet atmospheric movies that seems to have had profound influence on the Japanese horror genre that itself has influenced American horror today. George C Scott (they'll see the big board!) plays a loner composer who loses his family in a brutal manner than moves into a galactically large haunted mansion. From there the plot moves on in a way that will no doubt be familiar to today's audiences. little discovers, sherlock holmes style digging for answers, research, historical revelations et cetera. The movie holds together quite nicely and adds a few flourishes of touch that might serve as trifling pap in some of today's movies. The movie may also have a good secondary quality of being a descent sleep movie for it's mostly subtle and patient plotting. I'd recommend it to those who like the modern horror movies as an abject lesson in the history of their preferred genre. "},{"Title":"Help!!!!  Please!!!!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am having a really hard time finding this movie. Every movie store I call says that it is out of production and that it is near impossible to find. They also told me that it is only available on VHS, which confuses me because I am reading people comments who said that they have it on DVD. I am getting really really frustrated!!! Can anyone give me any suggestion on where to look for it. A friend of mine swears it is the best horror movie he has ever seen and I want to watch it really bad!!! Every year in October a group of friends and I get together at each others houses to watch scary movies and my turn is coming up and I can almost guarantee that none of them have seen this movie!! Any response is greatly appreciated!!! "},{"Title":"One Of The Top Ten Well-Made Ghost Stories Ever...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are ghost stories that rely on the ooga-booga variety of chills to make you jump, like the cheesy plastic skeleton that pops out of a closet on a string. And then there are those that have that cold kind of edge as sharp as a scalpel digging underneath your skin to raise pumpkin-sized goosebumps on your arms and the back of your neck. THE CHANGELING is one of those films that fits squarely into the latter category.The less you know about this film, the scarier it is, so here's all you're gonna get from me the great George C. Scott plays a composer in self-imposed seclusion following the tragic deaths of his wife and daughter. He finds a huge mansion to move into to be alone with himself and his work, but he soon finds out that he's NOT as alone as he wants to be. And his new 'company' has something important to tell him, whether he wants to listen or not...Director Peter Medak is the kind of filmmaker who misses spectacularly when he's off the mark, but succeeds brilliantly when he's on. And it's hard for him to go wrong here with an excellent script by Russell Hunter, William Grey and Diana Maddox, and a top drawer cast led by Scott, which includes Trish Van Devere, Melvyn Douglas, John Colicos, Barry Morse and Jean Marsh. Several composers including Kenneth Wannberg contribute some fittingly eerie music for the score, including a beautiful theme that will haunt your memories for a good long while.Camera-work, art direction, editing...this is an example of what masterful film-making can be at its best, and it certainly gave the ghost story genre a good name when it was released.So if you're not a fan of buckets of blood and fake boo scare tactics, you need to see THE CHANGELING. It might not best such classic creepers as Robert Wise's THE HAUNTING or THE INNOCENTS, but it comes pretty damn close. "},{"Title":"The Classics are the Best","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie about 20 years ago and I have yet to work up the nerve to see it again. Many below reviewers have compared it to the original The Haunting and House on Haunted Hill, but I have to say that this movie is better. Although the thrills are accomplished the same way, just atmosphere and acting, I find that the story is more interesting and the characters more real. I think the reason why this movie is so effective in scaring you is because no over-the-top CGIs or special effects are used to constantly remind you that this is a big movie production. The scares are provided by simple, everyday things like a ball bouncing and a piano playing. This movie sets the bar that all other ghost movies have yet to reach. Hopefully someday, I'll realize that sleep is over-rated and watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For so many years I have seen the cover of this movie in video stores. The cover with the cob webbed wheelchair. Always did strike something in me when I saw that cover. I can't believe it is to this point that I finally bought and watched this movie. The results... not to bad at all.The excellent George C Scott stars in this haunted house movie playing the role of John Russell. Poor John, the opening scene of the movie his wife and son are both run down in a car accident pretty much setting the tone of the movie to that of very depressing. To get his life back in order, a few months later he buys an old mansion. It isn't soon after he moves in that we discover the house is plagued with the ghost of a murdered boy. John discovers that the ghost doesn't not want him there, but, wants his help in solving the crime of what happened to the boy.This movie is kind of a mix of an old fashioned ghost story and that of a crime story. The elements mix together pretty well as the movie has a few haunting moments along with quite a bit of mystery. If you like mystery and what not, you should love this.My only complaint was a lack of forward motion. I wish some of the scenes weren't so drawn out and that things would move along quicker. But aside from that, this is a well done film. And, it's a classic. Well, worth anyones time who likes mystery or horror. You shouldn't be disappointed. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Classy frightfest with Oscar-winner Scott","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the death of his wife and daughter a concert pianist (George C. Scott) seeks refuge in a long-abandoned mansion. While there, things begin to go bump in the day, as well as the night the typical appearance and disappearance of objects, the creaking doors and other unexplainable sounds, and the inevitable messages from the beyond. Scott soon learns that a tragedy befell a young boy at the mansion many decades before and that the event has some connection with a well-respected state senator (Melvin Douglas).Trish Van DeVere, playing the realtor that rented Scott the house, becomes intertwined in the spooky occurrences and soon is Scott's ally in solving the mystery. John Colicos plays a police detective that learns too late that one should not fool with the supernatural.The Changeling is an intelligently-written and performed horror film and ranks as one of the best of the genre.The scene with the wheelchair at the top of the stars certainly raises the goosebumps! "},{"Title":"2nd Best Ghost Story Ever","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the best elements to make a great ghost story is always within the mystery of what and why is the ghost haunting.This is never been better done than in this film. George C. Scott delivers an amazing performance as John Rusell, a tormented widower, whose tragedy reaches out to a equally tormented spirit. Plenty of jumps, bumps, dark attics bathed in lightning. The music score is both beautiful and creepy written by Rick Wilkens. If you like ghost stories, THIS BABY IS A MUST SEE! This is the 2nd Greatest Ghost story only next to the TV series pilot for Ghost Story,  The New House  ( read my review here on IMDb.) Other great Ghost Story along the same line is  The Univited  1944 with Ray Milland & Ruth Hussey "},{"Title":"Spooky, Atmospheric Ghost Story.","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is probably one of the scariest ghost stories I've ever seen. It's about a man named John Russell, a masterful piano player (played by George C. Scott). While on a mountain ski trip, he tragically loses his wife and daughter in a bad road accident. Mourning the loss of his family, he decides to move into a large mansion owned by the historical society. After moving in, weird things start to happen. Strange creaks and groans awaken him early in the morning, a window is mysteriously broken, his deceased daughter's red toy ball appears, and a hidden attic room is discovered. Soon, the grieving man finds himself in the middle of a mystery involving a young crippled boy who was murdered in the house years ago. After consulting a team of psychics, the spirit, who is named Joseph, begins to make contact through the mediums. John takes it upon himself to solve the mystery behind Joseph's murder, and lay the spirit to rest.This is sadly a forgotten horror film, I don't think hardly anyone even knows about it, which is pretty disappointing because of the great quality of the film. It is definitely a gem. George C. Scott is a great actor, and does a wonderful job in the film. The story is genuinely creepy and sent chills down my spine on many occasions, mostly when the little ghost was speaking and making himself known throughout the film. The eerie camera-work that is used from the ghost's perspective was spooky, and the chasing wheelchair was downright creepy. The old wheelchair in the attic, combined with the creaks and groans of the old house, and the house itself give a creepy enough atmosphere. The sequence in the well jolted me out of my seat too, it's pretty rare when a movie does that to me. There are so many little eerie moments throughout the film that are really creepy.Bottom line - I have to say this is probably one of the best ghost stories I've seen. Sadly, this movie has been forgotten and pushed on the back shelf, behind all of the teeny-bopper horror nowadays. But if you do happen to stumble upon it, definitely check it out. The DVD release of it is extremely cheap, I got mine for five bucks. It's a great supernatural mystery film, and has some very frightening moments. See it. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Superb Thriller","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A must see movie for ghost story lovers, this film is well-crafted and acted. The few scenes that are overacted by supporting cast members are easily dismissed as the tone of the movie is quite scary. The film does not rely on high-end digital effects but rather simple nerve racking tension that builds throughout the movie. Full of heart-stopping surprises this film deserves more recognition than it ever got in its original release. Enthusiasts of more modern classics such as The Sixth Sense and The Others will enjoy the film as well as those who preferred the original version of The Haunting. Strong performances by George C. Scott and Trish Van Devere keep the story line which is part horror movie and part detective story convincing. Director Peter Medak relies on the camera to be the eyes of the unknown entity in several moments of the film and toys well with the viewers edging fear. "},{"Title":"Mark of a Great Horror Film - Spoilers","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My way of assessing the quality of a good horror film is the number of indelible images that either in their simplicity or audacity stick in your mind for years. I first saw this film on TV a few years after it came out. The scene of the rubber ball bouncing down the stairs scared me. The scene of the rubber ball bouncing down the stairs AGAIN after John Russel threw it off of a bridge into Puget Sound stayed with me forever. I saw the movie as a 12 year-old and that image stuck with me. 20 years later I could not forget the singular image of the ball bouncing down the stairs and the look of shear terror and disbelief of the protagonist facing this haunting image. No FX, no gore, no dramatic music... just the quiet cadence of a bouncing ball that is supposed to be at the bottom of the abyss. Power of the Internet - 20+ years later, I forgot the name of the film, forgot the plot, forgot all of the actors, but I knew the power of google. One day in a fit of boredom, I decided to recapture that singular image. So I goggled 'bouncing red ball down the stairs. Low and behold, one of the first hits was The Changeling. I told my wife about my experience, the neat goggle find and how I need to see the movie again. We rented it and watched it together. My fear was that my 12 year-old sense of film would disappoint my now 35 year-old sensibilities. I was wrong. We loved the film. This time I not only appreciated seeing that memorable moment again (still got chills even when I knew it was coming) but I marveled at the quality of the entire film. The acting was strong, the photography was beautiful, and the direction was deliberate and artistic. Also, notice the horror movie devices in this film that have been appropriated by so many movies to follow. What an underrated film. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"This movie is really frightening, and I have an iron scare factor!","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came on TV when I was a kid. This is a riveting movie the kind you sit down to watch and it is so good every scene makes your mouth water for the next and SCARY. The reason why it is so scary is because their is no pomp or circumstance just honest, true, all hands down, no frills or cosmetics SHOCK FRIGHT man. The story is excellent, the actors brilliant, the locations, the mansion, the office building, this movie seems to have written itself I would not be surprised to learn if actual events inspired the writers. You will rent this again and again for new people you meet in your life to see a real horror film.Trust me, I have been pinched and slapped on many a dark night because I know all the money shots and capitalized on them ;) "},{"Title":"Is this movie based on an actual real life account?","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my all time favourite horror films. My sister made me watch it when I was 12 years old, in the dark with her. I didn't sleep for 2 nights! It still gives me nightmares.The Changeling never fails to scare a new watcher. Whilst at high school I did a review of it and made the class watch it. There was much terror and screaming all round.What makes this film particularly chilling is the lack of blood and gore. To my knowledge, there is only one scene with blood in it.What I would like to know is whether or not it is based on a true account? Was there an American senator who was a changeling? "},{"Title":"*Okay, How Do I Write This Review....?","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" *(Riverhead Free Library)And the reason I titled my comments this way is because I strongly feel that describing a movie this great - even a little - might ruin the fun for everyone. This movie blends the traditional ghost story with some detective/mystery techniques. George C. Scott is great as the most unlikely recipient of supernatural happenings - due to his past portrayal of figures such as 'Patton'. A Christopher Walken could have possibly played this role, but Chris would have looked 'too much at home' in the setting. Scott is a very practical-minded character who is unwillingly drawn into finding the truth behind the disturbances. His character has a noticeably gruff exterior which would mislead the viewer if not for the opening of the movie. It's clear that John Russell, played by Scott, is ripe for such an experience perhaps because of the recent tragedy in his life. The pain of losing not just a wife but a child makes him the prime candidate that the restless spirit of Joseph will reach out to. And that's all I'm going to say. It's a very stylized, well-done movie, and wouldn't you know it, just the sort of class act that isn't run too often on television stations around the country! "},{"Title":"Effective","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What's nice about this story is that it's very adult in it's approach. There's not a lot of dithering about on the nature of the ghost, for instance, and for once the haunting has a kind of internal logic of it's own (we understand the motivations of the spirit, and it's powers seem to grow naturally, as the story develops). The back story &#150; the reasons why &#150; is interesting, and represents a nice linkage between the traditional ghost story and the story of political corruption (popular in the Seventies). Extremely well-acted by Scott, playing nicely against type, and Melvyn Douglas, who invests his aging Senator with a real sense of tragedy (there's a wonderful scene where Douglas realizes the truth, and you can just see his facade crack, revealing a sort of anguished confusion underneath. Very quiet horror, but manages to maintain the aura of the uncanny very well. My only complaint is that the big scare scene (the wheelchair that chases Trish Van Devere) doesn't hold up. "},{"Title":"One of the best written and acted psychological dramas/mysteries","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling combines a great story, great acting with exceptional editing and directing. This is a movie that speaks on multiple levels. It is a thriller, a mystery, a horror film, a psychological drama, a story of friendship and love and even provides social commentary set within a political context. It is one of the scariest films with the least amount of blood and gore since Carl Laemmle's Dracula (1931) with Bela Lugosi. This is a film for those who want to curl up with a bowl of popcorn and a significant other on a dark, moonless night to be delightfully scared out of their wits. It proves the point that the imagination is much more frightening than any gratuitous blood and gore Hollywood could dream up. "},{"Title":"Spooky, just plain spooooky!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although it is now fairly dated, The Changeling is a one of the long lost ghost stories. It's special and endearing quality to those that love true horror stories is the lack of blood, nudity and with a few exceptions, profanity. If you are looking for a scary movie and not a gory or disgusting movie, The Changeling is it. From the first night in a new house, starting a new life after troubling accident, a composer finds that not all is right with the house he sleeps in. Rented through the historical society, he soon finds that there are secrets in the house and someone or something is trying to tell him a story. Whether your kids are having a slumber party or you're just in the mood for a fright, The Changeling will give you a jump or two. When it's done with that, you have a mystery to solve. It's not an easy title to find, but if you do, grab it. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Genuinely Creepy!","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling truly is a gem of a horror film, it doesn't rely on blood and guts to instigate the frighteners upon the viewing audience.Instead director Peter Medak, utilises atmospheric camera-work and well developed characters to drive a tightly weaved plot line. As the film rolls on, the viewer cannot help but feel being soaked in to a superbly executed ghost story, and I genuinely felt creeped out during certain moments, which is a sign of a good film! I would describe this film as cross between Hitchcock and a M R James ghost story, it features a good musical score and some well executed set pieces. It's such a shame that Hollywood doesn't make more horror movies like these, as this is a genuine treat.I have this film on region 2 DVD and it sides proudly alongside my other DVDs such as Pulp Fiction, The Thing, The Exorcist, Aliens, The Good The Bad & The Ugly, SEVEN, La Haine, Do The Right Thing etc.I highly recommend The Changeling, one to watch with the lights turned down and volume turned high! "},{"Title":"Unmissable Canadian Ghost Story Chiller","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Following the death of his wife and daughter in an auto smash-up, composer John Russell moves to Washington state and rents a big old house in the country. His solitude is soon interrupted however by ghostly phenomena; weird banging sounds, a walled-up room and a vision of a dead child. Convinced he is not imagining anything, Russell resolves to uncover the history of the house in an effort to explain its haunted qualities.This is one of the best ghost stories ever filmed, a true spine-chiller if ever there was one. If you don't experience sweaty palms, sudden chills and the hairs on your skin prickling on viewing this terrific Canadian horror movie, then check into your local morgue now because you're already dead. Gifted Hungarian director Medak has created a suspenseful, mysterious and nerve-shreddingly frightening film in the subtle tradition of The Haunting and Curse Of The Demon. The creepy house story itself is quite familiar but the context of the haunting, involving an unspeakable murder of a crippled child for both financial and political gain is truly original and fascinating. Investigating the mystery, Scott gives a dogmatic powerhouse performance (ably supported by real-life wife Van DeVere) that sweeps you into the mystery and lends the supernatural events tremendous authenticity. It's impossible not to admire his character's dignity and tenacity; when the local town gossip and a bullying cop try to frighten and intimidate him into abandoning the case, it only strengthens his resolve to find out more. The house is a stunning piece of set design, labyrinthine and darkly-lit with mysterious hallways spiralling up to unknown realms, and there is fantastic use of sound-effects to convey its gloominess and tragedy, as well as a great piano score by Rick Wilkins. Perhaps best of all in a near-flawless film is John Coquillon's stunning photography, which is delicate, unhurried, polished and amazingly unsettling, selling the movie's many great scares with shot-perfect precision (for other examples of his great skill as a cameraman, check out Sam Peckinpah's Cross Of Iron or The Osterman Weekend). An unmissable treat for anyone who has ever enjoyed a good tale to curdle the blood, and if you haven't, it's about time you started. "},{"Title":"Pantheon Worthy","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I came to discover this movie after reading of it in the wonderful reference book DVD Delirium, which begins its review of The Changeling by saying Now this is how you do a scary ghost story. As it turns out, I couldn't agree more. This relatively obscure Canadian sleeper from 1979 is a real chiller indeed. In it, widower George C. Scott moves to a huge, beautiful mansion in Seattle and gradually comes to realize that the house's nightly banging noises, breaking windows and other assorted strangenesses are not simply due to necessary home improvements! The restless spirit of a child, it seems, is clamoring for attention... This picture really did surprise me. It features many startling moments, an effectively creepy score, beautiful sets and art direction, and (need I even say?) sterling performances from Scott, Melvyn Douglas and Trish van Devere. This is the kind of film, I must add, that should be turned up loud, as there is a lot of almost subliminal weirdness going on on the soundtrack...especially during the seance scene, one of the scariest I've ever witnessed. This film deserves its pantheon place alongside the other truly scary haunted-house flicks, such as The Haunting (1963), House on Haunted Hill (1958) and The Legend of Hell House (1973). Watch it on a hot summer night when your AC is on the fritz; it'll chill you to the bone in no time, for sure! "},{"Title":"one of the best horror films i have ever had the fortune to sit through","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i Seen this movie at my sisters house at about 9 o'clock at night, and i must say that it scared me pretty bad. i don't want to tell you what parts scared me cause i don't want to know anything until you have seen it. just let me tell you that i a terrified of wooden wheel chairs, and banging noises, and wells now. if you are ever in the mood for a good horror movie or a good mystery movie, or just in the mood for a movie, I highly recommend this movie to you. For me this movie was very enjoyable. And i got my best friend to watch it with me and it scared her pretty bad too. i wish i could tell you some things about this movie but the only things that i can tell you is that its no different then any other haunted house movie, only it has a better story and better acting. "}{"Title":"A good horror film....even if the story has been since overdone...","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this for the first time last night, and I was thoroughly entertained. Watching this 25 year old movie now, I cannot avoid being a bit conditioned to this type of horror film; more recent movies that come to mind with a similar plot are Gothika, The Ring, The Shining and The Grudge...to name a few. Therefore, the impact could never be as big as it should be. Still, this film hasn't really aged much; the execution displayed here is excellent. Unlike the films I mentioned above (minus The Shining of course), the acting here is first-class. The house is the star of the film, and it's filmed brilliantly; Kubrick's work in The Shining comes to mind. The score is absolutely chilling, one of the best I've ever heard. The camera work is among the best I've seen in this genre; particularly the shot looking down into and out from the well, as well as the Steadicam shots and the obscure angles used.An overall first-rate horror film executed much better than the garbage being put out nowadays. Treat yourself to this if you haven't already.*** 1/2 out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Simple story excellent done","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Composer John Russel and his family are on their way to a winter vacation when suddenly an accident occurs. He then moves to Seattle into a big mansion where strange things begin to happen.Quite a surprise this is just as good as the similar 'The Shining' from the same year, but unlike the crazy Jack Nicholson figure there, this has a calm and brave George C. Scott as John Russel. I never realized how good an actor Scott really is. Here he could carry the film completely by himself, luckily he doesn't have to. The supporting cast are all good, directing very good and the score builds under the moods effectively. Why Peter Medak almost exclusively made TV-shows is a great loss for the movie world (and wonderful for the TV I guess).Cinematography-wise it is top notch, wide angle lenses and brilliantly composed shots of the highest order and chilling point of view camera-work just as good as in 'The Shining' is important to make this so scary it is. In that aspect the role of Scott cant be overstated.This is so close to a perfect horror movie its a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Great Ghost Story - the Definition of Atmospheric","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you like a good ghost story, see this film. It has suspense, mystery, good character development, atmospheric settings, it has it all. George C. Scott is not one of my favorite actors. Or should I say, over-actors? Well, anyway, his work in this film is admirable. You're almost never distracted by that sour look on his face and the question of how he ever got into films in the first place. This is of course a screenplay and is reflected in the depth of the story. I will have to read the book to see if I like it as well.Changeling is what a ghost story is supposed to be. Spooky. It is not the obligatory gore of the horror stories of late. The violence is real. The feeling of danger is a 'prescence' that lingers over your shoulder, felt but unseen. "},{"Title":"Only movie that really scares me","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I consider myself quite jaded. I sit through slasher movies like Friday the 13th and its ilk and it's all I can do to keep from falling asleep. I know what will happen An ax-wielding maniac will chase down and kill a scantily-clad girl. Big deal! Now The Changeling on the other hand, is very different. Instead of relying on cheap gimmicks, overbearing special effects, gore, nudity, swearing and knife-wielding maniacs, it relies on our primal fears to scare us. Our fear of the dark, claustrophobia and dread of the unknown are what make this film work. There is almost no blood, violence or swearing. There is nothing remotely sexual in this film, and yet I love watching it once a week.Of course George C. Scott, Trish Van Der Vere and Melvyn Douglas are great. I've always loved Scott, and though I've never seen Douglas in other movies, I thought he was great in his role. He played with great emotion.So if you want to be creeped out and not just shocked, rent The Changeling and watch it alone, in the dark and with the phone turned off. "},{"Title":"Worth watching but don't expect resolution","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is suspenseful, I'll give them that. To avoid spoilers, suffice it to say that they couldn't decide on a real plot. On one hand, it was going to be suspense and horror, with awesome creepiness and scary ghosts. On another, political intrigue, with surprise family secrets and corrupt police. They couldn't bear to leave out heartbreaking tragedy, with the untimely deaths of wives and children. Scary, yes. Edge-of-your-seat, yes. However, it is also so inexplicably choppy and clearly a response to about ten different films (of different genres) that it's impossible to follow the story. Don't believe the lists that tell you it's in the top ten of scary movies. The acting is really pretty fantastic and there are scenes that are so breathtakingly beautiful in standard definition that you won't believe it was before computers took over the movies. Nevertheless, between a plot that doesn't amount to a story and unbelievable inconsistencies, it is not a movie I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Completely Overrated","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had heard of The Changeling before but had never really gave it much thought until I read different reviews and write ups about it. So, I thought I'd give it a go as I LOVE a good creepy psychological horror/thriller with great atmosphere. Unfortunately, The Changeling wasn't much of any of those to be honest and it was such a huge let down.I knew it was made back in 1980 so I knew it would be different in style from today's movies, which doesn't bother me as one of my favourite movies, for example, is The Exorcist. However, the era when these two films were made is where the comparison stops because to compare the two in movie quality is like comparing Pearl Harbour to Saving Private Ryan.The Changeling had great promise as it started out really well with the story being built up nicely as it went along. Unfortunately, after the initial build up and development, it just stalled and came to a shuddering halt resulting in it falling completely flat on it's face. Where's the great atmosphere? Where's the great creepiness? Where's the great acting & character portrayal? Absolutely nowhere, apart from two or three scenes which did have a decent atmospheric creepy feeling.It actually got very slow & boring after about 45 minutes. Oh, and as for the great acting? Non-existent and was pretty abysmal at times. The Changeling is definitely NOT a horror classic in my eyes, and instead is very close to being classically horrific.If only I knew then what I know now about The Changeling..... "},{"Title":"Great Old Actors, Lousy Old Story","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For about twenty years, from the phenomenal success of Whatever Happened to Baby Jane to the phenomenal flop of Ghost Story, there was a trend in Hollywood to have A-list actors class up the B-grade genre of horror. By 1980, the great George C. Scott's career was at a low enough ebb that he got sucked into a routine chiller called The Changeling, bringing with him his lovely wife Trish Van Devere and Oscar-winning Hollywood legend Melvyn Douglas. As a result, a TV-scale idea gets major-studio scale production, kind of like a One Direction song being played by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.Speaking of classical music, Scott plays the only famous American composer of the latter 20th century, who must have married, to put it charitably, late in life, since he's mourning the wife and preteen daughter who die in a freak accident before the opening credits. The opening sequence should be scarifying but actually reminds the viewer of a little-noted horror movie trope the happier the character appears, the more likely they are to buy it. Having survived this cliché, the Scott character heads straight for another one by moving into a -- natch! -- spooky old mansion, which he rents via small-town Realtor Van Devere and has some convoluted connection to a creaky old Senator played by Douglas. Don't get me wrong, The Changeling is a non-stop thrill ride if you've never seen a ghost story before. Otherwise, you can predict the long-buried secrets in long-shuttered rooms as if there were signs on the door (and there may as well be). It's not badly made -- the director has mastered the fundamentals of horror, such like chases down long dark halls, and Scott's grief is entirely believable, since, well, he's George C. Scott, who can communicate a thousand tortured feelings just by standing alone on screen (had he done more of that, he might have had a better career -- difficult is the kindest adjective attached to him). So if you don't set your expectations too high, The Changeling is just moderately entertaining enough to satisfy. "},{"Title":"In need of help&#x85; from the other side.","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know it has its fans holding it as a superiorly classy haunted house story, but I have always found it a disappointing experience. I can't take away from its masterfully steady technical handling and established story-telling of an old house with a terrible secret, however never did I feel all that involved with the characters' stodgy plights (despite motivated rock solid performances by George C. Scott and Trish Van Devere) or encounter any sort of lasting chills in its drawn-out pacing. It's deliberately slow-burn with its old-fashion mystery pattern, where John Coquillon's sweepingly elegant cinematography becomes just as important as the suggestively melancholy story like an organising tool in orchestrating measured shocks and moody atmospherics with Rick Wilkins' silkily sullen music arrangement. Visually it held me there with Peter Medak's rhythmically polished direction, along with Scott's potent performance. However the story while serviceable, just takes too long to get to the point and lack that ominous sting and disorientating spells in what should be distressing build-ups with its strange occurrences, manifestations and revelations. Eventually I found it all to be emotionally hollow. The rest of the performances stack up fair with the likes of Melvyn Douglas, Jean Marsh and John Colicos. "},{"Title":"Decent but flawed","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE CHANGELING &#150; Peter Medak While Hollywood produced horror films in the majority have been targeted towards the teenage / adolescent audience, there have been selected attempts to make horror films that would appeal to an older crowd as well. The salient feature of these films would be their distinctly older protagonists (sometimes big movie stars of an earlier era), a generally more substantial (or al dente, as the Italians might say) plot than your routine teenie slasher flick, reduced levels of gratuitous nudity and/or blood-spilling, and a reliance on building a steady atmosphere of suspense and dread before breaking out the visceral thrills. Examples of this include Hell House, The Exorcist, The Omen, or more recently, The Sixth Sense and Stir of Echoes. The Changeling, released in 1980, is another example of this 'mature' horror category.The film stars George C. Scott (Patton, Exorcist III Legion) as a composer, John Russell, who retires to a secluded town after the shock death of his wife and daughter in an accident. Intending to occupy himself with teaching and composing, Russell leases a sumptuous old house. Unfortunately for him the old house fulfills the horror tradition of having a troubled history and roofing the things that go 'bump' in the night. Disturbed enough by the phenomena to even hold a séance, Russell finds its roots in the murder of a child that was heir to wealth and power and its substitution by another. Russell confronts the substitute, or the 'changeling' as he puts it, and consequences follow.While the film is photographed with elegance and Scott delivers a restrained and empathetic performance as a the grief-stricken composer, it has flaws that prevent its ascension to classic status. The first half of the film is a literal catalog of the clichés of haunted house stories doors opening and shutting by themselves, thudding noises in the attic, water pipes turned on automatically. It's hard to feel immersed in a story that confronts you with massive deja vu. While things improve somewhat with the turns the narrative takes, the film-makers also show their insecurity by clumsy insertion of scenes of freak death (like in The Omen, even cribbing the murderous tricycle scene using a wheelchair) and large-scale domestic destruction (a la The Amityville Horror), which stand wholly apart from the otherwise measured pace of the film. The climax comes across as especially egregious because, the way it plays out, it gives short shrift to the somewhat interesting moral compass of the changeling, whose death is brought passively by revenge from the beyond.To my view The Changeling has its roots in the M.R. James tradition and would fit more comfortably as a small-scale Twilight Zone drama. Its best moments are its quietest ones, where the characters grapple with their emotional state than with the overt manifestations of an inconsistently powerful supernatural force. The compromises made to pepper it with jaded jolt moments and big scenes dilute that focus and ultimately reduce its appeal. In the end it is a good-intentioned effort executed with polish but rarely an involving experience. "},{"Title":"Remake of The  Changeling coming!!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I read that the Changeling's original director Peter Medak wants to do a remake of his 1980 film. This news was posted on a DVD review site(forget which one)about a month ago. All that was mentioned was that one of the studio's was doing it and that Medak wanted to do the remake himself and is just waiting for a good script. He also stated that their would be no CGI in his film. This is great news if it happens. It would be interesting to see how he makes the film today. I wonder if he would again use Seattle as a back drop or a another city. This is one of the best ghost movies up their with(The Sixth Sense,Poltergeist,Stir Of Echoes). It will be interesting to see who he casts in the George C. Scott role and the Senator. "}{"Title":"i enjoyed this.","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My girlfriend and I like to sit back and get into a good horror movie quite often. The thing is, after a while most of these movies have a similiar theme..either that or they are total turkeys, gore and no plot or Hollywood complex plot, not enough gore and no tension or suspense. All to often it is the 'horror atmosphere' that is missing and this is the VITAL ingredient to a good horror. I can't really explain it. It just has to be there or the film can be terrible. This film has one of the best 'Horror' Atmospheres EVER. The movie creeps along oozing lots of tension, suspense and a great score to give you the chills and make you JUMP! just when you thought it was safe to relax again. A great movie. Get it. "},{"Title":"Best horror film EVER","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Forget the crap floating around cinemas these days like i know what you did last summer and it's friends like IT. Buy this film right now because you will not regret it. The horror is amazing without massive gore or actors screaming. the horror comes from the actual story itself and you will know what i mean when you watch it. "},{"Title":"Scariest movie ever","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the only movie that manages to scare the crap out of me when I watch it.  I saw it the first time when I was maybe 8 and it messed me up in the head a bit.  But as an adult I can appreciate its powerful story and magnificent acting.George C. Scott plays a composor named John Russell whose wife and daughter are killed by a semi truck running over them.  Russell moves to Seattle, WA where he attended college.  He becomes a music teacher at his alma mater. He rents an ancient mansion from the local historic society.Soon after he moves into the house, strange things start happening.  Every morning at 6 AM, there's this terrible banging sound that goes for about 30 seconds and then stops.  John also sees doors opening by themselves and hears strange voices in the house.  One time he's going thru the house and hears water faucets turning themselves on and off.  He goes into the bathroom on the 3rd floor and the tub is filling itself with water.  I won't say what he sees when he looks into the tub cause that would spoil it.This movie is definetely worth watching if you want to be truely creeped out.  Instead of relying on blood and gore like Friday the 13th, this movie relies on plot, acting and atmosphere to reach you and chill you.  It relies on man's primitive fears of the dark and unknown. "},{"Title":"SCARIEST MOST CHILLING HORROR FILM EVER MADE","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This truly is the scariest and most chilling horror film ever made.I first saw this film in my early teens and I will admit that it really scared me almost to death. I was 14 when I watched this film on video and I shouldn't admit this but I slept with the lights on for days after this film.I'm not going to give away any plot details about this film because if I do it will spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen it and it just won't be as scary. This film will make you jump and in my opinion it's right up there with other chilling movies such as Don't be Afraid of the Dark (made in 1973) and Amityville 2 (which also spooked me).Ghost films are much scarier than zombie films or werewolf films in my opinion. It's very unlikely that monsters exists in our world but I'm not so sure about ghosts. I think that's what scares me the most. I would really love to tell you about some of the scenes in this movie but it really would spoil it. Even writing about this movie now gives me the creeps.If you're interested in watching this film then I would like to offer some advice. If you're a single man like me then make arrangements to stop at a friends after watching this. Under no circumstances watch this if you live alone-not unless you're prepared to be spooked.I hope I haven't put anyone off. Seriously, this is a truly great film which no serious horror fan should miss. "},{"Title":"near perfect","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In my quest to find some truly scary halloween movies I came across The Changeling.  Well it took me a couple of weeks after halloween to rent it but I'm glad I finally did.  I'm also glad that I watched it by myself at night.  This is a very good horror movie.  The film is very creepy and there is an eeriness, especially once the house is introduced, to the film even before the strange happenings begin.  The house, itself, is very spooky.  There is also a very nice mystery as to why the house is haunted which adds to the films greatness.  This is easily my favourite haunted house movie, but it is not perfect.  The end seemed a bit over-the-top as the haunting goes out of control.  Before the climatic ending the hauntings are pretty subdued which creates the tension and suspense, unfortunately the director went for a grand finale.  This film was on it's way to a 9 easily but due to the ending I can only give it a 7 out of 10.  The ending makes sense and I understand why it ends the way it does it just could have been more suttle and therefore scarier.  Still an excellent movie.   "},{"Title":"My favourite film","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'The Changeling',what an amazing film,after seeing it for about thirty times it's just as good as when i first saw it as a child(a very scared child!).The scene where George C Scott(whom is fantastic in the film)tears down the shelves to the door of the hidden room then smashes the padlock to reveal my best ever movie shot-of the dark staircase with cobwebs and howling wind has always haunted me!As it's my favourite film of all time(closely followed by the The Haunting,the ORIGINAL!)i have obviously voted a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another confused, petulant ghost hits the big screen, and screams for revenge&#x85; over 70 years later.","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An invalid child, Joe, gets murdered by his own father in 1906 for inheritance reasons; his body is buried in a hidden place; he gets replaced by a healthy orphan of the same age who assumes his identity. That orphan, that impostor, that profiteer of a heinous murder (George Scott quoted) eventually becomes a Republican senator - as all evil impostering orphans apparently do - while the true inheritor of the zillions, ghost Joe, festers in the house where he had been murdered, plotting quick revenge. Or? Well... not exactly. Joe the 6 year-old ghost - or let's just call him Casper - has been doing absolutely nothing for over 70 years in terms of avenging his own death. He is a typical patient Hollywood ghost, not really in a rush to achieve the tasks he'd given himself. (When you face eternity as a spook, I guess the concept of time achieves a whole new meaning.) It's only the arrival of a composer, for some bizarre/stupid reasons that are offered here, that triggers the blood-letting juices in Caspar. Why would Caspar need Scott's help - in anything? Why exactly does Caspar do nothing in the meantime? One would think that the first oder of business for a murdered-boy-turned-ghost would be to exact revenge by killing the actual murderer, i.e. his father, right? Wrong. Hollywood-movie ghosts just never get their priorities straight, they are just so very confused - much like the people who run Hollywood, and even more so those write scripts for its airhead bosses.Caspar's only wish is to kill the Republican senator who - through no fault of his own - took his place. Did he actually have much of a choice as to whom he is adopted by? Wouldn't YOU want to keep zillions if someone handed them to you? I love this left-wing self-righteousness... Liberals, of course as we all know, absolutely hate money, they detest and abhor its very existence. Besides, a Democratic senator would never ever fight to keep money that isn't his. I mean, really... The Democrat Party has zero corruption and no malicious evil-doers in their ranks whatsoever, unlike those evil evil Republicans and their unquenchable thirst for power, wealth and wars. Malicious bastards, the lot of them.The way the senator pulls his weight - his strings (to quote Bela Lugosi) - and the way he used his apparently inexhaustible supply of connections was very funny to watch. The way those paranoid left-wing Hollywood flicks portray politicians, one would think that a mere senator were powerful enough to rule the Galaxy. The senator has a LOT of friends, to quote a galactic being from Battlefield Earth...Not ever attempting to kill his father very simply means that Caspar Joe was merely jealous of his replacement and of the milk-and-honey-lifestyle the other boy/man had been leading for over 70 years. Yes, over 70 years. So what exactly prevented Caspar from killing both Caspar Senior AND New Caspar Junior all those years? That's one for the screenwriter of TC to answer.Certainly, Caspar, by murdering the police inspector in neutral territory (i.e. well outside his haunted-house perimeters), had shown that he can easily kill anyone, anywhere. He is keen to frighten innocent little girls, harass emotionally devastated composers, and certainly more than happy to bump off a cop at the slightest hint of corruption, but when it comes to the two people most directly involved/connected to his own bleak fate, he is useless, inactive, hopeless.Only at the end (of the politician's 56th term as U.S. senator) does he actually do something. Casper the Jealous Ghost.In spite of the usual gaping holes in logic that nearly always come with haunted-house-flick territory, this is a solid movie. However, not nearly as good as Legend of Hell House or The Haunting. "},{"Title":"Kind of a slow moving haunted house tale.","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remembered this one from when I was a kid and bought it cause I remember it being rather good and spooky. Sadly, it just was not what I remember at all. Very slowly executed, you learn the truth behind the whole affair about midway through this one and it still runs on for about another hour. Not that it is all bad...you do get a spooky séance scene, a great image involving a little girl seeing a boy underwater, and a somewhat interesting conclusion. The acting features George C Scott and he is rather good and adds a bit to the film. Though I have to say he does not react very well the first time he sees the specter in the tub as he might as well just saw some hair in the drain. The story has a composer of piano music losing his wife and daughter at the beginning of the film. He moves far away in hopes of getting his life back on track and somehow ends up renting one big house. Well as with most haunted house flicks of this type you have your little noises here and there and strange shifting objects as well. Throughout the movie you join Scott's character as he unravels a very old mystery involving tenants that owned the house back in the early 1900's. Suffice to say you learn the mystery to soon and you have to much movie left when you find out the secret. The rest of the movie feels like padding which you do not need in a nearly two hour movie. They could have easily trimmed this down a bit. Also, the whole secret at the end makes me think the spook in this one has some misdirected anger issues. There also is not a lot going on in this one to garner it an R rating. I have seen movies that contain more risqué scenes in this era get PG (Bond movies for instance), why they felt the need to make this one an R is beyond me. However, do not take my word for it as from the score here it is liked more than not...just was not for me. "},{"Title":"SCARIEST MOST CHILLING HORROR FILM EVER MADE?","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Changeling is a good movie, but very predictable with over the top performances by virtually everyone, except the great George C. Scott. It's a horror movie for those who are easily frightened by creepy houses and a great horror score, but there are no suprises. In this way it does resemble the great classic horror movies of yesteryear. The child's murder is the only truly uncomfortable moment(s) in the film. Great horror movies cause you to want to close your eyes, yet entice you to keep them open just the same. They are unfortunately rare. The real bad guy in the movie, the murder, is underutilized, and the Changeling's character is too underdeveloped to be a convincing bad guy. Heck, it's not clear that he necessarily knew about the murder in the first place. The film would have benefited from a giallo-like plot twist that makes you wonder if the old lady at the society--or the caretaker--was pulling a fast one, but such an element is never brought to fruition. Lacking in suspense, the film almost makes up for it with creepiness. I kept waiting for Scooby and the Gang to show up. The Changeling would have gotten away with it if weren't for that meddling dead kid. A good, but not great, classic. "},{"Title":"5 out of 10","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm stunned that after all these years The Changeling is still considered an effective horror movie by so many IMDb users. I watched it for the first time a few nights ago and wasn't very impressed. Sure, it's got a great moody score and the tracking shots through the big house are kinda nice, too, but the story itself leaves a lot to be desired. I was especially turned off by the huge amount of unintentional comedy displayed by George C. Scott's ever so earnest face in contrast to Trish Van Devere's scream queen-performance. And you know, as soon as a haunted house movie has the ghost communicating with the inhabitants in a whoo-hoo-Casper-The-Friendly-Ghost kinda voice, I don't take it too seriously anymore. There are a lot of little things in The Changeling that wouldn't make it into any movie anymore these days, because people wouldn't buy them. (MINOR SPOILERS Like when the policeman comes to John's house and has an accident after he leaves, it only takes five minutes until the police and the medics are there. Stuff like that. END OF MINOR SPOILERS). I reckon that everybody who has seen The Changeling twenty five years ago has still a soft spot for it, but judging it objectively this movie certainly hasn't aged as well as The Shining or The Omen, which still manage to creep me out.Rated R. "}{"Title":"Many good scenes, but not enough of them","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I fully expected to like this horror film, but I was left somewhat disappointed.  There were some very effective moments, and George C. Scott gives a great performance, but I found that the film dragged quite a bit. In fact, except for the accident at the start of the movie, I was fairly bored for about the first forty minutes of the film.  Things really picked up soon after, but then a mediocre ending made the bitter taste return to my mouth.  All of the elements to make a great horror film were present, but the final result fell short of my expectations. "},{"Title":"Decent enough rather than outstanding","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie, often considered one of the greats inside its genre, is okay but could have been better. It delivers an interesting plot which however could have been better worked. It was decently tense and scary when it was supposed to (for example, windows shatter, doors open and shut abruptly, noises are heard, ghost-like effects are seen, a ball which was thrown away before returns to the mansion...) - it's just on the rest that it fails a little. The mansion was huge and beautiful.This film is more Canadian than American, as it was filmed mostly in Canada. Therefore, it has a more beautiful scenario than the average Americans.George C. Scott was a great actor and excellent as John Russell. His voice was usually soft, but when he was angry his unique raspy voice was creepy. When his voice sounded like that, he sounded exactly like McLeach, which is almost ironic to say because McLeach was voiced by him. McLeach was creepy as hell. That creepy McLeach voice and some familiar traces in George and McLeach's faces combined with that voice makes him all the more creepy. But that only means he was a great actor. That's all part of his charisma. "},{"Title":"The Bone Caver","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was about to really blame on this film because its clichéd subject a haunted house. But then I realized this is from 1980, and it wasn't that clichéd back there. More than that, The Changeling obviously inspired many of the modern horror movies, such as The Ring, The Grudge and the Skeleton Key.This film is basically about a young boy who's been murderer by his father due to the child's unbeatable disease, which made another boy a rich senator. The story runs kinda fast, the atmosphere isn't creepy or scary, just a little suspenseful at times, and in the last 20 minutes we have a big jump that was really unexpected. Other than that, the film is nothing but a regular mystery with a turning off ending.. "},{"Title":"Better than average chiller","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It must be 20 years or more since I last watched this movie and I was pleasantly surprised at how well it stands up today.It is basically a haunted house story and although that is a premise that has been done may times in the past,'The Changeling' is definitely one of the best of the genre.A good atmosphere is prominent throughout and it is nicely directed by Peter Medak.I found the séance scene to be very well done and pretty convincing,not over the top with just the right balance of realism and chills.This is a movie to be enjoyed and it should really have a higher mark than it does at present.The acting is pretty solid by everyone with George C. Scott giving his usual excellent performance.Trish Van Devere and Melvyn Douglas offer solid support in a movie that isn't overlong and is very effective in it's own way.It also goes to show that you don't have to have blood and gore on show in order to shock.This is well worth a viewing and while it may be a bit tame for some tastes,it is a worthwhile and stylish chiller.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Not scary, but excels in every other way","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First tip off of a good movie is the foreshadowing right in the beginning. Help me daddy, and he turns to see they're only playing, but he reacts as if something is wrong, like a good parent... that fear hinted at sets the tone for the rest of the film.Then we move with John Russell (George C Scott from Dr. Strangelove, The Exorcist III, and refused the Oscar for Patton) into a gorgeous house maintained by the historical society, equipped with it's own mini grand, what more could a composer want? The slow panning through the halls makes us reflect on the loss this man has endured already in the film, as he begins to write a new chapter.But this house has a secret and it will not rest. Something happened in this house in 1909 and though others have attempted to live in the house, it has remained empty since 1967, until now.Russel takes a job as a professor at the nearby university, hoping that getting back into teaching will help him get over a slight musical block he has been confronted with since the death of his wife and child.The film is rich with atmosphere, rosewood, classical depth, and slow pans, always looking askance, and a soundtrack that is hauntingly beautiful.The Changeling is a cinematic masterpiece, and the only other horror I know with as beautiful a soundtrack would be A Tale of Two Sisters, and The Ring JAP and USD, perhaps.I love when he's banging on the lock around the hidden door in the house, and the house starts banging back louder until he breaks the lock off. The banging of a boy, Joseph Carmichael who drowned by his father's own hand while bathing upstairs in his room.I did not find the move particularly scary, but a fascinating and well made period piece ghost story from the late 70s. The kind of house I would love to explore as a child. The story has depth, pacing, music, acting, dialog, everything lacking in horror movies these days, and in the last 10 years or more.The scene with the red and white rubber ball rolling down the staircase, which Russell then tosses off a bridge, bounces down the steps again to the haunting symphony soundtrack compelling, made me exclaim; THE BOUNCY BALL THAT WOULD NOT DIE!!!, which cracked everyone up, sorry couldn't help it.It is a child's presence, who is not at peace, and cannot rest. Movies like this don't use different dialog, but they use it perfectly, articulated poignantly, poetically, and never contrived or conflicted. Horror movies nowadays never get the simple dialog across well. I miss those days.The medium in the movie was really good too. That scene was nicely done, not scary but well done. Not over the top, another thing movies tend to have a problem avoiding.Another interesting thing I noticed about the house is there are no mirrors. But frames line the halls and walls, of various sizes, which are embroidered over and now hold light fixtures.The movie is a little long, but well rounded, with a fairly cool finale with a fiery spiral staircase to Hell! And I love the music box, as it opens and begins to play to the credits scrolling slowly up the screen... perfect. "},{"Title":"Amazing ghost mystery.","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a great film for many reasons. The acting is superb (including a great job by John Colicos aka Baltar from the original Battlestar Galactica). What makes this movie stand out as a truly great horror film is the music. It was filmed in 1980, so the effects aren't going to dazzle you, but the music is positively frightening at times. If you are a lover of ghost stories AND the science of the paranormal, you'll dig this film. I'm a fan of TAPS (The Atlantic Paranormal Society), and if you know anything about their EVP work, well, you'll love the séance scene. And whatever you do, don't doubt the power of Joseph. That kid is off the hook! "},{"Title":"Good ghost story","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Its a pretty good ghost story.  It wasn't the best piece of cinema I have ever seen, but it does build up pretty nicely to the end.  It was not as scary or as suspenseful as I would have liked, but still worth renting. "},{"Title":"Not the classic it's billed as...","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Cult ghost story from the late seventies starring George C Scott as a composer, still mourning the tragic deaths of his wife and daughter in a car accident, who moves into a creepy old mansion and soon detects an otherworldly presence. After a little research, he realises the spirit could be that of a six year old boy murdered in the house seventy years earlier - a spirit who seems to have a message for his new houseguest.THE CHANGELING isn't as great a horror movie as many claim but it does have its moments and is generally a fine way to pass a Saturday night. Scott seems a little miscast in the title role and approaches his character with an unnecessary hostility but the other cast members do a commendable job, bringing a sense of realism to a wholly supernatural tale. Direction from Peter Medak is competent throughout and very typical of the late seventies era.Shocks are more intellectual than in-your-face - the very idea that some of the things are happening is scarier than their execution in the movie - and there's a lack of logic throughout which makes things hard to accept at times. If this house is so haunted and scares the living preverbials out of Scott, for example, why does he persist in living there? That said, it is a horror movie and reasonable thinking can't always be expected of characters in this genre.Overall, I would rate this on par with THE AMITYVILLE HORROR - another above average supernatural chiller - as a movie which doesn't quite live up to its full potential. It's certainly creepy and intense - just don't expect another EXORCIST.  *** / ***** "},{"Title":"an overrated horror classic","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     It is a shame that when one is looking around for great scary movies, there are so many misleading reviews. The Changeling is not a horrible movie.  But it is not great, either, and it is rarely scary.  If you have to try to let yourself be scared, that isn't scary.  Many of its adherents are undoubtedly pseudo-intellectuals, the type that hails the virtues of The Innocents.  Be especially wary of that one, by the way.  This one here is merely mediocre.  The Innocents is flat bad. I also have to say that many of these movies are apparently not as beloved by American audiences as they are by foreign ones.  You might want to consider where you live before following a review.  "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well done chiller about a man (George C. Scott) losing both his wife and daughter in an auto accident. Intent on getting away from it all, George C. Scott moves into an isolated mansion. The mansion is plagued by strange noises and occurances linked to the previous owner. Film's tension and suspense is so great, it is unbearable. Scott is in top form in a commanding role, but it could have used a bit more originality and surprises. Rated R. "}{"Title":"Disappointing, dull and completely overrated","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling is a moderately effective but too slow and dull feature.**SPOILERS**Following his family's death, composer John Russell, (George C. Scott) rents out an old house to move on and continue his career. With help from Claire Norman, (Trish Van Devere) who represents an organization run by Sen. Joseph Carmichael, (Melvyn Douglas) that owns the house, he sets about refurbishing the house while working on his music. Suddenly tortured with a constant, never-ending barrage of noises and freak occurrences around the house, he takes it up with the members of the organization, he is convinced that a ghostly spectre haunts the house, but even after a Parapsychologist, (Barry Morse) finds nothing, he still isn't convinced. As he is prone to more attacks from the spirits, he finally learns the truth about the place and tries to right the wrong committed years ago.The Good News This one here only has a couple of good points to it that gives the film it's only good points. The beginning stages of the haunting here are incredibly well-done, using the time-tested method of using a genuinely creepy tactic, the constant banging of something loud and repetitious off in the distance at the weirdest moments and at great intervals to keep it from feeling really dull, at least during those moments. There's a lot of really great stuff through those scenes, and when it gets a really inventive sequence, there's some good parts to it. The infamous sequence where a ball, haven previously been discarded at a separate location returns back home to be thrown down the stairs from up the top in the darkness. It is then repeated seconds later with the person throwing it back up and it's immediately thrown back. It's a truly incredible scene that works wonders, being intensely chilling and highly creative as well being a creative and really sells the film on virtue of it alone. It's a classy scare in a classy film, and is really nerve-wracking. These sequences are the film's best, as they are really fun and are actually the best parts of the film. Even though the ending is fun in all it's fiery-blaze glory, and combined with the rather intriguing story, comprise the film's good points.The Bad News This one here has a couple of flaws that hold this one down. This is mainly due to the fact that this is really slow-going and doesn't have anything good to keep the pace going. There's almost nothing in here that makes the film feel any more watchable as it really does come along so slowly that it takes far too long for anything of value to happen, and those are just way too dull to keep the film going. Having to listen to the repeated talks of the victim forced into giving the same speech over and over again about how the proceedings have affected them or how the odd noises coming from the house aren't supposed to be there at all to everyone within ear-shot, and it eventually just gets old. That leaves major portions of the film feeling very dull and boring due to it's relentless use of these dialog-based scenes to move everything along that there's just an overall boring feeling for the whole film. That makes it too long for it's own good as well, over-reaching it's stay due to it's length of scenes that make the same point over and over. All these just stretch the film out to a longer point than it should be, and in the event make the film just way too long, which coupled with it's dearth of action scenes due to the incessant talking, give this one a really long feeling that just drags the film down as a whole. Otherwise, these here are the main problems with the film.The Final Verdict A really long and dull film, with a few moments of mention to give it something to shoot for, make this one a really moderate feeling. If that doesn't appeal to you, then probably heed caution with it, but if this sounds like the slow-burn that you happen to enjoy, give it a shot.Rated R Violence, Language and children in danger "},{"Title":"The atmopshere is perfect, it's a pity not much else is","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Changeling isn't too unique and doesn't offer too much for the genre however what helps this forgotten 1980 horror stand out from the rest is the brilliantly executed atmosphere; unfortunately that is about it. The film opens with a slap-in-the-face scene that holds up well though the more the film progresses the more it becomes a bore to sit through and one can't help but predict the entire story (which in itself is weak) and notice to tiresome ghost story clichés. Yes it has some great scenes and some captivating execution here and there however the over-all result of the film doesn't really hold up as The Changeling succeeds in some accepts and then utterly fails at others.Perhaps it's the atmosphere that echoes classics like The Innocents and The Haunting that make this film highly acclaimed amongst the horror crowd; then again this may be blinding people from what else is going on. The movie involves John Russell (George C. Scott) who loses his wife and child in a car accident. He moves out of his small city apartment into a ridiculously huge house in the country. Once there he is terrorised by a spirit and the more he investigates the more the mystery unravels &#x96; sound familiar? Even in 1980 this story was already one giant predictable cliché. The screenplay handles the ghost concept rather well and there are no stupid laughable moments or anything of the sort; until the last twenty minutes where doors begin to burst open, wind comes from nowhere, a little spontaneous combustion, shaking chandeliers and so on &#x96; this doesn't work and it makes the film seem pumped cheese, therefore weak and illogical &#x96; it sometimes relies in silliness to scare which I've never understood why so many horror films do that; The Changeling is no exception.The mystery surrounding the spirit is never emphasised or explained enough; the spirit doesn't seem to have a motive to haunt this particular man. It's like the director forgot to go into even brief detail about the ghost and that is another major element that the film lacked quality in. The story is unoriginal and typical, sometimes that is passable but The Changeling doesn't provide anything to excuse its neglected story. It's a disappointing film because the movie works itself up to be a logical ghost/haunted house tale with some nice backup stories but the final result turns out to be a typical mess riddled in sad clichés to the extent where the atmosphere, camera-work, acting and score can't redeem its silliness.The atmosphere is utterly terrific; although the mansion the story takes place in is too big it still works as there are some great cries, banging and moaning that echo through the house at night; throw in a bit of special camera-work (the tracking, the stills) given the well light sets and cinematography you know the director knew how to unsettle his audience &#x96; the film also features creepy antique wheelchairs and toys that work and fit into the script at the right moment but then unfortunately take a wrong turn and become unintentionally hilarious.The performances from the cast are fine and never really become too unbearable. This is great as so many horror films have acting that is never up to scratch however The Changeling is a film where one can sit back and relax to acting that isn't at all worthy of a cringed face, even if George C. Scott pulls some hilarious expressions at times.The score by Rick Wilkins is fantastic. The gorgeous orchestral music really fits with the traditional ghost/haunted house story and the director really knew when to use it so that it would be effective. See, when one takes in these parts of the movie you can see director Peter Medak had talent for a haunting and eerie horror; disappointingly enough the story and characters are utterly weak and that is where one can't help but notice the overall incompetence of what you just watched.So if you're sick of worthless predictable ghost stories with a typical story that doesn't work, too much unintentional humour and a bucket load of clichés that doesn't offer anything to the genre then The Changeling isn't really the film to watch; however, if you're in the mood for the run-of-the-mill ghost story where the atmosphere is actually done right then and the acting is bearable perhaps this is for you. Don't expect too much from The Changeling, it isn't really anything special and in all honesty the only element it has going for it is the atmosphere which is not enough to redeem the overflowing flaws. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Overpraised","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This overlong, cliched horror film has been rather overpraised. The story is very interesting,but it takes far too much time to develop.  Haunted house cliches are all present.  Scott is an excellent actor, always dependable, but he can't save this.  "},{"Title":"One of the most over-rated B horrors.","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Riddled with clichés, over-acting, and a heavy borrowing from practically every ghost story you've ever heard, read, or watched, this production is vastly overrated. That having been said, it is still possible to surrender yourself to this story and enjoy it, if you can stretch the suspension of reality ploy to its breaking point, and don't find yourself sleeping through half the movie. Starring George C. Scott and a compelling (if not original) tale, just grab a bowl of popcorn and enjoy this long, dark, atmospheric (if somewhat boring) flick. This production is far from what you would expect with a star of the caliber as George C. Scott. While his performance is nothing less than brilliant, the production itself simply does not deserve his presence.The story is decent, but solid and shaky at times. The dialog of the screen play was trite, stiff and at times even lame. However, Scott's performance can do a lot in the way of redemption, and as the story (finally) moves along the tension builds and you do get a few jumps from the effects at times. The effects themselves were adequate, but at the time in which this film was done, they could have been a lot more.I won't detail the plot, as I seldom feel the need to completely spoil a movie, except to say that this is a good ghost story with a better performance from Scott than the director (or the screenplay) deserved...And while the ending was quite dramatic, climactic, and well done, it (and Scott) were powerless to redeem this movie.Sadly, the ending promises a sequel...thankfully, it has never come.I'm being generous here with a 4.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Bad ghosts make me feel so good","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Old man's daughter and wife are killed in a trucking accident. No, they weren't trucking, they were playing in the snow when a big bad wolf of a truck whacked them both. Then he decides to move into a haunted house, where a little boy was murdered... and strangely, the supernatural starts to happen. Everything ends up being linked to a dirty politician.Not scary, contains one good camera shot- closeup of a red ball in the water. The movie isn't at all interesting either. The special effects are the only reason to see this movie. Nothing special. Ghosts are bad, but people freaking out is good. "},{"Title":"Television Production Value... But Still Good Chills.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At age 34, I just watched this film for the first time in my life.  Mad props out to HBO  for a nice DVD transfer with the slammin' audio mix. All in all it was good popcorn experience.  Even though the film is twenty years old it still managed to send a couple of chills down my spine.  However I must admit that some of the thrills have gone the way the film's costume design, they're both a bit dated.It's not so much the era that dates it as it is the style it was shot in. The cinematography and production design reminded me of an old episode of Columbo.  Both elements were relatively flat.  The fact that it was shot in the 80's is no excuse since a films like The Godfather was made in 1974 (some six years earlier) and Blade Runner was made in 1982 (only two years later) .  The Changeling was simply shot as if it were a television movie of the week.In all fairness it could have been due to relatively small budget, which IMDB list at 7.6 million in Canadian dollars.  Still,that's a healthy amount of dough, especially for the 80's.  TV production value just should not have been tolerated for this film and personally I had a hard time getting around it.  It distracted me.The irony of it all is that the director, Peter Medak, went on to do massive amounts of television including NBC's Homicide and Law & Order SVU, two of the most stylish shows to grace the airwaves.  In that respect, it's a testament to the director, who at age 63, hasn't stopped growing as an artist.  In a perfect world Medak would have a do over and create the masterpiece that he should have had twenty years ago with this film.There's no doubt in my mind that if the film had executed with a bit more form, as well as substance, it might have been considered one of the greatest films ever made.  As it is, like I said at the top, it's a darn good popcorn movie.  "},{"Title":"Predicatable and not in the least interesting","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is nothing at all interesting about this movie.  George C. Scott was obviously way past his prime and the plot is predictable beyond description. During the entire movie, I could tell you what was going to happen.  At first, I thought, maybe, because it was made in 1980, it was original for its time, but after some research, came to the conclusion that it just sucked.I could predict the facile dialog minutes before it was actually uttered. Such a let down.  Especially after the rave reviews I had read here on IMDB.  "},{"Title":"Why does everyone think this movie is so scary?","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was recommended to me by Blockbuster Online. I am a major horror fan and I am always looking for one I have not seen. I had not ever heard of The Changeling. I looked up the reviews and all were terrific. I decided to go ahead and just buy the movie. I found it for a cheap $6.99 so I figured why not. Now I'm wishing I didn't pay that much for it. I can't understand what was so scary about this movie. Sure there are some parts that creep you out but a ball falling down some steps just isn't that terrifying to me. Also I did not understand what significance of the wife and daughter getting killed in the beginning had to do with any other part of the story. Stick to movies like The Exorcist, The Evil Dead and Texas Chainsaw Massacre they don't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now I know this is an older movie but I hadn't seen it and watched it, based on the comments on how scary it is. I must say I am disappointed.The story didn't make any sense. John, the main character, loses his wife and child at the beginning then eventually moves to a house haunted by a little boy's ghost. Fine. But they attempt to make a connection at some point with the death of a little girl who died under similar circumstances as John's daughter. Problem is, the little boy haunting the house has nothing to do with John's tragedy nor the story of the other little girl that died. Oh well.Why after so many years is the ghost finally taking revenge. Also, it seems the old guy who took Joseph's place as a child didn't really know... yet he is the target of the vengeance. Okay, so the ghost is mad. Whatever.Finally, I know George C. Scott is a famous and respected actor but wow, talk about over-acting!I wasn't even remotely scared by this movie. The Exorcist, the Omen I & II, The Others... now those are scary movies. This one was a bore. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Killer Wheel Chair!","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Scary? Suspenseful? Original? Moody?No.... The Changelling is just a run-of-the-mill ghost story that follows a plot line that has been used ad-nauseam by almost every haunted house/ghost story ever made.I will not detail the plot, but it becomes pretty obvious what it is going to happen after a while. You know,strange noises, things move, doors open, something bad happened at the house, a spirit that needs eternal rest... and that is it.Well, all in all The Changelling is rather tedious. Gorge C. Scott is acting on automatic pilot mode and the story is full of holes and things that simply make no sense at all. I would not recommend it.Two stars out of 10. "}{"Title":"Boring ghost story","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George C. Scott is very good in this lousy horror movie. His wife and daughter have been killed in a car accident (not shown). He's living in a big empty mansion trying to deal with it. However he's not alone. Things move around by themselves and he realizes there's a ghost there. This realization leads him to uncovering some dark secrets in the past...and someone will kill him from revealing them.Dull ghost story. Good acting aside there's nothing here. The plot is predictable and pretty dull stuff. Also the scare scenes are abysmal. There's one part when a woman is being chased around by an empty wheelchair!!! Now really, HOW is that supposed to be scary? When I saw it people were (rightfully) laughing. The R rating is way off. There's no swearing, nudity, sex or gore in this movie. I heard it got the R because you see a young boy being drowned to death in a bathtub...but it's not explicit. It even LOOKS fake! This movie is just simply a slow-moving and boring ghost story. There are plenty of much better ghost movies out there. See The Haunting (1962) if you want to see a scary ghost movie. Skip this one. "}]