[{"Title":"Truly nasty and exploitative Corman-highlight","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With some imagination, the best way to describe Humanoids from the Deep is calling it a nasty and perverted update of the Creature from the Black Lagoon-premise. That classic Jack Arnold featured oppressed sexual undertones while HftD is a downright outrageous and rancid flick. Not bad to see a woman directs a more or less anti-women movie&#133;even though Corman hired someone else to shoot extra sleaze-footage. In many ways, it also feels like you're watching an Italian horror product! The style and atmosphere of this film are so silly, the violence is so explicit and the plot rips off several other genre classics. Don't be fooled, however, because this is an authentic Roger Corman production and definitely one of the most entertaining ones he ever was involved in. The plot handles about ecologically mutated fish that attack a little fish-town during the annual salmon-festival. The creatures, which evolve amazingly fast, kill the men and rape the women.Humanoids from the Deep is an unbelievably entertaining gorefest! The monster-suits are some of the most efficient ever and they look truly despicable. The gratuitous nudity is &#150; of course &#150; a very redundant element but Corman surely knows that it sells. As mentioned before, this film rips off quite a few genre hits and cleverly uses eerie ideas (and music) from Jaws and Alien. The make-up effects are simply disgusting &#133; and that's a positive comment. Especially the grotesque finale, set during the yearly festival, contains some sickness every self-respecting horror fan should see. Even though the film could have used a little more humor to put it the wholesome into perspective a little, this surely is fundamental viewing for all fans of trash film-making. For some incomprehensible reason, Corman also put his money in made-for-TV remake during the 90's. That film might be fairly gore as well, but it entirely lacks the campy, light-headed fun of this original. Make sure you watch the right version! "},{"Title":"Gill-men kill men... and rape women!","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Check this out for a storyline hideous fish-men rise from the ocean depths in order to mate with human females and thus speed up their rapid evolution (which has already been kick-started by them eating genetically mutated salmon). Now if that doesn't sound like B-movie monster heaven, then I don't know what does.After fisherman Jim Hill (ageing action 'hunk', Doug McClure), native-American Johnny Eagle (Anthony Pena), and scientist Susan Drake (Ann Turkel), discover the randy web-footed mutants in a nearby network of caves, they must race to the fishing town of Noyo to warn the locals of the danger that awaits them.A wonderfully silly and scary portion of fishy fun, Humanoids From The Deep is a must-see for all fans of rubbery creature features. Packed with numerous dubious delights, which include the raping of buxom babes by the seaweed-covered critters, loads of gruesome gory killings, the obligatory shower scene, and a terrific ending in which the beasts gatecrash a party with bloody results, the film entertains from the very start right up to its OTT splattery ending.Produced by horror legend Roger Corman, HFTD manages to deliver its preposterous plot with just the right mixture of seriousness and knowing silliness (watch the ventriloquist scene for the loopiest moment, when the dummy's eyes flick back and forth as its owner is killed!). Ace make-up FX man Rob Bottin's work is top-notch&#151;the monsters may be men in suits, but they are still effectively disgusting looking things, equipped with razor sharp fangs, weird extended fore-arms and obscenely bulging craniums&#151;and the seasoned leads (including Vic Morrow as town bad-guy Hank Slattery) give credible performances. The big breasted girls in the movie are also great, gamely shedding their clothes at every chance and enthusiastically bouncing in front of the camera!Unabashedly misogynistic, and very, very silly, 'Humanoids' is a gem of 80s horror and a real treat for fans of trash cinema&#151;do yourself a favour and fish this one out soon! "},{"Title":"A great if unintentional comedy","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's a little sleepy seaside burg debating whether to add a new cannery. Life is slow there, and the fishing is dying. It turns out that the reason the salmon are disappearing is that the owners of the cannery company have been doing some DNA experiments on salmon. They accidentally released genetically altered salmon into the ocean, and those altered salmon were eaten by predator fish. This special diet turns the predator fish into - you guessed it - Humanoids From The Deep. (Add echo chamber in your mind).Now what do you think the loony humans do? Hint remember that the monsters have been living on genetically altered salmon, and then they have nothing else to eat but the real salmon. The humans go ahead and hold the 93rd annual Salmon Festival! It's like advertising a tourist attraction for salmon-eating monsters. Then there is a silly subplot, added after the fact by the filmmakers. The monsters are super-evolved and need to propagate their species. They don't seem to have any females in their race. They are also humanoid (Well, sort of. They appear to be as human as Vic Morrow, but just barely). They therefore need to kill human males and mate with human females.First they come upon a girl and her boyfriend camping on the beach. He is a ventriloquist, for no apparent reason. They maul the twerp, and the dummy's eyes continue to follow the action, even after the ventriloquist is dead. This apparently supernatural phenomenon is never explained. (Hey, it's a Corman movie). The monsters proceed to rape her. Later, another girl's boyfriend is feeling her up in the water, and this makes the humanoids really horny, so they kill another twerp, and rape another girl. In the movie's final scene, she is giving birth, and ......    I think you can probably figure it out.The movie's climax comes at the Salmon Festival, a carnival where humans and humanoids alike meet to share a few memories. The humanoids show that, while they are not smarter than average humans, they are quite a bit smarter than carny folk, and smell a lot better as well. Dental care is about even.The monsters rip off the bra of the Salmon Queen before chasing her through the midway. Before tracking down the Salmon Queen, however, the monsters stop to ride some of the midway rides (say, they are genetically advanced), and of course slaughter the humans on the rides. Then the monsters stop for some cotton candy. Not by salmon alone does man live. Then they head over to the midway to play some carny games. One of the monsters is really hacked off that he can't knock down the bowling pins and win an Eeyore for the Salmon Queen, especially since he has seen some other monsters with Eeyore's and even one with a Tigger! He really gets steamed when he realizes that those other monsters were audience plants, allowed to win by the carny barkers in order to sucker in the players. Of course, when he finds this out, he rips the carny geek limb from limb and resumes chasing the Salmon Queen, intending to take her by force if he cannot woo her with presents.But, by jingo, we humans are not defenseless, you know. Our salmon queens can take care of themselves, thank you very much. This gal squares off and dukes it out with the big guy. The human spirit endures. So if you evil superintelligent movie humanoids are out there reading this review, listen up. You'll never take us. If you think you can just come here and rape our women, Mr. Johnny Monster, you've got another think coming. We've got mighty tough Salmon Queens and Van Damme and Bruce Willis, and no movie monster or asteroid is going to crush this race, nosireebob.  "},{"Title":"A wickedly fun creature feature!","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mutated salmon monsters emerge from the sea and reek bloody havoc upon a small New England fishing village.One of the best Roger Corman-produced monster flicks ever, Humanoids from the Deep is one guilty treat for fans of old fashioned creature horror. It's a horror film that's very unpretentious as it features gruesomely good makeup effects, some intense scenes of violent action, and of course nubile women menaced by the slimy title characters. It's simply a fun ride for horror fans who don't mind their entertainment a touch on the campy side. The plot is fast-paced, there's some great moments of humor, and a few genuinely good shocks (particularly the gory finale). The creature effects are solidly well done. The cast is pretty good as well and James Horner's music score lends great moody atmosphere.Definitely a memorable outing for fans of the monster genre, Humanoids from the Deep is not to be missed! *** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Campy Crapola","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie seems to pick up where Creature From The Black Lagoon left off. We all know that the Gill Man wanted some hot, steamy Amazonian sex with the pretty girl in the white bathing suit...but no way were they going to show that happening back in the 50s! Well, along came 1980 and the Gill Man is either high-fiving his amphibious descendants, or he's rolling over in his watery grave.A bunch of salmon (yes, salmon!) exposed to pollution, mutate into some pretty cool looking monsters and go on a rape and murder spree in a small Pacific Northwest fishing village. There's also a subplot concerning Native Americans protesting the pollution of their waters, but it seems like an afterthought, as no one could really stretch a story about horny monsters out for an hour and a half. Young, sexually active women in bikinis beware! The monsters are determined to procreate, and do so in a couple of nasty, icky rape scenes. There's also an infamously gross-out climax (no pun intended) in which a rape victim gives birth to a monstrous fish baby. And she didn't reach for a coat hangar earlier because why?Yeesh, now I know why Lovecraft hated fish so much. These guys are nasty! The rubber costumes are great, giving us icky slimy fishmen with giant exposed brains, nasty little piranha teeth and incredibly elongated arms. There's lots of bare, jiggling breasts and really stupid people getting their guts clawed out, so if you like naked girls and gore, don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"A great, never-a-dull-moment-thriller!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great Roger Corman production again involving monsters, this time killer salmon creatures memorphed into humanhoid beings that kill men and rape women of a small Oregon fishing town. The movie opens with a fishing boat taking a group of fishermen out to bring up their nets only to have something large and unseen claw away at it which leads to one little boy falling overboard and getting eaten and the boat exploding killing all aboard. The tension, suspense, exitcement starts almost from the first scene and never lets up for a minute. For the next scene has a nighttime setting which has one humanoid lurking around a local house with the lady inside wondering where strange noises are coming from, and her going out to investigate. With the rash of attacks, and dissapearances, bring in a scientist who slowly explains the reason for the creatures existence while more and more humanoids are attacking campers, beachgoers and others in various gory ways. One may find it cheesy and absurd, but that's the whole point as a great cheesy thriller that had a tight script and a great climatic humanoid attack against the fishing pier. I'd give it a 10 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"Mutated salmon raping women? Beautiful.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fact alone that a woman directed this film makes it a curioso piece. It's indefensible trash that certainly works on a campy, visceral level. It also has the makings of some actual characters. Seriously, in the midst of the gratuitous nudity and bloodshed, I found the movie to be...  No wait a minute. Let's get back to the gratuitous nudity and bloodshed. I watched this movie expecting to see these two, and it delivered. I knew going in that this was going to be B-movie material, and that's what I got. I was entertained. You can sit back and analyze this movie all ya' want. I'm just gonna enjoy it for what it is. And what an ending! "},{"Title":"I agree with most of the other posters. It's a classic!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" We've probably all seen a few cheesy monster movies from the 1950s and 60s. You know, ones where some kind of big monster seems to take a liking to a beautiful female member of the human species and ends up destroying whoever gets in its way of acquiring said beauty. When the monster finally got his hands on the lovely damsel, he'd run off with her into a cave or somewhere else secluded. Now, thanks to director Barbara Peeters and producer Roger Corman, we finally get to see what happens THEN! And it's pretty much what we suspected all along. It's mating season! Who doesn't love this movie? What's not to love? It has plenty of gore, comedy, ventriloquism, a fast pace, a naked woman running down the beach, assorted trashiness, great monsters (designed by Rob Bottin) and a great action-packed finale at a carnival. Anyone who has seen a few of the more recent Roger Corman movies knows that many scenes from this one ended up being reused many more times to save money.By the way, ignore the 1996 remake. They just don't make 'em like this anymore! "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" .Humanoids from the Deep (1980)*** (out of 4) Ultra low-budget but highly insane monster movie takes place in a fishing community where the fishermen start to notice that all the fish are missing. Soon the people are finding their dogs slaughters and before long people are missing. Fisherman Jim Hill (Doug McClure) begins to investigate with a scientist (Ann Turkel) and soon their worst fears are confirmed when they discover mutant fish creates that aren't just killing people but also trying to mate with women.HUMANOIDS FROM THE DEEP came during a period where Roger Corman's studio was making an outrageous amount of movies that were pretty much throwbacks to the type of films that he made during the 1950s. CREATURE FROM THE HAUNTED SEA and MONSTER FROM THE OCEAN FLOOR are just two type of films but this one here is a terrific mixture of that old-fashion monster movie but of course it's brought up-to-date with some outlandish violence and of course all sorts of beautiful women naked.If you hitting play on your disc player in hopes of seeing some sort of high art then you're going to be extremely disappointing because this isn't a well-made movie. There's also no question that on a technical level there are all sorts of flaws due to the budget but for the most part I thought Barbara Peeters handles the material quite well and succeeds at delivering fans what type of exploitation they'd want. The performances are good and the actors are entertaining enough to keep you glued to the story. McClure, Turkel and Vic Morrow are all fun.Of course, it's the monsters that steal the show. The overgrown seaweed with the large brains and sharp teeth just look fabulous and they add to the fun. Being a Corman production we also get some rather memorable deaths including a man getting his head ripped off (but be sure you're watching the uncut version). The nudity is also on full display as Corman hired some good looking women to get naked and run around. So is HUMANOIDS FROM THE DEEP a classic? You bet it is. In regards to the chain of 80s monster movies it's certainly one of the very best. "},{"Title":"And you thought the creature from the black lagoon was a perv!","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie totally rocks! it takes everything that's great about CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON and adds a lot more nudity, a lot more gore and a lot more monsters...can't go wrong with that! It's basically about a bunch of mutant rapist monsters who come from the water to wreak havoc on a small Northwestern town. The pacing is plenty fast, what a relief! (Way too many horror movies with great potential blow it with slow pacing.) the monsters look great too! they got the whole wet water creature look only with big exposed brains similar to the aliens in THIS ISLAND EARTH. best of all the ending is super rad! bottom line this movie is killer! i can't recommend this one enough! Mad props go out to Roger Corman. if you like movies like THE DEADLY SPAWN check this baby out "}{"Title":"Attack of the Territorial and Horny Fish Creatures from Hell!!!","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story is about these creature-of-the-black-lagoon-lookin-things wreaking havoc on a small fishing town. Throw in a subplot concerning a prejudice fisherman and some boobs and gore and you have Monster, aka Humanoids From the Deep.I've always heard about this flick, but always seemed to erase it from my memory. And I don't know why. So, while cruisin the net I happened to come upon it once again. It happened to jar some memories loose, which told me it was about time I should check it out. Well, I did, and I'm happy I have such a mediocre memory. This flick had almost everything I look for in 80's flicks. It had da boobs, da gore and da creatures....who rape chicks.It's not all gravy unfortunately. I was kinda bored when the creatures weren't on screen. The fight scene with Vic Morrow and the lovey-dovey sex scenes were all entertaining, but the film seemed dull at points. Mostly when any lead actress was acting it up. Nevertheless, the flick ain't about talking chickens.Humanoids from the Deep is a great example of awesome 80s horror. It had what a horror fan wants. Do yourself a favor and check this flick out if you want a cool creature flick with the woiks! "},{"Title":"When Fish-Men Raid","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as fish-mutation films go, this one is actually one of the very best. The Fish-Men actually look pretty cool. The film probably owes something to PIRANHA and HORROR OF PARTY BEACH. It's predictable but fun if you're in the mood for something fishy. "},{"Title":"One of the better Corman movies around","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humanoids from the Deep is one of Corman's better features.**SPOILERS**It seems the small town of is experiencing several weird events. First, there is something unusual happening to the fish of the coast. They are strangely in smaller schools than ever before. Then, dogs begin to disappear, and are found later ripped to shreds. When the town gets together to hold their annual harvest, a scientist for town's cannery, Dr. Susan Drake, (Ann Turkel) announces that she can make their catch bigger than ever before with the introduction of genetically introduced fish to the environment. Her boss, Hank Slattery, (Vic Morrow) enthusiastically shares her point of view. The next day, several teens in the town disappear. Townsman Jim Hill, (Doug McClure) has had it, and he decides to investigate the occurrences. After news carries of more attacks, Dr. Drake becomes concerned that the creatures responsible for the attacks are the mutated offspring of failed tests her company held earlier. With this bit of knowledge, they head out to stop the creatures from mating with human women for their species to survive.The Good News I really like the opening in the movie. A man and his son head on down to their boat to do some fishing. The son is more concerned with his video game, so when the father throws it into the water, he goes in after it. While diving down for it, he is attacked by some sort of weird creature. The commotion gets the father's attention, and he accidentally knocks over a lantern on deck. This causes the ship to go up in flames, and it settles into a great opening sequence. It has all the hallmarks of a good opening scene you are introduced of a threat to man by some thing, a great shock, and a setting of suspense that carries out throughout the rest of the film. This bang of an opening sets the tone and pace for the rest of the movie. It starts out strong and doesn't let up. This is a very action-packed film, with something happening almost every five minutes or less that keeps the viewer interested. Whether it's an attack, nudity, or something else, there is always action in this film of some kind. Rick Bottin definitely proves here why he got The Howling job the Humanoids are very creepy and look like suitably evil creatures. The long, gangly arms, the large claws, the moss growing off their back and shoulders, and the face, which looks suspiciously like The Creature from the Black Lagoon, thrown in for good measure. There is a lot of action as well, with the highlight of the film undoubtedly being the ending attack on the carnival. The creatures appear en masse, over-powering the running humans and dragging them down to rape them. The fact that they are also being gunned down always for tons of gore both the creatures getting shot and the creatures attacking the humans. Several people have their throats ripped, spilling out lots of blood in sprays. The long claws are also seen ripping through flesh and bone, so that provides more gore as well. I don't see gore-hounds having any problems with this one. Even without the ending, we get abundant gore. One person has his back ripped open, revealing the bones underneath, still another has a leg amputated, and another is gutted, only without the guts piling out. The nudity is also abundant as well, featuring enough naked bodies to give any red-blooded male a dream woman for a while. This is a great movie. It has a fast pace, stuff happens all the time, and it keeps things interested with all that goes on.The Bad News There is only one complaint I have about the film the cry that the creatures give is utterly annoying. Instead of making them seem scary, it got on my nerves, and that isn't something that a film should do. If they change the creatures cry from a scared mouse, this film would be a little better.The Final Verdict You never are bored with this film. I think that is a film's greatest compliment it is very entertaining. Definitely check this out if you love creature films, 80's horror flicks, and Corman fans will also want to see one of his better films.Rated NC-17 Nudity, Graphic Violence, many scenes of Rape, suggested and shown animal violence, and Language "},{"Title":"Typical B-movie from the eighties but fun!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Humanoids from the deep is a good B-movie from the 80's. It is full of cliches typical of horror movies. Women undressing with the windows opened. A woman hears a noise outside and leaves the house to investigate. Scary false alarms (you see someone approaching a woman, you believe it is the monster, but, guess what, it is just the boyfriend.) Let's be brief this is Friday the 13th with sea monsters. Fortunately, humanoids from the deep is unintentionally funny. Some scenes are hilarious. And some are a little scary. There's some suspense as well. And hey, at least a scientist explained why these monsters exist. Some monster movies don't do even that (anyone remembers Split Second?).Bottom line a good bad movie (just like Killer Klowns from Outer Space). "},{"Title":"Corman Cult Classic","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Scientific experiments backfire and produce horrific mutations half-man, half-fish which terrorize a small fishing village by killing the men and raping the women.Apparently this film was offered to Joe Dante, who turned it down, and this opened the door for Barbara Peeters. I would rather it had been done by Dante, of course, but Peeters was a Corman veteran (making such films as Eat My Dust! with Ron Howard). This was to be her last feature film, and she subsequently worked in television and did commercials. Allegedly, when Peeters turned in her film, Corman (the producer) did not find it exploitative enough and asked Oscar-nominated director Jimmy T. Murakami (who was working with Corman on Battle Beyond the Stars at the time) to shoot some additional footage of the humanoids attacking random (naked) women. The additional scenes are mixed in decently enough (you cannot tell they were not original unless you are looking for them), but add nothing of substance to the film. If the nudity helped sell the film, then it was another Corman brilliant move. But did it?And it actually changes the subplot to some degree -- rather than just humanoids attacking a small fishing village in Washington, we now have them trying to breed with human women. This is more or less glossed over in the film as shot by Peeters.Some questions are raised about the scientific realism of the picture. One might be surprised to learn that a marine scientist does not know how to pronounce coelacanth. And there is the fundamental flaw that they presume evolution pushes species towards a more human state. That is certainly not true. We could also wonder why all the humanoids are apparently male, or why they would be attracted to humans, or how such a union could produce offspring... but at this point we should just stop thinking and realize the writers obviously did not care about basing the story in any kind of fact (and that is okay). Where the film deserves credit is in its gamble to show the humanoids in full view and often. Generally, the rule is to reveal the creature only at the last moment, because the audience might laugh if they see the zippers. Or you can go the other way -- like Octaman -- and just expose the creature as soon as possible and just keep showing it. Here there is a bit of a compromise, though leaning in the Octaman direction. Luckily, these are some darn fine costumes and make for a good creature feature. Lastly, the film has taken on a new life of its own not for what it is but for who was involved. This is far from Corman's best work (it is hard to top the days of Vincent Price and the Poe Films). But we now have the benefit of hindsight to see that the no-names on this film went on to be hugely successful, far overshadowing both Peeters and Corman. Composer James Horner (Titanic) did the score, makeup artist Rob Bottin (The Thing) made the suits, Mark Goldblatt (Terminator) was an editor, and Gale Anne Hurd (also Terminator) worked as a Production Assistant. It is no coincidence that James Cameron (Terminator, Titanic) was also a Corman vet. These connections alone make the film of great historical value, even if we can quibble on its critical merit.But really, it is just a whole lot of mindless fun with blood, guts, and a one-man Indian tribe. "},{"Title":"Titty grabbing sleaze monsters...","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Corman produces yet another classic piece of trash, having it helmed by Barbara Peeters (unsurprisingly her last movie ever directed). This time the black lagoon throwback delivers a story of sex-crazed mutant amphibians hell-bent on raping all the broads, whilst dispatching of any potential competition. Flailing long arms with razor-sharp talons disembowel and cause unwaning blood splattering, while girls show off their youthful graces while screaming in horror. To stop the onslaught a mild mannered elderly fisherman (or Fisherman to punctuate his hero status?) Jim Hill (Doug McClure) leads the stand-off with Indian Johnny Eagle (Anthony Pena) his brave Tonto. All in order to counterattack the science-initiated epidemic of killer trout-men with big bulging brains.Unabashedly exploitational Humanoids from the Deep with a strong sexual innuendo (and several rape sequences) coupled with absolute adoration to gorrific entertainment, Corman produces another guilty pleasure - a movie so morally inept, script-horrific, but entirely enticing and engaging. Epitomising dumb fun, it is inexplicably entertaining offering a hearty laugh at the in-built stupidity, while also keeping the blood pumping through some well-defined tension. Albeit idiotic in base premise and execution the whole movie is done tongue and cheek, winking at the audience. A stand-out scene occurs during an absolutely hilarious attack on a ventriloquist and his girl, where the puppet rolls his eyes to get a glimpse at all the bloody action. "},{"Title":"Don't let the Big One catch you... off guard that is!","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Corman is known for his hit films. In Humanoids From The Deep, you want to reel it in. It's a small fishing town called Noyo, it's known for its salmon, it has started to build a cannery there. Unfortunately, it has also reeled in some trouble along the way. Not only did they draw ire from the Native Americans, a new species of beings has spawned from the waters. And heat did they do? They kill the young men, and they started to rape the women to breed their young. So what now? These creatures must be stopped. With a cast like this, no wonder this movie was good. It's like The Creature From The Black Lagoon, only hornier. These fish creatures have more of a sex appetite for women, than a normal appetite for food. Doug McClure did a spectacular job there. Ann Turkel showed a lot of guts and smarts in the film. This horror gem is a real keeper, and it should be remembered well for years to come. And by all means, avoid the remake! So bring the popcorn and the fishing gears, don't release this movie in the waters. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"80 minutes worth of 100% pure trash!","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humanoids from the Deep has to rank as one of Roger Cormans' best ever monster movies, a rollicking, extremely well paced flick with a high fun factor. A spooky early James Horner score, nicely done monster designs by Rob Bottin, a well chosen cast, a welcome and hearty helping of female flesh, and, very importantly, a sense of humour, all help to make this nothing but entertaining from start to finish.It takes place in a small oceanside fishing village named Noyo. Sexy Ann Turkel plays Dr. Susan Drake, a scientist in the employ of a cannery whose job was to improve local fish life; only, of course, things went wrong and the result is a proliferation of human shaped marine monsters driven to kill men and dogs and mate with women.The movie is unique for having a woman in the directors' chair, Barbara Peeters (Summer School Teachers, Starhops), and she basically does a very creditable job, although Corman was dissatisfied with the way she shot the rape scenes and had first assistant director / second unit director James Sbardellati step in to make sure that the scenes were explicit rather than implicit. (When all was said and done, Turkel and Peeters denounced the movie as a T & A film.)Likable Doug McClure capably plays stolid hero Jim Hill. The late, great Vic Morrow makes for an effective antagonist as local racist jerk Hank Slattery. And Anthony Penya does a fine, fine job as proud local Indian Johnny Eagle; it's a credit to the makers of this movie that they could slip in a little social commentary without ever being heavy handed about it or having it detract from the fun. Lovely co-stars such as Lynn Theel and Linda Shayne fulfil the bare flesh requirement well. Also appearing are Cindy Weintraub as Jims' wife Carol, Breck Costin as his brother Tommy, Denise Galik as Tommy's girlfriend Linda, Hoke Howell as fisherman Deke Jensen, Greg Travis as the radio announcer, and ventriloquist David Strassman, getting the biggest laughs in the movie as the guy has his dummy crack dirty jokes as a prelude to sex.The climactic action wherein many Humanoids wreak havoc at a festival seriously smokes, and features some delicious gore and a high body count among both humans and Humanoids. Exciting, suspenseful, sleazy, and funny, this movie continues to be a hoot to watch every single time. It ends in an endearing enough way, with a nice little tribute to a certain other classic genre movie from the same time period. It even prefigures a memorable scene from Gremlins a few years later by having Carol dispatch one of the monsters inside her own home.Highly recommended to any creature feature lover who prefers them to be on the exploitative side, Humanoids from the Deep both begins and ends with a bang.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not One For The Kids!!!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1980 Roger Corman produced this surprisingly good B-movie. Genetically altered fish have gotten loose and into the ocean near a small coastal fishing village.  These fish have now turned into monsters and are busy attacking the fishermen (to protect their territory) and raping the women (to advance their own species).  Filled with lots of gore, violence, nudity and sex this is definetly a good example of the kind of over the top sex/horror movie that could still get an R rating back in 1980.  If you love sleazy sex/horror films, with plenty of intentional laughs, pick this one up. "},{"Title":"No fat or ugly chicks were harmed during filming ..............","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sea creatures with incredibly good taste in women attack and ruin a perfectly good salmon festival. This well done monster movie follows the usual formula, strange animal killings, followed by several jump out of your seat false alarms, and finally the men in rubber suits attack. Amazingly, the humanoids are somewhat convincing. Unfortunately the hero, Doug McClure, is far less impressive. His performance can only be described as borderline boring. Vic Morrow makes a fine villain, and the nubile beauties who become fish fodder are quite attractive. It should be noted that no fat or ugly chicks were harmed during filming of Humanoids From the Deep - MERK "}{"Title":"A great piece of shamelessly sleazy early 80's monster trash","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This chintzy, dopey, ultra-funky, recklessly trashy and gleefully disgusting creature feature horror exploitation flick hoot is so relentlessly vile and lurid that it's actually quite endearing in a so-sick-it's-superlative sort of way. They sure don't make 'em like this amazingly brazen scuzzball howler anymore -- and that's an honest shame, man. In other words, this righteously disagreeable barn burner is cheaper than a two dollar whore, twice as skanky, and all the better for it, partner.The plot to this supremely wacky'n'tacky sleazy jewel goes like this a brutish, bestial and bloodthirsty bunch of seriously butt-ugly, scaly, subhuman fish monsters pillage a dreary coastal hamlet for bodacious young babes to reproduce their species with. And boy are these unsightly suckers gnarly looking. They kind of resemble Bigfoot after he's been dunked in a cesspool and covered in seaweed; they have dangling arms, webbed hands, lanky, yet muscular builds, sharp, pointy teeth and long, lethal claws, all the better to shred any hapless young guy who gets between them and a hot young honey they want to mate with. Trying to halt the ghastly monstrosities are flabby fisherman Doug McClure and sexy lady scientist Ann Turkel, who accidentally created the horny horrors by messing around with salmon eggs. Yep, there's a real politically correct pro-environmentalist message to be found in this pup -- and it was done way back in 1980, a gloriously irreverent golden age when choice objectionable schlock like this could be made all raw, gross, offensive, crassly exploitative, and, best of all, unfettered.Throw in a few shockingly graphic monster rape scenes (the one which takes place at night on the beach is a real doozy), plenty of gory violence, a nicely abundant smattering of gratuitous nudity (is there any other kind?), a smashing climactic raid on a seaside carnival, and the late, great, sorely missed cantankerous character actor par excellence Vic Morrow devouring the scenery with unbridled brio as a beer-swilling macho redneck lout who gets his sadistic jollies out of stomping on Native Americans (yep, there's some pointed and insightful commentary on racism, too). Add Babara Peeters' snappy direction, a fiercely trim'n'quick 80 minute running time, a blaring score by James Horner, no pretense or subtlety to speak of, extremely nifty monster f/x by Rob Bottin, and one of the all-time single most incredibly nasty monster birth scenes at the very end. Put all these winningly junky ingredients together, jazz 'em up with considerable panache, and the delectably cheesy net result stands proud as a true triumphantly tasteless classic of early 80's grindhouse cinema swill. "},{"Title":"Gore galore","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Scientific experiments backfire and produce horrific mutations half-man, half-fish which terrorize a small fishing village by killing the towns folks in gory, messy ways. Roger Corman's Humanoids from the deep is a excellent horror film. The special effects by Robert Bottin (The howling) are terrific and the cast is decent and their are some genuinly cool-looking monsters. Awesome twist at the ending (Even if it rips off Alien a wee bit!) too. Highly recommended stuff! "},{"Title":"Humanoid monsters attack a small fishing town","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this film as a kid, I loved it.  22 years later I got the DVD...and still love it!  This is a very entertaining monster movie! One that a lot of current film makers could learn a lot from.Monsters, gore, and naked chicks.  This movie serves up just what you want, and the way you want it...raw!   "},{"Title":"Perfect low budget entertainment","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Humanoids From The Deep was one of the first more gory horror-films that I´ve seen in my early youth and this is why I remember it as one of my favourite horror-films ever. Well, in fact there´s no high quality standard in this Corman-production and the direction tries to catch the viewer´s attention with some (quiet evil)gore effects and nude girls being chased by funny-looking, costume wearing men. You just have to remind the plot of Jaws to know what´s going on here but nevertheless, Humanoids From The Deep is one of the films that people call Good Clean Fun. Just take a look. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Classic, Nostalgic Horror B Movie","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this when I was 14.  It had everything a 14 boy needed gratuitous graphic violence, monsters, and nudity.  Roger Corman is a genius.  People that expect too much from this movie will obviously be disappointed.  Anyone who says the remake is better, just doesn't get it. At the time this came out, it was rare to see the over the top graphic special make up effects; it was just coming into vogue.  If you try to judge this movie at today's standards for special effects, you are judging it unfairly.  Critique this movie as a 14 boy and you will see this movie as the classic it is.  "},{"Title":"?","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh man, was this one fun to watch.  One of the reasons some bad films are viewable is because you can sense how much fun everyone had making this film.  This is such a case.  It is real bad. The actors play it straight and that only adds to the fun with all the ridiculous goings-on.  And you can't beat this logic these oversized man/salmon creatures are coming up on land reeking havoc.  So how does Doug McClure intend to catch these things?  He heads to his boat and out to sea armed only with a fishing pole.  I was sold.  If you watch to laugh rather than be scared, you'll have fun with this one. "},{"Title":"Wet entertainment.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here we are in the watery depths with horny, salmon fed, humanoids from the deep.  If they werent playing so many games at the fair, then they might have done better against the Salmon Queen.  This is entertainment, if you want a smart movie, go rent Pi, stay away from Humanoids, but if you want to have a dumb fun movie then get this 1. Ive seen it more than once (twice) & would gladly see it again if it just didnt ruin the taste of salmon. "},{"Title":"surprisingly gory","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  being that this is from roger corman i knew this film would probably be stupid.  i was right, but what i didnt count on was the high abundance of gore!  especially at the end where the town was having some kind of 4th of july party.  ok film but doesnt really add anything special to the genre.  "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Group of underwater monsters come up to the ground to rape women and murder men. Their intentions are to reproduce and gain control of a small town. Fun, scary, and even witty little monster flick is a send-up of 50's & 60's monster flicks from Roger Corman, only with more graphic violence and sex. The finale has to be seen to be believed! Rated R; Rape, Nudity, Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Inverse scattering for CHUDs!","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Three hands down, Humanoids from the Deep (H.f.t.D.)is one of the greatest interspecies copulating movies of all time. Believe me, I ought to know! Back when I was in grad school I did some research about inverse scattering to solve the Helmholtz equation. A lot of people don't know it, but you can actually use my results in the detection of subterranean C.H.U.D.s. Now I know what you're thinking -- a C.H.U.D. is a C.H.U.D. and a H.f.t.D. is a H.f.t.D., right? But tell me this -- next time you're roller skiing down the street and you see a guy with a ventriloquist dummy get his head ripped off in a tent just because he was about to get it on with his hot girlfriend on the beach, and then you find out she was impregnated by the otherworldly beast, are you going to pick nits? or just pick your nose and put it in the booger box? I rest my case. My point is this -- C.H.U.D.s, Humnanoids from the Deep -- who cares what you call them -- if you see their scattering support on the beach you'd best hightail your compact balls out of there. Pronto! The other thing that would have made this movie better would be if there was a guy with a gorilla suit in it. They wouldn't even need to hire another guy, they could just let Doug McClure do it. Heck, I could do it myself. It wouldn't be the first time. Once I was wearing my gorilla suit, drinking a nice glass of Barollo, watching Humanoids from the Deep and thats when I got the idea of using the whole inverse scattering thing for subterranean C.H.U.D. detection. THen I thought naah, I gotta do laundry and buy milk and stuff. It's so funny because it's true! So here's my advice if you love someone, set them free. Then go out and watch Humanoids from the Deep! "}{"Title":"Not a quality picture, but a fun picture.","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is your standard old drive-in Creature Feature that has tons of gore and boobs. It's great if your in for a cheap thrill. This film goes right up along side any Roger Corman produced picture from the eighties. It's rumored that he was approached to direct this movie but he decided to produce it. Humanoids from the Deep, also known as Monster, is a strange but forgettable piece of exploitation that failed to make it's notch in history. Don't let that detour you though. This is a really fun little film that doesn't fail to be entertaining. A small sea town in California is terrorized by some mutated creatures from the deep. They look like some sort of mutated fish, merman- thing. They seem to have one goal in mind and that is raping and impregnating the females of the town. Also the town is being taken for a ride by a shifty businessman and his new corporate cannery. Could this evil cannery corporation be responsible for the Extreme Creatures of the Black Lagoon? This movie is all that you would expect from a Corman production. Apparently, the Director Barbara Peeters was unaware of the amount of skin that would be shown. But critics have touted it as necessary. I have to disagree. The film could have been just as good without the copious amounts of breasts, but then what would set it aside? It has its place in the eighties as a Grindhouse picture and serves that reputation well. The acting is far below par. Even from veterans like Doug McClure and Vic Marrow. Except, you don't watch movies like this for the acting do you? A decent amount of gore. Tons of graphic content. This movie is not a kid's picture. The plot may seem a bit immature but believe me, it isn't for children. Think of it as an adult Creature from the Black Lagoon. I recommend it to those that are curious. If you have seen most eighties horror movies, there is a good chance that you haven't seen this. Check it out and share what you think! "},{"Title":"A fun little low budget monster movie","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humanoids from the Deep is exactly what it wants to be an exploitation creature feature. Featuring a lot of nudity and violence, this is one shameless little drive-in horror film that sets out to deliver some thrills and nothing else. The film has famously had some problems in its production, but in the end, it is a fun monster movie.Good I like the design of the humanoids and they are admittedly better looking than most creatures that are displayed in movies of low budgets like these. The film knows its campy and sets out to be just that. Some good gore and gratuitous nudity spice up the film. The climactic carnival scene is fun to watch. Shout out to the score composed by James Horner in one of his first films as composer.Bad Like many films of this type, it suffers from the usual problems. The acting is stiff, there are obvious scenes of dubbed dialogue, there is sloppy editing, the story itself is pretty dull, and the low budget shows in its sets and effects at times.Overall, it is low budget horror junk food fare, but it is done with enough charm that it overcomes some of its shortcomings. "},{"Title":"The overused don't mess with mother nature plot","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humanoids from the Deep is like blending together environmentalism propaganda with the mind of a teenager and a low-budget set of effects. Normally I love cheesy horror movies (My Bloody Valentine from 1981 is my favorite) but this one is just boring and kinda pervy. The moral of it hippies are good, science is bad, if you mess with nature you're gonna get killed.Typical.The Environmental Movement seeped into cinemas as far back memorably as movies like Godzilla vs. The Smog Monster (Hedorah). Ever since then, the whole enviro-crazy theme of movies has gotten really repetitive and old. Movies like Goosebumps Welcome to Dead House, Eraserhead, The Lorax, The Toxic Avenger, Soylent Green, Redneck Zombies, A Civil Action, Silkwood and Threads are nothing new, and if you're pro-pollution like I am it can be annoying to sit through them all when you just want to watch a good movie, though some of them I really enjoyed watching.Anyway, Humanoids from the Deep has another problem it's overly perverted and normally that sort of thing can be overlooked, but come on! The monsters rape women and rip of their bathing suits, that's not even funny, just really weird and pointless. If their audience was a bunch of pervy teenage boys or dirty old men, then they must've made a ton of cash on this film! I'm not some prude but putting sex scenes into movies just for the hell of it is gross and a waste of time, and putting in degrading rape scenes is just disgusting.Aside from that, this movie is incredibly cheesy, but manages to be funny at some parts. The soundtrack was pretty good, you've gotta give it that, and the acting wasn't as bad as it could have been. "},{"Title":"added footage is fine","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was disappointed in this, somehow never having seen it through the years, I thought a decent print of the uncut version would come as a welcome surprise. Actually, of course, the 'uncut version' is really the original version beefed up with sex and gore. Original director, Barbara Peeters wasn't too happy apparently and declined to shoot the extra footage herself. I'm not sure why, she had already been involved in several soft core sex films, but maybe she thought this was more 'serious'. Indeed, I think this might be the problem here. The acting is terrible and the direction too lame to cover that up and instead of getting some pace and excitement going we get serious talk about, conservation, discrimination and the evils of big business and dangers of messing with DNA. A simple exploitation movie can do without these diversions. So, for me the added footage is fine and the original, lifeless and dull. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but in the end it's okay","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humanoids from the Deep is considered by many B movie fans to be a gory and sleazy cult classic of sorts. My feelings towards it are not quite as strong. Certainly, the movie does have its strengths. Though made with one of producer Roger Corman's legendary low budgets, the movie has an acceptable look, from the photography to the creature and gore effects. Speaking of gore, the attack sequences are pretty well handled, sometimes throwing in some nice gratuitous nudity as well. The climax and concluding sequence are pretty wild and satisfying.However, the movie is not without its faults. For one thing, there is a real old fashioned feeling to much of the story - it's more or less a recreation of those low budget monster suit movies made in the 1950s, though with more explicit violence and sexual material thrown in to try and hide that fact. And the story has its share of slow spots where nothing really important is happening. The biggest problem is that none of the characters in the movie becomes really prominent - the movie really needed one or two dominant character to carry things. As there is, there's not enough time given to any character to make us care about anyone.Is the movie worth seeing? Overall, I would say yes, on the condition that you don't have high expectations. The movie is good, but not THAT good. "},{"Title":"Violent Thriller.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A sea side community is terrorized by a series of brutal killings which prove to be the work of mutated salmon fish-men(!) who are on a crazed and murderous reproductive spree. Local scientists and townspeople team up to stop them.Lurid film has a thoughtful story in here somewhere, but is handled as violent exploitation fare(Nudity and graphic violence); thing is, this is a surprisingly well made and tense shocker with a fantastic music score by James Horner, and superb direction. Very well paced and exciting, this may leave viewers conflicted, since it works as a harrowing cautionary tale about pollution, even though you may be ashamed to admit you enjoyed it... "},{"Title":"Rapist monsters from the deep!","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anything connected to Roger Corman has got to be worth a look. Humanoids, half-man, half-fish are product of scientific experiments gone bad. A sleepy coastal village that depends on the fishing industry is attacked by wet creepy monsters. These accidental man-made creatures come ashore to kidnap young nubile women with the intention of impregnating; and they kill any man that interferes. Doug McClure plays his usual good guy role and hero to the rescue. Vic Morrow is the perfect a**hole, who is to profit from the experiments. These sea monsters are pretty fearsome looking; but you only see three or four at a time in any scene. Also in the cast Cindy Weintraub, Denise Galik, Meegan King, Anthony Pena and the attractive Ann Turkel. Well worth watching; decent special effects and an above average musical score from James Horner. "},{"Title":"The salmon-monsters that John West rejects..","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Loaded with gratuitous T&A, buckets of blood and gore and a reasonable cast that includes Doug The Virginian McClure, Vic Morrow and ex Mrs Richard Harris, Ann Turkel, this New World Pictures cheapy has a struggling fishing community besieged by mutated humanoid creatures who are seeking to mate with the female populace after they inadvertently evolve from a salmon genetics experiment gone awry.American Indian land preservation versus indiscriminate economic expansion serves as a loose undertone to this slasher-pic that closely resembles New World's Piranha in concept, though executes with less success. The script is strictly functional with apparently only two attempts at humour (McClure gesturing at Turkel's superior height and ventriloquist David Strassman and his alter-ego Chuck Wood in a randy tent encounter), and the special effects while bloody, don't really manage to conjure anything but ridiculous-looking title beasts (akin to gill-men from other films of the ilk).There's head-ripping, simulated rape, nudity, dog-eating, mutant baby birthing madness galore for those who appreciate that sort of thing, but despite the cult status (essentially for its tasteless excesses), it's still a pretty average flick. "},{"Title":"Undeniably entertaining...","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The title says it all and it's undeniably entertaining. Mutants rise out of the sea & attack a fishing village. They're interested in mating with the women. Doug McClure & Ann Turkel try to stop them. Vic Morrow is the local hot-head who blames the native Americans opposed to a soon to be built canning facility. Directed with a lot of finesse by Barbara Peeters and featuring a plethora of nudity thrown in after the fact. McClure is dull but Turkel is pretty fetching and Morrow is great (sporting an odd frizzy hairdo). The special effects are terrific with some really ugly monsters created by the great Rob Bottin. James Horner did the music score. The shocking ending is more predictable than surprising. Certainly one of Roger Corman's better late career efforts. "},{"Title":"I can't believe my parents let me watch this one","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently caught this movie on Epix Drive In, a channel that shows films that are usually not mainstream and often times are horror from years gone by. I had viewed this one as a child and I remember certain parts of the film, but after re-watching it, I cannot believe my parents let me view this one. This is not due to the monsters or the gore, but there is a lot of nudity in this one and the monsters rape their female victims! Granted, the rapes never take that much time so they are not on screen for long. The film, reminds me of a combination of other films of the era. It is a rather good horror film featuring monsters though as the monsters do look good, there is some good gore and the ladies are all quite lovely. The only thing that really pulls the film down a bit is a subplot featuring a cannery coming to town where the local redneck battles the local Indian. Just pads the film out, but they really could have fleshed out the monsters a bit more to accomplish this.The story starts out with a bang. Some fisherman go out on their boats and are soon attacked by something. A little boy is the first to go in very surprising fashion. The boat blows up leaving no evidence of the attack for the authorities. This part reminded me a bit of Jaws II and the attack of the shark on the two people in the boat that end up blowing up. Soon, dogs are being killed left and right and then we go on to a dance where an Indian against the coming of a cannery comes in and we see his dog is dead too, though chances are it is because the local redneck killed it cause he does not care for the Indian's opposition to the cannery. Well soon, people are being attacked by strange fish creatures and women are being raped. A scientist at the cannery seems to know something, but will she figure things out in time to stop the creatures from killing everyone? Like I said, it was a rather good horror film. If not for the padding, I would have given it a higher score. The monsters look sort of like the creature from the black lagoon, only nastier and more real. In fact, I find them more realistic than the scene where a man is able to coax a woman out of her clothes using a ventriloquist dummy! The movie has its slow parts, but then really has a good finale as the monsters are attacking this festival in full force, but we also see the main character's wife have to endure an attack from these nasty creatures too. Then it kind of ends in unspectacular fashion as people are just kind of wandering here and there after the fair. Then one last scene that lets the film end on an unpleasant, but familiar note. "}{"Title":"Classic Cheese!","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was actually introduced to Roger Corman films thru the wonderful show, MST 3000. I was 14 when this movie came out in 1980, and it was a big hit for me and my friends! If you have seen it, you know why it would appeal to teenage boys! I hadn't seen it in 15-20 years until I caught it on TV recently. I have one question. Without giving anything away, do people in the Great Northwest actually pronounce the L in Salmon? Like sal-mon? If you remember the KFSH deejay, then you know what I am talking about.I gave the movie 6 stars because I am now 40 years old and ,well, its a little cheesy to me now. However, if I were to rate this flick as a 14 year old high school freshman, it would definitely get 10 stars! Love those string bikinis!!!A little Corman every now and then never hurt anyone. At least not on purpose..... PEACE! "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems the small town of is experiencing several weird events. First, there is something unusual happening to the fish of the coast. They are strangely in smaller schools than ever before. Then, dogs begin to disappear, and are found later ripped to shreds. When the town gets together to hold their annual harvest, a scientist for town's cannery, Dr. Susan Drake, (Ann Turkel) announces that she can make their catch bigger than ever before with the introduction of genetically introduced fish to the environment. Her boss, Hank Slattery, (Vic Morrow) enthusiastically shares her point of view. The next day, several teens in the town disappear. Townsman Jim Hill, (Doug McClure) has had it, and he decides to investigate the occurrences. After news carries of more attacks, Dr. Drake becomes concerned that the creatures responsible for the attacks are the mutated offspring of failed tests her company held earlier. With this bit of knowledge, they head out to stop the creatures from mating with human women for their species to survive.Fun, scary, and even witty little monster flick is a send-up of 50's & 60's monster flicks from Roger Corman, only with more graphic violence and sex. The finale has to be seen to be believed! Unrated for Rape, Nudity, Profanity and Violence. "},{"Title":"Needs a Widescreen DVD release!!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Buena Vista recently bought New Concorde. What does this mean to us....? It means clever little horror gems (and not so clever horror gems or series)like Humanoids From the Deep, Piranha, The Nest, The Terror Within, Sorority House Massacre and Slumber Party Massacre get shelved....Basicaly any film you ever loved that Roger Corman produced or took a hand in!This film although not the greatest slab of celluloid is quite entertaining. Another graceful monsters invading a small town feature where the local authorities take the heroes for a couple of whack jobs. Yes, it is more entertaining and better than it sounds. If you are a fan of the old creature features from the fifties and sixties then this is a film for you. It was made in the great era of the practical special effects wizard and made Fangoria reader's go.....oooh and ahhh! Will this film see the light of day in it's correct aspect ratio? Will it see it again at all? I guess we are left at the merciless hands of Disney... "},{"Title":"Great exploitation movie","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie because it's not pretending to be more than it is.  It's a sleazy exploitation flick and damn proud of it.  Lots of blood, gore, nudity, bad acting, and continuity problems (in one scene a guy has blood all over his shirt; in the very next shot there's hardly any).  And contrary to what you've heard, the rape scenes don't show anything other than a monster on top of a woman for a split second.  Everything else is left to your imagination.  What I liked most about this movie is the nostalgia factor.  They just don't make 'em like this anymore.  Horror movies now days have removed the exploitation element and replaced it with high gloss, pop culture jokes and TV stars who won't take their clothes off.           "},{"Title":"Blood Caviar Anyone!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of Roger Corman's New World 1980 specials chronicling the exploits of a small fishing towns terror. The local fishing is drying up and the people are divided on whether to embrace a soon to be local company promising to litter the ocean with genetically engineerer fish.They succeed alright...they grow some rather grotesque humanoid amphibians they kill our dogs and rape our women. Oh! The joys of salmon.This one is certainly a guilty pleasure and a fun romp with explosions, gore and some flesh to boot. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Amongst endless cliches, a profound revelation!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As near as I can tell this is the first monster movie to make explicit what has been implicit in monster movies from at least as far back as King Kong in 1933... that monsters just want to have sex with human women.  Since this has only been suggested at before, nobody has ever bothered explaining this rather inexplicable behavior, beyond something like beauty killed the beast.  But Humanoids from the Deep explains all (at least for Roger Corman's man-fish critters) and gives a reason for their unusual mating habits... that these creatures are driven to mate with man now in order further develop their incredible evolution.  Alas, if only the 'scientist' who came up with this theory had just pronounced coelacanth correctly she would have had a great deal more credibility in my books.  Still, on the plus side, it is a fine example of it's genre, where lots of nicely done rubber-suit-monsters tear the men up into bloody shreds so they can strip and ravish the women.  If you watch this film expecting anything more... well, why were you?  "},{"Title":"Attack Of The Fish-Rapists!!!","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hadn't seen HUMANOIDS...in years-and when I did, I'm pretty sure I saw a chopped copy-so it was quite the pleasure to revisit this Corman 'classic' in all it's salmon-people rapey goodness...A small town is being plagued by a rack of mutated salmon who look like the creature from the black lagoon on steroids. The monsters have an affinity for killing dogs and raping women with big tits. What more of a plot do you need than that???Honestly-I'm pretty surprised how well this one still holds up. The creature costumes are silly but pretty effective, the gore scenes are solid and actually quite well done for a no- budget B-movie from 1980, and you have fish-people raping a bunch of big-tittied sluts...it really doesn't get much better in terms of sleazy, silly schlock-cinema. Definitely not for all tastes-but for those that want a little more adult-oriented content in their creature-feature films-this one's a must see. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fun creature feature.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hailing from the latter cusp of the Corman hey-day, this turns out to be one of the funner monster movies to come out of his studio.Women begin disappearing in a small fishing community. The local sheriff is stuck on the case until a representative from a shady company (think 'Umbrella Corp') arrives and it is revealed that the company had conducted tests on combining human and amphibious DNA trying to create some kind of super soldier for the government. The creatures have, of course, gotten loose and are trying to procreate with the kid-napped girls. The fish-men must be stopped! All the things that made Corman productions from the 70's and 80's great are intact. Pointless nudity, ample blood and gore, slimy monsters, and a healthy streak of dark humor. Also in place are both a socio-political message (in the form of a racism sub-plot) and an anti government/military theme.Unfortunately, all the major down sides are maintained as well. The effects are cheesy, nuff said about that. Some of the actors are alright, but most of them really need some lessons and the direction, while solid, does nothing unique or inspired.A good horror flick as far as sexploitation flicks go, and not too bad as a monster movie either.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Bottom Feeder for Sure","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this film way, way back in the early 80's as a teenager around 13 or 14. The film had some memorable scenes etched in my mind and, I thought the film was an intense, well-crafted thriller. After reviewing it again, I realized the only scene which really stuck with me was the bizarre tent scene and that makes perfect sense considering my age then. What I DID forget is just how awfully bad a film this one is. I mean it is a stinker! Where to begin...the story is about mutated salmon that are eaten by prehistoric-like fish that quickly evolve into man-sized creature from the black lagoon/alien ripoffs. These monsters are plentiful and have only one goal to capture as many girls in a bikini and have sex on the beach to procreate in order to create more mutant fish people. Fish people having babies with real people despite any biological problems that might arise(no pun intended). Hmm. Next, add Doug McClure, Vic Morrow, and Ann Turkel into the mix. None of them great actors...not bad either when they have some decent direction. Not evident here. Morrow overacts, McClure is over his head when he is the lead, and Turkel is less than mediocre. One scene really showcases her talent. The scene where she is in the lab telling us how much she has fought to bring the news of the superfish out is one of the finest pieces of bad acting I have seen in a long time. It is almost an inspiration for everyone else in the film to do likewise. Director Barbara Peters really seems to set out to be solely exploitative and there is nothing wrong with that if you can do it well or with a point. I mean her producer Roger Corman did it all the time. Here plot, acting, and all those other qualities that make a movie good are secondary(or tertiary) to gore, violence and nudity. Peters does do some things fairly well. The pacing of the first three-fourths of the film is rapid and there are some well-shot scenes of menace. I particularly liked the scene in the water with the naked(of course!) girl and boyfriend playing splash...soon to be victims of the fishman's enormous libido. The last scene...roughly 20 minutes or more is just simply too ridiculous as creature after creature pop out of the boards on a boardwalk and start gutting everyone. OK. I think I would prefer keeping my adolescent opinion of the film intact; the entire film centered around a beautiful, full-figured woman, her man, and a dummy. "},{"Title":"Mutant Alien-esque Monsters Raping Young Women","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this flick at 8 years old, the only scene that gave me the nightmares was the fetus-burster (similar to Species II).  At the time, I didn't want to think about natural childbirth again, until I saw Species II (1998), the fetus-burster reminded me of this classic.  The woman that dies on the operating table at the end of the film should have had an abortion, instead of spraying blood.    In this film, the mutants only know to rip off bikini tops (the mutant fish love naked bOObs, and feel horny), rape young women, and multiply, especially during the rape scenes.  The only scene that might be silly is the scene where the radio DJ is mauled, and the Salmon Queen about to be attacked, and loses her bikini top (too bad that her bOObs weren't silicone-augmented, but she ends up with scars on her chest).  I didn't mind the depiction of the topless scenes (naked bOObs that look like silicone implants), but if anyone wants to see a fetus burster or topless scenes, rent Species II or a Playboy video instead.   "}{"Title":"better left as was","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I originally saw this because I heard that after the principal shooting was done the producers filmed extra footage, the rape and breeding shots (including the shower shot with a body double) and edited them into the movie. I could tell what was inserted and feel that they did not improve the movie one bit. The original would have made a great B movie (lots of blood and gore and mutant monsters) but the breeding subplot really killed it for me. The movie makes a lot more sense once you realize what was originally filmed and what was added for the jiggle factor. I rate this a 7 for the orignal and a 3 for the padded version. "},{"Title":"Something very Fishy is going on in Noyo","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" **SPOILERS** With the town of Noyo suffering from an economic downturn the only hope the residents have is for a fish cannery to be built there by the Canco Corp. There's two major problems facing the citizens of Noyo and that's that the fish haven't been biting for months and the local Native American Indians are against the Canco Cannery being built on their ancient and ancestral homeland. Their now planning to have a class-action suit filed charging Canco of violating their fishing rights that would hold up construction for at least two years.As the fight goes on between the Native Americans led by the determined and energetic Tommy Eagle, Anthony Penya,against the local townspeople let by the hot headed and boorish Hank Slattery, Vic Morrow, another factor in this dispute comes into the mix; the mysterious Humanoids from the deep. The Humnoids make their unwanted appearance in the movie by upending fisherman Deke Jensen's, Hoke Howell, boat and killing him and everyone on board. Out of the water and on dry land Humanoids then go on a rampage in and along the Noyo docks killing every dog, belonging to the fishermen, in sight.With Johnny Eagel's dog being the only canine left alive Slattery accuses Johnny of committing these despicable and vicious killings. Later Johnny finds his dog dead obviously killed by Slattery and his goons. It looks like a major civil war is about to break out in Noyo with Slattery and a couple of his faithful followers about to set Johnny Eagle's home on fire and possibly kill him together with locals Jim Hill and his wife Carol,Doug McClure & Cindy Weintraub. It's then when the Humanoids makes themselves heard and seen by coming out in force from the sea to do their dirty, or fishy, work. We then have this free for all with the Humanoids and Jim's brother Tommy, Breck Costin, coming to Johnny Eagel's pad and ended up killed by the Fish-men. This is another one of those experiment gone wrong with man, or in this case lady doctor Susan Drake (Ann Turkel), attempting to defy nature and create a better and more numerous Salmon population but instead creating a hoard of deadly sea Humanoids. The Fish-men are out to increase their numbers by attacking and raping young women and having them create, by being impregnated, a new race of sea-men that before you know it would conquer the world. Ridicules looking sea monsters who are on the make with the young ladies of Noyo but the young ladies want to make it as fast as they can away from these Humanoids.Looking like their wearing over-sized rubber suits and batches of seaweed wrapped around their bodies the Humanoids seem to go into some kind of funky dance number at the end of the movie. When they all submerge and attack hundreds of people at a local off-shore carnival.Hilarious final with the Humanoids slogging all over the place trying their best to be scary and with the people at this shindig purposely slowing down to make it look like the plodding Humanoids are able to catch up with and kill them. With the Humanoids defeated and driven from Noyo were given the biggest surprise in the movie. The knowledge that even though driven out of town the Humanoids still left their mark on humanity for future generations to suffer through. "},{"Title":"Made this in my home town!I was an extra when I was a kid.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this and had to respond!I was an EXTRA in this movie when I was still in high school. For 2 weeks we filmed down at Noyo Harbor In FORT BRAGG Calif. & at the FOOTLIGHT THEATER. We had a blast! I got my photo taken with Diamond a stunt man, in a monster suit! I made a giant sandwich for HUNT LOWERY, the films producer. It was a party sandwich that we all shared a slice of. I was in the scene where the monsters are attacking the crowd at the carnival. They had set up a real ferris wheel,and had a merrigoround too. This was a really BIG event to happen in our little town!As this scene was at NIGHT..... the crew filmed from 8 P.M. till till 8 A.M. we had to get a slip from school stating that we were extras in the movie, cause we were late for school every day for 2 weeks due to this movie. Another scene I was in was at Foot Light Theater. Where the man brings in his dead dog. It was a cool few days of shooting film there too! the Juge at the time Juge Lehan was in this movie too he is the fiddle player in the band,in the dancing scenes on the dock, & at The theater. I't (the movie) is always a favorite among fort braggians. as there were SO many extras. It is part of this towns heritage!we call it NOIDS OF THE DEEP over here. and even thought it was a B rated movie ~ IT WAS THE FIRST MOVIE I WAS AN EXTRA IN. So it will always have some extra special memories for ME.I understand this was Doug McLures Last movie. As he was in a helicopter crash shortly after this film was made.He passed away from the crash.Cheers, Lisa C. "},{"Title":"Humanoids From The Deep","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This would have been a wonderful B monster movie. It has the cool monsters, the camera moving through kelp, the silly teenagers, and the 'concerned townspeople.' It even has the subplot of the typical oppressed individual wanting to protect his land/house/insert item here. However, a problem would be that at least half way through the flick, we still don't know where they've come from. Not that I care too much, but when it's in the tagline that they are failed experiments, wouldn't you expect to see more of that? Just pointing it out. And, the most grievous problem is that as noted in the 'trivia' section, the producer added more sex scenes because he wanted to make it 'more sexy'. And while, yes, gratuitous nudity is common in these sorts of flicks, the kind they added here is just offensive. The first real sex scene is of one of the monsters raping the woman. I can ignore a lot of things, but this isn't one of them. "},{"Title":"Nothing more than mutant sea monsters raping women and killing people.","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Honestly this is nothing more than mutant sea monster raping women and killing people. The story is pretty much non-existent and the acting is also pretty bad. The characters have no real purpose, and a horrible cliché. I mean what the hell is with the puppet guy and how did he seduce the chic into having sex with him? I guess I could make a summary of what the characters are fighting for though, hmm....Let's see. Well I guess it's based around this small fishing village, where salmon is their main recourse and profit. There are two main groups of fisherman. One of which wants to experiment to make bigger salmon and the other group who is against the idea. There really is no clear good guy in the movie though. In conclusion, The film can bring a few good laughs on just how bad it is if you don't really think about and watch with some friends while having a few good beers.The verdict? A guilty pleasure, so bad it's entertaining and a bit silly. 4/10 "},{"Title":"This certainly ain't Disney!!","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An oceanside town is beset with marauding sea monsters. While this MIGHT sound like a typical schlock horror film from the late 50s or 60s, it's not--and this isn't just because it came out in 1980. This is because the film is VERY bloody and violent and has ample nudity tossed in to boot! And, it turns out the monsters don't just want to kill people--they want to rape all the hot women in town in order to reproduce!! According to IMDb, once the film was completed, the producer wanted MUCH more sex--and the director refused to do this. So, another director was hired to film additional sexy scenes! It certainly won't be mistaken for Beach Blanket Bingo, The Horror of Party Beach or a Disney flick! So is it worth watching? Well, in one way it certainly does. Despite this being a cheapo film, the special effects for the monster attacks are amazing--especially for 1980. The victims look as if they really were attacked by monsters--with heads torn in half and other giant bloody wounds that actually look very realistic. As for the monsters, unfortunately, they are not quite so realistic--and are a bit more like the crappy old monster film sorts of creatures than you might be expecting. It's obvious that they spent money in some places and made some significant cutbacks in others. Also, the acting isn't bad--and the film sports a few B-list actors with significant film credits behind them (Doug McClure and Vic Morrow). As for the rest of the film, it's probably not most folks' cup of tea--and is certainly NOT a film to show grandma or the kids!! These are very, very horny monsters and the movie is a bit like a horror film merged with soft-core porn. Now if you are into this sort of thing, it's reasonably well made but also beware that it is NOT a 'nice' horror film. Certain unwritten rules are clearly violated when the film begins--as a little kid is killed and soon lots of dogs are torn to pieces! Also, the nudity isn't exactly very sexy--so if you are looking for a lot of skin, you should look further. Overall, a semi-competent film that is entertaining in a very low-brow way. Not terrible but not especially good either. "},{"Title":"All Roger Corman Films need the MST3K treatment","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one never got it because it had graphic scenes of nudity and sex in them, for that brief glorious time in the 1970's and 1980's where you could show sex after the Hayes Board went away and the 1990's where the MPAA got rid of it.Roger, of course, went all out, going so far as showing scenes of his monsters raping nubile young women.the plot is that a big company (the villain de jour of 1980's films) has poured a chemical into the sea that turns celocanths into humanoid monsters who just want to get it on. That's really just an excuse for Roger to inflict cheap sex scenes and bad gore on his audience.The characters of this film are all one-dimensional, and you don't really care about them. Also, for some reason, Roger seems to want to include violence against children in this film... not sure what that is about, really... "},{"Title":"Humanoids of the Deep","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fishing village comes under attack by amphibious humanoid monsters who have evolved thanks to scientific experimentation in the size growth of aquatic life.A creature feature taken to the extreme..bloody mayhem and graphic violence are on display. The sleaze quotient is high in that the monsters wish to mate with the female population, ripping their clothes as they sexually molest them in a grim manner. The carnage that ensues in the climactic attack by the monsters on the happy community attending their annual festival is a gorefest. This film is not for the faint of heart, but is a special treat for those who love their films bloody with lots of skin ripping, blood squirting, and the aftermath of poor victims who are torn to shreds. The ending, showing one of the poor girl's who was impregnated, packs a punch.Vic Morrow portrays Hank, an important man in the village who voices loudly his approval of a new cannery coming into the town brining jobs and employment. With fishing becoming a hardship(the running irony is that these monsters are in fact eating the fish)their village needs an economic boost. Anthony Pena portrays Hank's Native American rival Johnny Eagle who wishes for the cannery to stay away from the land of his people. Ann Turkel is Dr. Susan Drake, a scientist who knows about the escaped experimental, evolving aquatic life that are killing, raping & maiming. Doug McClure portrays the film's blue-collar hero, fisherman Jim Hill, whose wife, Carol(the lovely Cindy Weintraub)unfortunately has to face off with two of those things while her hubby is trying to defend his town against those monsters during the festival attack. The monsters, even if rubber-suited, are scary and effective. "},{"Title":"schlock is right leonard maltin","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  neat little horror/exploitation flick about mutated frogs/salmon ?! the monsters are cheap ripoffs of the Alien creatures but were done by EFX genius Rob Bottin, clearly an early effort. lots of jiggly young thangs pop up throughout the flick and the monsters serve as a good excuse to rip off their bikinis. furthermore, there is a small raft of established b-list actors/actresses that make it interesting.  good for late night viewing "},{"Title":"a cool movie","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, being in 1980, this probably was forgotten cause of its small budget, yes its cheesy but its cool. 1980, the yr I was born, the yr THE SHINING scared us, the yr, CADDYSHACK made us laugh, & the yr that Jason from FRIDAY THE 13TH tried 2 scare but the whole franchise turned out 2 be a big long piece of crap. Back 2 the movie, females r being raped or killed by mutants of some kind & must be stopped. It is worth seeing if u r into the good old cheesy B movies. The ending was cool & scary in a way. "}{"Title":"This is an excellent movie...","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Amazing horror movie from Barbara Peeters;brilliantly made and fun to watch.It's scary,it's gory and it has clever conclusion.Strange fish-monsters attack people in the quiet fishing town of Noyo.They kill men and rape women.The gore effects are pretty well-done,the rape scenes aren't graphic and there is a nice amount of female nudity.This film is also very humorous and effective in some places.Check it out  because it's ten times better than many of these modern pseudo-horror atrocities made by Hollywood.Please,don't take this movie seriously-I am sure that you'll like it. "},{"Title":"B Movie classic","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching this movie is like a ride on one of those cheesy scary fair rides. Evil humanoid creatures with really long arms and big brain heads rise from the ocean to wreak havoc on a New England town.  They proceed to graphically rape and rip the tops off many an ample chested actress.  You feel sorry for the actors that had to film ocean scenes, as it appears to be just above freezing temperatures and they clearly don't want to frolic in the seaweedy water.  Still manages to be sort of creepy in that B movie way, but skip if you don't like graphic violence.      "},{"Title":"Fun and gory exploitation stuff!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Humanoids from the Deep is one of my favourite cheesy horror movies from early 80's.This nicely woven tale about some strange fish-monsters,who terrorize a quiet fishing town somewhere in the US,is simply outstanding.The film is fast paced,the special effects are excellent and there's also a rather high amount of gore and violence.Gotta love especially that cool looking creature costumes!The last scene is completely over the top,but it's a rip-off of Alien.Nevertheless,a great sequence!Anyway,if you like gratuitous bloodshed and nudity then this campy masterpiece is a perfect choice for you.Recommended! "},{"Title":"Lustful creatures from the huge salty lake","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Humanoids from the Deep certainly isn't the best cheesy eighties horror film around, but it's a decent little flick with enough entertainment value to warrant it a recommendation to fans of this sort of stuff. I'm guessing the film took some influence from the silly Sergio Martino film 'Island of the Fish Men' released a year earlier. The film was produced by low budget horror guru Roger Corman, but it's certainly a world away from the stuff he did earlier in his career; films such as those delightful Poe adaptations. Even though the film was directed by a woman, there's plenty of misogynistic violence in the film...although it does have to be said that it's difficult to take seriously. The plot follows the consequences of experiments done with DNA. A company has been playing around with frogs and salmon and stuff, and somehow this has lead to the creation of strange human-like amphibian things. This is bad news for the local fishing village; as their quiet existence is about to be threatened by these monsters, who have decided that raping human women is a favourite pastime...The special effects are as cheap as you would imagine they would be considering the penny-pinching producer, but the men in suits do actually look quite eerie and realistic, considering. The idea behind the monster design has clearly come from the classic Universal flick 'Creature from the Black Lagoon', and that immortal monster has been well stolen from. There's not a great of deal invention in this film, as even the explanation of how the monsters came about is underdone and only the idea of the monsters raping the women really shows any inventiveness as a lot of the film simply shows various people fighting the creatures. There is a fair amount of gore on display, which is nice; especially considering that this plot idea would normally have lead to a film more based on monster design than blood and guts. The ending can be seen coming a mile off, although it is strangely and perversely horrifying, thus making it memorable. Overall, this film isn't all that good really; but there's a lot worse films out there and at least Humanoids from the Deep makes for a fun viewing. "},{"Title":"Great 80's exploitation horror film.","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A large canning company wants to open a factory and create new jobs in the small fishing town of Noyo. Hank Slattery (Vic Morrorw) wants the cannery at any cost, even if that means murder. Johnny Eagle (Anthony Penya), is a native Indian who is trying to save his land from ecological devastation by opposing the cannery. Jim Hill (Doug McClure) and his wife Carol (Cindy Weintraub) are for the cannery because it'll be good for the town, and Jim in general is just one hell of a decent guy, you know the sort. Susan Drake (Ann Turkel) is a scientist working for the company, she's been trying to accelerate the growth of the local salmon. Recently the salmon have disappeared from the local waters, and some of the fisherman's dogs have been brutally killed. While messing around in the sea Peggy Larson (Lynn Theel) and Jerry Potter (Meegan King) are attacked by amphibious mutant reptilian monsters. Jerry has his face torn off while Peggy is dragged away, stripped and raped by one of the monsters. After raping another woman on a beach and killing her boyfriend the monsters attack Johnny just after his house is blown to pieces by Hank. Jim's brother Tommy (Breck Costin) and his girlfriend Linda (Denise Galik) are with him. Linda drives off in a pick-up truck to find help and is attacked and forced off a bridge by a couple of the monsters, her truck blows up, Linda is cooked. Back at Johnny's leveled house he saves Tommy from a couple of the monsters. Since it's his brother Jim seems to take charge. Susan decides to be honest with Jim and Johnny and tells them that they have created a serum called DNA-5, and this causes salmon to develop into an adult much quicker. She then confesses that three thousand of these genetically altered salmon escaped into the sea, and that a land capable fish like a coelacanth might have eaten the salmon and evolved generations in a matter of days or weeks. They speculate that they see man as a potential threat and they are raping girls to further their 'incredible evolution'. They must warn the town who are currently enjoying the 'salmon festival' taking place that night, that is until the mutant fish monsters turn up and start to kill and rape everyone in sight. Directed by Barbara Peters this is classic exploitation. The monsters designed and created by Rob Bottin look a bit dodgy when the camera stays on them for too long, but I'd rather have a guy in a rubber suit than CGI. Make up effects are good as well, but there isn't much blood or gore, a few bullet wounds, a ripped off head, some blood spurting slashed opened wounds and the gross looking ending scene. The monster rapes are a little distasteful, but highly memorable. The script credited to Frank Arnold, Martin Cohen and Frederick James has it's problems like the ending which feels rushed, almost unfinished. But is quite pacey and keeps things moving along nicely. Generally well made and should provide some entertainment for horror and exploitation fans like myself. It's short at just over 70 minutes and is certainly worth a watch, I'll recommend it. "},{"Title":"I expected it to be stupid..","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  and I thought there'd be some humor to its stupidity. I guess I got what I expected, not much more. Wouldn't watch it again, don't recommend it to anyone to watch for any reason. Only reason I watched is because my Guide said 'killer salmon' and I couldn't pass that up! 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I was a bit disappointed in this film","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a bit disappointed in this film. Based on some of the amazon reviews I read, and Roger Corman's stellar reputation I thought that I would be seeing the creepiest, grossest most graphic `amphibious monsters killing the men and mating with the women' type movie imaginable. I had a few problems with this film. First of all the whole sub-plot of the conflict between the Indian who wants to preserve the river and the redneck fishermen who want the cannery to be built was completely unnecessary and boring. C'mon, you have salmons mutating into humans and terrorizing a town, isn't that enough? The other problem is that you have a director who gives the whole thing a made for TV look, with absolutely no atmosphere. What you wind up with is a good premise that was ruined with poor execution.There are some fairly graphic rape scenes between the monsters and the women, although they really just consist of a guy in a fish suit laying on a naked woman as she struggles and screams. What they could have done to make it grosser is have these mutant salmon-men with their ugly fish faces French-kissing the women, or, if they wanted to add a more perverted twist, show the women as enjoying having sex with the mutant fish-men. Anyhow they really could of made much more of that aspect of the film then they did.The other area for improvement in my opinion, would have been if all the fish-men were about four feet tall like the one shown in the finally. There was something really viscous  and scary about that one as opposed to the man size creatures.  "},{"Title":"Sick exploitation fodder","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Imagine my excitement having searched for this notorious exploitation item for years, I finally track it down whilst on vacation in San Francisco. I spend the rest of the vacation itching to get home to watch it. Then, when I finally get home I discover myself lumbered with possibly the worst, and easily the sickest of all the many JAWS rip offs that have ever been made. Even on an unintentionally funny level, it doesn't work. Rape and wanton carnage are not amusing matters.The wafer thin plot is about some over sized fish monsters that rise from the ocean deep and bring mayhem to a West Coast fishing community. According to the scientist in the film (a miscast Ann Turkel who pronounces most of the scientific language incorrectly) they are evolving rapidly and need to mate with human women in order to take the next step in their evolutionary process. This is the excuse for some graphic rape sequences, involving naked women being mounted and abused by men in rubber suits. At the end, the monsters attack a seaside carnival, and seem to mysteriously forget their desire to rape and just start ripping off arms and legs and heads of anyone they can find, regardless of gender. The blood spurts out all over the place, but is totally the wrong shade of red to be convincing (it looks more like spare paint from London double decker buses!)There is a sense of humour to this film, which prevents it from becoming too offensive, but isn't obvious enough to make it a fun experience. The acting is pretty bad, but I suppose if you're going to watch a Doug McClure film you expect that before it's even begun. The logic of the film is left generally untouched.... indeed it is hard to figure out how anyone could make such idiocy logical. This is a bad film and I'm saying that from the point of view of someone who was eager to see it. If you're just watching it because it's a rainy day and it's something you taped out of general curiosity, you'll probably enjoy it even less than me. Seriously don't bother! "},{"Title":"This isn't camp--this is DISGUSTING!!!!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A small seaside town is having trouble--the people want to open a cannery there but the Indians own the land and are opposed to it. That's the basic plot--the subplot has these vicious, stupid-looking monsters suddenly appearing and attacking and raping women. Couldn't have anything to do with that fast-acting DNA a cannery scientist accidentally released into the water--could it? And wouldn't you know it--those monsters decide to stage a full-out attack just as the town is having a salmon festival!I'm making this movie sound more fun than it is. It does have its campy moments--most of the acting is terrible (Vic Morrow and Doug McClure are just in it for the money); the scientist is (of course) a talentless but beautiful, big-breasted blond (Ann Turkel); there are numerous pointless explosions; gratuitous nudity and a REAL dumb script. This is fun but it was all ruined for me by the rape aspect of this picture. There are two sequences we we see screaming nude women being dragged off and raped (it's SHOWN) by these disgusting monsters. This isn't funny or horrifying--just sick. When they attack the festival there are at least eight shots of the creatures attacking women (their fate is never shown). For me I just gave up on the movie when they go after a girl no more than 13! She's saved BTW.I was lucky enough to hear Roger Corman (who produced this movie) talk a few years ago. He discussed this movie and said he had problems with director Barbara Peeters. She shot GRAPHIC scenes of men being killed...but next to nothing of women. Corman asked her why she did that...she said she was trying to make a point (!!!???!!!). He said he went in and fixed it and shot the rape scenes. So he's to blame for this. Peeters and Turkel have gone on record publicly denouncing Corman for adding those scenes. Can't say I disagree with them.That aside this movie is fast-moving, never really dull and has TONS of blood and violence--the best sequence has Cindy Weintraub defending herself and her child against the creatures. And there's a great (if admittedly disgusting) ending.But I can't recommend this at all. The rapes were totally unnecessary and disturbing to watch. "},{"Title":"A truly bad monster film.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Or Horny Fish-Men From the Deep. A very silly monster film, about twenty years BEHIND its time. What can you say about a film that drew its inspiration from such silly crap as Creature From the Black Lagoon and Horror At Party Beach. About as scary as a five year-old wearing a vampire mouth-piece. Quite stupid, too. Dogs get butchered, people disappear, a boat blows up - and yet nothing seems to wake up this small (and probably quite jaded) fishing community. Only when bodies start appearing all over the place do brains start activating Hey...! There's something fishy here!. And even then they conclude that it was probably just the fish. Some very stupid dialog. The creatures are your typical zombie-like amphibian fish-people, with the difference that they like to rape women; the idea that mutated fish have the urge to mate with human females is just too much - even for a dumb horror film. The absurd set of coincidental circumstances that lead to the (first) boat's explosion are an early indication of the dumb things to follow. The last scene is a shameless 11 rip-off of the (in)famous belly-burst scene from Alien. "}{"Title":"Awful movie....... What a waste!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  bottom-of-the-barrel horror movie about mutant fish monsters that attack a small fishing community.  Pretty low-grade stuff, witch surprised me, since The creatures were made by Rob Bottin, who usually does a excellent job (He made superb monsters for John Carpenter's THE THING (1982), as well as several other films.) and even he did a bad job on this. This movie is Bad beyond words, to say the least. "},{"Title":"A great B flick, with Sea Monsters impregnating hot chicks!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has some scary, funny, and naked chick moments.  Doug McClure gives a great performance with his limited ability (no offense Doug).  The sea monsters, also known as humanoids, are guys in cheap costumes like the Godzilla movies.  This film is not really graphic.  If you can stand some blood and some guy in a sea monster suit pretending to hump a lifeless naked female for a second, then this is your film.  I encourage all fans of eighties B movies to watch this one.  Overall I give the film a 4/10 fair rating.  The acting and plot get lame sometimes, but it is still fun. "},{"Title":"This ain't what it's supposed to be!","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hello, Last Resort here. Let me tell you about a bad horror-science fiction movie that just isn't what it's supposed to be.There is trouble in Noyo (wherever that is) and women are in panic, for aliens have arrived. You see, they have arrived from the deep to mate with women, not to kill them. So to see someone kill someone, we hired Mr. Burt Bacharach! I was hit...in the rear! Lizard licks his eyeballs! Never get hit...in the REAR! In order to kill, you have to see Selene in Underworld.Uh, hello?! Selene kills werewolves, not humans! Oh, sorry.Selene is flying down to unite her tribe. Eric the Cavalier is the master scribe. Hank the Ranger is the leader, you see. And you won't get out the county 'cuz you're damn ass free! Love from the Underworld. Love is free. And you won't get out the county 'cuz you're damn ass free! "}]