[{"Title":"A Plot for Warriors of Any Epoch","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"65 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" After first encountering Breaker Morant during a bout of insomnia in 1984 on cable, I have repeatedly come back to this film as one of my all-time classics--covering war, politics, tactics, transitions to manhood involved in all wars--and injustice.Although set during the Boer War, the account of three officers tried for murder during a war in which the opponents were dressed as civilians has its obvious parallels to the 21st Century. It is absolutely amazing how similar a court marshal can be out on the velt of South Africa, in Washington, D.C., or during a purely uniformed war in which all protagonists are easily identifiable.Three Australian volunteers for the Bushvelt Carbineers, recruited to fight against civilian-clad commandos (reportedly the first use of the term), find themselves charged with murder, and set as an example by the British in order to prevent Germany from entering the war on the side of the Boer (Dutch) inhabitants of South Africa. In one incredulous encounter between a British officer and Lord Kitchener, the officer spouts the British line they lack our altruism (referring to German interests in the gold and silver mines of South Africa), to which Lord Kitchener grudgingly responds, Quite. A sham trial from start to finish, the Australians are defended by military attorney with experience in land conveyancing and wills to which one of those charged, the latter might come in handy. The film is replete with irony and tragicomic circumstances, as this new war for a new century presages many of the conflicts that would come later in the 20th century, and many of the clear paradoxes and trying aspects of the war against terror--again, in which one side is not uniformed, does not conduct war according to any known rules of civilized warfare (an oxymoron if ever there was one). It has lost none of its cutting edge in the 25-odd years since its release. "},{"Title":"Magnificent, thought-provoking (albeit depressing) courtroom drama","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"59 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  'Breaker' Morant is based on true events, and deals with the court-martial of three subalterns during the closing stages of the Second Boer War (1899-1902). The officers are members of a mostly Australian unit called the Bushveldt Carbineers, created to fight the Boer commandos (in the original sense of the word) by employing their own tactics against them. The charges against them are that they committed murder by summarily executing captured Boers. That they have done so in not in question, but in their defence they argue that they were acting in accordance with standing orders, not least because the operational nature of the Carbineers would be hampered by having to keep prisoners under guard. The British command is keen to distance itself from this claim for various reasons; it might galvanise Boer resistance, and give Germany an excuse to provide material support to the Boers (thus extending a war which was already a serious drain on the British Empire's resources), and (though this is left unsaid in the film) cause discontent about the conduct of the war in those parts of the Empire supplying the manpower for the war, i.e. Britain, Australia and Canada. Instead, the British command clearly wishes to portray the three protagonists as rogue elements and sacrifice them for the sake of political expediency.'Breaker' Morant is about injustice, hypocrisy and incomprehension. The injustice is not that lieutenants Morant, Hancock and Witton are innocent of the charges brought against them--they're not. The Second Convention of The Hague may have been only two years old at the time, but the custom of not killing prisoners was well-established long before, and at no point do we see any of the protagonists object to the standing orders. The injustice lies in the fact that the body which is trying them for their crimes--the British army--is the very body which ordered them to commit these crimes in the first place.The incomprehension is that of the home front; in a brief flashback of Witton's relatives giving a going-away party, we see the expectation among the civilians that our boys will knock 'em for six but behave like gentlemen while doing so. Brief as the scene is, it is plain that the civilians understand only in the most abstract way, if they understand at all, that war is a messy business in which winning requires killing people in unpleasant ways. As Major Thomas, the protagonists' defence counsel, comments, The barbarities of war are seldom committed by abnormal men. The tragedy of war is that these horrors are committed by normal men in abnormal situations. While I can agree with this observation, it does not alter the fact that the acts committed by the protagonists were of such a nature as to be have been formally outlawed, even within the context of war, two years previously.Another trope, which occurs in this film but repeated in every war of the 20th century, is that only a combat soldier can judge another combat soldier. As it happens, I am a former soldier (who never saw combat) who later helped prosecute war criminals while a civilian; I think this line is unadulterated bullsh*t. That said, this opinion comes with a caveat, which is that those civilians and non-combat soldiers who would pass judgement should understand that expecting soldiers to both fight cleanly and to win may be (and often are) mutually exclusive.Of course, standards have changed somewhat since 1901; when Morant remarks it's a new kind of war, George; it's a new war for a new century, the difference he indicates is that it is the first time white men visit atrocities upon each other which both had been quite content to inflict upon non-whites for most of the previous century. At one point in the film, Lt. Hancock pulls a dum-dum round from a Boer's ammunition pouch as an indication of the Boers' disregard for the laws of war. However, a (somewhat apocryphal) story from the opening stages of the Boer War (not in the film) tells of how the Boers lodged a protest with the British after finding dum-dum rounds in a killed British soldier's ammunition pouch; the British reportedly apologised profusely, explaining that the soldier had been issued these rounds in error, as these were intended only for use against blacks. The Boers accepted this explanation without further complaint.But however you may feel about the politics underlying this film, it is a joy to watch. The quality of the production values is top notch, and had I not been familiar with Edward Woodward and Bryan Brown, I could have believed this film was made this year, rather than in 1980. The directing and acting are also superb. At the heart of this is the script, which carried no dead weight of unnecessary scenes; likely, this is due to the fact that it was originally written (and written well) for the stage. The story might easily be transposed to any number of conflicts since the Second Boer War in which military victory demands taking nasty measures; it could easily be rewritten to Iraq in 2003 (Well, Peter, this is what comes of empire-building.), and for that reason it deserves more recognition than it's received. Magnificent; see it ASAP. "},{"Title":"Superb wartime courtroom drama","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"46 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)The question raised in this film is the same as that raised in the Nuremberg trials following World War II and at the trial of Lt. William Calley during the Vietnam War, namely should a soldier be punished for following orders?The answer to that question depends not only on what the orders were--that is, were they legitimate orders consistent with the rules of war--but also on who is asking the question and why they are asking it. After WWII the Allies asked the question and the reason they asked it was because so many people were horrified by Nazi atrocities and wanted someone to punish. If the Axis powers had somehow won the war they might have tried US President Harry S Truman and others for the atomic bombings of the Japanese cities, or indeed for the fire bombings of Dresden. In Vietnam we asked the question of ourselves during the war because our government and military were being accused both at home and abroad of waging a unjustified war and going against our own value system.Here the story goes back to the Boer War a hundred years ago in South Africa, as the British command for political reasons puts Lt. Breaker Morant, an Australian soldier fighting with the British forces, and two of his fellow Bushveldt Carbineers on trial for shooting Boer prisoners. Their defense is the same as the Nazi soldiers and that of Lt. Calley they were just following orders.The superb direction by Bruce Beresford (from the play by Kenneth Ross) makes us identify with Morant (Edward Woodward), Lt. Peter Handcock (Bryan Brown) and the third soldier because we can see that the horrors of war pervert the usual logic of right and wrong so completely that we can appreciate what drove them to do what they did. Jack Thompson, playing defense attorney Major J. F. Thomas, expresses this when he tells the court that war changes us and that therefore the usual rules of conduct no longer apply. Incidentally this film is based on actual events.Regardless of which side of this very vexing question you come down on, I can promise you will enjoy this outstanding film, winner of 10 Australian Film Institute Awards. In the annuals of war films and courtroom dramas this ranks with the best of them. "},{"Title":"A great movie that shows the real face of war.","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This movie shows what a truly hellish thing war can be.  Where no rule but rule `3-0-3' exists.  A lot of films show war in one slant or another, glorious or horrific.  This one just shows it for what it is.  A damned horrible mess.  Many of the actors are some of Australia's finest and this movie is a credit to their skill and talent.   It has simple production values but it is elevated by their acting abilities and the great script. A definite must for those who favor the war genre in films, and a measuring point for those who seek to make a film about war and the people caught up in it. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A war/courtroom drama on a par with The Caine Mutiny. Well written, acted and photographed without a single superfluous scene or conversation.I have watched it several times and it has always held my complete attention and has never failed to evoke pity and sympathy for the common soldier. "},{"Title":"A powerful movie, compelling story, beautifully acted","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Breaker Morant is a powerful indictment of colonialism and the extremes to which a government will go to cover its rear end. The characters are brilliantly portrayed, the movie is superbly filmed and the story of the Aussie military unit is a compelling one. The relationships among the soldiers are especially well-presented, and the trial that constitutes the center of the film is not only absorbing but chilling. There are echoes of America's experience in Vietnam, and of the shortcomings of empires other than the British as shown here. In short, it's riveting and well-paced. And the ending, although foreshadowed, isn't given away. It has lessons for our modern world. It's one of my top 10 movies. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Drama About Military Morality","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" We don't see very many films or dramas on the history channel here in Britain . I know the American version shows them because American reviewers have mentioned this on this very website , but I'm not very keen on this happening over here because before you know it we might be seeing THE GREEN BERETS , BRAVEHEART and WE WERE SOLDIERS appearing on the channel , poor movies and poor history to boot in my opinion . At the weekend we were treated to BREAKER MORANT . As I said I'm not keen on the history channel transmitting feature films but I'll forgive them this time because it's a very good movie and very good history .BREAKER MORANT is the dramatisation of a real life incident during the Boer war , the first  dirty war  of the 20th century , where three Australian officers Harry Morant , John Handcock and George Witton are on trial for their lives for the murder of boer POWs and of a German missionary . What I love about this film is that unlike a lot of other movies with an anti-war / anti- military injustice agenda is that it shows the difficult situations soldiers will always find themselves in . The men on trial are victims , victims of politics and of a wider picture . With the killing of the missionary Germany wants to intervene in the conflict on the side of the boers , not to protect the noble South African farmers from British aggression but to get their hands on the region's gold and diamond mines . In order to stop this happening the British government needs scapegoats in order to hang and Morant , Witton and Handcock were to be hung out to dry so it's the politicians of the time who are to blame for this miscarriage of justice , not the military , and it'd be interesting to note what people who campaign for pardons for the British soldiers shot for  cowardice  during the first world war make of this tale . The three characters on trial here are victims of a grave injustice but you can't help feeling because they  were only obeying orders  sympathy for them will be in short supply from a modern day perspective . I'm probably correct in saying that anyone who's served in the military can see far more clearly the injustice done than any of the  professional anti-war brigade  . BREAKER MORANT isn't a movie than can be used for anyone's hidden agenda , and for that we should be gratefulIt's fairly obvious BREAKER MORANT is based upon a stage play . The central setting is a military court room with much of the story told in flashback . Director Bruce Beresford handles the action scenes very well but in this type of story the most important aspect is the cast and their acting , and the director gets the best out of his cast especially Edward Woodward ( Normally an actor I don't like ) who gives a career best performance and Jack Thompson . My only criticism of the casting is that a couple of actors playing British characters let their Aussie accents slip a little , but I'm nitpicking .Just to sum up this is a very intelligent story of a dirty war , dirty politics and dirty justice which will appeal to serious historians and former servicemen rather than professional pacifists "},{"Title":"A truly pleasant surprise","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  It's one of the most delightful experiences to watch a movie you know completely nothing about and it turns out to be one of the best surprises in a long time. This was the case with Breaker' Morant. I dont even know why I bothered to watch it, since it sounded like a truly boring Australian war movie, but boy was I wrong and consequently glad I DID bother. Some of the acting and the script are truly Oscar-worthy and the  photography and camera movements were truly outstanding on many occasions, taking the whole movie onto another level of experience. And not to forget, the poetry recited through the movie is brilliant. I wonder if it truly got published.    8/10 "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Truly great drama based on a real story.  The camerawork is simple & not flashy, allowing the great script & magnificent ensemble cast to shine. There isn't one weak acting performance in this film, the standouts being Jack Thompson (in my opinion, his best ever performance)& Woodward in the role of Breaker Morant.  Gripping drama that has aged well over 23 years. A must see 9/10. "},{"Title":"Powerful war movie","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" When I watched this finely acted movie, I wasn't really too knowledgeable about the Boer War so I didn't know how historically accurate the film was. However, from reading the posts, it seems more knowledgeable posters then myself agree that the filmmakers were very authentic in their endeavors. Most pertinently, even though the story is about the General Staff scapgoating the three Australian lieutenants to cover their own practice of ordering Boer prisoners shot, in a war obviously long since concluded, its relevance is timeless and universal as soldiers in all times and places are asked to do things that conflict with their consciences. Breaker Morant shows this very powerfully. 9/10. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece of thought provoking cinema.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  ****May contain Spoilers****This small Australian film is a slow burning classic, and deserves to be seen by many more people.Every aspect of the film is handled perfectly; stirling performances, excellent set design, and superb direction that contrasts the measured response of the courtroom to the difficulty of acting honourably in battle. The stresses put upon the soldiers in the field are conveyed superbly, particularly, when set against the sterility of the court scenes.What makes this such a magnificent film is not merely portrayal of the injustice meted out to the defendants, but the fact that everyone in the film is depicted as doing the best they can under different moral systems. Despite the obvious wrong done to the three Australian soldiers, with whom the films loyalties clearly lie, the prosecutors are not portrayed as out and out monsters.Even Kitchener, who essentially orders the sacrifice of the soldiers as a political move, is acting from a utilitarian standpoint. God damn it Johnny, I am not trying to prove some academic point here, I am just trying to find an end to this useless warFor me the most poignant character is the judge, who has to make the casting vote. The final decision rests on his shoulders, despite the fact he sides with the authorities, the guilt and sadness when delivering the verdict are clear to see. For a film which is about a travesty of justice to do this is admirable. In Breaker Morant, as in war, it seems not everything is black and white.The great problem with films such as this, is that they tend to become fact. Having read up on the background to this film, which in itself is a testament to it's power, it is pleasing to see that not only is this a truly great war film, but also no real liberties were taken with the facts.Even the final summary by Major Thomas is by and large unaltered from the original transcripts, and never has a more articulate sentiment been expressed in a war film.If you haven't seen this, see it, you owe it to yourself.  "},{"Title":"War Inside a Courtroom","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" 'Breaker' Morant is one of the finest movies I've seen in a while. Set at the beginning of the 20th century, it takes the viewer to the war between the British Empire and the Bower population in South Africa, a war that was mostly about land possession.The Bower War wasn't a conventional war. It wasn't fought between gentleman officers with rules of conduct. It was a guerrilla, hit-and-run war where the British enemies were farmers. This type of war was so unusual the British had to create a special corps to fight in it the Bushveldt Carbineers, men who fought behind enemy lines and sometimes used unusual methods to deal with the enemy.In this movie, three soldiers are court-martialed for killing prisoners. However the court's intention is not to serve justice. In fact the three soldiers are scapegoats for being charged with killing a German missionary, the authorities hope that with a conviction they'll appease the German government, which is favorable to the Bowers. Furthermore, by serving justice, the British want to make a good impression at a future peace conference. In other words, the soldiers are nothing means to political ends.The court is a farce and the authorities expect a quick conviction. They've rigged everything witnesses in favor of the defendants have been sent to India, and an amateur lawyer is found to defend them. What they didn't expect is that the lawyer would give such a fine defense and slowly he dismantles the impartiality of the court to reveal the farce underneath it.The cast is very strong. There are many faces here that anyone can recognize from small roles in forgettable movies Brian Brown (Cocktail), Jack Thompson (Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil) &#x96; and more famous faces like Edward Woodward (The Wicker Man). And they're all impressive. I especially loved Thompson's performance as the defense lawyer, a man who initially appears silly but quickly reveals to have a sharp mind capable of dissecting all the lies and contradictions in the prosecution's arguments. Woodward was also unforgettable as Harry 'Breaker' Morant, a poet turned soldier who slowly loses his mankind during war, especially after his friend is brutally executed by the Bowers. More than anyone in the movie, he understands the new type of war being fought and changes his tactics accordingly.And then there's the screenplay, the amazing screenplay, one of the most intelligent and witty screenplays I've ever seen in a movie. Just about every line is perfect in the movie's context, the pacing is exciting, and the non-linear storytelling for once makes the movie more interesting. Each line helps give each character complexity, while also remaining very funny. This is a funny, entertaining movie, in a sort of gallows humor way. But it's also rife with interesting points about the nature of war, the politics of war and the sacrifices in the construction of an empire.Although war is practically absent from this movie, 'Breaker' Morant, in the guise of a courtroom drama, manages to speak more about war than many movies combined. "},{"Title":"Finally A Historical film that Treats the Boer Fairly","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" If you believe like I do, that war is utterly futile, then you should view Breaker Morant. There is no better film that captures that essence. Even after 10 viewings, this film still captivates my complete attention.And there are many reasons. Just to list a few the plot is riveting, the actors are superbly cast in their disparate roles and the natural backdrop and scenery are simply stunning. Amidst all of that lies the core attraction of this film courtroom drama. Even The Bard would have had much difficulty replicating such suspense, emotion and linguistic eloquence in a play. Speaking of suspense, during the military court-martial, each and every utterance from the main players had my full and complete attention.Not many, if any one film of a similar genre has ever done that before.If there is one weakness though, the film is Aussie biased; so much so, that I got the impression the directors/producers blamed Britain solely for the execution of two of their native sons. Yes, the 'Thin Red Line' was culpable for committing atrocities against the Boers (concentration camps in Northern Transvaal) but were the British the lone culprits?Now, hold on a New York minute! It's true that Lord Kitchener sought a quick way to extricate himself (and the Brits) from this 'dirty' war. And it's implicit in the film that, Morant and at least one of his two lieutenants were expendable BUT it's also clear that two of the Aussie colonial volunteer soldiers did commit murder the German pastor. And the soldiers were even unabashed about the events leading up to the heinous deed during the court martial. In the dock, they all admitted their 'hate' for the German pastor's partisan stand. Their words...He helped the Boer cause, solely. And we warned him about the consequences, many times.And justice was served; the fact that it came by a British military court martial is moot. As soldiers, those Aussies knew the penalty. And the one (George) who was spared execution, probably knows now or should have known then, that he was only 'pardoned' because of his young age. Although, judging by the film's plot, his 'role' in the atrocities was deemed negligible even by the prosecution. The judges though didn't exactly state a compelling case for his innocence either.Not convinced? Watch this film and 'judge' for yourself... "},{"Title":"The world? I've seen it","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Reviewers have compared Breaker Morant with Paths of Glory, The Caine Mutiny and A Few Good Men, all involving courts martial. Suppressing my dislike of Kubrick, ignoring the naval jingoism spliced into The Caine Mutiny, and erasing the last 5 minutes of A Few Good Men, these weren't bad films. They were interesting, well-performed, raised provocative issues and all that. Breaker Morant, however, is everything those three are not. It's not in a different league, it's in a different dimension, stratospheric. It is real, as Woodward points out in his interview. It's visceral, gritty, organic, flawless. There's no Hollywood gloss, no pandering to the public, or vested interests. The other three movies are mechanical artefacts; you can see the machinery. Morant is dramatic art, at the topmost level. The editing is superb, the variation in scene after scene, close-ups, long-shots, is utterly masterful. Again, the dialogue, the sardonic humour, the tragedy, the irony, are all real. These men are rough and ready, in crumpled uniforms, truly in the field, on active service. There's no staging &#x96;-- well, there is, of course, it's a film --- but it just feels dead right, every time. It's not fancy. I'm reminded of what my boot camp drill sergeant told me, in 1956. This was a man who'd been busted two or three times, and who'd seen WWII in a British tank regiment, in the desert from Tobruk to Alamein. He told the rookie squad that the finest bunch of men he'd ever known were the Ozzies, and I've never forgotten that verdict. Anyone who gives this fabulous masterpiece less than ten stars needs his/her head examined. "},{"Title":"War Where There Ain't No Rules","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Edward Woodward, better known to American audiences as the Equalizer, plays the title role in this military courtroom drama set during the Boer War. Woodward who had a well known reputation as a rollicking writer of the Australian frontier was one of three men charged with murdering several prisoners during the Boer War, one of them happened to be a German missionary. That got Kaiser Wilhelm's back up and the British were not looking for intervention from him on the Boer side. One must remember that the Germans did have a presence in Africa at the time. The diplomatic situation was not unlike the Korean War before the Chinese intervened.What to do, but find someone to take the fall. Certainly not Lord Kitchener the commander of British forces in South Africa who let it be known quite unofficially and not on paper for attribution that he really wouldn't care if Boer Prisoners were shot. Edward Woodward, Bryan Brown and young Lewis Fitzgerald, get selected for a court martial. This is not unlike the more famous incident in the French Army during World War I as depicted in Paths of Glory.The Australians to this day feel that these men were singled out because they were Australians and not British. Wouldn't do to have His Majesty's subjects, let alone the commander be held responsible. While the Boer War was going on, the various colonies on the Australian continent coalesced and formed a nation. Why the Australian government didn't protest more vigorously is something I'm not quite understanding.That however does not detract from Breaker Morant being the fine film it is with sterling performances all around. Jack Thompson is the defense attorney in this court martial and does a splendid job in the face of a stacked deck.Alan Cassell is a bloodless Kitchener covering his own rear at all costs and Vincent Ball plays Sir Ian Hamilton who was Kitchener's aide at the time. Australia would meet these two later on under far worse circumstances as Kitchener was War Minister in the Asquith cabinet during World War I and Ian Hamilton was the commander-in-chief of the Gallipoli Expedition where so many ANZACS died in another foreign battlefield for another cause not really their concern. Hamilton is shown as quite the rat here, helping to cover his boss's complicity.I recommend Breaker Morant mostly for those who are not Australian so they can acquaint themselves with a sad and bitter chapter in that nation's life. "},{"Title":"It's a new war for a new century.","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I'll admit that my knowledge of Australian cinema is still regretfully limited, but the fact remains that I rarely have the opportunity to use the word masterpiece in reference to a local film. Fortunately, 'Breaker Morant' is a happy exception, a perfectly-plotted, impeccably-acted war drama that treads a similar path to Stanley Kubrick's 'Paths of Glory (1957),' but undeniably leaves its mark as a work of pure Australian film-making. The film is based upon a true story, of the murder trial and execution of Australian soldiers during the Boer War (1899-1902). The screenplay, written by Jonathan Hardy, David Stevens and Bruce Beresford, was adapted from Kenneth G. Ross' 1978 play, Breaker Morant A Play in Two Acts a popular misconception is that the film was derived from Kit Denton's 1973 book, The Breaker, and Ross was forced to take legal action to successfully prove otherwise.'Breaker Morant' is certainly one of the most gripping courtroom dramas I've ever come across, a perfectly-balanced assembly of probing cross-examinations, impassioned monologues and legal injustice. Much of the story unfolds in flashbacks throughout the course of the trial, slowly allowing the pieces of the murder puzzle to fall into place. During the Second Boer War, three Australian soldiers, officers of the Bushveldt Carbineers a multinational mounted infantry regiment of the British Army, of which about 40% were Australian were accused of the murder of seven Boer prisoners-of-war, as well as the sniper-style assassination of a German missionary. Lt. Harry Breaker Morant (Edward Woodward), Peter Handcock (Bryan Brown) and George Witton (Lewis Fitz-Gerald) were brought to trial by the British Army for their alleged crimes, found guilty of murder, and both Morant and Handcock were promptly executed. An inexperienced small-town solicitor, Major J.F. Thomas (Jack Thompson), mounts the most formidable defence he can manage, yet the panel's verdict being led by Charles 'Bud' Tingwell seems to have been decided from the very beginning.Australians have a peculiar habit of glorifying historical criminals, the bushranger Ned Kelly (1955-1880) being the most pertinent example. Since his execution, the Anglo-Australian Harry Breaker Morant has also become something of a minor folk hero, his death representative of the resentment that many have for the British over their maltreatment of Australian soldiers Peter Weir's celebrate war film, 'Gallipoli (1981)' also exhibited this general theme. Indeed, the film firmly places its sympathies with the accused soldiers, even after they secretly acknowledge their participation in the seemingly-barbaric crimes. In the soldiers' defence, Maj. Thomas proposes various arguments that the men were merely following their orders, and that these murders were committed by normal men in abnormal situations. Surely, with all the death and acts of barbarism constantly taking place around these men, their actions cannot be judged as they might in a normal, everyday situations. Lt. George Witton, who was pardoned after serving a three-year sentence, later published his controversial account of the trial, Scapegoats of the Empire, which is now considered the most reliable report of the actual proceedings.There's no denying that 'Breaker Morant' has the relatable atmosphere that only an Australian director and largely Australian cast can produce, and every actor involved brings passion and authenticity to their roles (arguably, British actor Edward Woodward gives the film's finest performance as the titular character). The film, like most wartime pictures produced in our country, celebrates the importance of mateship and comradery between everyday Aussie blokes, whether they be fighting the enemy, fighting betrayal from their own superiors (And a man's foe shall be they of his own household) or dying together, steadfast and courageous to the last (Shoot straight, you bastards - don't make a mess of it!). 'Breaker Morant' cleansweeped the 1980 AFI awards, claiming a phenomenal ten wins from thirteen nominations. It was also nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay at the 1981 Academy Awards. Certainly one of the most rousing motion pictures that the Australian film industry has ever produced, 'Breaker Morant' is also one of the finest war films you're likely to see anywhere. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever, but could have been even better","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I've seen this movie at least 20 times and know every line before it is spoken. It is safe to say that it an all time favorite for me. The movie, based on a historical event, is strengthened a great deal by the quality of the cast. It's difficult to find many movies with a lineup from a talent standpoint at the top that bests Edward Woodward, Jack Thompson and Bryan Brown. The script is very well written and acted out, but as with many movies based on an actual event, they choose for whatever reason to not be totally historically accurate. That is, if Kit Denton's book about Morant, The Breaker is correct. In the movie, three Australian soldiers are court marshaled for murdering Boer prisoners and a German missionary. In Denton's book, he lists 4 soldiers as court marshaled for those alleged crimes as well as killing a Boer child. In the movie, they are acquitted of killing the missionary, but found guilty of murdering the prisoners, for which Morant and Handcock are executed and Witten sentenced to penal servitude for life. In Denton's book, they are acquitted for executing the prisoners and the child, and found guilty of killing the missionary, for which Morant and Handcock are executed and Witton sentenced to life in prison and Lt Ivor Compton Summers, cashiered. The Boer prisoner Visser was executed by a quickly formed firing squad in the movie. According to Denton's book, Morant shot Visser himself, after giving him a rifle and telling him to shoot, God damn you to hell. As the simple minded Visser held out the rifle to return it, Morant stepped toward him and shot him in the face. The movie was never based on Denton's book, although it was said to be by the book's publisher at the time. It was based on a stage play by Kenneth Ross. I believe Denton is most historically correct, after reading his book, when it comes to the parts related to the events the movie is based on. Denton though, prefaces his book by saying that the British government's refusal to release a number of essential documents make it impossible to be completely accurate. Denton's book preceded the movie, and some of the lines in the movie were also in the book, although not spoken by the same person. The lines ending with We shot them under rule 303 were spoken by Handcock in the book rather than Morant. The lines about I wonder how more serious things could be were not said by Handcock after being chastised for his verbal exchange with Drummond, but by Witton after he became upset with questions about interrogating of Jacob Hesse the missionary. Witton, according to Denton, was not the mild mannered and soft spoken person the movie made him out to be. That part of him was actually more like Ivor Summers. Witton was closer to Handcock in personality according to Denton. The lines in the movie being similar or the same as lines in the book lend me to believe Ross used Denton's book as a source of info to help write his play that later became the screenplay for the movie. I'd have liked to have seen the movie been actually based on Denton's book, although it was still one of my favorite movies the way it was. The event did take place, and while there are differences between the movie and Denton's book, it is good to see this travesty of justice not totally lost in history. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film-making and acting tour-de-force","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Historical, military drama during the time of the British war against South African Boers is magnificent example of how film-making can and should be done.Fast-paced in spite of much of the movie taking place within a military courtroom, thanks to the use of flashbacks that tantalize and reveal the whole story as the movie progresses.This is just a beautifully filmed film. I will never forget the first time I watched this during its run at the art-house theaters and how impressed I was with the gorgeous cinematography and editing which effectively juxtaposed the warm, sun-baked hues of the daytime bush veld with the cool, blue tonalities of flashbacks occurring at dusk.Full of intelligent drama, action, irony and humor with outstanding acting throughout. One of those rare films that all by itself can be considered the crowning achievement for the careers of most of the actors involved. I have yet to see Bryan Brown and Jack Thompson in anything else that came close to their performances in this.Some here call this depressing (my wife can't stand to watch it for that reason, so be forewarned) but I have always viewed this story as an ironically triumphant expose of military politics, along the lines of Kubrick's Paths of Glory. Further, the acting is so excellent and entertaining it makes repeat viewings a treat even after you are familiar with the story and its conclusion.First class all the way, absolutely one of my top favorites. "},{"Title":"An excellent film which warrants repeat viewings","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" What draws me most to this film is the characters which are not simplified to make it easier for the audience. You sympathise with them despite their crimes. These are ordinary men who did dreadful things in a war, albeit under orders. They carried our these orders more or less willingly. In this sense it is better than Paths of Glory, because the characters have committed real crimes and in some sense, they deserve to be tried for them. The injustice is that the trial is a complete farce and the magnitude of their crimes is piffling in the context of the Kitchener's conduct of the Boer War. They are taking the rap for the crime of shooting POWs while Kitchener was starving women and children to death in concentration camps. They are the scapegoats of the empire. On the other hand, like many historical films, one should not confuse entertainment with actual history, this film has a definite bias towards the soldiers. My only complaint is that the sound quality on the cut I saw was awful, it sounded as if it was broadcast down a pipe. Perhaps that was the fault of my local channel. "},{"Title":"Excellent film about the costs of war","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Breaker Morant is a gripping and tense war movie that is completely compelling from beginning to end. It gives an excellent portrayal of soldiers dealing with the conflict between their personal beliefs and the orders handed down to them by their superiors. Mr. Woodward is superb and the rest of the cast give extraodinarily strong performances. Beautifully shot and well written, this is one of the best films no one has ever heard about. I highly recommend it.  "}{"Title":"A dangerous profession. In many ways.","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" First of all let me get all the mandatory praising out of the way. This film has several brilliant performances,it's writing is witty and intelligent. I own it and I can't count how many times I've watched it, but I never tire of it. Now for weightier matters.This movie definitely addresses the issue of ethics and morality in wartime. it's shows that soldiering is a dangerous profession in so many ways. One will often have more than one foe. There is the armed foe that one has been sent to fight and then there is one's superiors and peers. Warfare is the business of nations, which means there are often many things on the table besides defeating ones enemy. Politicians have a way of changing their objectives and not informing the soldiers of the changes. Previously condoned behavior can suddenly become inconvenient and the soldier find him or herself the scapegoat.What I get from this superb movie is that sacrificing one's own beliefs and ,doing what you know to be wrong, because one's superiors say it's all right, is a dangerous thing indeed. It isn't worth it. Warfare is a grim activity. Killing and survival often are and holding on to one's ethics are often the only thing one may have. As I said earlier, danger for a soldier doesn't always come from the enemy, sometimes it comes from ones own. Never sacrifice your morals for politicians,they aren't worth it. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing.","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Breaker Morant is set during the Boer War--a particularly ugly war fought in South Africa around the turn of the 20th century. Both the Boers (Dutch South African farmers) and the British committed a lot of nasty atrocities and many of the standards conduct during warfare were violated in the course of this war. Concentration camps, a scorched earth policy and the like were used to subdue the Boers.In this film, three Commonwealth soldiers from Australia are up on charges for war crimes--they are charged with executing prisoners and the like. While the defendants do not deny doing this, the problem is that this was common practice and those in command heartily approved--at least until word of the atrocities leaked. Now, to maintain the facade of civility, the three soldiers are being prosecuted--scapegoats despite doing exactly what they were expected to do. This is based, on part, on a real case--though how closely they stick to the original is uncertain.While most of the film takes place during the court martials, through flashbacks you see many of the events that led up to the trials. Some of the behavior of the men seemed incredibly savage (such as shooting prisoners who had surrendered on their own) and much of their actions seemed to make sense in light of the guerrilla warfare being committed against them. Regardless, what is clear is that the court really seems to want nothing more than to make examples of these men.Not surprisingly, Breaker Morant struck a chord with many who fought in Vietnam and recent conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Like the Boer War, soldiers had no idea who was and was not the enemy and vague or politically motivated rules of engagement made fighting very difficult. The parallels are many--making this story rather timeless. This, the excellent writing and acting make for a very good film--one well worth seeing--even if it is a bit stagy (belying its roots as a play). "},{"Title":"Watching Edward Woodward is like taking an acting lesson","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is a remarkable film that remains as fresh as when it was produced. Edward Woodward has always been a favorite of mine and he was masterful as the title character. He seems incapable of giving any less than a strong performance in a variety of roles. The Wicker Man comes to mind, as well as the many episodes of The Equalizer. It is easy to imagine the conflicts that inevitably occur between military superiors and the men on the front, and this film clearly shows that, in those days, command personnel were much more likely to be obeyed without question, even as the enlisted men suffered for their mistakes, errors of judgment or even criminality.For me, the frosting on the cake was using Woodward to sing Soldiers of the Queen during the roll of the credits. His clear and fine singing voice seemed to taunt the military brass. It is a crackerjack movie and NOT a tear-jerker, despite the story line. "},{"Title":"Reversed Jury","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I have several preferences. I'm trying to watch every detective movie from the thirties, for instance. And I am trying to watch every Australian movie. This marginally qualifies. Though its subject is perfidy in the fall of the British Empire and the location is Africa, it is made by an Aussie. Moreover &#151; and more importantly &#151; it is a story that in some real sense defined the nation we have today.The story &#151; if you don't know &#151; is about an Australian commando under British command. He is ordered to perform battlefield atrocities, all commands undocumented. When it becomes convenient, the generals deny commanding the atrocities and sacrifice the soldier. Direct political benefit results from the actions against this colonial.The episode ran through the Australian people and was a factor in defining themselves away from England. The thing is set up as a courtroom drama, with an interesting twist. The purpose of the trial is not to get to the truth so far as the defendants are concerned, but to get to the truth of the accusers. We do find some twists so far as the charges, but the thing is cleverly focused on the inverse of what you expect. Its a very effective narrative reversal. It worked for me. I'm not sure that the character of the thing was specifically Australian. But it does work. I think the reason it did for me is because we live in such a time. In the US, we have torturers who, like the men in this film perform their inhuman duty under orders. Like the unsavory proud generals here, our administration is covering their culpability. So it resonates. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"An all time great war movie/court room drama","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Breaker Morant is one of those movies I had placed on a Really should see this movie one of these days list. Well, in some ways I'm sorry I waited so long to see this masterpiece and in other ways, the current world situation with The war on terror has made this movie even more relevant and topical.The plot of this movie is based on real events that occurred during the Boer War, in South Africa. Three Australian soldiers (well, during the course of this war, Australia had become a nation) are courts martial for the killing of some South African fighters and a South African priest. The colonials are fighting for Britain against the Boers, and concerned that Germany (or what would later become Germany) would enter the war on the side of the Boers, Britain seeks to contain things and perhaps prevent German involvement by trying the three Australian colonials.Here is a movie which made a list of the greatest war movies of all time (http//www.historynet.com/movies/11719756.html). In my opinion this movie should have topped the poll, or ranked even higher than the 91st position it got, out of 100. In fact, I think that this movie is also one of the all time great court room dramas as well (the movie has many court scenes and occasionally gives a magnificent insight into war and the conditions on the ground). Script-wise, this film is a towering achievement. So many insights into the bigger picture occurring through understated dialogue.Made before the current War on terror, it perhaps unintentionally makes complex our response to that. In other words, this is not a film that panders to liberalism or conservatism. Times have changed, and this movie challenges us, in a way that it perhaps didn't foresee or intend, as a consequence of the event of September 11, 2001, in the USA.Superb performances all around from an All Star Australian cast. Poignant, funny, enlightening and intellectually stimulating. This is the movie that blows away the notion that I had that Australian movies are poorly scripted and acted.An all time great movie. Nominated for an Oscar. Should have won many.Perfect. "},{"Title":"Can You Handle The Truth?","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A military trial. We have seen it before(The Caine Mutiny), we have seen it since (A Few Good Men) and we will certainly see it again, but I can't think of a time when we've seen it presented with such raw emotional impact. The narrative has a horrible inevitability to it; we can see that the men are going to be subjected to a dreadful injustice, we vainly hope that there will be a way out, whilst secretly knowing that there isn't. The highlight is the extraordinary performance of Edward Woodward in the title role. Put this performance alongside his interpretation of the Sergeant in The Wicker Man and you realise that Woodward is one of the greatest and most criminally underused leading men in cinema history. And what about that ending? BANG! Not allowed in Hollywood... "},{"Title":"You'll never look at a wooden coffin the same way again.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This is a great film- excellent acting, cinematography and pace. It is one of my favorites. When I talk about Breaker Morant to people I usually recall the line from APOCALYPSE NOW Charging a man with murder here was like handing out speeding tickets at the Indy 500. So true! This movie uses a court martial trial along with flashbacks to tell the story of 3 Aussie soldiers who become convenient scapegoats for their British commanders during the Boer War. When do you cross the line by killing the enemy? For Americans, it may be your first exposure to this part of South African history, but you don't need to know any prior knowledge of the history to thoroughly enjoy this film. As usual, all great war films have some anti-war element to them.  Please do yourself a favor and see this film. "},{"Title":"Great, thought-provoking film!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  The actors were really fantastic, the cinematography was great, and the story was wonderful.  The most frightening thing about the story was that it was true...you really feel for the protagonists in spite of what they did.  The flashbacks to the war scenes really pulled the movie together though.  At the end of the movie I found myself thinking about the justice system and what constitutes as fair when it comes to war crimes.  On an unrelated note, does anyone else think that Jack Thompson looks like Kiefer Sutherland? Anyway, I give this movie a 9. "},{"Title":"They don't come better than this!","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Well, here's an easy film to review! Undeniably the best ever made in Australia (comfortably shades PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK). Where it stands in the International top 100 I'm really not sure. Offhand I can't think of many film's I'd like to volunteer as being BETTER? Bigger maybe, more thought-provoking, perhaps more socially relevant....but not BETTER!This is an awesome achievment - by far Bryan Brown and Jack Thompson's best roles, as I'm sure they would themselves agree. Yes the story of Harry The Breaker Morant closely parallels Stanley Kubrick's equally brilliant PATHS OF GLORY which shows how soldiers are fully expendable when it comes down to expediency and political gain. Kubrick however had truck-loads of investment dollars behind him. Beresford had the comparatively meagre resources of the South Australian Film Corporation.Edward Woodward is absolutely spot-on with his charcterization of the hapless but totally dignified Morant. The final scene is simply shattering in its implication and will stay with you all your life, depending on your level of awareness, compassion and appreciation of all things noble. You can't execute honor! "},{"Title":"One of the very best","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Just saw Breaker Morant again tonight (July 6 '01), on cable TV in the US.The movie was made in '79 and released in '80 I believe and it is one more example of how well the very best films hold up over the years.  The meaning of classic perhaps?Remarkable movie.  *Very* high marks for direction, script, acting, editing (wonderful), photography, and probably everything else.It's a damn shame that Breaker doesn't have enough votes to make it into IMDB's top film list.  It's got quite a high rating, 7.8, I think, but it should be higher.  After watching it again tonight, I'm thinking about trying to start a campaign to at least get the film enough votes, if not to raise its score.  I'm sure it's an 8-something on the rating scale.*A truly fine film* "}{"Title":"The courts-martial of British colonialism","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This is a fine screen adaptation of the play. An outstanding performance by Mr. Woodward as Lt. Morant and suberb supporting performances by Fitz-Gerald and Brown make this an engrossing film. The flavor of late VIctorian Era politics and values spice this tale of the courts-martial of three Australian officers of the Bushfeldt Carabiniers, a British commando unit of the Boer War formed to respond to ruthless Boer tactics. A story that transcends the wartime military setting and stands with the best courtroom dramas. I hope you will enjoy this film as much as I do.  "},{"Title":"A timeless lesson in politics and injustice","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Beside the fact that it is a beautifully crafted and extremely visually pleasing film, Breaker Morant is an important lesson in politics and injustice. The true incidents which are interpreted in this film surround the court martial and subsequent execution of three Australian soldiers fighting for the British Empire in the South African Boer War at the turn of the century. They are made an example of by the British Army, despite the heartfelt pleadings of one of their fellow country men.To say Breaker Morant is an anti-British film is to oversimplify. Breaker Morant is just an example of an injustice which could be handed out to anyone, by anyone. Empires and politics still exist in a myriad of forms. The injustice portrayed in Breaker Morant still happens everyday, all over the world. That is the essence and the beauty of this film. Breaker Morant is an early effort from the award winning director, Bruce Beresford. It features some fine performances, and some truly poignant moments. Breaker Morant also gives a brilliant feeling of the period, and the people who lived in it. These people went to war not just for a cause, but as an adventure.Their naivety was ultimately their downfall. "},{"Title":"An outstanding anti-war drama...","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I've seen this film seven times and recently purchased it from Reel.com.  It is one of my all-time favorites, and one of the best dramas I've ever seen. Oddly, it's a foreign film, even though it's in English.  What makes this film so strong is the multi-layered approach to the unfolding drama - it's an indictment of the English caste system, an anti-war film and a film that seemingly supports (Boer) independence, an end-of-era film, a political film (how to maintain an empire and what to do if you just left one), a war film, a character study...the list goes on and on.  Although decidedly pro-Aussie in general tone, it is a real piece of craftsmanship from a generally good director.  The performances and writing are very strong, particularly from the leads.  It's not always easy to watch, but it is highly rewarding.  An absolute 10, and one of the top films of the '70s. "},{"Title":"A very good film","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The film gives an excellent re-creation of the events that happened in the past. The actors were outstanding. They did an excellent job at re-creating the people involved. They really made you think that they were the real people and the events were really happening to them.  "},{"Title":"Need to see","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This is an outstanding movie that is in my Top 10 list. An excellent drama, based on a true story, about how three Officers were used as scapegoats in an ugly war to allow an empire to save face. Stuck in a no-win type of war, and given or implied orders, they did what they believed they were ordered to do but paid the price with their lives.Terrific, top-noth acting by all the actors involved, a gripping, well-written story. You will really care about these men and what will happen to them.A must see move, esp. in light of the recent events in Iraqi prisons.  "},{"Title":"One excellent picture.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The Australian film board has done excellent work, compared to Canada we should be ashamed.  Except for arty  films, or ultra left wing films, which sometimes insult the public they never have come close to making a watchable film.  Who ever did the casting for Breaker Morant, did an excellent job.  Woodward, Brown, etc and the actor who plays Clark where standouts in a cast without one weak actor.  The script and filming looks, and sounds turn of the century. (well researched)  Did they deserve to be shot, I do not know.  In my opinion,(I know that sounds wordy) this film hit true too life.  Comparable with today's Political Correctness many decisions become political instead of truthful.  How many job interviews, hearings, University acceptances, fights between people will be decided before the interview, trial, application, or discussion has began.  I believe the truth is always unpopular but eventually appears.  This film is an excellent portrayal of the human condition. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not only a film about the Boer War, a conflict seldom depicted on screen, but a historical film told from an unexpected perspective the Australian soldier's","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" If a producer had received the stereotypical Hollywood pitch for Breaker Morant, I imagine it would have gone something like this It takes place during a war&#x97;no, not one of the popular ones, it's the Boer War&#x97;and the protagonists are three probable war criminals, quite unrepentant... Likable? Well, one of them likes to recite his own poetry... Yes, it has some beautiful outdoors shots, so we'll need to send the whole cast and crew to South Africa, but most of the action will take place in an ugly little army prison where the characters debate the finer points of British military law and Edwardian-era geopolitics.Luckily, if any producer at the South Australian Film Corporation received such a pitch, they agreed to make the film. Patriotism may have had something to do with it. Beneath the shouted legalese of a movie court martial and the scenes from a cold-blooded guerilla war, Breaker Morant is about the place of Australia in the British Commonwealth as understood by three men from different strata of turn-of-the-century Australian society. Their loyal service in time of war lands them in deadly peril when London decides that they are more useful as scapegoats than as soldiers. In the most moving, character-driven scenes, each man remembers and longs for Australia, where they have families and where the title character once enjoyed breaking horses. Meanwhile, the script takes numerous not-so- subtle digs at the part-German royal family and at Lord Kitchener, Britain's most famous soldier.For a certain kind of patriotic Australian, this based-on-a-true story must be a rousing defense of Australian independence and Australian bravery. It's a fascinating watch even for those without a dog in that hunt, but it is fair to ask whether the movie is too uncritical of its three heroes. Are they, after all, war criminals responsible for the mistreatment of prisoners and noncombatants? Or does the movie prove its thesis that the real guilt lay farther up the chain of command, and that the King's Australian soldiers were caught up in an unprecedented and complex kind of war from which nobody could come out both alive and clean? The heroic tone at the end is hard to swallow if you haven't been persuaded of the latter interpretation. But the beautiful shots of the veldt, and the thoughtful examination of a historical moment seldom depicted on screen, make it a satisfying film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, engrossing courtroom drama.","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Based on a real life incident of Australian soldiers charged with murder -- for political reasons- - during the Boer war. Echoes of Kubrick's Paths of Glory, but the morality here is more gray. These men have indeed done awful things, but only as part of a war full of awful things. Thus, while your heart is with the protagonists, there are moments you question them almost as much as the Kangaroo court they face. The acting is excellent throughout, and what was originally a play has been opened up just enough so as not to feel it, without feeling forced. Some of the moral complexities could have been explored with more depth, and there is a slightly disturbing suggestion of making I was just following orders&#x80;&#x99; a viable defense for war atrocities, but I'd much rather question an intelligent, challenging pictures point of view, then not be challenged at all. "},{"Title":"Best Pacifist War Movie Ever","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A superb movie. I'm a pacifist, and I remember talking with a member of ROTC (25 years ago) who also loved the movie. He thought the movie was a brilliant evocation of the horrors of war, and sounded a warning about how the imperatives of war impelled soldiers to commit war crimes. I think that's mostly right, except I think the message is that war itself is a crime, so trying to draw a line between war-fighting and war crimes is almost impossible. Renoir, the French humanist film-maker, once said that he tried to make movies in which everyone has their reasons.Beresford in Breaker Morant created an amazingly humanist film, in which even the British generals, who it would have been easy to portray as cartoon villains, are shown rigging the trial of the protagonists in order, in their minds, to prevent a widening of the war. When watching the film, also look for the illuminating parallels between the British and Australian Boer war in South Africa on the one hand and the US and Australian war against Vietnam on the other. One complaint. It's been a couple of decades since I saw the film, so I might be hazy on this point, but I don't remember any major black characters. It was set in South Africa, for goodness sakes.In any case, the movie tells a heartbreaking story, sticks fairly closely to the available facts about the real historical people it portrays, is gorgeously edited, and is beautiful film-making. I think it might be the best pacifist war movie ever made. It's one of my favorite movies, period. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Australian film about courtmartialed soldiers...","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" EDWARD WOODWARD heads the cast of this excellent film about three British soldiers courtmartialed during the Boer War for their take no prisoners stance after witnessing brutal wartime deaths of fellow soldiers. Director Bruce Beresford coaxes excellent performances in all the supporting roles, particularly JACK THOMPSON, very earnest and effective as Maj. Thomas, who, although inexperienced, does a brilliant job on the defense, and BRYAN BROWN as Lt. Handcock and LEWIS FITZ-GERALD as Lt. Witton.The story is not told in a conventional way, peppered as it is with flashbacks that fill in the details being discussed at the trial. Only gradually does the full story emerge through the use of these incidents.All of the technical credits are fine, its superb color photography and filming locations in Australia all adding to the authentic period look of the story. JACK THOMPSON's defense is one of the best aspects of the script and he gives his role an eloquence that defies the decision made by those presiding over the trial.The vagaries of war and obeying commands is given a workout here, as in many other films dealing with decisions made in the heat of battle which often lead to trials like this one.Summing up Superb film-making benefits from good direction and many fine performances in the practically all male cast. "}{"Title":"Another Australian classic.","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" There are also rules in the madness of war. And when you upset the British army with a cup of lukewarm tea, then you better watch out! The Australian cinema had a go at them in the movie Gallipoli, but not as brutal as in this near cinema classic. Edward Woodward plays the role of his life and apart from the brilliant acting that enhances the characterizations of the poor souls in a hypercritical war, it is the brilliant tight directing, crisp cinematography and snappy courtroom editing that makes the film stand tall. Of course, this could not have occurred without the finely crafted screenplay. Applause all round to the Aussie craft of cinema making. "},{"Title":"Definitely Not A Chick Flick","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Unless of course the chick happens to be Xena Warrior Princess, this is definitely not a 'chick flik' feel good movie. In fact, I felt quite indignant at the end. But then the applicable military recruitment adage has been and will probably always be, if you can't take a joke, then you shouldn't have signed up. In many ways the politics of war depicted in this film are just as valid today as they were in the Boer War a hundred years ago. And in all likelihood, it will be so into the next hundred years and beyond. I highly recommend watching and sharing this film with anyone (chicks included) who needs proof of the utter moronic stupidity of war. "},{"Title":"Shattering","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is one of the most powerful films IU have ever seen, an absolute must see.The details have been well documented on here, so I'll refrain from repeating them. Suffice to say, if you see this film, you will be thinking about it for the following week. The final scene stays burned in your memory. The characters remain in your thoughts, as you put yourself in their place and imagine what you would do.And, what makes it more compelling, and more shattering, is the knowledge that the story is true. It is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent and intense examination of betrayal","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Breaker Morant is a superbly crafted and compelling comment on the role of moral responsibility and humanity in a time of war. Director Bruce Beresford has coaxed a series of excellent acting performances from some great Australian talent. Justice here takes a back seat in the face of politicking and compromise expediencies. This film is a highly charged examination of culpability, affording an eclectic mix of viewpoints.This is a challenging and thought provoking work, that drills into the hopelessness of the central characters who, we realise, are ultimately doomed. The trial is suffocating in its intensity and staging. The case is simple; three lieutenants are on trail for executing Boer POW's. They were acting under orders but the higher echelons have distanced themselves from the general orders. They are effectively scapegoats.The director feels strongly about the material and story and gets right under the skins of all concerned. Ultimately though, even though we end up with the downbeat ending, it is still an excuse for the killer line shoot straight, ya bastards. Don't make a mess of it! Watch this film and enjoy excellent performances, an absorbing script and Australian cinema of the highest order. 8/10. "},{"Title":"These Events Echo down the decades","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A truly great movie that depicts events that fashioned Australian Military attitudes to punishment right up to the current day. Australia does not and has not executed its soldiers for any reason since these events took place; a decision which outraged the British during the First World War when executing British soldiers happened regularly.It also demonstrates the age old conundrum facing soldiers; how to decide what is and what isn't a lawful command. The idea of illegality in war is almost farcical.Surely winning is the only important thing. Those who talk about morality in war are usually the losers.Another interesting fact is that Harry Morant's name does not appear on the walls of the Australian War Memorial in Canberra where the names of all 102,000 Australians who have died in wars are engraved in bronze. It seems he was not a member of the Australian Army. His two compatriots are.Its a pity that we no longer make films like this but that's what happens when successful Directors are lured away by the millions offered by Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film making","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I wanted to watch this movie back in the early 1980's upon the regimentation of a friend who was very much into great movies outside of mainstream Hollywood. What at phenomenal movie in every aspect from story line to cinematography to actors and acting. This movie is one of the best that I have ever seen.I have never read the book, Scapegoats of the Empire so I am not sure how true this movie is to the original story as told by George Witten. I would say, however, that it would be hard to imagine that the screen writer took much liberty with original story. This movie from its earliest depiction of events in the Boer War to the climactic trial scene is absolutely top notch. The director deserves recognition for such fine movie making.The acting did not seem like acting as each character seemed to clearly embrace the role that they played (Bryan Brown was terrific as Lt. Hancock). This movie is well worth watching again and again. "},{"Title":"a good piece of history","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Typical big brass political means getting in the way of waging a war. Top notch acting and a message for all mankind. War means killing. I've seen the killing in Bosnia. I was in the middle trying to figure out who was right. In the end, no one was right. The common people of all sides were very friendly, and even their soldiers were. But when it came time for an offensive, the soldiers pressed on against their neighbors. I'm not sure how this compares to the Boer war, but I know that soldiers will do what has to be done in order to survive. In Bosnia we were only attacked a few times, in South Africa the Australain forces had to defend against a determined enemy daily. As a soldier, I can understand how easy it would be to slip into a eye for an eye attitude. WAR is killing. "},{"Title":"Among the best movies I have ever seen","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Begin with the moral ambiguity of the story - the British Army is subjecting three Australian officers to courts-martial on charges of murder during the Boer War. This was England's Vietnam. We hear testimony that, yes, the officers shot prisoners, all on the basis of a 'verbal understanding'... rule 303 (explained in one frame with a close-up of the carbine the soldiers used, .303 caliber), and you at least have a story that will make you think. Beautiful cinematography, a script that crackles... Add in some top-shelf performances (pretty much everyone) and I defy you to walk out of this movie not feeling a least a little changed. I won't tell you how the outcome of the trials, except to say that the audience is made aware that the trial is a political one to help the English get out of the war and keep Germany from going in... "},{"Title":"Breaker Morant The Soldier's Poet","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Often said to be a bardic simile for the Calley-Medina-Jackson court-martial of the Vietnam War, Breaker outlived the notoriety of the court-martial it parodied. The flashbacks doused in less than genteel touches of multiple ironies make Breaker a superior movie. The soldier-poet Breaker Morant should be remembered whenever politicians want a nice war. There ain't no such thing. "},{"Title":"Aussie Classic","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A film about flawed heroes.They did as they were told but the rules are changed and goal posts moved and they gat the blame.A story of men under pressure doing their duty,but they are pawns in a political game and pawns as we all know are the first to be sacrificed. An intelligent movie with a great cast Edward Woodward has never been better and is given good support from the cast,an excellent script and fantastic direction. Iwatched this on dvd and the extras are good too please watch this movie 8/10 "}{"Title":"Perfect melding of battlefield and courtroom action.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A crucial component of the Australian New Wave of the early 80's, as well-made and influential as Peter Weir's THE LAST WAVE and Fred Schepisi's CHANT OF JIMMIE BLACKSMITH.  This fact-based drama set against the backdrop of the Boer War in South Africa is thought-provoking, visually splendid storytelling with a superb cast.  Besides the excellent work of Edward Woodward and Bryan Brown, watch the charismatic Jack Thompson deliver one of the greatest defense summations in cinema history.  Bruce Beresford's non-showy direction perfectly complements the vivid script by himself and others, which for once utilizes flashback structure to effectively present events as clearly and concisely as possible.  The ending is staged with restraint that in no way diminishes its power or truth.  A film for the classic collection.    "},{"Title":"Simply Wonderful.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  What can I say that hasn't been said so eloquently about this movie already? I implore everyone to vote for Breaker Morant so we can get it onto the best movies list like it should be.  If you haven't seen it yet it's worth watching, you'll be very moved. "},{"Title":"In the tradition of Kubrick's Paths of Glory","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie kept me interested from beginning to end. The acting is first rate, and the writing is intelligent. It's no wonder this film won the best picture award in Australia in 1979. The story reminded me somewhat of Stanley Kubrick's Paths of Glory in which soldiers in combat are too often seen by generals as well as politicians as just pawns. In this case pawns to bring about an end to a war which shouldn't even have been fought. Its amazing to think that these men who fought this guerrilla war in South Africa at the turn of the century, realized even then, that a war like this was unwinnable no matter how much they outmatched their enemy. "},{"Title":"Excellent in every category","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  One of my favorite films.  One of the very few that any time I find it running on cable, I pick up wherever it is and watch it to the end. Court Martial sequences done very well with break aways to actual events.  Good historical presentation. "},{"Title":"Such a superb all-round production.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  It's rare that you can find a film that appears to have been such a superb all-round team effort, but Breaker Morant must come close to such a film.The production design, art direction, script, director, cast and one could go on, are so well knitted together that you feel that you are witnessing actual events instead of a interpretation of actual events. Even South Australia looks like how one would have thought this section of South Africa would have looked like at the time.Before I saw the film, I was expecting a film that would just lend more folk-lore to the Morant legend, but the film present a believable account and presented it in a firm, calculating fashion that attempts to show what happened in a more calculating light.Well recommended as both a film to watch, an example of all the crafts that make a superb film and a film that easily deserved all its awards.  "},{"Title":"One of the finest films ever made.","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Simply put, Breaker Morant is not only one of the finest military films of all time, it is one of the finest films ever made.  You really are cheating yourself by not watching this film.  The direction and story telling are nearly flawless and there is not a weak link in the entire cast.  "},{"Title":"It's a keeper","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  From an era in Australian film history which delivered Gallipoli comes its predecessor, Breaker Morant.  Lean and engaging, Breaker Morant highlights the hypocrisies of war.  The acting on a whole is superb with Jack Thompson an absolute treat to watch in this outing as the defence lawyer, Major Thomas.Buy this film.  It's a keeper. "},{"Title":"One of our country's greatest films.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Adapted from Kit Denton's book The Breaker, which in turn was based on a true story, this is a wonderful film highlighting the injustices of war. While there are some minor inaccuracies, on the whole it's a stunning experience. The creators of both book and film did their homework before creating as well The final poem voiced-over by Edward Woodward during the firing squad preparations was actually written by the real Harry Morant, and the real Morant's last words were actually Shoot straight you bastards, don't make a mess of it! The highlight of the film though, must be Major Thomas' final summation, which apparently got a standing ovation at Cannes. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This film, along with All About Eve and The Godfather, ranks as one of my three favorites.  I first saw it in high school, and I watch it again every few months or so.  The performances are excellent, the pacing is superb, and the camerawork is magnificent.Edward Woodward in particular is worthy of high praise.  The quiet dignity with which he, as Harry Breaker Morant, conducts himself throughout most of the film makes the scenes in which he does lose control all the more jarring.  Jack Thompson is equally good as the officer assigned to represent Morant and his two fellow defendants in a trial that is obviously a sham (lest you think I've just dropped a spoiler, this information is revealed in the first 10 minutes of the film, so it isn't much of one).The final sequence is one of the most powerful I've ever seen on film. "},{"Title":"Anti-war movie from the Boer War in South Africa.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This superb film illustrates the costs of empire building. Three Australian soldiers in the Boer War wind up ahead of their time in declaring total war. Used as scapegoats and pawns to end the war and save face for the British and the Germans, they are court-martialed despite the ingenious defense by their lawyer. I never see this film without crying.  The unfairness and callous attitude toward these brave men will long live in infamy. Before one goes to fight a war, one would do well to know the color of the enemy's uniform. "}{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"    This movie is about The Boer War, and particularly what happens when the British need a scapegoat for the killing of a German missionary and six Boer (Dutch) prisoners.  A fascinating and multi-layered film.  To call this a simple anti-British film, like someone pointed out, is simplistic and false.  It uses real actions of people in a situation where the outcome could have two different endings.  Remember, the soldiers aren't entirely innocent.  They have killed, but it is war.    This, and incidents like these, were the turning point for countries in the commonwealth.  It is nice to see it dramatized but not manipulative.  The actors are uniformly first-rate, with Edward Woodward and Lewis Fitz-Gerald giving the most impressive performances.  The script received a deserved Oscar nomination, for suprisingly good dialogue.  A first rate film, that remains so timely.  "},{"Title":"A timeless lesson in politics and injustice","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Beside the fact that it is a beautifully crafted and extremely visually pleasing film, Breaker Morant is an important lesson in politics and injustice. The true incidents which are interpreted in this film surround the court martial and subsequent execution of three Australian soldiers fighting for the British Empire in the South African Boer War at the turn of the century. They are made an example of by the British Army, despite the heartfelt pleadings of one of their fellow country men.To say Breaker Morant is an anti-British film is to oversimplify. Breaker Morant is just an example of an injustice which could be handed out to anyone, by anyone. Empires and politics still exist in a myriad of forms. The injustice portrayed in Breaker Morant still happens everyday, all over the world. That is the essence and the beauty of this film. Breaker Morant is an early effort from the award winning director, Bruce Beresford. It features some fine performances, and some truly poignant moments. Breaker Morant also gives a brilliant felling of the period, and the people who lived in it. These people went to war not just for a cause, but as an adventure.Their naivety was ultimately their downfall. "},{"Title":"Beresfords Heart Breaker........(Great Movie)","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Breaker Morant is probably the best movie ever made in Australia.Director Bruce Beresford does everything right (working with a small budget). All of the acting is well above average, but Edward Woodward and Jack Thompson deserve a special mention. This is yet another film about the meaninglessness and futility of war....where nothing is fair and there are no rules. What makes this so good is the way we get to know the characters..we care about them. They are only pawns in a detestable game ..Woodward as Lt. Harry Breaker Morant, Lewis Fitzgerald as Lt. George Witton and Bryan Brown as Lt. Peter Handcock. Its 1902 and the Boer War is grinding on. The Germans are upset about the killing of a German missionary and are threatening to enter the war (on the side of the Boers) The British top brass (under Lord Kitchener) are keen for a speedy end to the war. The sacrificing of 3 Australian soldiers seems like a small price to pay to achieve both objectives. However there is a problem....the 3 soldiers are not guilty of the crimes they are alleged to have committed. The kangaroo court scenes are unsettling...but brilliantly handled by Beresford. The closing speech by Thompson is truly memorable. Wars will continue to go on.....we need to be reminded of the madness, the brutality, the injustices and the pure evil of conflict. Breaker Morant is a movie that shows some of the hell--- that is war. "},{"Title":"Breaker Morant","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Awesome movie here that teaches as well as entertains. In this case, it's the Boer war, which I didn't know (or care) much about. This movie is pretty much the tale of a court martial of 3 Australian soldiers on trial for killing prisoners of war and a missionary. Much of it can be applied to today, as we question how much openness can we interpret the rules of war? Although shot simply (the court martial set-up is just a few tables and a simple witness chair), the court scenes are quite done masterfully. The old acting war-horse Jack Thompson (though not really old here!) plays the the defence counsel quite brilliantly, showcasing a status switch (an improv term!) that is really quite jarringly effective. I'd heard of Breaker Morant for years, almost close to when it came out, and just watching it now makes me sad somewhat that I had neglected to see it all this time, but then again, there's tons of movies like that, and you know what? That makes me excited. "},{"Title":" Somewhere between the first order and the last shot, lies the truth of our guilt ","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" War as a wise man once said, is a complete succession of ration thought. Regardless of the time or place it has become a fact. Take this movie called  Breaker Morant  which has come to personify the conflict known as The Boar War and has left a bloody mess in South Africa which killed thousands is a lingering, haunting legacy. The war itself lasted from 1880 to 1902 and changed combatants from it's inception to it's eventual end. The film dutifully covers the controversial court-martial of three Australian officers and centers on weather Lt. Harry 'Breaker' Morant (Edward Woodward), Lt. Peter Handcock (Bryan Brown) and Lt. George Witton (Lewis Fitz-Gerald) were guilty of willful murder. At their court-martial they are aptly defended by Major J.F,Thomas (Jack Thompson) who despite his expert best, was a foregone conclusion by the British Government, who had predetermined their guilt. It was later admitted by unbiased authorities the men were merely scapegoats. The film is a excellent adaptation of the original stage play which has come to exemplify the martyrdom of these heroic Australians who are honored in their own country. The fine cast are superb examples of superior actors on the world stage. Easilly Recommended to anyone seeking a modern film of the Boar tragedy. **** "},{"Title":"Shoot straight, you bastards. - Don't make a mess of it!","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" An Oscar nomination, a Golden Globe nomination, and winner of almost every award given by the Australian Film Institute. The only reason it didn't win every award was that two actors from the film were competing for Best Actor, and three were competing for Best Supporting Actor.The film involves a courts martial initiated for political reasons against Australian soldiers fighting in the Boer War.Edward Woodward was Lt. Harry 'Breaker' Morant, who ordered the execution of Boer prisoners under verbal orders of the British Government. He, and two others were on trial after the German Government complained that one of those executed was a German missionary.Jack Thompson was Maj. J.F. Thomas, who was defending them. Both Woodward and Thompson gave splendid performances.Thompson's summation was outstanding, but it was to no avail as the graves were dug before the trail began.Bryan Brown was excellent as Lt. Peter Handcock, one of the three on trial, as was Lewis Fitz-Gerald and Charles 'Bud' Tingwell. "},{"Title":"In the top ten","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Certainly one of the best movies ever made -- no special effects, no vulgarity, nothing objectionable. But the film depends on the performances of the actors -- wonderful ones.This is about a trial of rather brutal soldiers fighting a brutal war. Out of caution, I will mention this might be a spoiler, though it's a grey area In one scene, the Australians, fighting in South Africa against the Boers at the turn of the century (19th to 20th), have been accused of putting Boer prisoners on the Engines of transport trains to prevent them from being attacked or blown up. The lawyer for the Australians asks of a witness who describes the procedure which was intended to prevent attacks Did it? And of course the answer was yes, one that the witness was loathe to confess. Perhaps, in the end, they did things necessary to win the war that in today's terms are, and perhaps were, unacceptable. The movie is most relevant today with the global war on terrorism, and with truly evil people willing to do horrifying things -- what are our troops supposed to do? We ask them to protect us, and then complain about how they are required to do it. It really is a good flick -- I'd recommend it beyond almost any other. "},{"Title":"A tunnel back into time and culture","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This movie taps into a big part of what Anglo culture was, and hardly is, anymore. For example, *poetry* was a big part of our culture. That's gone, now, unless you call popular music, e.g., hip hop, poetry.The Australians REALLY had it going on the early 80s with respect to movies that give the props to the dying Anglo culture.FANTASTIC MOVIE. I rate it a 9.9/10.  "},{"Title":"A painful chapter in history, well told.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Not too much to add that hasn't been said before.  A masterpiece to be sure.  Wish more directors would realize that great movies don't need to be expensive, just well written.The early eighties sure were good times for Aussie moviemakers.  This one, Gallipoli, Road Warrior, Man from Snowy River, etc., were all top notch.  I wish the directors who made them would work more.A question  Am I the only viewer that found Hancock pretty unsympathetic, and Mr. Brown's performance pretty much like the rest of his performances?A quibble  Though the reviewers soundly chew up the Brits portrayed in this film, why is no mention made of the dubious activity of the Aussies themselves supporting colonialism?  Somehow I can't help but believe that if the story surrounded Americans, more poignant attacks on the institution would have been made.  (Read the IMDB's reviews for Saving Private Ryan, for example).Anyway, hats off to Mr. Beresford--Breaker Morant IS SUPERIOR to Paths of Glory.  Please keep working! "},{"Title":"Intriguing courtroom drama of the rights & wrongs of enemy engagement","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Three Australian soldiers fighting for King & Country during the Boar War at the turn of the 20th Century are court martialled and face the death sentence, all because they murdered, rather than killed, enemy soldiers & an alleged German Spy.And to make things even worse for our trio of wrongly accused men, is the fact that behind the scenes the British Government wants the soldiers killed anyway, in order to smooth out possible peace talks between all the waring factions.Breaker Morant (Edward Woodward) is one of the convicted men, who finds it incredible that they should be facing such tenuous charges during a war where there the whole purpose of conflict is to kill as many of the enemy as possible by whatever means. Morant is a competent leader although disliked by some of his men. But he has seen the brutalities of war inflicted upon his friends & countrymen and yet stands charged of murder simply because he didn't fully use the official rules of engaging the enemy in a civil manner!They have a defence lawyer, Major Thomas (Jack Thompson), who although has no experience in these kind of high level trials does his best to extract as much contradictory evidence as possible against the jumped-up charges but is constantly undermined by the Prosecution & even the biased Court Committee.Typical of most Beresford films there's not an ounce of surplus fat here. The film will have you hooked within the first 20 minutes as the injustices of war are held up for all to see. And it's especially galling when governments can play Judge, Jury & Executioner without the need to explain their actions. For me Woodward, Thompson & Bryan Brown give stunning performances, fighting their own war of justice against the whims of British colonialism & the Crown.One interesting scene is when the prisoners are called in to defend the prison encampment against a Boar attack during the trial. And yet as soon as the battle is over they are put back on trial again, their heroism not even considered!Its a tough, shocking film that doesn't play the sympathy card too much. It would be too easy for a director to really lay the injustices on too thick so that the film loses its dramatic appeal and becomes nothing more than an empty tear-jerker. Beresford knows how to move an audience and by the end we are left feeling sad yet angry at how the Powers That Be can get away with murder for their own political ends.Try and track the film down if you can. It will be a moving experience, even more so if you're an Australian Republican with long & bitter memories of British Colonialism!*****/***** "}{"Title":"Superb and important movie","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Super telling of a historical sideline event that has become ever so important in this era questioning values, nationalism and leadership.  I think the image of the volunteers is a little too clean, as they were indeed a rough lot, but few would argue that they were not victims in a 'sideshow of the war'.  I prefer to watch this movie (again and again) on video so I can replay and catch many of the asides rendered in authentic, almost indecipherable, Aussie dialect. The addition of relevant poetry and music (with songs very well rendered by Woodward himself!) adds loads of class to this film.  The contrast between the rough life on the 'Veldt' and images of home are extremely poignant. All in all, this movie made me want to ride side by side with the Australian volunteers, then gallop with all speed back to headquarters to shoot Lord Kitchener and his cronies right between the eyes with my trusty .303. "},{"Title":"Just following orders","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie has been compared to Kubrick's Paths of Glory and there are plenty of parallels. But there is a major difference. Kubrick's three grunts were executed because they didn't follow orders and take the Ant Hill. Beresford's are sacrificed because they followed the norms, written and unwritten. Our sympathies are all with the defendants. An interesting thought experiment suggests itself. Let's change the prosecutors from 1903 Brits into 1946 Allies. Let's change the defendants from Australians to high-ranking German officers. Let's change the setting from South Africa to Nuremberg. Would the film still generate the same sympathy for the defendants, whose only defense, in both cases, was, I was just following orders? Were any of the defendants in this film less guilty of following orders than, say, Goering, the head of the Luftwaffe, who was more interested in his pet lions than in the disposition of Jews? I realize that this is an abrasive consideration, but films like this prompt one to wonder if justice was served in either case. It's difficult to imagine how Goering, with his name, could have escaped the hangman except as he did. I think the saying is, What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. Easy enough for us to sit back and say, What a bunch of politically motivated jerks those prosecutors were, when we see Breaker Morant. True, they were morons. But thinking about it leaves me, at least, a little queasy. As for killing civilians because they are trying to kill you, that leaves me not merely queasy but a victim of projectile vomiting. "},{"Title":"One of the all time best dramas","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Breaker Morant is a riveting courtroom drama, and one of the great tales of injustice during wartime. The 'Breaker' of the title refers to horse breaker; Harry Morant was known for his ability to induct wild horses into the service of the military.However, when one of his cohorts, Captain Hunt, is mutilated by Boer guerrillas in South Africa, he orders a firing squad of a group of prisoners who may or may not be responsible for the gruesome murder.The second Boer war was known as the dirty war for a reason. There were many crimes of war committed by the British forces. In the case of Morant and his two deputies, it seems scapegoating by the crown was the obvious cause for this bit of judicial hypocrisy. The movie is captivating and refreshingly unbiased. It doesn't turn a blind eye to the realities of war in which anything goes and superiors turn a blind eye whenever it suits them, but are quick to point the finger, and absent themselves, when called on it.It is ideally cast Edward Woodward as the stiff upper lip Englishman, Jack Thompson as the incisive lawyer, Bryan Brown as the free living ladies man, but above all, the direction is exceptional. Breaker Morant is not only one of the best Australian movies; it's one of the best dramas ever made. "},{"Title":"The Trouble With Hierarchy","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Three Australian lieutenants are court martialed for executing prisoners as a way of deflecting attention from war crimes committed by their superior officers.I believe this is based on a true story, which makes it all the better. What we have is a classic tale of responsibility and leadership. Do soldiers have a responsibility to protect their leaders, even when the leaders are in the wrong and it could mean their death? This happens from time to time, and a recent example (as of 2015) are the incidents at Abu Ghraib. Should one be punished or following orders? And should those giving orders be held at fault? If yes, how far up the chain? Some of this, in different ways, goes back to the Nuremberg trials, and much earlier. The military and war do not work on the same principles as civilian life and the actions we take in our communities. "},{"Title":"not sure to root for the defendants","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" It's Petersburg, Transvaal, South Africa 1901. During the Boer War, three Australian lieutenants Harry Morant (Edward Woodward), Peter Handcock (Bryan Brown) and George Witton (Lewis Fitz-Gerald) are on trial for killing some Boer prisoners and a German missionary after their Capt. Hunt was killed. They are scapegoats and Lord Kitchener needs to convict them to appease the Germans. However they claim that they were following the rules of war laid down by Hunt which comes from the top Kitchener. It's a show trial where the judges are predisposed and the defense lawyer is inexperienced in military court. The Boer attack the prison and the three men heroically beat them back. The show trial goes on.This is not an anti-war movie. These guys are portrayed as heroes for much of the movie. This is more or less anti-British military. That's an easy target. These characters are complicated and I wish they are played just a little bit more complicated. They need to be a bit more brutal. During the Boer attack on the prison, they are more like Rambo. There is a fascinating but a little slow court procedural where the defense starts out strong and turns murky. The final defense closing arguments are awkward. It's a movie that leaves me questioning the need of the movie to make martyrs of these men. "},{"Title":"A nine because a film rarely interprets a historical event with accuracy.","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A great film despite the caveat that a film rarely interprets a historical event with accuracy. (And the liberties with reality this film takes are too important to be glossed over.) But the question has resonated since ancient days. Agamemnon sacrifices his daughter for the sake of naval warfare; only after Troy is defeated, is he challenged on that decision. And in the Nuremburg War Tribunals, the response--I was following orders--was not acceptable. And the cop on the beat shooting a 13 year old teenager walking around with a toy replica of an AK47, defends himself as acting in the best interest and safety of the community. It is a very human expectation to ask and answer whether responses were suitable to the exigencies of the moment. (And if somebody needs to ask the question, then chances are, the response was NOT appropriate and in need of challenge to say nothing of criminal prosecution.) I recommend the movie but clearly, Harry Morant is not the saint or the good guy portrayed. The movie did portray him and the events fairly accurately. The truth of the matter, he had POWs shot out of an act of vengeance; he shot in cold blood the Lutheran Minister who witnessed this atrocity. (Depicted in the movie.) So the sanctity of Breaker Morant is left much in doubt. In other words, his court martial and execution were a just punishment.But as a movie establishing a thematic question--no matter how shaky in reality--it is worth seeing. Just keep that important caveat in mind. "},{"Title":"Quite Gripping","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie concerns the atrocities and subsequent courts-martial of three Australian officers serving during the Boer War. Although the movie itself is quite dramatic I think it deserves mention that the defendants were all guilty of the crimes in which they were charged. The question then remains as to whether they were simply following orders or not. Yet even if they were under orders to take no prisoners it should also be stated that the acceptance of prisoners under a flag of truce (or any other circumstance) nullifies the order and therefore undermines any defense for executing them once they've been captured. Likewise the cold-blooded murder of a witness to the crime cannot be justified or overstated either. That being the case any implication that the three defendants were tried solely because of political considerations is rather specious. Be that as it may, as far as the movie is concerned it is still quite gripping and provocative from start to finish with good direction (Bruce Beresford) and crisp acting from all concerned. Having said that I believe it should be restated that the film itself is not an historical documentary and shouldn't be mistaken for one. Above average. "},{"Title":"Edward Woodward Shines In True Story.","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Edward Woodward delivers a powerful performance as Lt. Harry 'Breaker' Morant, who, along with two other Lieutenant's, is court martialed for murdering Boer POWs and a German missionary during the British Boer War of the late 19th & early 20th centuries. The three accused men don't deny the killings, but insist they were under orders to do so, and it was standard practice. Unfortunately for them, the court has already been instructed to find them guilty in order to appease the Boer government, as well as the Germans, who are considering entering the war on the side of the Boers.First-rate drama(directed by Bruce Beresford) about perfectly good soldiers being scapegoated and betrayed by their own government for political reasons is a subject that is sadly still with us. Memorable ending is the perfect coda to this intelligently presented and powerfully told film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Story of MilitaryJjustice","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is an excellent film about military justice. Born in London, England, Harry Morant, called Breaker by Australians for his uncanny ability to break any horse, immigrated to Australia in the later part of the 19th century. Both British colonies, Australia and New Zealand, fought for the British against the Boers in the Second Boer War. Breaker Morant is now a legend in Australia. This movie is well directed by Bruce Beresford; and Edward Woodard was excellent in his portrayal of Breaker Morant, just as Bryan Brown was excellent as his friend, Lieutenant Peter Handcock. Both Lieutenant Morant and Lieutenant Handcock were executed after a court martial for killing Boer prisoners- of-war February 1902. This film is the most honored film in Australian film history, earning 10 Australian Film Institute awards in 1980. This movie is well scripted, acted, and directed, with excellent photography. I found the movie to be gripping as it presented the court martial with evidence for and against the accused. At the end, it is you the viewer who must decide if military justice is fair or unfair. This is one (1) of my all time favorite movies. "},{"Title":"A great movie, but morally reprehensible","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I have been a fan of Breaker Morant for many years. It is brilliantly written, acted and shot and is definitely one of my ten favourite movies of all time. Among Australian movies only The Year My Voice Broke comes close. There is but one problem - the central premise is a load of nonsense.Morant shot no prisoners until his friend Captain Hunt was killed. The vague and conflicting orders under which he supposedly laboured, at the behest of cold blooded cynical politicians, did not, up to that point, move him to murder. And judging by the fact that he remained in his command there was apparently not, up to that point, a backlash from higher authorities. He was praised as an effective officer - so he did actually manage for most of his career to fight an unconventional war while remaining within some bounds of basic decency. What happened subsequently was purely an act of personal revenge. The crimes were not committed in the heat of battle. There was no pressing military exigency at stake which may excuse a blurring of the lines. No doubt Morant was disturbed at the loss of his friend, but you could say the same of many murderers. The law permits self defence, not revenge. In any case how did he know that the missionary was passing on information? Could he not have questioned him or impounded him for a couple of days instead?I appreciate the power of the new war for a new century sentiment and agree that we live in difficult times where the enemy are not always in uniform. But I cannot make the logical leap to the next level of self-justifying amorality. The British had plenty of facilities for prisoners in the Boer War - they ran entire concentration camps. I fail to see the moral complexity that is involved in the decision to shoot an unarmed prisoner or even the particular military purpose that could possibly be served by it. This is not The Caine Mutiny - Morant did not save the lives of his crew. It is precisely because your friends and enemies now look the same that you need to be more careful, not less. No doubt this is difficult both in Africa and in Iraq, but hey that's your job as a professional soldier (Morant was not a conscript). The alternative is the slippery slope to fascism upon which we've recently embarked. The power of this film is that it succeeds in making you believe that black is white. "}{"Title":"A good and mostly accurate retelling of a true story","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Contrary to the review of hotmaledot1, the Englishman who complains that this film is about Australian nationalism turned to racism, the story is, in fact, true (do the homework and see). Here are some factsWhile it might gloss over some of the war crimes of the unruly BVC (the Bushveldt Carbineers, a successful mounted unit set up to play the Boer guerillas at their own game, and consisting not just of Australians but Brits as well - and some Americans, too, by all accounts - and who, like the Boers, were given to executing prisoners), it is mostly based on the 1905 book written by Witton, the only one of the trio not to be executed and the only surviving eyewtiness to put pen to paper. Interestingly, he only served a few years before he was quietly released, the British Government understanding that the whole thing had become very much a cause celebre, both in Australia and Britain. He was eventually pardoned by the Australian Government. Handcock's name appears in Australian Army records, while Morant's is apparently absent by virtue of the fact that he'd left his Australian unit, returned to South Africa after a visit to England to settle some family business, and rejoined the fray by volunteering for the British-commanded BVC.Also, Harry Morant was an Englishman, not an Australian. He had gone to Australia to escape a dubious, or at least a mysterious, past and was extremely handy with his fists, very highly regarded as a horseman, and a raconteur given to welshing on his debts. Prior to his enlistment with the Australian volunteer force sent to South Africa, he was a popular poet of the day (a bush-bard), with much of his work published in the late 1800s in Sydney's The Bulletin, a journal/magazine still published there today.While some of the story has been Hollywooded-up a tad, it is still an accurate portrayal of what really happened - even if some thin-skinned Brits (yes, I'm one too, although transplanted, like The Breaker, to Australia) don't like it. There is much empirical data to support the presumption that Lord Kitchener had indeed issued the no-prisoners order, although you won't find it in his own memoirs or the official British Army records so don't bother looking there. In fact, the whole episode is glossed over. However, others, including some British Army veterans of the Boer War, supported the contention in the wake of the courts-martial. It's worth noting that official histories are often very good at re-writing history, which seems to be the case here.As for the movie itself, it's an absolute ball-tearer of a film. Nicely scripted, well filmed and poignantly acted, particularly by Woodward and Thompson - a great retelling of a true story and certainly one that deserves to be told and that should still resonate today.It is certainly a salutary lesson for our American friends (and their British and Australian allies in the so-called coalition of the willing), who are currently embroiled in a similar, dirty, unwinnable war in Iraq - where shameful history seems destined to repeat, almost like the passing of the baton by one empire to another (corporate America is the closest thing the world has to an empire today), both of which paradoxically profess to have the same values of freedom and liberty, virtually identical justice systems based on the presumption of innocence, the same Westminster-style of democratic government and a better way of life.Sadly, as this movie shows, the big question is still, for whom? "},{"Title":"War is never right","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" You are unlikely to ever see a film, essentially about a military tribunal/court martial, like this one.The main characters, based on a factual story, are Australian. However there are many great performances from multiple cultures - and all add to the uniqueness, quality and colour of this film.The war was essentially all about gold and diamonds despite what the British say. The kangaroo court case itself was basically convicting soldiers of war crimes despite being under orders by Lord Kitchener himself.Many great Aussie actors appear in this movie (Jack Thompson is a highlight) and Edward Woodward is a fine choice as the Breaker.Picture The Practice in 1880ish South Africa - during a war (the Boer War) - and the pretty much sums up Breaker Morant. War sucks - even when under orders and the consequences are as real now as they were then.Highly recommended. Not recommended for children however. "},{"Title":"Intriguing courtroom drama of the rights & wrongs of enemy engagement","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Three Australian soldiers fighting for King & Country during the Boar War at the turn of the 20th Century are court martialled and face the death sentence, all because they murdered, rather than killed, enemy soldiers & an alleged German Spy.And to make things even worse for our trio of wrongly accused men, is the fact that behind the scenes the British Government wants the soldiers killed anyway, in order to smooth out possible peace talks between all the waring factions.Breaker Morant (Edward Woodward) is one of the convicted men, who finds it incredible that they should be facing such tenuous charges during a war where there the whole purpose of conflict is to kill as many of the enemy as possible by whatever means. Morant is a competent leader although disliked by some of his men. But he has seen the brutalities of war inflicted upon his friends & countrymen and yet stands charged of murder simply because he didn't fully use the official rules of engaging the enemy in a civil manner!They have a defence lawyer, Major Thomas (Jack Thompson), who although has no experience in these kind of high level trials does his best to extract as much contradictory evidence as possible against the jumped-up charges but is constantly undermined by the Prosecution & even the biased Court Committee.Typical of most Beresford films there's not an ounce of surplus fat here. The film will have you hooked within the first 20 minutes as the injustices of war are held up for all to see. And it's especially galling when governments can play Judge, Jury & Executioner without the need to explain their actions. For me Woodward, Thompson & Bryan Brown give stunning performances, fighting their own war of justice against the whims of British colonialism & the Crown.One interesting scene is when the prisoners are called in to defend the prison encampment against a Boar attack during the trial. And yet as soon as the battle is over they are put back on trial again, their heroism not even considered!Its a tough, shocking film that doesn't play the sympathy card too much. It would be too easy for a director to really lay the injustices on too thick so that the film loses its dramatic appeal and becomes nothing more than an empty tear-jerker. Beresford knows how to move an audience and by the end we are left feeling sad yet angry at how the Powers That Be can get away with murder for their own political ends.Try and track the film down if you can. It will be a moving experience, even more so if you're an Australian Republican with long & bitter memories of British Colonialism!*****/***** "},{"Title":"'Breaker' Morant - 1980 *11/3413","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Why I didn't gave this movie a 10? A certain number of reasons...- It's so obvious that this is based on a play, the way they just say their lines and they don't overlap, except in the tense court scenes, but it's still barely noticeable.- If you know the story, the ending doesn't come as a surprise, and this is maybe the strength of the ending.- It's certainly one of the best war movies out there, but its message isn't the best, it sin't anti-war, it's about the possible justification of a revenge act.- They began lying when they couldn't justify the priest's death, and that made them a little less likable. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This is a pretty good movie on a rare Anglo-Boer War theme. Set in South Africa towards the end of the War that lasted from 1899-1902 & saw the British finally defeat the Boers. Historically it is not true that Harry Morant was a victim of Kitchener's desire to appease the German's or bring about peace with the Boers. Morant & his unit executed too many prisoners -which they admitted- & were caught. The fact the the Anglo-Boer War got very ugly in its closing stages & that both sides, especially the Boers, did sometimes execute prisoners, could not save them. "},{"Title":"Breaking the Mold","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" So, who says the movies are strictly an entertainment medium. Occasionally a burst of reality manages to sneak through. In Breaker Morant we're shown what most of us suspect anyway-- that in war, the demands of politics trump the demands of justice. Kubrick revealed the lesson in 1958's Paths of Glory, where it was the French high command sacrificing three hapless dogfaces to protect France's war effort or at least those charged with waging it. Here it's the fabled British Empire on which the sun never sets and whose responsibility never ceases. It's a heavy burden-- civilizing the rabble, known to Kipling and his acolytes as the White Man's Burden. But then, it's got to be the correct white men doing the civilizing and maybe helping themselves at the same time to whatever riches the land may offer. The South African Boers simply won't do. Look at them-- there're a scruffy lot and besides they're blood related to those other white men wanting to create an Empire, the Germans. Can't have all those subjugated black Africans responding to two civilizing saviors at the same time. One has to go.Fine screenplay, a needed corrective to all those heroic thin red line celebrations that propagandized the Western world for decades. The trouble here is that the Dutch Boers fight dirty. They don't line up in disciplined squadrons and fight in a civilized manner. They're sort of like those rustic American colonists conducting guerrilla raids when and where they can. Funny how motivated the rabble can be when they're fighting for their homes and way of life. But the British are a disciplined lot. They don't take their responsibilities lightly. Just watch the robotic precision with which they execute their deadly hierarchy. The foot stomping obeisances to authority and tradition are a matter of deep pride in Crown, God, and Empire.However, the Aussies are only half British. They don't even stuff easily into the regimented coffins at movie's end. Here the three Aussie officers are no angels. They take their orders literally, and when the British high command says take no prisoners, they obey and shoot the hapless captives with no second thoughts. But then the Boers are no angels either, mutilating the unlucky British when they can. There's a message here, one that Americans in Iraq should take heed of. People defending their homes and way of life don't fight fair. They tend to get upset with foreign invaders telling them how to live. And, as the movie shows, don't expect the boys sent on the civilizing mission to come back the way they left. There's a price to pay for fighting in a dirty imperial war when it's not your home or livelihood you're defending. That's what's so unsettling to believers in the White Man's Burden about a screenplay like this. As Morant and his comrades learn too late, such wars are not about justice or noble ideals. They're about power, raw imperial power, whether it's the South Africa of yesterday or the Iraq of today. And those mighty wheels of Empire are capable of running over anything and anybody who gets in the proverbial way. Here those wheels grind in a dramatically grievous manner, and one you're not likely to forget. "},{"Title":"Scapegoats of the Empire","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" 1880. The British Empire goes to war with Transvaal and Oranje, two independent republics in South Africa. Transvaal and Oranje are ruled by the Boers, descendants of Dutch settlers. The British want to colonise South Africa for the usual reasons to acquire rich mineral deposits (specifically gold), deny other European nations the same, and to establish a staging ground to strengthen their hegemonic rule over the African continent. To this day, similar colonialist manoeuvres, largely ignored, continue across Africa.The Empire initially expects its little war to be nothing more than a colonial police action, but the Boers prove to be tough opponents. Using various guerrilla tactics, the Boer resistance manages to stretch the war out for a number of years. By 1889, over half a million British soldiers are stationed in South Africa. As news about the Empire's actions start to filter back to Britain &#x96; the British were essentially engaged in genocide, massacring civilians and setting up huge concentration camps &#x96; the British public began to raise protests. An anti-British coalition between France, Germany and Russia begins to form, ostensibly to lend humanitarian aide but really for their own Colonialist purposes.Determined to end the war as swiftly as possible, Lord Kitchener, a British Field Marshall, creates numerous special commando groups. These commandos are given carte blanch to rape and licentiously kill Boers. One such unit is the Bushveldt Carbineers, populated by several Australians, including Lieutenant Harry Breaker Morant. In total, 16000 Australians saw service along with 6500 New Zealanders.The fighting continues. Germany threatens to enter the war under the guise of protecting South African civilian populations from the unorthodox military tactics and civilian internment programs of the British forces. In response Britain cooks up a plan to end all hostilities. They will charge Lieutenant Morant, and several others, with having committed war crimes. The gesture is meant to be seen as a peace offering, a symbolic gesture which will end all hostilities and reconcile all nations. More importantly, it will give Germany no pretext for entering South Africa (she had been arming the Boers for over half a decade). Australia also supports the trial; the execution of these men will prove that she is a newly independent nation, a mature, modern state worthy of joining other big boy nations. Yeah right.Based on a stage-play by Kenneth Ross, Bruce Beresford's Breaker Morant is a legal drama centring on the trial of Morant and several of his fellow commandos. In the UK, upon release, the film was read as another bit of anti-Empire, anti-Britania bashing, then in vogue. In America it was treated as being about Vietnam (particularly the Mai Lai massacre), whilst in Australia its oft viewed as being about a poor, victimized Australia, a nation which paid a horrible price for being loyal to the British Empire. Morant is himself typically viewed as an Australian folk-hero, a brave guy scapegoated by evil Brits for doing his duty and who dies nobly against an exquisite sunrise.Beresford, though, is aiming to say something else. His Morant is a good guy, a poet and intellectual who is sacrificed on the altar of political expediency and who is corrupted and made monstrous by the very institution of war. The British and Australians, meanwhile, are hypocritical power brokers who execute men for crimes which the state itself sanctions. This is the chief interest of the film. Beresford isn't interested in condemning Imperialism but in chewing on the hypocrisy of an Empire which condemns soldiers for violence which it itself promotes. The Colonialist, then, has an ethical compass which points any direction but always for the same reason to preserve Colonialism.Though at times powerful, Breaker Morant's overly verbose, Beresford can't escape his story's stage-play origins, all points are signposted, characters take too long to say the same things, the film's audience is always several steps ahead of a script which hermetically seals up all issues, Beresford's anti-Christianity is too heavy-handed, characters are turned into walking mouthpieces, there is little ambiguity or nuance, and Beresford's aesthetic is one of predictable shot/reverse shot patterns, which are themselves predictably opened out by periodic flashbacks or attempts at pseudo-monumental compositions. It's not only that the film isn't formally adventurous, but that it says all the right things in a lowbrow manner, less righteously indignant than predictably righteous.Elsewhere historical subtleties are erased. The Boers are given no voice (the ethics of killing Boers is likewise pushed aside), the fact that they were themselves apartheid-loving is ignored, Black Africans are, of course, absent and Morant and his gang are presented as underdogs (Morant was a violent racist, described by his biographer as a con man, a cheat, a barefaced liar, the greatest male chauvinist pig of all time, an exhibitionist, racist and sadist and who joined the forces specifically to kill Boers). The film's ancestors are Stanley Kubrick's Paths of Glory and Joseph Losey's King and Country. Kubrick's film, machine-like, foreboding and portentous, dealt with a French state which views its subjects as ants, which sacrifices soldiers on the battlefield for meaningless lumps of dirt, and which then executes them for refusing to do the same. Like Beresford's film, soldiers exist in a twisted double bind. Losey's film, meanwhile, deals specifically with the British class system. Here, a soldier is charged for abandoning his post, is viewed with scorn by his upper class lawyer and is finally executed at the hands of the British class system; despite being an exemplary soldier in all respects, our hero is deemed disposable solely because he is not a member of the ruling classes.In 1902 the Treaty of Vereeniging was signed, adding Boer territory to yet another domain of pink on the British Imperial map.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Beresford's Tender Mercies. "},{"Title":"Excels as a courtroom drama","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" As a courtroom drama, this film exceeds. Mainly due in part to the splendid performance by Jack Thompson. As a war drama, I would have liked to see the POV from the Boers themselves. Overall, the acting and storyline was subdued. I came away unfulfilled. A bunch of Aussies & Brits are fighting farmers (aka Boers), who wanted to escape British Imperialism? So what? LOL! Let them have their land and freedom. If not for the absurd outcome of Harry Breaker Morant and the rest, this story would be nothing more than a mere footnote in history. If you are a fan of TV's The Equalizer, this film may pose some interest, in that you get to witness Edward Woodward's early film career. "},{"Title":"such stories have probably happened many times","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" When I first watched 'Breaker' Morant, I had never heard of the instance during the Boer War when the Australian army executed some of its soldiers so as to cover up misdeeds by superior officers. The movie does a very good job looking at the story. Aside from top-notch acting by Bryan Brown and Edward Woodward (among others) and direction by Bruce Beresford (who later directed Driving Miss Daisy), the movie brings up the very issue of war crimes. The charge was that these soldiers had committed atrocities against Dutch South Africans*. It was obvious that the entire British army - and its affiliates - had been doing these sorts of things, and that the real problem was the empire's militaristic nature. The army just wanted to make it look as though they were serving justice. And this didn't end with the Boer War. The US army prosecuted Lt. William Calley for commanding the My Lai Massacre, but the architects of the Vietnam War got off Scot free. Suffice it to say, this all applies to the current state of affairs.But anyway, this is a really good movie. Definitely one that I recommend. And I bet that the aroma truly would have been a failure!*As it is, it hardly seems worth talking about atrocities against the Dutch South Africans (known as Boers or Afrikaners), as they were the ones who established apartheid. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A friend found this for me down the local library, we watched it together and found it highly entertaining.I then did a little research on the subject and discovered the truth.I am all for learning from the mistakes of the past, I hate things being brushed over.But this film is absolutely awful in regards that it simply tells lies.If you want an entertaining film watch this, if you want to learn something give it a miss.It is in the same mold as Gallipoli, entertaining but just crammed full of inaccuracies which make the British look bad.More Australian nationalism turned into racism. "}]