[{"Title":"Okay, One Of Clint's Mokey Movies, But Still Pretty Funny","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If any animal deserved its own trailer, chauffeured limousine and personal trainer, it would be Clyde.Any Which Way You Can proves once and for all the similarities of ape to man (and in some cases, the ape's superiority).Basically, this movie is a great improvement over the stillborn humor of Every Which Way But Loose. Clint wisely plays straight man to Clyde, who provides the funniest moments, when not befriending William Smith (Big Bill Smith from the old biker movies. Go look it up.), then engaging in a bare-knuckle fight with him later on.Everyone fares better in this movie, in fact. Sondra Locke is far more graceful, Geoffrey Lewis gets more laughs, even Ruth Gordon is seen as the next Bo Derek (bless her heart).And if the Black Widows aren't more menacing this time around, well... that's kind of hard to do when you're wearing fake wigs and have penciled-in facial hair.I've seen this movie so many times myself, that I have nearly the entire screenplay committed to memory. What more indelible impression could a filmmaker want to make than that? "},{"Title":"Clint does comedy again!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This sequel to Every Which Way but Loose is as good as the first. Clyde the orangutan is back. Clint Eastwood is a retired bare knuckle fighter with a huge reputation. When a national title fight is offered, he hesitates, wanted to quit fighting. But he's forced to go through with the fight (of course - this is EASTWOOD for crying out loud!). There are many humorous scenes and I like this one as well as the first. Good one! "},{"Title":"The Further Adventures Of Clint And Clyde","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Clint Eastwood fans will correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe hes only venture into screen'comedy are Every Which Way But Locse and its successor film. This isn't the kind of stuff that Cary Grant would have been doing, but the two films do keep with Clint's macho screen image and allow him to slug a few people with some laughs in between.Nearly all the characters from Any Which Way But Loose are back in this film Any Which Way You Can. Clint is once again Philo Beddoe who works part time hauling away wrecked cars, but makes his real money in the illegal bare knuckle prize fight racket. Clint lives in southern California, probably in a place not unlike Carmel, California where he was mayor. He lives with his mother Ruth Gordon, his partner in auto collision work Geoffrey Lewis and his pet orangutan, Clyde.The last film ended with Clint not winning Sondra Locke, the country singer he lost his heart to. But Sondra's back now and when Clint wants to back out of a bare knuckle fight with reigning eastern champion William Smith because he's tired of the racket, the gangsters backing the fight kidnap her to force him to go through with it.As in the last film, Clyde the orangutan gets the lion's share of the laughs. The sex life of the orangutan gets even more screen time, Clint and Geoff Lewis don't just find a zoo with a female orangutan in it for Clyde to mate with, they actually get him an adjoining motel room with Clyde and his lady love in one room and Clint and Sondra in another.William Smith has the most interesting part in the film, usually he's a thoroughgoing bad guy in his films, but in Any Which Way You Can he's got a sense of honor and fair play, much to the distress of Harry Guardino and the rest of the gangsters backing the fight.Any Which Way You Can has the same sense of rollicking lowbrow comedy that the first film has, maybe more so. As Clint Eastwood moves into his eighties maybe he'll try comedy again. He'd be one great grumpy old man as he proved in Gran Torino. "},{"Title":"Many Adjectives Describe This","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Crude, sophomoric, irreverent, silly, stupid, overly macho, etc., etc. - yet, an endearing and very enjoyable film for a lot of people. I wouldn't put myself in that category any more, calling it endearing, but when I was a lot younger and more less discerning, I laughed a lot at this. I enjoyed this as much, if not more, than the original film, Every Which Way But Loose. Now, it's a bit too seedy and I don't care for all the abuses of the Lord's name in vain, especially in comedy. However, this is an entertaining film. No one falls asleep watching the antics of the orangutan or Clint Eastwood and his fighting opponent or the irascible Ruth Gordon. The villain in here - Eastwoood's boxing opponent Jack Wilson (William Smith) was a good guy and the bare- knuckle was something to see!It's low brow stuff, but a lot of that kind of humor was big in the '70s and early '80s. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood Superstar.","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Any Which Way You Can (1980) was a sequel to the surprise hit EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE. Clint Eastwood returns as Philo Beddoe, the bare knuckle brawler who we last saw at a cross roads in his life. Suffering from a severe case of mid-life crisis, Philo is back on the mend. Fighting a few fights on the side trying to repair his reputation. Geoffery Lewis is back as Orville (sans Beverly D'Angelo) and so is Ma (Ruth Gordon). One day, Philo befriends a big dude (William Smith) who helps him out when he was cut in a jam. Not to long after, a couple of men from a local Crime Syndicate ask Philo to fight their prize champion. Will they make him an offer that he possibly can't refuse?A fun sequel that's superior to the first film. A lot of key players return Clyde, those lovable losers The Black Widows and Philo's former love interest returns with a different attitude and look on life (Sondra Locke). I prefer this movie much more than the previous outing. One of the few cases where the sequel is superior to the original.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one my guilty pleasures. I enjoy it a lot, but I know deep down that I shouldn't. I guess the reason I like it is because it has a unique gallery of characters. You've got bare knuckle fighters, a bald biker gang, underworld crime figures, a befuddled couple on their second honeymoon, corrupt state troopers and not one, not two, but three perverted motel managers. On top of all them, the best character in the movie is an orangutan named Clyde! I also like the exciting fight scenes, particularly the climatic fight, well staged in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. It is the rare sequel that is far superior to the original. For many, that is not saying much but it is enough for me. "},{"Title":"Any Which Way is a Right Turn, Clyde!","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Right turn, Clyde! &#150; and the orangutan's fist shoots out the passenger window, impacting anyone dumb enough to have their face there. It's just one of many running gags in this inexplicable, fuzzy film.Any Which Way You Can (sequel to Every Which Way But Loose) opens with an illegal street fight, pitting bareknuckle street machine Philo Beddoe (Clint Eastwood) &#150; now a local legend &#150; against a Marine-beating bent cop, cheered on by a rowdy mix of truckers, crooked cops and busty chickie babes.While Philo ogles some jiggling boob, the cop catches him unawares. Before he rises from the sand, Philo gives his opponent a menacing look &#150; that tilted head with one eye slightly squinting&#133; All I know in this world is you don't wanna be on the receiving end of the Clint Glare. Ever. In short measure, the cop goes down. Meanwhile, Philo's orangutan, Clyde, has crapped in one of the squad cars&#133; Any Which Way You Can, written by Stanford Sherman and directed by stuntman extraordinaire, Buddy Van Horn, is one of those rare movies that takes everything good about its predecessor and mashes it up in a big bowl of wrong that tastes just right.One of the reasons this movie works is the palpable camaraderie on set &#150; even between Clint and his enemies. They've all worked with him before, in a cavalcade of past Clint classics John Quade (in High Plains Drifter) along with his Black Widow gang of Clint regulars, Dan Vadis (Bronco Billy), William O'Connell (Josey Wales), Bill McKinney (The Gauntlet); underworld bookie Beekman is Harry Guardino (last seen chewing out Dirty Harry); there's the team from Every Which Way, Ruth Gordon once again steaming the screen as trash-talking Ma, Geoffrey Lewis as ever-faithful Orville, Sondra Locke still skeletal and untalented as Philo's girl, Lynn Halsey-Taylor; (the luminous Beverly D'Angelo was sorely missed in this sequel), and then there was Clyde the orang utan, always in the background, yet somehow in the furry foreground whenever a punch or a fart was needed to punctuate the action.Philo is still trying to make ends meet in Anytown San Fernando Valley by rebuilding engines and bareknuckle boxing. A $10,000 underworld match comes his way, against a man-mountain renowned for maiming and killing his opponents, Jack Wilson (William Smith). Philo and Wilson meet unofficially in a &#150; what else? &#150; barroom brawl, eventually befriending each other enough to cancel their bout and anger all the underworld figures who organized the betting stakes. They end up fighting unofficially, the fight growing in intensity and public attention until the whole betting populace of the small town is cheering them on, all bets on.With both competitors pushing 50, we wonder how this plot could even be plausible, yet through a blend of laconic humor and outlandishness, Any Which Way makes it believable, with a wham-bam-thank-you-ham third act that makes you want to do 50 pushups and sit-ups a day, just to look half as good as these veteran, iron-thewed warriors when you're their age.There's nothing deep here; crack a beer, strip down to your wife-beater and just enjoy it. Every which way you look at it, Any Which Way is a Right Turn, Clyde. "},{"Title":"Better than the first one","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It may not be saying much, but Any Which Way You Can is much better than Every Which Way But Loose.The biker gang are funnier this time around, Clyde gets far more screen time (which is a good thing), and the big fight near the end is a fairly brutal cracker.A no-brainer, certainly, but who can resist seeing Barry Corbin driving his plane along the roads, in order to get to the fight? "},{"Title":"More of a plot this time.","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This one has more of a plot than the first one, but I still like the first one a bit more. This time the Clint Eastwood character gets reunited with Sandra Locke. Why he takes her back and so quickly is anyone's guess. A mafia type group wants to set up a fight between Eastwood's character and this real tough guy. He accepts, but later declines when they learn that the guy he is going to fight once killed a guy. The mafia people don't like the fact he backs out and tries other ways to persuade him to fight. The biker gang returns as do many of the main characters. In the end, the fight takes to place, but man is it long. To long in fact, the ending fight just drags a bit too much. All in all though it is a pretty funny movie, but there is just something about the first I still like more. "},{"Title":"A Double act which will make you go APE","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Whoever thought of the idea of having a trucker/bare nuckle fighter and an APE as his manager must have had bananas on the brain.Its a classic, humourous film.It also has a lot of action and a brillant country and western soundtrack.(Shame the soundtrack was never released)Check out the tough old lady called MA played by Ruth Gordon and the idiots that are in this film as Hells Angels.All in All,a Great Film with a great cast.Including Clyde the APE "}{"Title":"A Super Sequel","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Philo Beddoe and his sidekick Clyde are back in another hilarious film! This sequel is quite good and yes it's worth watching if you enjoyed this first film. Orville (Geoffrey Lewis) is back again to complete the comedy trio. This movie is just a great as the first movie -- both are full of knuckle-busting action and gut-busting laughs.I will recommend watching the first film (Every Which Way You Can) then watching this sequel film to get the full story. The films would make a great double feature manatee. Clint, Clyde and Geoffrey will turn any boring day into a fun filled afternoon. 9/10Confession I was thinking that Jerry Reed made a guest appearance in one of the two films - but, alas, my memory was wrong. "},{"Title":"This film I don't know why people say that it was a flop, Because it SIMPLY WASN'T","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is simply excellent. For some reason it wasn't a success at the box office in India. In New York, however, I have yet to come across a person who disliked this movie. This is definitely the funniest movie to come out in India. Everyone gives a good performance; the barbaric ape; however, just takes over and puts the movie over the top.The best part about this movie is that you can watch it over and over again an still not be content of watching it. I have watched this movie least 2000 times over the past 2 years and still it makes me laugh as if i was watching it for the first time. I have great liking for good comics like Mr, Bean, Kids from the Hall, Cheech n chong, Simpsons Movies, Monty Python series and many others but this one in Hindi is one of my favorite outstanding movies. Some of them recently in Hindi are Golmaal, Munnabhai series and Herapheri series. SO all i can say is US comedy is finally evolving. But Any Which Way You Can (1988) is pretty different from the movies i have said above. Its what i call the Hindi stoned comedy and very few of the kind found around 1994 in Hindi cinema. Cheers to Buddy Van Horn for the brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"Very Good Tough Guy Movie","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was funny, it kept you interested, the acting was very good. So therefore it was definitely worth watching although it falls a little short of every which way but loose, they tried to give it a plot but it isn't that type of movie that needs one. I did enjoy it all the way through, but then again I do enjoy walker Texas ranger, so it is right up my alley. For those who say it is dated or over macho, in all honesty they should have known that before they watched it. If you like tough guy comedy, then it is a must watch. If you like foreign films with subtitles then I suggest you stay away from it. It is a straight forward easy to understand action comedy that should be fun for the entire family. I can't say out standing but I will say very good. "},{"Title":"One of the United State's best comedies","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Practically speaking.. I don't have words to express how you feel watching this movie. This is one of the United State's best comedy movies. Well made, well directed, very well acted, the movies picks up more laughs as it develops and the climax is certainly the most hilarious. The theme is corruption in business, government and the media. Everybody is on the take, the Police Commissioner, the big bucks businessman, newspaper editor, etc.A lot of comments about this movie have centered on the apparently slapstick comedy, ignoring its usage to lend a sense of the grotesque in what is a essentially a masterful farce, and beneath the surface, more of a tragedy. However one can still enjoy it for it is a comedy worth watching. Hopefully, the viewer will see the tragedy beneath the humor.I rate this movie among the finest movies of all time, and in the class of farces, it stands alongside Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove. "},{"Title":"a funny movie","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just love this movie. I love the music in the film because i am a fan of country music. Clyde is as funny as ever. Every time he came on and done something stupid I was in fits of laughter. The motorcycle gang were just as funny when they went through the tarpit and then they started hardening up because of the tar. The other part of the film where Clint's girlfriend is kidnapped by this mob boss is pretty good. And the bare knuckle fight scenes are well choregraphed  as well.  "},{"Title":"Sequel to the best good ol' boy flick and almost as good","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The story goes that Burt Reynolds was friends with Clint Eastwood in the late 70s and Burt suggested that he would do a serious cop thriller if Clint did a comedy akin to Burt's numerous good ol' boy flicks (e.g 1977's Smokey and the Bandit). So Clint did 1978's Every Which Way But Loose and 1980's Any Which Way You Can while Burt eventually did Sharky's Machine in 1981, which he described as Dirty Harry in Atlanta. Burt lost the challenge because, not only are most of Eastwood's cop thrillers superior to Sharky's Machine, both of the Which films are superior to Burt's good ol' boy flicks, particularly the first one.Eastwood stars as easy-going truck driver Philo Beddoe who fist-fights on the side for extra money. His buddy Orville (Geoffrey Lewis) promotes unofficial prize-fights for him while his pet orangutan, Clyde, assists them. San Fernando Valley, CA, is their stomping grounds as they enjoy cold beer, country music, bars, women and the occasional fight. While Philo is an expert when it comes to fights he's not so expert when it comes to women, particularly a little country and western singer, Lynn (Sondra Locke). They're relationship ended badly in the previous film, but it may or may not be rekindled in this one. Philo, Orville and Clyde are still pestered by a gang of witless bikers (John Quade, Bill McKinney, etc) as he considers squaring off with the best fist-fighter on the East coast (William Smith). Ruth Gordon is on hand as Ma.Like the title blurb says, this is almost as good as the previous film, which IMHO is the best of the good ol' boy movies of that era. Many like it better, so it's a matter of opinion. Regardless, Any Which is consistently entertaining from beginning to end and, while it's too zany to take serious (even zanier than the first movie), the characters are decidedly human and there's a lot of warmhearted-ness mixed with the laughs and thrills. Add Clyde's amusing & amazing antics (and, less so, Ma's) and you have a worthy sequel to the eminent good ol' boy movie.Since this is a sequel and plot threads are carried over from the first film, it's best to watch that one first to fully appreciate this one. The original orangutan featured in Every Which had matured too much and was possibly dangerous so they used a different ape. Glen Campbell performs the title song at the end, which was a Top 10 hit on the country music charts.The film runs 114 minutes and was shot in San Fernando Valley, CA (and nearby areas, like Bakersfield), and Jackson,Wyoming.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Muddled and rambling plot with more than a fair share of laughs","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Full disclosure I haven't seen this movie's predecessor, EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE. However, I get the feeling that you don't need to see it in order to understand or appreciate this one. Although the plot leaves a lot to be desired and it's probably about 20 minutes too long, it's still good-natured and has a lot of humor, to boot. Clint Eastwood plays Philo Beddoe, a truck driver who also does bare-knuckle fighting, and he's accompanied by an orangutan named Clyde. The basic story is that Philo has quit fighting, but he gets strong-armed by the Mafia into doing one final fight. At the same time, he's being pursued by a Neo-Nazi biker gang called The Black Widows. While I wasn't really into this type of movie, and it certainly is not one of the better things that Clint Eastwood has been in, there were a lot of individually funny scenes that made me laugh a lot. Not only that, but they actually follow up on a lot of the gags. That's probably the highest praise I can give this movie. Other than that, the plot is a muddled mess. It seems like they just threw a bunch of stuff at the wall to see what would stick. Despite having a bunch of elements that were funny on their own, they never really gelled to make a coherent narrative. For what it's worth, all of the performances were at least decent, but Eastwood seemed like he was just going through the motions at times. The best performance of the movie, however, was the orangutan who played Clyde. There's also some good soundtrack cuts, even if I don't quite like country/western music. Last, but not least, the fighting, despite not having a lot of it, was pretty good and well-filmed. Overall, I wasn't too impressed with ANY WHICH WAY YOU CAN, but I wasn't too bored and I laughed more than a few times. It's on the bottom end of Clint Eastwood's resume in terms of quality, but you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"The continued story of a man and his monkey.","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It's hard to offer up too much of a defense for this movie, but I'm going to try. It's not high art, but it's still more fun than a lot of what's going on these days. Of course, this is the sequel to Clint Eastwood's big hit, Every Which Way But Loose, and it's just the continued story of a bare knuckle prize fighter and his orangutan, Clyde. The first one was actually pretty good as lightweight entertainment, but there's hardly enough meat there for a really good sequel. However, with that being said, if you enjoyed Every Which Way But Loose, you'll probably enjoy this one as well. It looks and feels mostly the same as the first one. Big Bill Smith is on board as a professional fighter brought in by the mob to take on Phyllo Beddoe. He's usually great to watch, and this movie is no exception. There's some good fisticuffs, and the Black Widows are back as well. I've seen better sequels, but then again, I've seen a lot worse as well. "},{"Title":"Every Which Way But Loose was bad enough...","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Every Which Way But Loose was bad enough, so, two years later, the producers decided to make a sequel. And Clint Eastwood went along for the ride.Every Which Way But Loose was Clint Eastwood's career low-point. Not necessarily the worst movie Clint Eastwood ever made, but it must be close to to it. No, a career low-point because he chose to be in it. The script alone, and the fact that his co-star is an orangutan, should have tipped him off that this movie was not going to be anything more than mediocre. He should have listened to WC Fields Never work with animals or children.The money must have been good.Quite silly, lowest common denominator stuff. Pointless, random, hole- filled plot. The whole aim seems to be to get to the next fight scene.Any Which Way You Can is more of the same. Once again, the money must have been good... "},{"Title":"Clint and his Ape...","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Any Which Way You Can is a sequel to the incredibly popular box office hit Every Which Way But Loose. It stars Clint Eastwood, bunch of character actors, loads of country music and a monkey. The sequel is sillier, more over the top and still 20 minutes too long but I enjoyed it anyway. I'm a Clint Eastwood fanboy and if he spends most of the movie acting tough, funny and punches people, I'm totally fine with it. Seeing Clint performing acts of physical violence is like watching Jimmy Page playing guitar, Brian Blessed reading the news or Jun Ji-Hyun abusing men. It's hypnotizing experience and there are no substitutes for it. The rest of the cast are fine. Sondra Locke is as unimpressive as in the previous installment, biker gang is funny, Ruth Gordon is funny and so on. The side characters are fun and the actors are hamming it up gloriously. The film was directed by Buddy Van Horn who later did The Dead Pool. It looks good, it's well made and has good pacing. You can never go wrong with directors from Clint Eastwood school of directing. The script is as bad as the previous film. It's less aimless than the original and has more concrete goal and shows some glimpses of character development. But still there are way too much filler which could have been cut completely for the sake of better pace. My whole enjoyment came out of watching Clint being awesome and punching people, I can't guarantee the same results to others.If you liked the original just fine, you will get something out of Every Which Way But Loose. It's no masterpiece but hardly the worst thing Clint has done. Don't bother with it if you are not a fan of Eastwood or monkeys of bad movies. "}{"Title":"Tyson would cringe at this","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Only men/boys without girlfriends could enjoy this movie.In spite of the final fight scenes this is not a homo erotic movie. This is a movie about single males finding their way of dealing with emotional loneliness by absorbing themselves in testosterone fuelled fantasies of fighting the bad guys and making new buddies in the process.It's always handy to be a member of a gang, even if it's just your brother, mother and a pet called Clyde. The entire plot of the movie can be easily resolved by the guy saying I love you. to the girl of his dreams, but strong men don't say that do they. In other words, this is a movie for young men who cannot find the words to say to the girl next door; so they use their fists instead. You too can be like Philo Bedo; or you can become a lawyer and earn a decent living and get the girl. Being a successful lawyer is much much harder than being a bare-knuckled boxer. "},{"Title":"A bit funnier than the first, but has a much weaker story","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" First off, do not see this movie unless you have already seen Every Which Way but Loose, as this film is a sequel to that.Now, the first film was known to have a pretty shallow story. This one has the same problem - in fact, the story seems even weaker than the first. The plot doesn't go anywhere; it sits there and watches as the film's comedy takes the wheel.The film is definitely intended to bring up laughter, but I'm not sure if it's sole purpose of production was to be a comedy. The laughs are good, but too rare to make the movie's lack of a story acceptable. The humor is very similar to that of the first film, only, like this film's story, never jumps to the point of surpassing anything we've already seen.However, despite these flaws, the film was overall enjoyable. There's not much you'd miss if you skip this one, but if you enjoyed Every Which Way but Loose, you're probably going to like Any Which Way You Can - just probably not as much as you enjoyed the first. Like the first film, the ape Clyde is the source of all true amusement, with Ma charging up a scene or two of good laughter in this one. Clint Eastwood's performance may feel a bit weaker or equal to his in Every Which Way but Loose, but it definitely adds to the experience.Overall, a good film to see if you really enjoyed the first. The two films are very similar, so much so that if you stumbled upon one on television, it may take you awhile to figure out which one you're watching. Many of the scenes take place in the same places Clint's house, the bar, etc., and there are only a few slight additions to the cast. Really nothing too new in this film, but a surely entertaining viewing if you enjoyed Every Which Way but Loose.I give the film a 6/10. I gave Every Which Way but Loose a 7/10, and this one lost a point as although it was a bit funnier than the first, the story wasn't as thought-out as the firsts at all, and I seemed to loose my interest a bit more easily on this one. Nonetheless, incredibly similar to the first film in all sorts of ways, so if the first one left you wanting more, definitely check this one out! "},{"Title":"If you're in the mood...","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" At the risk of offending those who state proudly that you don't need to be intoxicated to have a good time; plenty of beer will most likely enhance your enjoyment of this flick. Silly, low-brow humor abound, idiotic character behavior and less than stellar acting from Mrs. Eastwood (at the time) and Mr. Cool himself (ever so wooden in his early comedic roles) but it's all good if you're in the mood for this kind of film. Clyde (the orangutan) is pretty funny at times, Geoffrey Lewis and William Smith provide the quality acting and those bikers are hilarious. The scene where they're pulled over for speeding and the cop doesn't have the heart to give them a ticket is a Hall-of-Fame moment in my books. Plus that fistfight in the end is impressive. Overall; Any Which Way You Can (and it's prequel; Every Which Way But Loose for that matter) isn't for everyone but these kinds of silly comedies can really hit the spot if you're in the right mood. The country music ain't all bad either. "},{"Title":"It all has to do with the chimp","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I guess the thing that intrigued me about this film (and its prequel, Every Which Way but Loose - which I have not seen) is the ape. In fact Clyde the ape is probably what makes this film because there is little else to it that makes it all that interesting. In fact, if it wasn't for Clyde, it would be a boring movie about fist fights. The movie opens with Clint Eastwood challenging a police officer who managed to beat everybody in his marine battalion, and Clint's reply is I'm not a Marine and goes on to win - really you can't have it any other way. Clint is thinking of retiring, but the Mob from back east want him for a big upcoming fight. Clint is talked out of it so the mob kidnap his girlfriend and force him to fight. This is a fun little film, but really only for Clyde. Of course Clyde vanishes later in the film when we focus on Clint, but he is always around and up to his rather devious stuff. The thing that makes him stand out is his obsession with crapping in cop cars, and of course you can expect him to do that a little more. Oh, and there is the try-hard bikie gang who are trying to get him, but failing from stupidity. All in all, it is an okay movie, but nothing to really rave a heap about. "},{"Title":"Any Which Way You Can","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The sequel to Every Which Way But Loose is a slight improvement to its predecessor in terms of story telling, but it doesn't make it any better. Basically Philo Beddoe (Clint Eastwood) takes part in a bare knuckle fight for big money, and decides to retire from fighting and earn money with a car repair business, with the help of his friends Orville Boggs (Geoffrey Lewis, Juliette's father), and of course orangutan Clyde. But the Mafia come along to arrange a fight for Philo to take part in which many people are taking bets on, as he is meant to face Jack Wilson (William Smith). Of course Philo and Jack both originally refuse to fight, but they manage to have an argument and start fighting, not for competition, and everyone betting on them show up to watch. Also starring Sondra Locke as Lynn Halsey-Taylor, Harry Guardino as James Beekman, Rosemary's Baby star Ruth Gordon as Senovia 'Ma' Boggs, Michael Cavanaugh as Patrick Scarfe, Barry Corbin as Fat Zack, Roy Jenson as Moody, Bill McKinney as Dallas, William O'Connell as Elmo, John Quade as Cholla, Al Ruscio as Tony Rapoli Sr. aka Big Tony, Dan Vadis as Frank and Camila Ashland as Hattie. Eastwood does alright, but once again the show is stolen by his hairy co-star, possibly a little more than the previous film. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"We're even?","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A charming, and endearingly goofy follow up to the successfully hearty comedy 'Every Which Way But Loose (1978)', which starred Clint Eastwood as cool-hand, bar-brawling Philo Beddoe along with his alcohol slurping orangutan companion Clyde. Slap-stick galore with the easy-going style of the original picking up the pace and having a variety of cartoon-like characters represented by a more than capably fruitful cast (some who are Eastwood regulars). They're here for a good time and it shows. Geoffrey Lewis, Sondra Locke, Ruth Gordon, William Smith, Harry Guardino, Bill McKinney and Barry Corbin give pleasingly amusing performances. However it's the returning John Quade who's a hilarious hoot as the leader of the haplessly crony bikers 'Black Widows'. Eastwood naturally comes across cool and collected in another winning performance. The drama here feels a little more spontaneous, busy and crazy with much more bare-knuckle, sweaty fist fights (which are well-executed) and a real infantile comical imprint. Streaming through is a heart-warming music score with an appealing country swing and open photography sharply frames some beautiful locations and accordingly gets amongst the action. Is it better than the first&#133; I don't think so, but I never grow old of these fun, light-headed features. "},{"Title":"Fast & Funny Film","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Enjoyed the great acting of Clint Eastwood,(Philo Beddoe) in a very comical role along with an orangutan who is a companion and even goes to bed with Philo. However, when Sondra Locke,(Lynn Halsey-Taylor) makes an appearance in Philo's life, the orangutan is kick out of the bed. Lynn was an old girlfriend of Philo and they had a break up in their relationship and decided they really cared for each other and a romance started to bloom once again. Philo makes a living doing mechanical work on old cars and at the same time gets into fighting bouts with other guys for knuckle fights for money. Ruth Gordon (Senovia Ma Boggs) gives a great supporting role and will have you laughing in stitches. Very enjoyable film with great acting by the entire cast, especially the ORANGUTAN. "},{"Title":"Eastwood as a fighter!","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I have seen,since '93,some 13 Eastwood movies (4 of them also directed by him).I began with Unforgiven ,in '93.Eastwood is not as great a comedy actor as Newman,Willis,Brando (and Rourke,Spacey,etc.) are.None the less,he does this comedy on his own.The movie makes some use of the prosaic Eastwood stuff (country music,saloons;engine blocks;cars),things that I can't say that I enjoy so much,but that can work for his fans.The Nazi motorcyclist who is more concerned about backing some good cookies,while hosting a bikers' reunion,is gross but entertaining.What else?As an actor,Eastwood is fun;he's not Lemmon,he's not Widmark,etc.,he's not even Bronson.But he is OK.He never made any movie as good as Bronson's best flicks (-with the debatable exception of some of the Siegel films-);but he never was in movies as bad as Bronson's worst.Every Eastwood film (including Any Which Way You Can ) is at least honorable,never plainly bad! "},{"Title":"Right Turn, Clint!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  ANY WHICH WAY YOU CAN (1980) *** Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke, Ruth Gordon, Geoffrey Lewis, William Smith.   Wild and woolly sequel to the popular comedy Every Which Way But Loose with Clint reprising his role as good ol' boy Philo Beddoe, the two-fisted, beer drinker who has to face another professional brawler while also being pursued by his foes The Black Widows (The Dead End Kids meet Hell's Angels).  Once again his orangutan buddy Clyde steals the show. "},{"Title":"Better Than the Original, But Not By Much","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Philo, Orville, Clyde, and the rest of the gang are back.  Philo realizes it is time to retire from fighting and runs into the sexy country singer that he chased in his last adventure.  The mob wants Philo to fight their best man and when Philo won't they kidnap his country singer girlfriend.  Philo must come out of retirement and fight for his girlfriend or lose her. This one is better than the original.  It is a bit more funny, the acting is still decent, and the camerawork is a little better.  It is, however, a bit too long and takes forever to end.  Did they really need to bring back the biker gang?  *1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Not one of Eastwoods best, but it does have it's moments","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  No, this isn't one of Clint Eastwoods best movies.  However, it does have one redeeming point.  On occasion I'll see a list somewhere or other listing the greatest fight scenes in movie history.  And in quite a few of them the final fight scene between Eastwood and William Smith is within the top 10. If you're in to toe-to-toe, in-your-face, bare knuckled slobberknockers, this is the fight to see.  The rest of the movie you can fast forward through. "},{"Title":"William O' Connell - Comedy Genius!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes the genius of an actor isn't so much the words spoken, but the futility of words to sum up emotion the way a gesture, a look, or body language does. A moment of this kind of genius occurs with William O' Connell as Elmo. In the film after the Black Widows lose all their hair, at the scene when they are trying on wigs as to not look like a bunch  of freaks, watch the gesture and expression on O'Connell's face, the final shot in this scene. The utter look of disbelief and why me? expression is brilliant and brings to mind many of the great Comedy Film pantomimes, while contributing to them.  "},{"Title":"Monkeying around....","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If any animal deserved its own trailer, chauffeured limousine and personal trainer, it would be Clyde.Any Which Way You Can proves once and for all the similarities of ape to man (and in some cases, the ape's superiority).Basically, this movie is a great improvement over the stillborn humor of Every Which Way But Loose.  Clint wisely plays straight man to Clyde, who provides the funniest moments, when not befriending William Smith (Big Bill Smith from the old biker movies.  Go look it up.), then engaging in a bare-knuckle fight with him later on.Everyone fares better in this movie, in fact.  Sondra Locke is far more graceful, Geoffrey Lewis gets more laughs, even Ruth Gordon is seen as the next Bo Derek (bless her heart).And if the Black Widows aren't more menacing this time around, well... that's kind of hard to do when you're wearing fake wigs and have penciled-in facial hair.I've seen this movie so many times myself, that I have nearly the entire screenplay committed to memory.  What more indelible impression could a filmmaker want to make than that?Eight stars.  And watch out for those right turns. "},{"Title":"Any Which Way You Can","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Another funny outing with Easwtood and orangutan Clyde. Same laughs. Same story. Same fun. Gordon is precious once again as Eastwood's mother. A nice follow up to Every Which Way But Loose. "},{"Title":"Good sequel to one of Eastwood's best.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not as good as its predecessor but still great fun. I think they did a splendid job with the continuation of the first except for leaving out Echo. The fights are good particularly the last huge fight with Wilson this fight just seem to go on and on. Wilson is one tough looking guy with very big arms. Until Philo(Clint) shows him who's boss. I think this movie was made not only because 'Every which way but loose' was a success, but also because they felt Philo's character deserved a better ending to his story. Since the first one ended a little darker and not with a bang. They are like one four hour movie check out both if you like bar fights, bikers,cops and orangutans. "},{"Title":"You would watch it on TV, but not tell anyone","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  5.1 is right for this movie, interesting enough too watch on tv, but you would forget about this movie in a day.  Lost in the 70's type of film, out of style.  The biker gang gag fails in this one. Why would the guy go back with that horrid women from the first film.  Well I liked the heavy Clint had to fight in this one.  "},{"Title":"Right turn, Clyde","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie probably sits in every redneck's video tape pile, along with all the Cannonball Run and Smokey & the Bandit movies.  All the hilarity from the first movie is rehashed.  Tough guy Clint and an orangutan fight crooks, stupid cops, and bikers.  What more do you need?  Add insipid country music and bare-knuckle brawls and cook at 350 degrees for a cheesy delight. Clyde is noticeably snubbed in the credits, which surely is the only reason why the Academy overlooked his fine performance in this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Latent Homosexual Tensions Manifested as Bareknuckle Brawling","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Considering how atrocious I thought the first movie was it's no wonder I held off on watching this sequel for as long as I did. Well, I have to admit that this is one of those rare cases when the sequel is better than the original. Unfortunately, in this case that isn't a heck of a compliment... the movie is still barely watchable... but it's not as monumentally awful as the first of the series. Clint wants to retire from the bare-knuckle fight business but he is forced into one final knock-down-drag-out brawl with a fighter known for crippling or killing his opponents (William Smith). What develops between Eastwood and Smith is some weird kinda sado-masochistic latent-homosexual thing... where the only way they can declare their mutual love is by beating the ever-loving crap out of each other. Am I reading too much into this? I don't think soooooooooo. I think if they ever dared to make a third movie in this series it would end with Eastwood and Smith walking off hand in hand into the sunset.  "},{"Title":"Clyde Takes This One and Runs With It","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Clyde stole this movie even more than he stole EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE. But it's still a fun little ride. Clint and Sondra are involved in more dangerous situations, but the resolutions are entertaining and satisfying. We have the old gang back with Ruth Gordon, Geoffrey Lewis, and the motorcycle gang who just don't know when to quit. The ending is sad because you know that it is the end of an era. People who have been together for a long time are now going their own separate ways and living different lives. Still you can't help smiling at the end of this movie. 7 out of 10.RIGHT TURN, CLYDE. (Man, he was one horny ape, wasn't he????) "},{"Title":"Any Which Way But Good","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I recently viewed Every Which Way But Loose and its sequel over the course of two nights. I was expecting a light and entertaining work of late '70s/early '80s nostalgia. What I got made Smokey and the Bandit look like a Merchant Ivory production. The movies weren't even fun on a good-natured, cheesy level. They were bottom of the barrel stinky wads of refuse that shamefully degraded humanity and took comedy to the darkened barroom of the soul. And Any Which Way You Can was the worst of the two, if such a distinction can be made. It picks up the saga of Philo Beddoe a few months after the events of the previous film. Philo is still fighting for money, but decides that it's time to stop since he's gettin' to like the pain, which seems like a good thing, given so many hate their jobs. It's revealed early on that Clyde has a penchant for crapping in squad cars - a running gag that wasn't the plot point I thought it would be. Anyway, Philo and his simple but loyal pal Orville go to their favorite bar (maybe Philo should take up drinking for money - nah, he likes it too much...)where - lo and behold! Lynn Halsey-Taylor is performing! And for free in the hopes to win back Philo! Does he maintain his quiet dignity that he showed at the end of the first film when he walked away from the heartless, pale wraith that pummeled him while shrieking her hatred? Yeah, he does for a few minutes before storming the YWCA and whisking her away to make sweet love on the hay strewn floor of his shed. Just like Gone with the Wind. It's funny that Lynn returns and is apparently capable of change and deserving of forgiveness while the seemingly faithful Echo is nowhere to be seen nor mentioned. Of course she was flighty enough to abandon her fruit stand on a whim - so I guess she could've also fled Orville when it became convenient. That's the way the movies depict characters irresponsible and driven by their petty appetites. Philo is coerced by some mobsters to fight with a deadly brawler when Lynn is kidnapped and Philo and Co. chase after to Jackson Hole, Wyoming, pursued themselves by the painfully unfunny Black Widows. Along the way, the viewer is treated to Ruth Gordon's head super-imposed on Bo Derek, Anne Ramsey's visible pantie line, orangutan foreplay (the real deal as well as simulated by Philo while Lynn purrs her approval) and a strip poker game featuring drunken Texans and two old women! There isn't even a good enough title song - the only thing I liked about the original! And why an orangutan?! Is it something from the '70s I don't get?! Well, in the end, maybe the movie wasn't for me. As far as Clint Eastwood is concerned, I'll stick to spaghetti westerns and Dirty Harry and pretend that the Which Way mess never happened...if only it was that easy. "}{"Title":"same old, same old","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" After doing some hard boiled action movies Eastwood decided he was in need of a new image. So, from some reason unknown to mankind, he made couple of very badly aged action comedies in which he starred with an orangutan.So, in Any Which Way You Can, a sequel to In Any Which Way But Loose, Eastwood returns as Philo, a fist fighting truck driver. All the familiar characters from previous film return, along with the idiotic motorcycle Nazis, who are sworn enemies of Philo.Well, okay, this movie could have become a cult classic, but for that is far too badly made script is poor, jokes miss more often than they hit, and the action scenes are just poorly made. Now only reason to watch this movie is that damned orangutan, and even that wont last for long.As I did find this movie funny when I was a wee little kid (under ten) I might suspect that age group from 8 to 13 is most suitable for this flick. For adults I can see only the most hardcore Eastwood fans digging this one. "},{"Title":"Killing a defenseless animal is funny??? Really, Clint?","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Strangely This Movie has a Soft Spot in my Memory - I was a Freshman at College and went to see this movie with my Brother who is 5 years younger than me. He had seen the Every Which Way But Loose Precursor , and let me in on the comedic scenes. If you were 11 in 1978 it was funny. It was great to bond with him, since we always seemed to fight growing up. So 30 years later ....Well i just got this at a Garage Sale for 33 cents on DVD. I had an inkling of how bad this movie was from my memory but watching it again, phew it's a real stinker.First my review summary , about the defenseless animal comment. You will never, ever, ever, ever see this full movie on TV because of the Rattler and the Mongoose scene. Did PETA not exist in 1978? What was/is the point of that scene? I learned from another reviewer that it wasn't even a mongoose, it was a FERRET. For those of you who don't know, in Asia there used to be betting on a mongoose-rattler type of match. It's supposedly about 50-50, but like dog fighting most civilized people just don't do it nowadays. How in the heck did this scene get into a major movie? (A ferret wouldn't have a chance in this encounter. The producer just said, lets just drop a defenseless ferret into a rattler cage for fun, and stick it in the movie. ) DON'T BUY THIS MOVIE UNLESS YOU WANT TO SEE A DEFENSELESS ANIMAL KILLED. I digress too much, but I just wanted to warn people. About the restSandra Locke - Untalented, ugly, and can't sing or act.Clint - Should Stick to Tough Guy Movies. Every comedic attempt ends in disaster.(Anyone remember the 2012 Republican Convention Chair Speech)Country Music - Really Really Bad in this movie. Way beyond normal country music bad. Glen Campbell wen't way down in my eyes. I can't get the horrid title tune out of my head.Clyde The Ape - Would scare the crap out of me. Not funny, and his repeating Right Turn joke was obviously staged. (If you got hit by a real ape you could be dead). Also if he defecated in police cars, why not show it (The crap at least). Implied Crap is supposed to be funny?Other People/Characters Clint's Buddy - Pretty Good Biker Gang - Leader - Best part of the movie. Dumb, funny, harmless. They keep the movie from being a 1Ruth Gordon - Old Clint's Opponent - OK - But why the Homo-Erotic bonding scenes with Clint?Jackson Hole - Looks like a beautiful place to visit +10Plot Holes - Just the most obvious one. Are we really supposed to believe that two 50+ guys are champion bare-knuckle fighters? Two of the best in the USA? The major premise of this movie would make a lot more sense if both characters were in their 20's.All the Ape Scenes.Summary An unfunny, nasty, nasty movie. "},{"Title":"The Orangutan Steals The Film From Clint Eastwood","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This moderately funny sequel to Every Which Way But Loose once again finds street fighter Philo Beddoe (Clint Eastwood) and his orangutan companion, Clyde taking on all comers. This time out, Philo wants to join a highly publicized bout in which big money is involved. Clyde's comic mischief generates this film's only moments of genuine comedy. "},{"Title":"What genre does this belong in?","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's Any Which Way You Can is strange in that I can't figure out what genre it belongs in. I guess it's a trucker/monkey movie with bikers and violence thrown in. It had some funny moments but even Eastwood fans will probably stay away from this one. "},{"Title":"What the heck IS this movie!?","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's kind of a trucker-ape-cracker-fighting thing with... guys in bad wigs... uh... hmm. Well, it gets awfully corny and stupid awfully often, but... somehow it's fun. I'm not sure whether I was laughing with it or at it, but it did make me laugh.Besides, Clint Eastwood has a delicious voice. "}]