[{"Title":"From 13 year old bride, to becoming a Country Music Legend.  A perfect biographical film.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"59 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Biographical films that are done right can be a thing of beauty.  They can enlighten us by giving us perspective and insight into people that we may recognize by name but yet know little of the circumstances that have made up the fabric of their lives.  And if the life they led is as fascinating as that of Loretta Lynn, they can also entertain us in the process.Based on Lynn's autobiographical novel of the same name, Coal Miner's Daughter is easily one of the best films of this genre.  It is the story of how Loretta Lynn became one of the most successful Country & Western vocalists in recording history despite having been raised in the poverty stricken hills of Butcher Holler, Kentucky, marrying at the age of 13, and having several children to boot.The first half of Coal Miner's Daughter is a fascinating look at a life foreign to most of us.  As the daughter of Ted Webb (Levon Helm) and Clara Webb (Phyllis Boyens), Loretta (Sissy Spacek)seems destined to live her life just as all who those who live in Butcher Holler eke out an existence.  It seems predetermined that she will probably marry one day, that her husband will be a coal miner just as her own father is, and she will have a caboodle of young 'uns running around the hills barefoot.  One day, on a trip into town with her father, Loretta meets the irrepressible Mooney Lynn (Tommy Lee Jones) who has just come home form the service.  It isn't long before Mooney convinces the 13 year. old Loretta that they are in love and need to be married.  After convincing Ted and Clara to give their blessing, the wedding takes place, and although it isn't apparent for many years, it's a decision that will forever alter the course of her existence.One of the reasons this film succeeds on the level that it does, is because Director Michael Apted never falls into the trap of making the film judgmental about many  of the events that occur in Loretta's life.  He let's the events of the film unfold naturally, and we either accept them for what they are or we don't.  For instance, many Directors would have felt the need to implant some nefarious motive behind Mooney's relationship with Loretta. The events that happen in Loretta's childhood were what they were, and though letting a child of thirteen marry may be foreign to us, it was obviously something that may not have been extraordinary unusual back in Butcher Holler.There is another reason why Coal Miner's Daughter succeeds on all levels. Sissy Spacek plays Loretta Lynn as if she were cloned from her.  Not only is their resemblance strikingly uncanny, her speaking voice, her singing voice, her mannerisms will have you believing that it is Loretta herself starring in this film.  As if this isn't enough, Spacek was required to play a character that starts out as a naive thirteen year old girl, and ends as an adult woman who suffers through many painful and tumultuous events in her life.  Not an easy task at all, but it is the stuff for which actresses win Academy Awards, and Spacek certainly earned hers.If Spacek's performance was exceptional, the rest of the cast would merely need to be adequate to make the film succeed, but they are every bit as impressive.  Given the difficult role of playing Mooney, Tommy Lee Jones brings the character to life.  While never making Mooney appear sympathetic, he does show us that Mooney is after all a human being, subject to the same foibles and temptations as the rest of us.  Most of all, despite his failings, Jones lets us know that Mooney did indeed care a great deal for Loretta, even if such outward expressions of love were foreign to him.There's more.  Levon Helm as Ted Webb gives one of the best supporting performance ever in a film.  As Ted, he gives us a father who cares deeply about his family, doing for them what he can with what little money he can scrape by on from his earning.  He is a man who has obviously been beaten down by the drudgery and day to day existence of spending most of his life with a pick and a shovel mining coal.  It is this existence that eventually forces Mooney into his decision to not become a victim of the coal mines.Last but certainly not least, is Beverly D'Angelo as Patsy Cline, who not only befriends Loretta, but helps to teach her the ways of the world.  Her performance is so good in fact, that although her scenes aren't many, D'Angelo leaves an indelible mark that made it difficult to accept Jessica Lange in the same role.  I do not know why Jones, Helm, and D'Angelo were not recognized when Awards time rolled around as they were all at least deserving of a nomination if not a win.  Perhaps Spacek's performance was so powerful that it overshadowed the fine work done by the rest of the cast. Then again, I quit trying to figure the reasoning behind awards a long time ago.There is no doubt however, that Coal Miner's Daughter is one of the best biographical films ever.  It is one of those rare times when cast, director, writer, all came together to make a very special film.  And when they all do that I have no choice but to give them my grade which for Coal Miner's Daughter is an A+. "},{"Title":"Character Development","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"47 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The reason this film works (arguably the greatest bio-pic ever produced) is that it is ABOUT Loretta Lynn's life, not about country music.  From the opening shots of a young Loretta riding a mule to the mines with her brother, you know this will be a film about extraordinary characters.  It is over an hour before we hear one song from Loretta Lynn; director Michael Apted and writer Thom Rickman spend time to develop Loretta, Doolittle and her family.  When her father dies, the audience cries with Loretta because we know her family, her father, we understand where this girl came from and why it is such a unique transition from backwoods girl to international star.It's been said that Ms. Lynn was named after movie star Loretta Young. When approached by executives to make a movie about her life (based on her best-selling autobiography), she was savvy enough to realize that a film would end up on television anyway, and opted to have film made.  I can imagine (most likely to the chagrin of studio execs) that Apted fought to develop a script that showcased the characters over the music.  The result is a film that EVERYONE enjoys.  When the film was released in 1980, I remember people going who were definitely not country music fans, and I remember their raves after the movie.America is about the Horatio Alger storyline everyone can achieve greatness.  This film highlights that dream.  While it does fall into some cliche trappings once Loretta Lynn is a huge success (the on-the-road montage, the drugs, the nervous breakdown), there are such cliches because the pressure performers feel is one in the same.  Overall, it ages beautifully because it captures a time when the American hills spawned such unique talent (Lynn's contemporaries are either showcased or mentioned to great effect).Of special note  If Oscars could be given for past work, Beverly D'Angelo should be voted the Best Supporting Actress of 1980 for this film. Unfortunately, she was not even nominated.  You will be hard-pressed to find such a complete performance in film.  Similar in screen time and impact as Dame Judi Dench's performance in Shakespeare In Love, D'Angelo gives a Master Class in screen acting for her portrayal of the late Patsy Cline. Most likely, this flash of brilliance is what inspired the film Sweet Dreams, the bio-pic of Cline, a film that pales in comparison to Coal Miner's Daughter.This is Spacek's only Oscar win thus far out of six nominations.  She's a national treasure and this performance is outstanding.  However, you should see this film for all its elements, working to create an outstanding picture.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Arguably the best Biopic ever made.","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" There is no doubt in my mind that this film is one of the best biopics brought to the screen. From beginning to end, you are so fully immersed in the life of Loretta Lynn, that you forget you are watching Sissy Spacek, who hands down deservedly won the Oscar and 1980 was an excellent year for the Academy awards with stiff competition.From the opening sequences, you get sucked right in. The life of Appalachia and the struggles of Loretta growing up. The devotion of Doolittle, Tommy Lee Jones best role, to make Loretta the star that she should be is selfless, despite some tempestuous struggles.Beverly D'Angelo, who is underrated and versatile, portrays Patsy Cline with such bravado, it just clicks with the cast and the credibility of the audience. The fact that both her and Spacek sang on their own just enhances the credibility of the film.In summary, a must see for anyone who is a fan of Loretta Lynn and for how a biography should be filmed. "},{"Title":"Loretta Lynn's eventful life expertly brought to the big screen.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Loretta Lynn's life has been to say the least,interesting.A wife at 13, mother at 14,and walking a long path to her throne as the Queen of Country Music.Triumphs and tragedies have virtually filled her life, and it was expertly brought to life in this film.Sissy Spacek gives a dead on performance as Lynn,right down to her voice,and even does her own singing for the film.This is without a doubt one of the best acting performances of a non fictional character I have ever seen,and let us not forget the Oscar worthy performance of Tommy Lee Jones as Doolittle Lynn,Loretta's husband.He is always excellent,but he was never better than he was here.This is an excellent true story of Loretta's long journey from the Kentucky backwoods to the Grand Ole Opry stage.A must see and must own movie. "},{"Title":"Honest and Accurate","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Coal Miner's Daughter spans the decades from 1948 Kentucky to the 1970's, when Loretta Lynn had a nervous breakdown and collapsed on stage. First off, the scenes in rural Kentucky are very familiar to anyone who grew up in the mountains at that time. My own grandmother had seven brothers and sisters, lived in a cabin, and married at age 15. So I've heard the stories of her growing up, and it's VERY close to what is depicted in this film. The Butcher Holler scenes are so realistic, they make you feel like you're right there. It wasn't like the Waltons, folks. This shows how it really was back then. I will always love Loretta for her honesty and I'm sure that many women can relate to her wedding night innocence. In fact she didn't know where the babies were coming from until the first four were born. By that time she was 18 years old. It was only after Loretta's father died in 1959 that she started singing in honky tonk bars. For anybody who loved the book as much as I did, I wish they would have shown how Loretta's career affected her children. By the time her twins were born she was on the road so much that she simply didn't have time to be an attentive mother. Success didn't bring lasting happiness. Loretta's busy career caused stress which led to her pill addiction and breakdown. The scenes of Nashville in the 1960's are very accurate and Loretta's friendship with Patsy Cline is fun to watch. Patsy was like a big sister and a mother figure to Loretta. She was brilliantly depicted by Beverly D' Angelo. Sissy Spacek became Loretta Lynn for this film and seeing is believing. She was very convincing as a 13-year-old. What an amazing performance. Tommy Lee Jones redeems the character of Doo for his bad behavior and in the end he is a supportive father and husband. Loretta's parents are portrayed very accurately by Levon Helm and Phyllis Boyens. I especially liked the mother's squaw dance. Coal Miner's Daughter is a masterpiece as a song, a book, and especially a movie.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining And Factual","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" As one of the better cinematic bios, Coal Miner's Daughter deserves praise because it is such a topnotch production. Sissy Spacek gives a terrific performance in the rags-to-riches, true-life story of country music legend Loretta Lynn. Spacek does her own singing in the movie, as does Beverly D'Angelo in the role of Patsy Cline.But this lavish, big budget film has more to offer than the great performances of these two actresses. Attention to detail in production design, costumes, and makeup, plus topnotch editing combine to rev up the film's technical quality. And I loved that soundtrack with all those great country/western songs, including especially Honky Tonk Angels by the wonderful Kitty Wells. All of these cinematic elements render a film that is as entertaining as it is factual.Loretta Lynn's story originates in the South; it's a story rich in emotion and appreciation of simple home values like love, family, and perseverance. Local non-actors are brought into the film in bit parts, and that amplifies the authenticity of her surroundings, especially her Southern roots.My only problem with this film is the plot structure. The first fifty minutes could have been condensed. In particular, that part of the film that deals with Loretta's love affair with Mooney (Tommy Lee Jones), his red jeep, and Loretta's dad was too long and drawn out.But overall, Coal Miner's Daughter is amazing because it presents a true-life success story that was by no means inevitable. All kinds of things could have intervened along the way to stop Loretta's rise to the top. Her husband was a big help, but she also had talent, and she got some breaks at crucial times. Her journey from rural Kentucky poverty to Nashville mansion thus makes for a gripping story helped along by the nearly perfect performance of Sissy Spacek. "},{"Title":"Biopic of Loretta Lynn Just Gets Better with Age!","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" To me, the success of a film biography isn't whether fans of the personality will watch the movie; they will, whether it is any good, or not...the true measure of success is how the film captures an audience who DON'T know the person, and wins their hearts.Coal Miner's Daughter does this, better than nearly any other 'biopic', and the film is as passionate and wonderful today as it was in 1980.There are several reasons for the film's 'staying' power; first, British director Michael Apted, making his first American feature, brought an unbiased eye to the lifestyle of poor but proud rural America. Eschewing the clichés of the Smokey and the Bandit and Dukes of Hazzards stereotypes, he cast many 'locals' in the film, and attempted to recreate, as realistically as possible, the world Loretta Webb/Lynn knew so well.Second, the film boasts not one or two, but three powerhouse supporting performances. Tommy Lee Jones, who Apted picked over Harrison Ford, is a revelation as Doolittle 'Mooney' Lynn. With only a handful of credits when the film was released, he demonstrated the dazzling combination of humor and sensitivity that would eventually win him a place as one of our finest actors. Levon Helm, making his dramatic debut as Loretta's father, Ted, is even more impressive. Low-key, but irresistible, he offers so much love and power in his portrayal that it's easy to see why he would remain influential to his superstar daughter, long after his passing. In a brief but sparkling portrayal, Beverly D'Angelo channels Patsy Cline to perfection (I may be alone in my opinion, but I prefer her portrayal over Jessica Lange's, in Sweet Dreams). With earthy charm and worldliness, she would change Loretta's image from 'cowgirl' to 'royalty', and her shocking, early death would shatter Loretta, much as it did for everyone who loved her.Of course, without a strong, charismatic performance in the lead, nothing else would matter, and Sissy Spacek is nothing less than spectacular! Handpicked by Loretta Lynn, herself, from a photograph (Spacek would admit that she felt 'wrong' for the role, and uncomfortable about Lynn proclaiming the actress as her choice on national TV, but as she was preparing to turn it down, Coal Miner's Daughter came on a 'classical' radio station she was listening to, and she suddenly knew she was 'meant' to play the part!) Contrary to popular opinion, she had to learn Lynn's Southern accent, and spent grueling weeks learning how to sing her signature tunes (including a week with Loretta, herself). The end results are stunning! Despite only a passing resemblance, Spacek so totally captured the talent, vulnerability, feistiness, and strength of Loretta Lynn that she won the 1980 'Best Actress' Oscar (over Gena Rowlands, Ellen Burstyn, Goldie Hawn, and Mary Tyler Moore), and is still identified with the role, today.I knew little of Country Music in 1980, and even less about Loretta Lynn, but the film captured my heart...and after 25 years, it still moves me! Coal Miner's Daughter IS a CLASSIC! "},{"Title":"an awesome tribute to a great lady","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones proves once again he is the best at what he does as Sissy Spacek shines in one of new favorite films. Based upon the true story of Loretta Lynn, Coal Miner's Daughter profiles one of the greatest country singers of all time. Movies based on true stories are really hard to make since details must be mostly if not all accurate. Coal Miner's Daughter far succeeded this and what resulted was one of the best true stories ever brought to the big screen.Coal Miner's Daughter is a film that should be treasured and be considered as a classic because this is as close to greatness as you will get. Telling the story of how a coal miner's daughter went from rags to riches with the help of her husband Mooney. There is so much to learn from watching Coal Miner's Daughter that goes beyond what is shown on film.If I take one thing away from this film it would be this no matter what comes your way, always follow your heart and pursue your dreams because they will always come true. I was so proud to have seen this film because it was not only one of the best it was also an educational tool that I could implement in my life. I hope that everyone who reads this review will rent this film and get the same out of it as I did.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Performances Touch Every High Note.","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The true-life story of Loretta Lynn (dominant Oscar-winner Sissy Spacek) from her youth where she married at the tender age of 13 all the way to country music stardom. Along for the ride is her husband (Tommy Lee Jones' first legitimate role), an amazingly complex individual who has anger management and jealousy issues. Beverly D'Angelo (in arguably her finest career performance) is also a solid scene-stealer playing doomed singer Patsy Cline. Spacek and D'Angelo actually did all the singing themselves and that just elevates an already high level of performances. The direction by Michael Apted is adequate and so is the Oscar-nominated adaptation, but the excellent work by the three leads makes Coal Miner's Daughter one of the finest pictures of the early-1980s. 4.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Incredible biopic that shows a determined spirit can overcome poverty. And in the meantime it makes you proud to be who you are.","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film has always had a special place in my heart, and now that I've viewed it for the first time all the way thru it means even more. Two things first I grew up in the rural mountains and hills of Southwestern Virginia and my father earned his living as a hard working and loving coal miner. As I always said we mountain people always had great work ethic and determination. And this film proves that by showing the will and determination that Loretta had to achieve her goal. This film would not be everyone's cup of tea as many look down on southern rural folks as many see them as retarded hillbillies and rednecks. Still while watching Coal Miner's Daughter most should feel touched and uplifted as it's a great real life success story that gives many hope proving they can escape poverty.Sissy Spacek(who won an Oscar for best actress) is in top form with her portrayal of Loretta Lynn and the direction is top notch from Brit Michael Apted as he adapted the screenplay from George Vecsey's book. The film traces Loretta from her humble start in the rural Kentucky hills butcher hollow to be accurately. Loretta was poor as her daddy as a coal miner still loved and provided for her and her siblings. Loretta's only escape was when solider boy Doolittle Lynn(in one of Tommy Lee Jones's earliest and finest roles)returns to the the bluegrass as he takes her by storm and she marries young and the babies start to come. Thru this quick love affair one thing is discovered Loretta has a talent for singing.Little by little Doolittle helps her transform into a star by sending out records and slowly but surely Loretta makes appearances up to the big time. Along the way heartbreak, stress, jealousy, and pain is present yet nothing will tear down or destroy this strong country gal she's as tough and gritty emotionally as they come. Nice was seeing in a great supporting role the early work of Beverly D' Angelo who shined as Patsy Cline.This film is a great biopic a triumph of a strong determined woman who had the will and determination to make it on her talent. Loretta Lynn proved one can overcome poverty, and in the meantime be proud and never forget who you are or where you came from that's a lesson many should take in life be yourself that's another message that this classic biopic taught. "}{"Title":"Biopic Excellent, both in Content and Performances","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" If you've never seen this movie, it is a gem of the cinema world. It's the movie portrayal of the great Loretta Lynn's life, who was Country's Leading Lady and perhaps one of the earliest feminists as well. I first saw the movie when I was about thirteen, and became obsessed with it. My sister got it for me as a Christmas present and my love has not ebbed in the eight years since that first viewing.The best part of this movie is, quite simply, the acting. Sissy Spacek earned her place as my favorite actress after I saw both CMD and Carrie in succession and realized that her range of characters immersion into the roles is amazing. Sissy has an unconventional beauty--pointy nose, freckles, pale skin--that make her acting all the more genuine, since she isn't just some pretty face given a role for ticket sales.In CMD, she portrays Loretta Lynn from age thirteen to early middle age. She pulls this off remarkably well, with a face that goes from innocent and wondering to, later in life, one of tired acceptance, as a star who is constantly touring. Sissy also sang all of the songs in the movie and nailed a Kentucky accent. My favorite line from the movie is, Stop that grellin', Doo, you sound like an old BAR a grellin like that.' I'll admit--I thought Tommy Lee Jones was damn hot as Sissy's husband, Doolittle Lynn. He has icky dyed blonde hair, but besides that, he is a hulking mass of male. His character is wonderful because it isn't a clear-cut supportive husband type role. Right from the start of their marriage, Doo breaks his promises to Loretta's father by hitting her and taking her away from the coal mines. Later in marriage, a scorned Doo cheats on Loretta and drunkenly assaults her for wearing too much makeup. It's enough to create a type of villain, but there is another side to Doo. He is her faithful manager and caretaker, and you can tell that, just as when they married, Loretta remains his heart and the center of his world. It's their fame that almost swallows them up, but, without Doo, that dream would never have been realized in the first place.The story is also that classic rags to riches fare that can't be resisted. Loretta and Doo struggle with four kids on a farm in Washington before they even contemplate a go at the music world. Loretta has to learn the guitar in between doing laundry, looking after the kids, and tending the garden. She writes her own songs and performs them in honky tonks, gathering buzz. But it is their laborious road trip to promote her first record where we see how hard it was for them to break into the nation's consciousness.I would be a fool to forget Beverely D'angelo's role as Patsy Cline! The friendship between Patsy Cline and Loretta Lynn is one of the most famous in country's history, and its love and heart shine through in this movie. Beverly helps Loretta navigate the sometimes heartless gossip and traps in the music industry, and helps her to gain feet as an independent woman, as well. Beverly's strong and rich voice mirror her strength and richness as a primary character in CMD.In short, Coal Miner's Daughter is a thoroughly enjoyable, well-acted biopic of Loretta Lynn's climb from the coal mines to the top of the country music world. She is proud to be a coal miner's daughter, and you will be proud for her, too. "},{"Title":"Lorettas story before her fame is the best part of the film.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I found that this film is divided into two parts. The part before Loretta Lynn's career as a country western singer and the part after she had become a singer. I'd have to say the first portion was better.  However overall this is certainly a must see motion picture. Sissy Spacek, Tommy Lee Jones, Beverly D'Angelo and Levon Helm turn in performances that literally make the movie what it is.  "},{"Title":"One of the best biopics you'll ever see","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Released in 1980, Coal Miner's Daughter tells the true story of Loretta Lynn and her amazing journey from a poor Kentucky Coal Miner's daughter to the First Lady of Country music.Let me stress that you don't have to like Country music to enjoy this movie. Heck, I'm into the heavier side of metal and the film had no problem pulling me in. As a matter of fact, I wasn't even in the mood for this type of film last night, yet after a mere 35 minutes or so I was spellbound until the end; not to mention I found myself today watching music videos of Loretta Lynn and Patsy Cline on youtube (!!).Sissy Spacek and a young Tommy Lee Jones play Loretta and her husband, while Beverly D'Angelo has a small-but-significant role as Patsy Cline. The acting is so stellar that it seems like you're watching real people.It's useless to cite best scenes because this is the type of of high-quality film where you just press 'play' and enjoy from beginning to end.One segment I'd like to comment on, though, is where Loretta and her husband (Oliver Mooney) come back to Kentucky from Custer, Washington, for the funeral of Loretta's dad. After the funeral Oliver points out that, if they're ever going to make it in the music biz, they have to act now and travel to all the radio stations and push her first single. They put in the time and sweat and the song -- Honky Tonk Girl -- became a breakthrough hit. What's the point? We must be sensitive to the critical times in our lives when we must step out in faith and ACT if we want to be successful in our chosen call. If Loretta and Mooney hadn't put the meddle to the peddle at that critical moment you probably wouldn't be reading this.There are numerous other great segments, including Loretta's relationship with Patsy Cline and her moving breakdown on stage near the end.The film runs 2 hours and 5 minutes and was filmed in Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia.PERSONAL GRADE A "},{"Title":"Rare excellent bio.","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" A down-to-earth, true-to-life, unflashy, and unsensationalistic biopic, thoroughly believable and interesting. It's somewhat of a stretch having Spacek play a 13 year-old at the beginning and Jones a very young man. But you get used to it quickly and from that point there is nothing to complain about. Spacek is great, once again at depicting total innocence (as in 3 Women), and Jones is as terrific as he is in Cobb. Spacek surprises with a very good singing voice, and an excellent vocal impersonation of Lynn, both singing-wise and speech-wise. Although a drama, there are a couple of lighter moments; a very funny scene is when Jones tries Spacek's chocolate cake and nearly falls over - she put salt instead of sugar.This is how film bios should look like. Perhaps Oliver Stone should take a look at it, because he might just learn something from it so that he doesn't unleash on us another life-story like Nixon or Doors, both exaggerated fairy-tales, both firmly rooted in Stone's drug-induced hallucinations, and his demented view of history and politics. "},{"Title":"Top notch biopic","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is not far behind Patton as a standout in the genre of biographical films. The performances are remarkable and the tracing of a life from rural Kentucky to the bight lights and glitter of Nashville is masterfully told here.Cissy Spacek shows remarkable range coming forward from her days as the tormented teen in Carrie to the star of the Grand Ole Opry.The most surprising turn, though, is that of Levon Helm as Loretta Lynn's father, Ted Webb. For the uninitiated, prior to being cast in this role, Helm spent his time as the drummer and vocalist for the rock band self-confident enough to call itself, simply, The Band. Perhaps while working with Martin Scorsese on the documentary about The Band, The Last Waltz, Helm was bitten by the acting bug. Whatever the cause, his understated, earthy portrayal of Loretta's earnest, simple, honest, hard-working father was brilliant.Tommy Lee Jones also excels in the role of Doolittle Mooney Lynn. He takes the 13-year old Loretta from her family and proves to be the relentless force propelling her to stardom, while at the same time he fights his own demons. He's determined not to get stuck in the mines like Ted Webb, but learns to his surprise that Loretta is his ticket out. Despite his penchant for booze and womanizing, Loretta does not cast Doo aside when she reaches the stage at the Grnad Ole Opry. She no longer needs him, but she remains as loyal to him as she does to her humble origins.I'm not a fan of country music in general or Loretta Lynn in particular, but this was an entertaining look at a very different world than most of us are accustomed to. "},{"Title":"One of the best bio-pics ever","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sissy's well-deserved Oscar for one of the best screen-bios ever. Based on the book of the same name, by Loretta Lynn, Sissy knocks 'em dead as the country bumpkin turned country music star. Director Apted's clear vision of the story magnifies his ability to show a more primitive life (see also *Gorillas In The Mist* and *Nell*), and moody cinematography perfectly captures Loretta's Butcher Hollow, Kentucky upbringing &#150; where 13 is not too young to get married, and the coal dust and poverty-stricken conditions guarantee that life will be short. Along comes the brash and determined Dolittle Lynn, confounding the parents and sweeping Loretta off her feet. Jones plays the character as a hot-headed and directionless young man who comes to believe that his wife may be a talented singer. His life's direction becomes clear, and he makes Loretta his career. It is impossible to cover and entire life and career in 2 hours, and important details are sometimes necessarily dispensed with &#150; but, again, we get to watch Sissy re-invent herself before our very eyes, taking Loretta from being the ill-nourished daughter of a coal miner to being the glorious First Lady of Country Music Beverly D'Angelo is the seminal Patsy Cline - brassy and tender, and her brief turn in this film is everything that *Sweet Dreams* with Jessica Lange should have been, but wasn't. The soundtrack was a smash hit, and Spacek and D'Angelo are remarkable for doing their own singing and this helps in securing the film's place as a top tribute. Of the bio genre, there are few to compare with the superiority of this film. *Lady Sings The Blues*, *Your Cheatin' Heart* and *La Bamba* are nice tries, but only *The Buddy Holly Story* comes as close to capturing the true essence of the subject. In the Country Queen realm, television's *Stand By Your Man*, the story of Tammy Wynette, starring Annette O'Toole, did a stand-up job of telling Wynette's story, but, O'Toole's fine performance aside, the production values simply don't hold a candle to the excellence *Coal Miner's Daughter*. "},{"Title":"Great Bio-Pic","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sissy Spacek perfectly embodies Loretta Lynn and she won an Oscar that year as Best Actress. To be honest, I never understood why Tommy Lee Jones, Levon Helm and Beverly D'Angelo were not nominated as well.  D'Angelo is especially memorable as the late great Patsy Kline.  The director of this movie is not even American, but he sure did a great job in unfamiliar territory.  Even if you are not a country music fan, which I am not, this movie will hold your interest. SPOILER ALERT!!!!When Loretta reacts to Patsy's sudden death, and asks Mooney, Who am I gonna talk to now? , you get a pretty good idea about what their friendship meant to Loretta. The moment is very touching and real.  Not many movies delve into womens' friendships as well, unless one of them has a terminal disease or a grudge against men. "},{"Title":"a heart-warming tribute","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones proves once again he is the best at what he does as Sissy Spacek shines in one of new favorite films. Based upon the true story of Loretta Lynn, Coal Miner's Daughter profiles one of the greatest country singers of all time. Movies based on true stories are really hard to make since details must be mostly if not all accurate. Coal Miner's Daughter far succeeded this and what resulted was one of the best true stories ever brought to the big screen.Coal Miner's Daughter is a film that should be treasured and be considered as a classic because this is as close to greatness as you will get. Telling the story of how a coal miner's daughter went from rags to riches with the help of her husband Mooney. There is so much to learn from watching Coal Miner's Daughter that goes beyond what is shown on film.If I take one thing away from this film it would be this no matter what comes your way, always follow your heart and pursue your dreams because they will always come true. I was so proud to have seen this film because it was not only one of the best it was also an educational tool that I could implement in my life. I hope that everyone who reads this review will rent this film and get the same out of it as I did.  "},{"Title":"A Strong Sissy Spacek Role","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Biographical story of Loretta Lynn, a legendary country singer that came from poverty to worldwide fame. She rose from humble beginnings in Kentucky to super-stardom and changing the sound and style of country music forever.For me, if I think Sissy Spacek, I only think of Carrie. I know she has done other things, but that is, in my opinion, her defining role. Now, that being said, Loretta Lynn probably takes a close second. I am not sure that anyone else would have been right for the part.It seems that we need more country music biopics. When they succeed, they succeed in a big way. Both this and Walk the Line are excellent, and I suspect there are a lot more great stories of country music pioneers. Not the polished, fake country stars we have today... but the real ones. George Jones, Hank Williams and countless others. "},{"Title":"So real you can almost taste the coal dust!","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Coal Miner's Daughter Sissy Spacek was personally chosen by Loretta Lynn to play the lead in this in fabulous recreation of the story of her climb out of the Kentucky coal mine squalor to her honored place as  The First Lady of Country Music. Sissy spent months with Loretta and even toured with her to prepare. Sissy did such a great job with the vocals, recording staff on the road had an impossible task remembering which track was Loretta & which was Sissy. Early in her career Loretta Lynn meets Patsy Cline and the two form an instant friendship and are virtually inseparable until Patsy's sudden death in a tragic plane crash. (One of Loretta's twin girls born shortly after was named Patsy.) Tommy Lee Jones plays Loretta's husband Mooney . Beverly D'Angelo plays Patsy Cline. Incredibly, Sissy & Beverly do ALL their OWN singing in the movie! Extremely well done ! So real you can almost taste the coal dust! 10* "}{"Title":"Like watching Loretta Lynn...","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" There are few motion pictures that I describe as perfect. This is one of them. As much as I enjoy biopics, alas, many of them tend to be heavy-handed, with few offering stellar performances. But this picture succeeds on every level&#x97;star power, direction, story, and concept. I'm not a country music fan at all, but any great film overcomes such considerations, as this one does in spades. Sissy Spacek, is in a word INCREDIBLE. Few people have succeeded as well at truly bringing anyone, especially a world famous one, to life as well as she did, her acting abilities being on display as with few others. She was essentially, PERFECT for the role, even winning out over the great Meryl Streep for the part. She's naturally a Southerner, so the drawl came naturally to her, she virtually disappeared into the role, and her singing voice was shocking like the country diva herself, adding a dimension of utter realism to the film that few other actors could even approach. As in every great movie, it is only as good as its actors, and with the stunning Tommy Lee Jones, and Beverly D'Angelo delivering a powerful performance as Loretta Lynn's friend and confidante, Patsy Cline, was a total surprise. She also did all of her own singing, surprising me with her vocal talent as well, doing terrific, eerily accurate renditions of Patsy's classic country tunes. Tommy Lee is one of America's most underrated actors, whose wide range of often conflicted characters has made him a modern day icon. What he brought to the part was the perfect counterpart to Spacek, a naturalistic approach that was both solid and rich with nuance. Coal Miner's Daughter is a truly memorable movie, whose approach and down home country charm never gets old or dated, and will stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"how this movie came to be made","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" If you are wondering why and how Coal Miner's Daughter got made here is the history. In l980 I worked for Bernie Schwartz, the producer of this film. There was a Reader's Digest Condensed Book sitting on the coffee table in the front office. I picked it up and read Loretta Lynn's Story. I finished it and thought it would be a good TV film. I went to Bernie and told him. He called Ned Tanen, Head of Universal Pictures. He saw him the next day and got a deal. Ned figured at the very least they could sell the album since Loretta Lynn recorded for MCA records. They also owned Universal. Bernie then called Thom Rickman, who wrote it. The Englsh director, Apted, came over to direct it and they got Sissy. Ironically, I read the book because the scripts I had been reading were boring. And what happened to me.. . "},{"Title":"What's not to like?","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This true story of Loretta Lynn is a heart warmer. She came from the humblest of beginnings and rose far above her hillbilly roots. Married while still a child, she overcame abuse by her husband and developed a talent that shone brightly from Nashville. Many of her chart-busting songs were written about her personal experiences. Sissy Spacek earns a well-deserved Oscar for her brilliant portrayal of this Country Music Hall of Fame legend. Loretta hand-picked her for the role, and she looks, acts, and sings remarkably like Loretta Lynn. The two became very close friends as a result of this movie. They even performed on the Grand Ole Opry together! Her story has been an inspiration for millions of women whose husbands were philanderers. Tommy Lee Jones is extremely convincing as Dolittle Lynn, her complex, overbearing, and domineering husband. This was possibly his finest acting performance ever. Beverly D'Angelo is delightful as Patsy Cline, who was Loretta's best friend and mentor, helping Loretta learn to cope with the perils of country music. Her confidence and charisma exudes from the screen. Beverly also did her own singing, and probably should have been given the role in Sweet Dreams instead of Jessica Lange. Michael Aphed captured lightning in a bottle with his insightful direction of this wonderful movie. This film is an wonderful portrayal of the honest, hard working, loving families from the coal mines. If you haven't seen this one do it as soon as possible. If you have seen it, enjoy it again! "},{"Title":"This is what all movie musical biographies should be like.","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Larry Parks as Al Jolson in The Jolson Story and Jolson Sings Again; Susan Hayward as Jane Froman in With a Song in My Heart; Susan Hayward as Lillian Roth in I'll Cry Tomorrow; Doris Day as Ruth Etting in Love Me or Leave Me; Barbra Streisand as Fanny Brice in Funny Girl; Diana Ross as Billie Holliday in Lady Sings the Blues.Those are just a few of the wonderful movie musical biographies where a popular actor takes on the role of a legendary performer and isn't doing an imitation. Some of the performances (Doris Day, in particularly) aren't exact replicas of the original performer, but the story is so perfectly interwoven with the songs that it doesn't matter. In the case of the wonderful Sissy Spacek as Loretta (Webb) Lynn in Coal Miner's Daughter, you think you are actually watching Ms. Lynn act out her own story. Listen to Spacek singing, then switch to a CD with Ms. Lynn performing, and you can barely tell the difference. That goes double here, because you also have the wonderful Beverly D'Angelo giving a heartfelt performance as another country legend, the still much missed Patsy Cline.The first quarter of the movie shows Loretta's hardship in the mountains of Kentucky, a child bride at 14, and an expectant mother soon afterwards. Married to the much more mature Doolittle (Tommy Lee Jones in his star-making role), Loretta sings to her babies, and finally he goes out and buys her a guitar and pushes her to perform live. Ending up on the Grand Old Opry (introduced by none other than Ernest Tubb with Minnie Pearl standing in the background), she is an instant success, and when she is introduced to the legendary Patsy, the two become like sisters. It is Patsy's tragic death in a car accident that sets the stage for Loretta's ultimate nervous breakdown, as well as Doolittle's inability to stay in the background as Mr. Lynn. Unlike Norman Maine in A Star is Born, however, Doolittle won't take the noble coward's way out, and you see him grow up himself as he takes her success in stride and leads her to the path of recovery, a story that itself could become a legendary country song like the title song Spacek breaks into at the end.Breaking away forever from the Carrie mold, Spacek proved herself to be a multi-talented star, and one of the shining lights of the 1980's. Her friendly freckle faced real looks made her appealing in all sorts of roles, and here, Spacek does not appear to be acting. She IS Loretta Lynn, and even when up against the powerhouse performance of Mary Tyler Moore in Ordinary People, deserved the Oscar she received. Her breakdown scene should be interwoven with the greatest individual scenes on celluloid when clips of cinema at its best is put together. Jessica Lange deservedly won praise for her later performance as Cline in Sweet Dreams (and got her own Oscar Nomination), but D'Angelo is just as memorable. Ironically, Lange and Spacek co-starred right after that in Crimes of the Heart, along with another powerhouse, Diane Keaton. Levon Helm and Phyllis Boyens are memorable as the Webbs, Loretta's hard-working parents both strict and loving, and filled with the earthly spirit of country folk. They are not stereotypical Ma and Pa Kettle hicks, just real people in a real location making the most out of a little.The music is sensational, and the CD gives full versions of the sometimes abridged songs in the movie. When Loretta's first audience gets to hear her sing in public for the first time (the song There He Goes), you can see in their eyes that they realize that they are present to an unforgettable moment in country music history. Spacek adds humor to her first appearance on radio, telling off the DJ who lied about playing her record, and later misinterpreting a certain word which offends a radio station owner. Be warned; You will feel shudders down your back as D'Angelo breaks into Sweet Dreams, and when it is repeated on the radio as Spacek and Jones sleep, make sure you have Kleenex handy. Back in Baby's Arms, Spacek and D'Angelo's duet, shows two powerhouse actresses playing two powerhouse singers, and a lesson in how women in the same industry don't have to be competitors, but can bring out the best in each other.The clichés of these types of biographies are definitely there, but that really doesn't matter. Only once does the film seem awkward as it moves from one sequence to another, but for the most part, the screenplay flows beautifully, making this the surprise hit of 1980, the type of film that today would sadly end up on cable and be forgotten by tomorrow. "},{"Title":"What could have been an average musical biopic is elevated by the performances of Sissy Spacek and Tommy Lee Jones ...","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The more Sissy Spacek films I watch, the more I realize how unique she is. As Carrie, she was a shy constantly bullied teenager we couldn't help but feel sorry for her despite her monstrous telekinetic gift. In Badlands, as Holly, she was so blinded by her sincere affection toward Kit, that she became the accessory to some vile and cold-blooded murders. In Missing, she played a stronger character but totally powerless against the oppressive system that took her husband away. I started this small inventory just as a tribute to Spacek's talent to convey the genuine appeals of ordinary, unglamorous girls, even more vulnerable when they come from small towns. Maybe it's because she can realistically look younger than her age or because her natural beauty, elevates her above all the typical Hollywood-type female roles, the truth is that Spacek's talent is so exceptional that it can transcend the ordinary setting of any story into something that cuts straight to your heart.* That's why no other actress would have done a better job than Spacek as a Coal Miner's Daughter who grew up in family of six or seven children, married at fourteen or fifteen, gave birth to four children and became a Country legend, making the story not only plausible but absorbing. I say plausible, because even though it's based on a true story, it's hard to believe how one could overcome ignorance and poverty to reach the glittering stardom in such a rapid way. * That's why I was eager to finally watch the movie that earned her the Best Actress Oscar, the final recognition of her peers, wondering what could be so spectacular in the portrayal of a country singer, apart from the whole singing thing, it must have been quite a fascinating character. After all, the same year, De Niro won an Oscar for his performance as Jake La Motta and I don't think it was for the boxing scenes.* That's why the film grabbed me, although I'm not an expert on Country music, not to the point I knew who was Loretta Lynn. I'm not familiar either with the life of Coal Miner's community in Butcher Hollow, Kentucky. The oddest thing is that the film doesn't offer much new material, it's a wags-to-riches story, featuring many archetypal situation of a musical biopic, the first act with the hometown providing the obligatory local color, the love story, the family life, the pivotal night with the talent's discovery and the rise to stardom, the abusive manager, drugs, the descent into madness and the come-back. But you don't necessarily judge a film from the originality of its story rather than the way it handles it, and Coal Miner's Daughter has a natural fluidity in the storytelling, and Michael Apted, the director, did the best thing by focusing on the relationship between Loretta and her husband, manager, number one fan, Doolittle, played in an underrated performance by Tommy Lee Jones. As much as I loved Spacek, I think half the credit goes to Jones for portraying a character whose flaws offer many comedic situations when they're confronted to Loretta's.The Loretta-Doo is so compelling, that whenever they're alone, the narrative dynamic seems to slow down a bit; in fact, it's as much Jones as Spacek's film. He falls in love with Loretta while she's just a teenager, and after a hardly conquered 'blessing' from the reluctant parents, he marries her. But there's something odd in their wedding, she has no ring in the first place, the honeymoon is a brutal disaster, and the aftermath with the breakfast is surprisingly funny. He hits her although he promised Loretta's father to never do, he seems to regret his gesture, at that point, you would think it's a dramatic moment and genuinely feel sorry for Loretta but then, she throws the plate on her husband, bingo, we have love- and-hate relationship, she can break plates, shouts, cries, but she loves her with a strength that transcends her frail little body. Naturally, after that, Doo wouldn't care to break the second promise he made, not to leave so far from town, they settle in Washington.And in another comically directed scene, the frames are occupied by Loretta's children, one by one, Doo told her she didn't know how to cook, how to love, obviously, she made progresses. And despite his rudeness, Doo is convinced that she's better than him, than he's the privileged one. And this contributes to the remarkable road journey to stardom where Loretta goes to the conquest of America, singing in restaurants, local radios, finding a style, a hairdo, imitating her idol Patsy Cline, getting more and more confident, and revealing a fascinating three-dimensionality. For example, she's more confident in her talent, but she's still an innocent little doll who doesn't know about the word 'horny', it's ignorance, but not stupidity. And she's smart enough to insist on the difference as she's strong enough to attack the girls that try to take away her husband. It's far from a one-note performance, and Loretta, by Spacek, grew as an adult person after being a shy little teenager.The film is realistically handled, and trusts enough the story's material not to emphasize it. It's served by great performances, including a nice supporting one by Beverly d'Angelo as Patsy Cline. And speaking of D'Angelo, the film reminded me of this Simpson episode where she played the country singer, managed by Homer, Lurleen Lumpkin, I doubt her initials L.L. are coincidental by the way. No doubt the film inspired this episode and while Homer left the glamorous world of start to get back to his family, Loretta ends up being an acclaimed singer at the peak of her confidence and somewhat seductive power. Only Sissy Spacek could have made the evolution from a coal miner's daughter to the Coal Miner's Daughter singer so believable. "},{"Title":"Defines How On Can Overcome Impossible Odds To Reach Their Potential","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Coal Miner's Daughter uses Loretta Lynn's biography as a decoy to give the message that whatever obstacles are in your way, is not impossible to jump over them. For those who love country and gospel westerns will be satisfied with the beautiful music from a performer with an equally beautiful voice and gorgeous looks for that matter. It has a sense of class and culture as it gives a brief overview of the struggling working class in the 1940's and 1950's in the Ozark areas in the United States. Granted I heard the name Loretta Lynn through her music and charm (she was also in Tender Flake commercials in the 1970's and 1980's), but being a non-Country music fan (guilty), I was still impressed by the drama, the trails and tribulations of Miss Lynn's upbringing and her rise to the top of the country music industry. She truly is an icon in the music industry today and Coal Miner's Daughter really goes to great lengths to exhibit her triumphs and setbacks that she wen through in her lifetime.Our journey takes you to Kentucky where a mature young adolescent names Loretta Lynn (played to perfection by Sissy Specek) who was raised in working class squalor to a low-salaried coal miner father. She is pulling her weight to her best capacity to help raise her younger siblings in order to prevent them from becoming destitute. Thing change her life drastically when she meets a young man named Doolittle (Tommy Lee Jones). Doolittle is a decade older than Lynn and has returned home from the military. The relation between this odd couple and within a month, they eventually get married. Thanks to Doolittle, he acknowledges Loretta has a supreme gift for singing while she was singing for her young offspring. Doolittle buys her a guitar and takes her incredible talents to a new level. But this was only the beginning of her journey to super stardom.Loretta's humble early childhood memories in Kentucky inspired her to write some of the best written songs than any country music to date. But the dynamics about her is that although she gained exceptional fame, she still remained loyal to her roots and still kept in touch with. For that alone is what truly makes her a special lady.The film works very well through many layers. For one thing, Coal Miner's Daughter was played by heart. It shows tremendous respect for the iconic superstar and never falls in the category of being overly exposed. Sure like all of us in the human race, we have our ups and down and she's no different. She had to put up with the adulterous nature of her hubby, and her nervous breakdown The acting was really sublime. The chemistry between Jones and Spacek almost look as though they were a real couple. It was also a treat that Spacek successfully managed to sing her own songs without any kind of phony dubbing. In fact Spacek's voice almost matches that of Loretta Lynn's it was almost hard to compare. Spacek played her role from heart and was never caricatured or inaccurate.Same can be said for Beverly D'Angelo as fellow country star (Patsy Cline) who was never a rival to Miss Lynn and remained a confidant with her through thick and thin.Coal Miner's Daughter stands the test of time as one of the most inspiring biopics in cinematic history. It will likely move you in a way that there is always a ray of hope even in the grimmer times. Lynn showed that we could conquer our dreams if we all put our mindset on it. And it was through her music and her fame that she has come a long way to admire, inspire and to educate her listeners that through rich or poor, we could always find happiness. "},{"Title":"Coal Miner's Daughter","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I recognised the title of the film, but I didn't know much about plot or story, I had no idea it was a biographical drama, from director Michael Apted (The World Is Not Enough). This is the story of country and western singer Loretta Lynn (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Sissy Spacek) who lived in poverty in Kentucky, one of eight children, and at only 13 years old she married Dolittle 'Mooney' Lynn (Golden Globe nominated Tommy Lee Jones). Soon after moving away they start a family, and while she seemed destined for homemaking, Dolittle recognises Loretta's talent for singing, and buys her a guitar as an anniversary present. She manages to get a recording for a song she wrote herself, and her talent seems to be getting more recognition, until she has achieved fame, like the big star of the time, Back in Baby's Arms singer Patsy Cline (Golden Globe nominated Beverly D'Angelo). Also starring Levon Helm as Ted Webb, Phyllis Boyens as 'Clary' Webb, William Sanderson as Lee Dollarhide, Robert Elkins as Bobby Day, Bob Hannah as Charlie Dick and Ernest Tubb. In the film she battles with drugs, has a nervous breakdown, has a rocky marriage to Dolittle, and her friend Patsy dies, but she gets through all this to become the queen of country music. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing, Best Sound, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Sound, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical/Comedy. It was number 70 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers. Very good! "},{"Title":"Something to Sing About!","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Movie biographies, on the whole, are the least imaginative and most predictable of film genres. The typical movie biography follows the rise and fall formula. Our hero or heroine ascends to fame and fortune after a arduous struggle. Usually, too, movie bios are notoriously inaccurate unless the real-life counterparts about whom the film is being made or their spouses and relatives are there to rein in the filmmakers from conjuring up events that never occurred. Corruption of some kind sets in, and our hero or heroine either succeeds or succumbs. If the protagonist survives, most movie bios conclude on a hopeful note.In director Michael Apted's Coal Miner's Daughter, a pint-sized Sissy Spacek of Carrie fame portrays popular country music superstar Loretta Lynn from the age of 13 to her emergence as a star and eventually her collapse on stage in the 1960s. While Spacek is no dead ringer for Loretta Lynn, she has brilliantly translated the essence of Lynn in a remarkable performance. Spacek walks, gestures, talks, and even sings like Loretta, enough so that the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Science gave her the 1981 Oscar for Best Actress. It doesn't hurt her prestige that the Texas native has been nominated five other times for a variety of roles, including Carrie, In the Bedroom, Crimes of the Heart, Missing, and The River. The usual practice in biographical movies like Coal Miner's Daughter, is to have the actor or actress who impersonates the singer and who typically cannot carry a tune in a bucket is to have the actual crooner dub the performer. But not here! Spacek sings Loretta's songs in her own voice. Beverly D'Angelo, who appears briefly but memorably as legendary singer Patsy Cline, also sings the Cline tunes with her own vocal chords, too.Obviously, this verisimilitude enhances the film. British director Michael Apted of The World Is Not Enough is to be commended for this authenticity. Aside from having his performers do their own warbling, Apted filmed the most of the drama on the actual locations where the events in Lynn's autobiography occurred. Apted lensed the film on location in the actual mining community of Butcher Holler--Lynn's hometown--and he carefully detailed the bleak prospects of men and women in this rural setting. Life in this tiny backwoods town is dreary. The men either toil in the coal mines and die from a chest clogged with coat dust by age 40 or run moonshine whiskey and die from a bullet. The women have nothing to look forward to than a life of constant child-bearing.When Mooney Lynn (Tommy Lee Jones of The Fugitive) returns to Kentucky from World War II, he wants no part of his soul-eroding drudgery, but he does want 13-year old Loretta. About a month later, despite the objections of Loretta's father, who doesn't like him, Loretta and Mooney exchange vows. Their marriage gets off to a rocky start because Loretta doesn't know how to be a proper wife. Eventually, they learn to live together and raise a family. One Mooney hears Loretta singing, and he buys her a guitar. At first, Loretta doesn't want to play the guitar, but she does learn and Mooney gets her a singing gig at a nearby bar.While the first half of Coal Miner's Daughter, is the most stimulating, the second half is dull, depressing, and vague. Watching Loretta make her ascension to superstardom is great fun. Once she is at the top as a country music sensation, Coal Miner's Daughter settles into a rut. Loretta's life bogs down. She becomes a prisoner of her fame. She has to make road show tours that wear her out and her migraine headaches begin to take their toll on her. Finally, on stage become a capacity crowd, she passes out.Coal Miner's Daughter is the exception to the rule about movie biographies. This film succeeds largely owing to Sissy Spacek's wonderful performance. Although she seems too open-faced and petite for the role, Spacek more than makes up for what she lacks in actual physical resemblance by capturing the essence of Loretta Lynn.The opening scenes in Loretta's Appalachian countryside have a documentary flavor. The coal mines are genuine and many of the characters in these scenes are real coal miners. Thomas Rickman's screenplay defines the hopelessness of the coal miner's plight. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this in the theater when it first came out. I was never that big a fan of Loretta Lynn but I found myself drawn into the story of her life. Mostly because of the actors involved. Sissy Spacek gives yet another outstanding performance as the country music legend. From an awkward 13 year old who finds herself a child bride of the ambitious Mooney Lynn to the star of the Grand Oprey who is dealing with raising kids and a womanizing husband. The cast includes musician Levon Helm as Loretta Lynn's coal miner father and Beverly D'Angelo as Patsy Cline, her mentor and best friend. Sissy Spacek even did her own singing surprisingly. She deserved the Oscar she won for this role. Even if you're not a country music fan this is a worthwhile film to check out. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was dragged kicking and screaming to the theater when this film was released. I knew nothing of country music - except the occasional re-runs of Hee Haw. But I have to say that this film sucked me in right away. Turned out to be the best film I'd seen since the release of Grease. And I was shocked to find out (years later) that Sissy Spacek and Beverly D'angelo did all their own singing. Tommy Lee Jones stands out as Mooney. If anyone knows where I can get a soundtrack on CD please contact me. Congratulations to Ms.Spacek for her Oscar.  "}{"Title":"Country Musics Finest Film","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  First, I am a major country music fan.  Secondly, I love Loretta Lynn.  but honestly, when I first set out to watch this I didn't expect much.  Boy was I surprised!  Sissy Spacek is absolutely amazing in her portrayal of Loretta Lynn.  Her superior talents at impersonating Lynn is well known now.  Spacek did all of the songs in the film and on the films sound-track.  Beverley D'Angelo also does a super job at the role of Patsy Cline including the singing (again in the film and the sound-track).  Be sure to look at my review on Sweet Dreams for more on Patsy Cline.  I could not recommend this film more to fans if I tried.  This is definitely one to add to your collection.The film begins with a teenage Loretta Webb in the hills of Butcher Holler Kentucky with her large, poor family (including baby sister, Crystal Gayle - Brenda Webb) and follows her through her journey to fame and fortune.  My one complaint is the ending, it's a bit abrupt but considering that Loretta is still going strong at that time I see no other way it could have ended. Rumor has it that a sequel will soon be in the works.  Again, buy this one.  It's been re-released for it's anniversary so it should be easily found! "},{"Title":"Spacek and D'Angelo should have won CMA Awards.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I liked Stand by You Man and Sweet Dreams and Your Cheatin' Heart, but none of them even come close to Coal Miner's Daughter.  It captured the essence of Loretta much more completely than the others did of Tammy, Patsy and Hank.  Sissie Spacek is probably the best actress Hollywood has found since a couple of ladies named Hepburn, and she did an unbelievable job here.  Not only was the acting right on target, but she made the songs sound as if Loretta herself were singing them.Tommy Lee Jones and Beverly D'Angelo did great jobs also, and D'Angelo's singing sounded as much like Patsy and Spacek's did Loretta.  They could have been nominated for Oscars, too. "},{"Title":"Beverly D'Angelo Almost steals It","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Coal Miner's Daughter is an excellent screen biography. Sissy Spacek gives a great performance as singer Loretta Lynn. She is totally believable as a teen-ager and an adult. Her singing is also magnificent. Beverly D'Angelo gives an astonishing performance as Patsy Cline. Every seen of  D'Angelo's is memorable, after you watch this movie every single line she utters, you will remember. Her singing as Patsy Cline is dead-on perfect. If any performance of the 1980's deserved an Oscar it was this D'Angelo's. What an astonishing, great performance. If Sissy Spacek wasn't so great in her role, this would be a Beverly D'Angelo movie. Coal Miners Daughter contains one of the best performances (Beverly D'Angelo) of the 80's or of any decade. A Must See. Tommy Lee Jones also is in the movie.  "},{"Title":"A Southern Comfort.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Genius is God's gift to you-What you make of that Genius is your gift to God, so said Albert Einstein. Loretta Lynn and Patsy Cline were the Genius's who gave that gift of Singing to the world. Some movies emanate a feeling like you were part of the Scenery and Coal Miner Daughter is certainly one of them. Some how the Country Movies are the most authentic, I don't know if it is because of the Casting or the direction-either way this one heck of a movie that you watch cuddled up with your loved one and a shot of Bourbon! to immerse into the world of Country music and people who make'em. Spacek and Jones are the consummate Actors and how can you wrong withe the the haunting music of Loretta Lynn. There are very few actress in the genre of Sissy Spacek-may be Patty Duke, but Spacek's portrayal here is true to the core and heartfelt. It is sad that there are not enough movies like this instead we are fed this filth calledLord of the Rings Trilogy made by some unkempt Kiwi that any nerd with a Computer can create.This is simply and singularly a superb movie. "},{"Title":"Biopic that works","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I felt it incumbent upon me to comment upon Oslo Jargo's review of Coal Miner's Daughter. Every comment by Jargo is skewed and contemptuous as if if he saw a completely different version of the film than everyone else.As there has not been a different version released I can only conclude that Jargo has seen the same movie but has seen it through some layer of distortion. From whence this distortion arises we can only speculate the screen of his TV was perhaps caked with grime at the time or he had imbibed some kind of mind-bending cocktail of alcohol and narcotics before watching the movie. Or maybe he had just 'had a bad day' - the modern day excuse that justifies having an attitude and being rude. "},{"Title":"Oscar worthy performance","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Loretta Lynn (Sissy Spacek) is born to the poor Webbs in Butcher Hollow, Kentucky. She is 13 when she catches the eye of Doolittle Lynn (Tommy Lee Jones) when he returns from the war as a dashing soldier. Soon they're married and she's a mother of 4 by the time she's 19. He buys her a secondhand guitar for their anniversary as she goes on a long journey to country music fame.This is a tour de force performance from Sissy Spacek. She is asked to take on quite a long length of her life. Of course, she's never going to look 13 but Sissy gives as much of that perception as possible. Loretta Lynn comes from a poverty stricken life that is Dickensian. Her rise is the stuff of legends. Through it all, Sissy Spacek gives an Oscar worthy performance. She is believable as a love sick 13 year old as well as a suffering middle age woman. It is as much about her acting than any makeup or lack thereof. "},{"Title":"Loretta, I like the way you sing.","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I can't say that I'm a Country Western fan all that much but there are some performers I like. Johnny Cash, Willie Nelson and Waylon Jennings come to mind right off the top, but there aren't any female singers that really grab me in that genre. I go for the more soulful, mournful sound of a Janis Joplin as far as that goes. So the handful of reviewers on this board who state that this is their favorite movie of all time kind of stuns me, but who am I to say. I thought the film was a competently told story from a human interest standpoint; who wouldn't be inspired by someone who came from virtually nothing to the top of the heap in the entertainment world? I don't know anything about Loretta Lynn to speak of so I don't know how much of the picture was true and how much was poetic license, but you do have to give the woman credit. Juggling a young family and dashing back and forth to various venues to make an impression had to be a grueling experience and certainly a lot more complicated than any movie could ever hope to portray. I thought Sissy Spacek did an outstanding job in her Oscar winning portrayal, nicely backed up by Tommy Lee Jones as husband Doolittle Lynn. The picture fairly breezes by and it's two hour run seems like half that. Compared to other music biopics I've seen, I don't think it's as strong or enjoyable as Walk the Line or Ray, but my opening comments probably explain that. Still I'd recommend the film for it's look at a woman who persevered and made good, real good. And I did like the way she could sing. "},{"Title":"Thems some mighty fine lungs","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" A rags to riches biopic, Michael Apted's Coal Miner's Daughter portrays the life of pioneering Country and Western singer Loretta Lynn (Sissy Spacek). One of the first films to set in stone the genre's formula, Daughter watches as Lynn grows up amidst Kentucky coalfields and moves from a life of extreme poverty to super-stardom.Spacek, who'd do her own singing in the film, would win an Oscar for her role. Daughter finds her dealing with the genre's usual obstacles (marital conflict, prescription drugs, nervous breakdowns etc), but Apted's low-key tone keeps things feeling fresh. The film stars Tommy Lee Jones as Loretta's impetuous husband.7.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A film with great heart","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of the great American films. It has so many strengths. The father-daughter bond. The great affection and unselfishness of Lynn's husband in not just supporting her, but steadfastingly urging her to perform. The fantastic, understated but focused performances of Sissy Spacek and Tommy Lee Jones that conveys a genuine affection. The way the film depicts a strong, proud Southern culture, even in the father's funeral scene. The close friendship of Lynn with Patsy Cline is a film in itself; how, instead of seeing Lynn as a threat, Cline embraces her and encourages her to forge her own career. Finally, more than 30 years since its release, Coal Miner's Daughter stands the test of time, because it's genuinely a film with heart and soul. "},{"Title":"Loretta Lynn, the brightest diamond in Appalachia","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Coal Miner's Daughter Rating 7/10 Rank among 1980 BP nominees 4/5Biopic about Loretta Lynn, one of the most beloved country singers ever. The plot line, as such, follows typical biopic conventions, beginning with her slow rise towards stardom, followed by her stumbles and finishing of briefly with her ultimate triumph and enduring status as the First lady of country music. Lynn was heavily involved in the project, even handpicking Sissy Spacek to portray her. From the outset it's evident where her heart lies her roots in the beautiful Appalachian region of Kentucky, her family, the folk traditions she grew up with. The final scene of the movie reflects this Lynn sings proudly about her being a coal miner's daughter, while bringing attention to the almost inhumane conditions suffered by laborers in the region. Scenes which develop an almost ethnographic exploration of social dynamics in Appalachia end up being the most worthy of the whole movie, in my opinion; the indomitable spirit of searching for ways to evade the dreariness of material conditions is a quality which I, as a sociologist, enjoy watching on screen for it represents a pre-condition towards achieving empowerment and a pre-requisite for social change.After starting as a paean to Appalachian folkways, though, it segues into a too quick and not so interesting dissection of Lynn's career and the dynamics of country music, complete with numerous bright eyed references to the Grand Ol' Opry and Patsy Cline. I'm no expert on the history of country but this is precisely which ends up being relevant about this film The duality between Loretta Lynn and the portrayal of her produced by Spacek is resolved in a document which will be a definitive statement on the genre and why Lynn attained such lofty heights. I got the idea that Loretta Lynn triumphed by becoming a representation of what was so valuable to the many fans of country strength and resolve in the face of the vices which plague the lives of the economically downtrodden of the southern region of United States. Her supposed feminism, for example, could very well be called Southern Feminism as Lynn upholds the conservative values of the region by proclaiming her validity as a woman. When she catches Mooney cheating on her she doesn't separate but rather feels the need of solidifying her bond. This sociological considerations, though, stand in counterpoint to a plot line which lacked interest, for me at least, during the movie's second half, Spacek's spectacular and oh so natural, sporting a very convincing southern nasal drawl, portrayal of a naïve but strong woman notwithstanding. It, of course, won numerous and deserved awards. "}{"Title":"Honky tonk woman","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Country music does nothing for me (I always think it was America's revenge for giving us Elvis and soul music) and although vaguely aware of her name and to a lesser extent, musical status, I'd certainly never heard a Loretta Lynn song before and so I was mildly curious to see how I might take to this celebrated bio-pic.Very warmly as it happens. Invigorated by two great performances in the leads this was a very entertaining rags-to-riches tale despite the god-awful country music soundtrack which to be fair really only kicks in for the second half of the movie as Lynn follows her star to become the first lady of country (obviously following the enforced abdication of her friend and mentor Patsy Cline!).I thus enjoyed the first half appreciably more than the second as we're introduced to Lynn's family, their tadgum (if I hear that word one more time...!) tough way-of-life, her courtship by her hapless but well-meaning beau, Doo Lynn which sees, incredibly, her married at 13 and a mother at 14 (those were the days?!) before she picks up her first guitar and finds her calling on stage at the Grand Ole Opry.Although her life isn't especially eventful, okay she gets a whipping early on from her overprotective, not so old dad and Doo slaps her lightly once or twice, but besides these and a mild addiction to aspirins, Doo's occasionally straying eye, the deaths of her dad and Cline, she gets off pretty lightly compared to some other country music lives, no early death, drug addiction, alcoholism or spouse-beating episodes here (hell, Hank Williams ticked all those boxes on his own!).There's plenty of homespun humour too, particularly in the knockabout give and take between husband and wife, aided as indicated earlier by great interpretations by Sissy Spacek and a young Tommy Lee Jones. I can't comment on the authenticity of the music but there certainly didn't seem to be a shortage of the requisite steel guitar backings behind those oh so corny lyrics. In support, there are also fine performances by The Band drummer Levon Helm (now there IS a singer!) and Phyllis Boyens as Lynn's quietly supportive parents and also by Beverley D'Angelo as the surprisingly down-to-earth Patsy Cline.In short a feel-good movie which rightly resists the urge to sentimentality in favour of a naturalistic style which showcases its subject matter very successfully and entertainingly. Still don't care if I never hear another Loretta Lynn song again, mind... "},{"Title":"You're Lookin' at Country","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Seldom does Hollywood come up with a bio as good as Coal Miner's Daughter. Everything in the film jells. For the first and only time Hollywood even gets the hill culture of Kentucky and Tennessee correct, right down to the proper banjo style used at the time of Loretta's childhood, claw-hammer frailing. The speech patterns used by the cast are on the money as well. Coal Miner's Daughter is shot entirely on location in the hills of Kentucky and Tennessee, unlike many a film, such as The Shepherd of the Hills where the Rockie Mountains become the hills of the Ozarks, or True Grit, where the Rockies stand in for the locale of western Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma.Though Sissy Spacek is outstanding and deservedly won an Oscar for her performance, Tommy Lee Jones and Levon Helm are even better. Tommy Lee Jones captures the essence of the character he is playing right down to the mannerisms of the real-life Doolittle 'Mooney' Lynn. Levon Helm of The Band fame is so convincing that the real Loretta nearly believed she was seeing her father's ghost. Beverly D'Angelo turns in a top notch performance as the wild and rowdy yet immensely talented country icon Patsy Cline. An added feature that makes Sissy Spacek's brilliant rendition of Loretta Lynn so appealing is her uncanny ability to sing like Loretta, even using the proper voice intonations.Loretta Lynn is truly a county music superstar who helped change the course of America's down-home folk-laden blues-based contribution to the world of music by continuing the work begun by Kitty Wells and Patsy Cline in allowing women a lead role in what was a male-based genre. It is an effective maneuver to feature Kitty Wells' It Wasn't God Who Made Honky Tonk Angels as a prominent influence on the early musical development of Loretta. Permitting the real Ernest Tubb to perform in the bio is also a treat. There is at least one anachronism that slips through the cracks, but it is a minor, insignificant one. The version of Bill Monroe's seminal Blue Moon of Kentucky is the one he released during the time Elvis was performing a rocked up rendition of the song. This update is much faster and has fancier mandolin picking than the original released when Loretta was growing up in Kentucky. Still, it is to be enjoyed and savored.Sissy Spacek is able to put on celluloid the image that is in reality no image but a fact Loretta Lynn is the real thing. She is country as her song states, unlike so many of present-day Nashville entertainers. Born and reared in poverty in Butcher Holler, Kentucky, Loretta's raw talent and genius enabled her to become a country music innovator, one with authentic roots. That her performing and musical abilities are phenomenal is apparent. She plays, writes, performs and sings ballads, honky tonk songs, and most of all topical tunes which place American women in a new more liberated setting. The Pill, Don't Come Home A-Drinkin', and One's On The Way as sung by Loretta are anthems for housewives around the world. Sissy Spacek captures this ambiance to highlight Loretta's success. "},{"Title":"Country Music's real-life 'Cinderella' story","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a real-life rags to riches 'Cinderella' story.Kentucky teenager Loretta Webb (impeccable performance by Sissy Spacek) meets Doolite Lynn (played by Tommy Lee Jones), a young man nearly 10 years her senior. They fall in love, get married, and raise a family. Impressed by his wife's natural singing skills, Doolittle coordinates reluctant Loretta's path to stardom in the Country Music business. Loretta's parents and Patsy Cline nearly steal the show.Loretta succeeds in the the Country Music industry in spite of her appealing naiveté and lack of a formal education, and this fact is vividly portrayed in this 1980 movie classic.Get out your handkerchief for the scene where Loretta learns of her friend's demise; it's one of the saddest I've ever seen in a movie.The singing (by Sissy Spacek and Beverly D'Angelo) is quite impressive in this film.I've read Loretta's book, Still Woman Enough, which was written AFTER the death of her husband, Doolittle Lynn. While Coal Miner's Daughter is an excellent film, the movie (and the book) did not elaborate on the full extent of Loretta's abuse by her inconsiderate husband. Certain omissions were most likely intentional (in order to maintain harmony in the Lynn household). Loretta is a true classy lady.Coal Miner's Daughter is an entertaining movie that depicts Loretta Lynn's impressive rise as one of Country Music's reigning female entertainers. "},{"Title":"born to poverty married at 13 a mom at 14 a member of the Grand Ole Opry at 27 and a Grandma At 29","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" An Amazing film Based on the Book Coal Miner's Duaghter about the life of country Music Legend Loretta Lynn. Sissy Spacek Played Loretta from age 13 to age 40. From the hills of Kentuckey to hurricane Mills Tennese. It Showed the Great Friend Ship between Loretta Lynn and Pasty Cline(born 9/8/1932 died 3/5/1963) Played By Beverly D'Angelo. Also Both Sissy Spacek and Beverly D'Angelo. The since Diseaed Doolittle Lynn WAs Played By Tommy Lee Jones. The Film also has the real Ernest Tubb play him self. The Whole movie was filmed in Kentuckey and tonnes. Loretta Lynn Had 4 kids before she was 18. She had twins Peggy named after her sister Peggy Sue and Pasty Named after THe late great Pasty Cline. "},{"Title":"In the top 10","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I am no fan of country music. You can even say that I hate it. However, this is the greatest country music biography. It is one of the greatest movies ever.I loved every actor in this film. Did it when best casting? It should have. Tommy Lee Jones was by far the best, in fact, he is one of the best actors by far.I said earlier that I am not a fan of country music, but if I ever went to a Loretta Lynn concert, and saw Loretta Lynn and not Sissy Spacek, I would feel cheated, the movie is that great.Its fun watching the whole movie over just to hear Sissy Spacek say, cut it out, Doo, you sound like an ol' baar a-growlin'. Am I the only one who was upset that Beverly D'Angelo was not cast to play Patsy Cline in Sweet Dreams? This by far is one of the greatest biographical films, even one of the greatest movies ever. I highly recommend it. Don't rent this film, buy it! It is a classic film that you will never become bored by. "},{"Title":"Academy Award Winning Film","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Story of country singer Loretta Lynn. She was married at 14 and had 6 kids by age 20. Sissy Spacek actually sang all the songs (no-dubbing). Beverly D'Angelo also sang the Patsy Cline songs. More a story about how a husband and wife had to adjust roles as Loretta became more and more famous. Fantastic acting, haunting scenery and a joy to watch. Tommy Lee Jones played the domineering husband. He finally realizes that his ignorant 14-year old wife wasn't so dumb after all. Lots of music. You don't have to be a country music fan to appreciate.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sissy Spacek is funny and wonderful as Loretta Lynn. She looks and sounds just like the real Loretta Lynn ,you'll get sucked right into the whole thing like your really there with her experiencing her life.The way its played out is so good and you really understand exactly how tough it was for the real MS Lynn to make it to the star she is today. Just about everyone thought she was a stupid hillbilly when in reality she was smarter than most people realized.Her husband played nicely by Tommy Lee Jones was a bit of a louse but realized her talent and started her on the road to fame. Lots of nice backdrops of all the little towns she traveled through and also a very good portrayal of Patsy Cline by Beverly D'Angelo(even more surprising is how well she sings Patsy's songs in her own voice) hard to imagine she did National Lampoons Vacation movies which were such a step down from this.i have enjoyed watching this movie over and over and always see something new in the background. A wonderful tribute to a lady who's made us all feel good over the years with her music. "},{"Title":"A first rate movie on many levels and highly recommended.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sissy Spacek won an Oscar that was well-deserved, and the movie itself was nominated for Best Picture, so this is good stuff, no doubt. The problem is this. Just about everyone remembers Loretta Lynn first hand, if perhaps a little hazy or distant in their past, and where biopics can take one of two paths, documentary or dramatization, this one chooses, more or less, the former. Therein lies the problem.Sweet Dreams dramatized the life of Patsy Cline, and took literary license to do so. Historical context wasn't critical since the story was taken out of time and treated as literature. Coal Miner's Daughter plays much more like a documentary, and as lame as it might sound, the only thing missing is a datetrack. We can place some of the story based on its intersection with Cline's tragically shortened life, and some based on a few other cues, but the story leaps ahead in fits and starts that sometimes are brief and sometimes span years. As a result, we lose our bearings with regard to timeline, and the documentary aspect fails.With that said, the life story of Loretta Lynn is well worth seeing, and this biopic stands head and shoulders above almost every film of its genre. Spacek's performance is nothing short of miraculous, and anyone who ever saw Loretta Lynn will swear Spacek was channelling the country music superstar every moment of the way. The depictions of Appalacian poverty in coal mining towns are dead on, and solidly grounds this film. Her singing was utterly fabulous, and although her accent was laughable at times, it is also dead bang, since Lynn's accent was always a little amusing anyway.I think the connection between Lynn and Patsy Cline was overplayed, and it reads like a screenwriter's trick. Amazingly, Lynn's connection with Conway Twitty, easily as seminal a relationship in her career as her association with Ernest Tubb, to which the film alludes but inadequately explores, is completely unmentioned. Still, a first rate movie on many levels and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Sissy Spacek delivers","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones proves once again he is the best at what he does as Sissy Spacek shines in one of new favorite films. Based upon the true story of Loretta Lynn, Coal Miner's Daughter profiles one of the greatest country singers of all time.  Movies based on true stories are really hard to make since details must be mostly if not all accurate. Coal Miner's Daughter far succeeded this and what resulted was one of the best true stories ever brought to the big screen.This is a movie that should be treasured and be considered as a classic because this is as close to greatness as you will get. Telling the story of how a coal miner's daughter went from rags to riches with the help of her husband Mooney. There is so much to learn from watching Coal Miner's Daughter that goes beyond what is shown on film.If I take one thing away from this film it would be this no matter what comes your way, always follow your heart and pursue your dreams because they will always come true. I was so proud to have seen this film because it was not only one of the best it was also an educational tool that I could implement in my life. I hope that everyone who reads this review will rent this film and get the same out of it as I did.   "},{"Title":"One of the best biopics","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm watching this movie for probably the 20th time or so and still find the film fascinating.  I'm not a big country music fan, but you have to be amazed at the performances in this movie.  Sissy Spacek won a well-deserved Oscar, but Tommy Lee Jones delivered an outstanding performance as Doolittle Lynn, a part that easily could have been one-dimensional.  Beverly D'Angelo delivers as Patsy Cline, and both actresses stretched themselves further by singing all their own songs.  Film treats Loretta Lynn with respect by being as honest as her music, and the only thing wrong with the film is that it compresses about fifteen years into twenty minutes of film time towards the end. "}{"Title":"Almost perfect rags to riches biography","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Everyone remembers 1980 for two of the best performances by ACTORS, Robert DeNiro's Jake LaMotta and John Hurt's John Merrick. However, 1980 also saw one of the greatest performances by an actress, ever, Sissy Spacek's Loretta Lynn. Like Hurt and DeNiro, Sissy reached deep into the heart and soul of the person she was portraying.( And she sang pretty good , as well).Tommy Lee Jones and Beverly D'Angelo were also superb.Admittedly, I would not recommend this film to anyone who has a strong antipathy to country Music, or who regards the hill folk of the south as Neanderthal sub-humans,and there are some problems with the film after Patsy Cline dies (There have been problems with a LOT of things since Patsy Cline died.); Still, it is a superior entertainment..and something more. It is , in a way just as deep a meditation on the price of celebrity as certain other films of that year-Raging Bull, The Elephant Man, and Melvin and Howard. "},{"Title":"Out Of The Holler.","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" There's poverty and then there's poverty. The worst of it is in the urban areas east of the Mississippi and in Appalachia. One look at that cataclysmic dilapidation is enough to make the stoutest heart sink. Poverty in the rural South, though we often hear about it, has a comfortable quality. One coexists with the pigs lolling in the barnyard. California doesn't know the meaning of genuine visual despair. Every time they try to make a movie about poor people in Los Angeles, they fail because the settings come out looking like some middle-class area in East St. Louis.But Appalachia looks like what it is, or what it used to be. The shacks are genuine crumbling shacks. The mud is gray and sandy, and the weather usually cold and drizzling. Howard Hawks' Sergeant York showed us Gobbler's Knob, Tennessee, or whatever it was called, under the blue skies and warm sun of Hollywood's back lots.Not here. You can understand immediately why Tommy Lee Jones, condemned to the coal mines, is dying to get out before he dies of lung disease like so many other miners. He marries the virginal Loretta and deflowers her brusquely in a motel room so shabby that it might be encountered in nightmares.As a husband, Jones isn't a terrible guy. After all, he bought her her first guitar. He's just a bad guy -- anxious for her success before, and jealous of it afterward, batting Loretta around, conducting adulterous affairs. The movie more or less follows the usual pattern, a triumph now and then, interrupted by the occasional tragedy. The exploitative male is now as formulaic a figure as the femme fatale.I haven't been much of a fan of country and western music since adolescence but remember fondly the kick-ass energy of Hank Snow. Lately, I've heard a few real musicians among the ranks, Buck Owens and Willie Nelson, but mostly the artists achieve about the same level of musical proficiency as the amateurs in Nashville, who wrote their own songs for the movie. You could do it too.What made Loretta Lynn's songs different -- her voice was undistinguished -- was its contemporary content. I wouldn't say she was to country music what the Beatles were to pop rock, but, after all, a song with a title like Don't Come Home From A-Drinkin' With Lovin' On Your Mind must resonate with modern women in a way that, say, Git Along Little Doggies does not. One of her songs was about being widowed by the draft during the Vietnam war; another was about the pill. That's pushing the envelope, considering the intended audience.In the lead role, Sissy Spacek, un-made-up, unglossed, unglamorized, passes for fourteen years old without any trouble. She's a pleasant and cheerful woman too, and cute, and she provided me with surprisingly professional support in the unfailingly dull Crimes of the Heart -- a thin story made bearable only by my own magnificent performance. Tommy Lee Jones as the philandering husband who drinks too much is his usual jumpy, sinewy self. He's a subtle actor and has fine control, but it's the sort of role enactment that doesn't bring all that many awards. "},{"Title":"Sissy Spacek did a great job....but I just didn't care.","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sissy Spacek earned the Oscar for Best Actress for playing the lead in Coal Miner's Daughter and I can certainly understand why. However, I must admit that while I really respected her performance, I didn't particularly care for the film. On the strength of her performance alone I give the film a 7.So what did I dislike about the film? Well, it all boils down to not caring one bit about the characters. While this is a true story, I just didn't see any compelling reason to care about them or want to see the film and I found myself becoming rather bored. So what if Loretta Lynn went from being dirt poor to becoming a rich singing sensation? This alone was not enough for me. Her husband seemed like a jerk and she seemed a bit pathetic in the film--like they were guests on The Jerry Springer Show who just couldn't let each other go. He screamed, cursed and acted trashy. And, she mostly put up with it. When she did put her foot down, it wasn't very hard and the film ends with just this sick couple--and no resolution. To me, there just was no compelling reason to see the film other than to marvel at the singing of Spacek (and Beverly D'Angelo, now that I think about it). I just don't understand the devotion people feel to this film--even though it IS well made.By the way, to set the record straight, Loretta was actually 15, not 13, when married--which wasn't that unusual for the time. I assume they made her appear to be 13 to create greater tension or dramatic impact. "},{"Title":"Wonderful  movie","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" One of the best movies I've seen. Absolutely true to Loretta Lynn's life. The acting of both Sissy and Tommy Lee was superb. Could watch this movie over & over. It's a Wonderful story about a special woman. The locations made you feel like you were there. The love the family had was so obvious. The singing was amazingly good. The emotions were raw like her life. The humor was probably what saved them all. GREAT rags to riches story. This story could never have been fiction it had to be true. The lady that inspires this movie is someone who has seen and lived it all. To have survived all she has and still be alive to tell about it today is truly a miracle. "},{"Title":"Comments on Coal Miners Daughter","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think this is one of the best movies of all time. Sissy brings a heart grabbing life to the character. Ms. Spacek is obviously one of the most under-appreciated actresses ever. I would recommend any of her movies to anyone. "},{"Title":"Loretta Lynn what A singer!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have this movie at home and thought it was a great movie. I especially liked that sissy spacek and Beverly D' Angelo did a great job of singing in this movie!The Acting in this movie was really great and the songs. I felt that I had known Loretta all my life now!This movie actually showed the relationship between Patsy Cline and Loretta Lynn. "},{"Title":"Worth waiting for !","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I missed Coal Miner's Daughter when it was originally released and it never seemed to appear on British Television. It was only recently thatI at last managed to buy the video which I have already viewed three times inside ten days. I can understand why Sissy Spacek received the Oscar for her superb performance - she even looked convincing as a fourteen year old and I have twins of that age so I should know. Tommy Lee Jones also gave an immaculate performance as the husband - at first domineering and then having to accept a secondary role to his more talented wife.A friend of mine who hates country and western music watched the film with me last weekend and confessed to enjoying every minute although he said he could have done with sub-titles for the Kentucky accents. "},{"Title":"The title fits the movie perfect.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times and liked each time.  I think that the saddest part was when her father died and the best part was when she became famous.  I liked her reaction on the night of her wedding when she was going to sleep in her clothes.  Sissy Spacek played the perfect Loretta Lynn. She looked just like her and really sounded just like her.  I could see this movie a hundred more times and never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"The beauty of her hungry years eclipses the too-much-fame third act...","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It's not overstating or overselling Coal Miner's Daughter to say that Sissy Spacek nails the role of real-life country singer Loretta Lynn, and miraculously so; she embodies Lynn's spirit, and transforms herself before our eyes. Watching this in the theater with a big, enthusiastic audience, you could feel the viewers bond with Spacek's Loretta from her very first shot in the movie. Spacek reaches the audience in a magical (and yet natural) way we empathise with her immediately and inherently know she's a good person. Loretta's rise from poverty in the backwoods of Kentucky (beautifully captured) to Grand Ole Opry sensation is just about perfection, and Tommy Lee Jones as volatile husband Doolittle and all the supporting players match Spacek's charm and intensity. This is a movie with a whole lotta heart, and the music (performed by Spacek and Beverly D'Angelo as Patsy Cline) is wonderfully authentic. The film does stumble in its last act, with Loretta overcome by success. Yes it's a true story, but the concluding events are haphazardly flung around and the screenwriter seems at a loss for a strong finale. Right up to the end however, the acting is very strong, and we come away from the picture knowing a lot about Loretta Lynn--and respecting her. As for the (mis)fortunes that fame brings--we've been down that road before. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Cubic Zirconium","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Okay, can't believe I am going to say this-- but I didn't like it. And I loved this movie when I was a kid in the 80s. But looking at it now, over thirty years later, I can't get over how odd it is hearing someone else sing Loretta Lynn's finest tunes. Let's face it-- as good an actress as she is, Sissy Spacek is not going to be appearing at the Grand Ole Opry anytime soon. I don't understand why Universal didn't pony up and just lease the original recordings and have Sissy lip-sync it. Is this a case of an actress' vanity, wanting to impress audiences that she can sing on a par with a Nashville legend?In a similar vein, I'm not hep on hearing Joaquin Phoenix and Reese Witherspoon fill in for Johnny & June Carter-Cash in Fox's WALK THE LINE. It sounds phony-- like watching a movie about diamonds, knowing the whole time that the gems on display are actually cubic zirconium.Look instead at what Touchstone did with the hit film WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT-- they knew that as good as Angela Bassett was, a fitting tribute for Tina Turner would be to showcase the songs as originally sung by her. Admittedly, Laurence Fishburne sang Ike's parts, especially on Proud Mary with Tina herself-- but that is understandable given the real- life estrangement of the Turners and the fact that Ike was probably not creatively involved in the film at all. The film was about Tina's story, and it featured her voice on the soundtrack.Anyway, back to COAL MINER'S DAUGHTER-- a big thumbs down. When I watch something where country superstar Loretta Lynn is the main subject, I want to hear her sing, not a pale vocal imitation. In the same way I would not accept Loretta Lynn acting as Sissy Spacek in a biopic about the actress, I do not accept Sissy singing as Loretta. I want the real thing. Please give the cubic zirconium to someone who doesn't know the difference between the original and the fake. "}{"Title":"She was Proud to be a Coal Miner's Daughter","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Based on the autobiography by Loretta Lynn, this film is the story of her life from childhood in Kentucky to her worldwide fame as a Country music entertainer. Sissy Spacek stars as Loretta, and plays the part very well, even winning an Academy Award for Best Actress.Fan of country music? Or a fan of Tommy Lee Jones (who plays Loretta's husband Doolittle), you will fall in love with 'Coal Miner's Daughter.' Honestly, the portrayal of Doolittle by Jones is probably his best role to date, and yet he wasn't even nominated for Best Actor. All songs in the film are sung by Sissy Spacek and Beverly D'Angelo (who plays Patsy Cline).Many famous country artists make cameo appearances of themselves in the film as well, from Ernest Tubb to Minnie Pearl (the Grand Ole Opry). Levon Helm of 'The Band' portrays Loretta Lynn's father, Ted.'Coal Miner's Daughter' is true drama at its best. You will laugh and cry when watching this film. It's a true tear jerker. "},{"Title":"Very good biopic - if you're not in love with Sissy Spacek yet, well...","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Biopics often feel like legends being written from scratch, bordering on lies like wishful thinking dramas. They too often stand for shadows of hyper egos that want to rewrite their own (shallow?) history and therefore often miss the rightness that would make them gripping - often miss what would make good movies out of them actually ('Walk the line', 'Ray', Purple Rain').Well, it's not the case at all with 'Coal Miner's Daughter'. True to life, maybe because it's based on an autobiography and does not pretend to be anything else than the portrait of a woman (Spacek - seldom was an Oscar so well deserved) beautifully served in a sort of trio where the woman, her husband and her friend (Beverly D'Angelo as Patsy Cline) sing together in a fractured, sometimes dissonant choir. But a choir that always feel right, to the point, and never over-streches. Certainly because the characters themselves have their lot of complexities - but never exist through them only.Direction and photography go along the same line they are honest and straightforward and don't go fancy. 'Coal Miner's Daughter' is therefore very refreshing. It just feels right all the time - and is casted as brilliantly as possible, with a personal, fascinating performance from Sissy Spacek (jeez, I even do prefer her singing to Loretta Lynn's) and marvellous, 'in tune', support from Beverly D'Angelo and Tommy Lee Jones - the only trouble with the latter may well be his hair which is so weirdly dyed (!). Apart from that, awesome performance - renders love, admiration, but also cupidity, loneliness, in great style.All in all, it's feels good to, at least, find a biopic that's a great, non over-rated movie. "},{"Title":"Well Told Story Of The Life Of Loretta Lynn","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I'll admit right off the top that I'm not in particular a fan of country music, and that nothing about this movie is going to make me a fan of country music. Having said that, Coal Miner's Daughter is worth watching from a human interest point of view. It's quite interesting to watch Loretta Lynn's evolution from the poor daughter of a backwoods Kentucky coal miner into the renowned Queen of Country Music.The performances here are superb. Sissy Spacek brought Loretta Lynn to the screen perfectly, and Tommy Lee Jones was her equal as Loretta's husband Doolittle. The ups and downs in their relationship are well documented. We watch Doo struggle with Loretta's uncertainties as his 13 year old wife, and then the tables are turned as he deals with his own feelings of inadequacy when she becomes larger than life and he doesn't quite know how to fit in. Loretta struggles with the marriage as well, and also from a breakdown on stage at a concert. There was also a good performance from Beverly D'Angelo as country legend Patsy Cline, who takes Loretta under her wing.There's nothing much exciting about this movie, but tracing Loretta's career from singing on the porch to her younger siblings at her daddy's house to singing on stage at the Grand Ole Opry is interesting, and even motivational as we watch her rise out of poverty. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Very good but usual biopic failings still there","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I really liked this movie and had been eager to see to for many years before finally getting around to it. The performances are superb, the music is timeless (it's mostly Loretta Lynn and Patsy Cline songs after all) and the plotting of the film was very naturalistic without the destiny injected into many biopics. My one real problem is the problem I have with most biopics and that is the complete lack of the family. I understand the film is about Lynn and her husband being a major part. What about Lynn's brothers and sisters? Better yet, what about Lynn's own children? They are briefly glossed over so you know they are there but where is the emotional and binding ties of the family that is inherent in any persons life, even famous country stars. "},{"Title":"Coal Miner's Daughter-Well Worth the Shovel ***1/2","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sissy Spacek won an Oscar for portraying Loretta Lynn in this 1980 biography and Tommy Lee Jones, who portrayed her husband, should have been Oscar nominated. Spacek and Jones are just perfect in this musical story.There are a few inconsistencies in the film. Why was that man shot at the beginning of the film? If Lynn's father loved her so much, why did he allow her to marry at 13 to someone they knew for about a month? Is this an example of rural southern behavior at its worst?The film shines due to the fact that Spacek did her own singing. She is matched every way by Jones's outstanding performance as her husband, the man who knew to get away from the coal mines as soon as possible.Beverly D'Angelo appears in a much understated performance as the tragic Patsy Cline. It was with her untimely passing that Lynn became the Queen of Country Music.Lynn certainly wasn't much of a mother as she quickly leaves 4 children behind in pursuit of her career. Adding twin girls for a total of 6 doesn't seem to complicate matters at all.British director, Michael Apted, successfully conveys the southern country musical scene in this film. Even Minnie Pearl shows up in Nashville but just smiles and says nothing. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not, I can find one unrealistic thing (but it doesn't drag down the film at all).","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I knew loosely about Loretta Lynn before I saw Coal Miner's Daughter. When I saw the movie, I not only got a sense of her personal life, but also of the culture out of which she grew. We see how her family was one of the most destitute imaginable, with more children than they could handle, and so Loretta's parents felt like they had no choice but to marry her off at the age of thirteen. As for Doolittle, we see how he clearly had a lot of problems - namely drinking and womanizing - but was a decent person at heart.From the beginning, the movie fascinates. Playing a thirteen-year-old, Sissy Spacek has no trouble looking the part. As the story progresses and Loretta ages, she still looks the part (I don't think that I've ever seen anyone else do that; that alone may have been what won her the Best Actress Oscar). Tommy Lee Jones is equally great as Doolittle, showing him as a sorry but still respectable person.There was one mildly unrealistic thing that I noticed in the movie. Loretta's father Ted (Levon Helm) looked a little too clean and polished for someone who spent his days working in the coal mines. But that doesn't drag the movie down at all. CMD is a very good movie, affirming Sissy Spacek and Tommy Lee Jones as two of the greatest actors of our time.Among other things, the movie also shows that Michael Apted (happy birthday, Michael!) is a director whom we need to recognize more. He also directed the 7 Up series, Agatha, Continental Divide, Gorky Park, and the never-released-on-video-or-DVD Stardust, among other things.Anyway, it's a very good movie. I definitely recommend it. Also starring Beverly D'Angelo as Patsy Cline. "},{"Title":"Sissy Spacek is Loretta Lynn","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sissy Spacek so remarkably captured the essence of Loretta Lynn in speech, singing, mannerism and looks that she swept all major awards for Best Actress for 1980 from the Academy Awards, Golden Globes, National Board of Review, National Society of Film Critics, New York BAFTA, Film Critics Circle, and the LA Film Critics Association. A truly remarkable accomplishment for anyone. Doing her own singing, she was so convincing that her version of the song Coal Miner's Daughter was released as a single that became so successful it was nominated for a Grammy award. Loretta Lynn herself wanted Spacek for the role and the two became good friends. At the Academy Awards for 1980 Coal Miner's Daughter was also nominated for Best Picture, Best Supporting Actress for Beverly D'Angelo (she did her own singing to in the role of Patsy Cline), Best Screenplay, Best Cinematography, Best Fim Editing and Best Sound. This is a good movie about the amazing story of Loretta Lynn who didn't self-destruct in her career and was born poor, got married at the age of 12½, had four kids by the age of 18, became a grandmother at age 29 and stayed married to the same man for 48 years. I don't think this was a good enough film to have been nominated in the Best Picture category for an Oscar but it is a well made biography adapted from Loretta Lynn's book and I think this movie will always stand up through time. I would give it an 8.5 out of 10 and recommend it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie Of All Times","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have watched this movie and enjoyed it immensely. It is the greatest movie outside of Sweet Dreams-The Patsy Cline Movie. Hope you guys decide one day to do a follow-up on Loretta Lynn using Sissy Spacek again as the fabulous Loretta Lynn. It would be dream come true.Luke "},{"Title":"Sissy Spacek was superb!","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Loretta Lynn has long been one of my favorite country singers. Sissy Spacek became Loretta Lynn and learned to sing her songs so well that it was hard to tell the difference.  Sissy earned several Academy Awards in this film, but they could only give her one. "},{"Title":"The Best Part Of This Film Is PATSY CLINE!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Now Loretta Lynn is a good singer and legend. But this movie is only watchable because Patsy Cline is in the story. Beverly D'angelo is wonderful as the late Patsy Cline. She brings The Cline back to life. I'd say if you wanna watch a good movie about legends get Sweet Dreams.  "}{"Title":"I agree with all the previous comments...","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" ...this is an excellent movie and every time it is on TV or cable, I do watch it, and have been doing so several times a year since it was released. However, there is one sticking point very few people have realized, and it took me over 20 years to do so myselfIn the movie, the last time Loretta and Patsy Cline are together, Loretta tells her she's pregnant again, supposedly a week before Patsy Cline dies on March 5, 1963.  Loretta's twin daughters are born on August 6, 1964If the above is true, Loretta Lynn should be famous not as a country singer, but as the first woman who has given birth after a SEVENTEEN MONTH'S PREGNANCY!!!Either the daughters are a year older than posted, or that part of the movie is fictitious.I love biographical movies, and I wish they were more truthful than they are and while this movie is closer to the truth, I was really disappointed to come across this discrepancy. "},{"Title":"MADE Sissy Spacek!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's hard to believe it's been 22 years since this movie came out.  And it's maybe NOT so amazing that it holds up as a classic.Spacek came to our attention through Carrie, but it was Coal Miner's Daughter that proved she was capable of the range of dramatic parts that she's known for today.Gotta say it pretty much elevated Tommy Lee into the big time as well.. but the SAD part is that Beverly D'Angelo is much better known as Clark's long suffering wife in the ..Vacation.. series than she is for her great acting and singing in this movie. "},{"Title":"Simple and Heartwarming","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Simple, heartwarming tale of much loved country singer/songwriter Loretta Lynn and her life from poor Coal Miner's Daughter to the world's biggest country and western female since Patsy Clein.What makes the film such a winner is the infectious, homely screenplay from Tom Rickman, the down to earth direction from Michael Apted and the strong central performance from Sissy Spacek.Tom Rickman's balanced adaptation of the autobiographical novel by Loretta Lynn and George Vecsey makes the astute direction of Apted look all the more impressive with its ability to tell a plain old, grass roots story and give it real warmth and humanity.But really, top marks to Spacek who won an Academy Award for her portrayal of the simple, back woods hillbilly from Butcher Holler, Kentucky who took the world by storm with Honky Tonk Girl, You Ain't Woman Enough and many other fine country hits. Credit also to the support cast, including Tommy Lee Jones as DoLittle Lynn, the young soldier who married the thirteen year old Loretta, and after rather lacking understanding for her needs, discovered her raw talent for singing and strumming a guitar. Beverly D'Angelo pops in as the late, great Patsy Clein who befriends young Loretta and takes her under wing.Ralf D. Bode captures Kentucky and Tennessee with skill, editor Arthur Schmidt is on the ball while those tunes come from you know who.P.S. Spacek and D'Angelo sang the songs themselves. Incredible!Wednesday, December 4, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"good, but not quite good enough","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't like country music.  I don't scream every time I hear it or think about suicide or even think about never hearing it again.  It's just that I do not like it.  So, 'Why get Coal Miner's Daughter?,' you may ask.  Well, for one, it was nominated for the Best Picture Oscar back in 1980, so that in itself is a legitimate reason.  I'm not familiar with movies from 1980, but I do understand why this was nominated for Best Picture.  Also, Sissy Spacek won the Best Actress Oscar.  Her acting definitely was excellent and it's awesome that she sang all of her own songs.  Tommy Lee Jones also acts well and the whole story line is quite interesting indeed.BUT, this movie has two major flaws.  The first flaw is the manner in which the movie is cut.  It seems to jump from scene to scene without any decent explanation of whether the scene is six days or six years from the previous one.  This adds to a somewhat flawed understanding of how quickly or how slowly Loretta Lynn achieved fame.  My second major complaint pertains to the music.  Yes, it is well-performed and fits well with the movie, but after a while, it gets tired.  You seem to start hearing the same few guitar chords with only a small change in the lyrics.Nevertheless, it's definitely worth a watch and it does a god job of portraying her life. Overall B "},{"Title":"Good.. But TOO LONG!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sissy Spacek plays Loretta Lynn; Butcher Holler farm girl turned Grand Old Opry Singing Legend!I've always had huge admiration for Spacek; she sure can act her way out of a paper bag. Admittedly, I just saw this movie for the first time today, and I thought she was very good in it. I kind of thought she was better in the first half though, after she gets all famous, for some odd reason, she start to become disinterested in her, perhaps it's because you know she's reached the top, and you can stop rooting for her.Tommy Lee Jones is also dynamite as her husband, Doolittle. Jones seems to be playing the character one short level above being a total jerk, as I thought he was going to turn at every opportunity, but he just hung in there, though thick and thin. A great part.As I said above (well, not really) the movie stretches on for a little too long. After she reaches fame and fortune. Now what? It goes blah, and we start to lose interest. The whole movie, when I think about it now, seems to pack a hell of a lot of stuff into it, with MOSTLY success, but mainly, again, in its first half.  "},{"Title":"One of the better music biopics","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Hollywood seems to like Country and Western biopics. Both Coal Miner and Walk the Line and Ray took Oscars - all good stories with good music - but I have to say that Coal Miner's is probably the contender for the most realism. There is something about the opening shot of horse and cart that is authentic - and the miners' houses and clothing etc;It is a film about relationships, principally Loretta and her husband Do, which was a stormy one according to sources.The film is made by Sissy Spacek's performance which is very strong and compelling.Definitely worth the viewing if you haven't seen it, and worth viewing again if you have. "},{"Title":"Read the book & loved the Movie.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best book adaptations I have seen. Sissy Spacek did an excellent job portraying Loretta Lynn  she did all the singing herself. It is my favorite biographical movies with great acting by Sissy & Tommy Lee Jones.  I have the soundtrack too! "},{"Title":"nice 7/10","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sissy Spacek and Tommy Lee Jones shine in this charming/flawed rags to riches piece.  The acting is great, and the music is authenic.  The opening is wonderful, but one can't help and think that the final third is a bit over-cooked.  Enjoyable film that is a bit unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Good Heartwarming Story. Good Acting. Poor Editing","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This biography of Loretta Lynn succeeds on a few levels One is that it's a true story or at least factual. Two - the acting done by both Sissy Spacek and Tommy Lee Jones are well done. Spacek as a bright eyed, young and overwhelmed Loretta thruout the film serve as a great setup for the climax near the end of the film. Jones as a upfront, cocky, self-confident Doo serving as the catalyst behind teaching Loretta about the importance of chasing your dreams. I also enjoyed Beverly D'Angelo's performance of Patsy Cline, and Levon Helm's perfomance as Ted Webb. The fact that both actresses sang all their own songs is a testament to the film's quality. However the chronology of the movie is fuzzy, really never any mention of the years passing by. Each segment seems to jump 4 or 5 years ahead making it annoying to gauge whats happened - when. Other than that its a good movie that I would recommend it to all viewers of all ages. "},{"Title":"I don't remember it this way","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It's funny how memories play tricks on you. I remember watching Sky King and Roy Rogers and a Randolph Scott western on Saturdays as a child. Then I would watch Porter Wagonner & The Wilburn Brothers. The Wilburn brothers had a new singer named Loretta Lynn. She would sing the same song for weeks until she learned a new one, and then would sing that for weeks and learn a new one.The movie Coal Miner's Daughter made it seem like she came out of nowhere and rocketed to the top. My memory says she paid her dues just like all the rest. Who knows where the truth lies.What I do know is that Sissy Spacek was fabulous in this film, as was Tommy Lee Jones and Beverly DeAngelo. The music was exquisite and the story was well worth watching, even if it probably wasn't true. "}{"Title":"Yet another weak biopic","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  When it comes to bringing biographies of famous people to a screen format, that should exclusively be the job of TV series such as Biography. Hollywood shouldn't waste their time pursuing these big budget biographical epics that just about never succeed especially ones about singers. The victim this time around is country singer Loretta Lynn portrayed here by Sissy Spacek. The soundtrack features many of Lynn's most popular songs but that's about all that's worth noting. This film is a real downer. "},{"Title":"Hillbilly Jokes","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  You know you're a redneck if you're so damn illiterate you put salt in a pie instead of sugar.  You know you're a redneck if you impress a girl by driving a junky jeep up the side of hill made from coal slag.  You know you're a redneck if Minnie Pearl just clapped for you.  You know you're a redneck if your husband just beat you in front of a celebrity.  No folks, this ain't Jeff Foxworthy, though my real last name is similar.  It's not even Larry the Cable guy because if it was this review would have nothing but boob and fart jokes.  I do have trashy relatives though  my mother and her cousin Joan did get in a fist fight once over who was going to eat the turkey skin at Thanksgiving dinner.  I recommend putting this movie, which isn't so good after all, on a double feature with The Blue Collar Comedy Tour Movie.  And the always underrated Beverly D'Angelo is better at playing Patsy Cline than Jessica Lange was in Sweet Dreams. "},{"Title":"lousy bliblical epic of poverty","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Coal Miner's Daughter is the type of film constructed that seems to recreate meager events as important but in reality they are nothing more than fabricated fluff which attempt to move us in some way.What we have here is an endeavor to create a bliblical epic about a disproportionate life of poverty. There's no Marxist analogy though, just an acceptance of lousy conditions under the brutal and greedy mine companies. The noble life of poverty is supposed to make us side with the righteous Loretta Lyn, played like a spiritless doll by Sissy Spacek.Enter the ignorant young girl who dreams of a better life. She meets up with an abusive drunk loser and falls in love. Simplistic, even idiotic. She's vicious at heart, loathing her brothers and sisters, even her parents who are warped by an infatuation with Appalachian Christianity, complete with moon shining hypocrisy, etc. Her claim to fame, shown in an uncritical light, is that she can sing like an injured cat.What appeal this would have to intelligent people is beyond me, obviously it is made for the masses who cry at such nefarious laid back stories that are ideal for showcasing lies which manipulate emotions. It's biased, and only casts Loretta Lyn as a benign genius who can sing and act like a saint, everything really human about her, including her faults, which would make the story interesting, is left out. "}]