[{"Title":"Not for children","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  That is, not for those with child like tastes.  If you require non-stop action ...  move along.   The characters are set up nicely and Walken is just too cool, I think it's his best performance.  Most of his fans don't know about this movie but it's a gem.  There are a few scenes I would have left on the cutting floor but they can be overlooked.  There's a scene with his doctor that is worth watching the whole movie over.  But there's plenty more.  There's good dialog, nice scenery, some action and some characters you actually care about.  This is not an assault on your senses; you will have to pay attention to enjoy it.  But it will be worth your time.  If you are a fan of Christopher Walken, then it will be well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Quite interesting&#133;","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Shannon (Christopher Walken) is a mercenary war who accepted for the sum of 15,000 dollars to fly to a fictional country in West Africa on a survey mission to procure military information concerning the stability of a dictator's regime, his position strength, and if there is any chance for a coup? Posing as an American naturalist&#151;especially in native birds&#151;Shannon landed in Zangaro and gathered all the facts he needed but after suffering a brutal beating from the guards for taking pictures of one of the mistresses of the dictator's in front of his compound&#133; When he's offered a large amount of money to gather a well-equipped mercenary force and go back to Zangaro and lead a military takeover, he reluctantly assents&#133; The assault has authority, power and unexpected... consequences. So don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Perhaps A Difficult Novel To Adapt For Cinema","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The great thing about reading a Fredirick Forsyth novel is that you're educated while being entertained . He gives you facts and details on everything from modern jet fighters to Ukrainian history . The problem with this though is that the info tend to hold up the narrative which makes a Forsyth novel difficult to successfully translate to screen and to be honest the original THE DOGS OF WAR novel isn't really a book that will appeal to a cinema goer who's into no brain action shoot them ups . I can forgive this since I know what to expect from a Forsyth story but would Mr action fan ? I can just imagine a disappointed Arnie/Bruce/Sly fan slagging the movie off for having only two battle scenes , one at the start of the movie and one at the end , so let me point out that if you're expecting to see DIE HARD IN AFRICA it's maybe not you're kind of movie If there's a problem with the movie it's mainly down to the structure of the novel with much of the running time taken up with planning the coup , getting the equipment , hiring the boat etc . I also noticed the dialogue was a bit iffy  Which one of your men do I kill to make way for mine ?  . Things like structure and dialogue don't matter too much on the written page but tend to leap out at you on the silver screen , but as many of the commentators on this page have pointed out it's an action film/political thriller with a brain . It's perhaps not as enjoyable as say THE DARK OF THE SUN or THE WILD GEESE but there's certainly entertainment to be had trying to spot the actor before they were a well known face "},{"Title":"Existential mercenaries go to war for war's sake. One of best of breed.","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Lean, pared down to action, efficiently told story of a mercenary band with a code of honor worthy of Hemingway's life maxim grace under pressure. Walken's performance is truly riveting, simply acting the truth without embellishment, this is professional soldier whose purpose --- loyalty to his fellow soldiers and dedication to his task --- is clean and spare get in, win, get out, come home has been rarely topped in movies. A modern day samurai with fatalistic existential details all pass with utter credibility and uncluttered and unremarked on. Chillingly well told. Once it grips you, you will not be released until the end credits. Cuts to the bone. Jack Cardiff's cinematography is a textbook of low budget, maximum effect visuals. Walken seems skinned by combat; you never doubt this is a peak experience for him, there are no alternatives. "},{"Title":"A good match for the times","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I tried to read The Dogs of War when I was in high school in the mid 70's and got bored; yes, I had the attention span of a gnat and Forsyth's novel was both dry and clinical in its careful examination of the platinum-driven purchase of an African nation. I saw the movie on cable in the early 80's and, thanks to its prudent editing of what I perceived as the book's excesses, I gave Forsyth's story my own inconsequential (in the grand scheme of things) stamp of approval. I finally read the book in 2000; somewhere along the way I picked up a used full-length attention span! I've seen TDOW about five times (the last was yesterday; Superbowls generally bore me worse than dry, clinical novels) and I have to say that this is a rarity, a movie better than the book. Whether it was Christopher Walken's jerky, paranoid performance, the superbly shown squalor of the capitol of the country about to be taken, or the pathetic, teary fear in President Kimba's eyes, I was both hooked and pleased by the film version. The Dogs of War isn't a great film or a well-known one, but it was both entertaining and diverting. All a viewer needs on Superbowl Sunday! "},{"Title":"Anybody want to buy a Coup'?","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The best of the hired killers takes out a bassackwards third world African nation in ten minutes or less genre. Christopher Walken fans will love this one as he occupies the camera for about 98% of the film and does an admirable job playing ringleader to a small band of mercenaries hired by London's Enron branch to take down some dude with a Gucci sword named Kimba, the benevolent ruler of Okka Bokka Boo. The pace is a little slow for my tastes but they threw in my favorite girl next door, JoBeth Williams, as Walkens ex-wife just to keep me occupied while the guns were being shipped in from Switzerland or somewhere. All I can tell you is the climax is worth waiting for. It's outstanding actually. The DVD is a little disappointing. 2ch sound and no widescreen. See if you can spot Ed O'Neill from Married With Children fame. 7 hand grenades/10 "},{"Title":"Solid tale of murky financial enterprise and it's violent muscle","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Frederick Forsyth's novels always lay firm ground for a screenplay adaption and next to Fred Zinneman's 1973 Day Of The Jackal this is the finest of the batch. It is not by any means perfect film-making as much of the sequences move along in a very by-the-numbers fashion, though never clumsily. Director Irvin seems more adept at the handling of his cast. Walken is solid as the coldly pragmatic soldier-for-hire, one of his best suited roles. And he has very convincing support all round.There is very much the sense that the mercenary soldiers involved are bottom of the food chain in the greater and greedier scheme of things, and the money being offered for jobs risking life and limb seems pittance at that. The loneliness of the Walken character who seems to walk the land of the dead on civie street and only find his zest in combat is nicely emphasised. Most of the bureaucrats and tyrants are played perfectly for their complete lack of consideration for humanity. There are few if any obvious moral dictations in the narrative and this remains faithful to Forsyth's approach. We are, after all, not playing with children here. This is a most violent and unscrupulous underbelly of the political world. The violence is matter of fact, only stylised in one particular brief scene of torture with a shard of glass that this viewer found to be one of the most painful from any film.The ending is certainly worth the wait as Walken's small fish turns the coup at the heart of the overall plot into a coup of his very own. In this there is something noble amidst the entire desolation of things and it is apparent that the man who wields the gun is always in charge. "},{"Title":"A role made to order for Christopher Walken","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Semi-spoilers ahead... Pretty faithful to the Fredrick Forsythe novel; not so much a war movie as a suspense movie; the short war at the end is the result of patience and careful planning - lots of international wheeling-dealing and intrigue. Walken plays the perfectly stoic aging mercenary who's beginning to wrestle with the moral aspects of his profession, and in the end decides to do the right thing instead of just what he's been paid to do............Well worth watching. Watch for Ed O'Neill in an early film role.  "},{"Title":"Gritty and violent motion picture in the debut theatrical feature for director John Irvin.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The dogs of war (this phrase takes its literary origins from William Shakespeare) is an exciting as well as interesting action/war film . It concerns a military coup in an African country and stars Christopher Walken and Tom Berenger , though he has said in interviews that around half of his role was omitted from the final release print . It deals with mercenary James Shannon (Christopher Walken) , on a reconnaissance job to the African nation of Zangaro, is tortured and deported . He returns to lead a coup and tangles with an Idi Amin-alike dictator. As various soldiers of fortune (Tom Berenger , Paul Freeman , among others) , used to be the best of friends give a toast  ¨Long live death, long live war, long live the cursed mercenary (this is an adaptation of the original Foreign legion toast) and all of them battle side by side in hellhole Africa .This war film packs adventures , large-scale blow-up , thrilling plot , and lots of action for the most part , but also contains too much dialogue . It's a good mix of action-packed , adventure , thriller and warfare genre . Overly somber rendition based on Frederick Forsyth's novel , in fact , while researching the novel in the early 1970s, author pretended he was actually financing a coup d'etat in Equatorial Guinea , the pretense allowed Forsyth access to a number of underworld figures, including mercenaries and arms dealers ; Forsyth has since commented that the arms dealers were the most frightening people he has ever met . Frederick is a famous author best-sellers whose novels have been successfully adapted to cinema and TV such as ¨The day of Jackal¨, ¨Odessa¨ and ¨The fourth protocol¨ . Fine support cast who realize professionally competent interpretations , some of them with no more than a line or two to say such as Colin Blakely , Paul Freeman , and brief interventions from JoBeth Williams , Robert Urquhart , Ed O'Neill , Jim Broadbent , Jean Pierre Kalfon , Victoria Tennant , Pedro Armendariz Jr and first cinema film of David Schofield.Good cinematography by Jack Cardiff , who also shot a movie about mercenaries in Africa titled ¨The mercenaries¨, it was filmed on location , as African and Central America sequences were filmed in Belize City, Belize in Central America . The motion picture was well directed by John Irvin , though it was originally going to be directed by Norman Jewison. John had previously filmed amidst real life battles when he worked in a television news crew in Vietnam during the 1960s. Irvin once said Unlike most young film directors, I've been in battle. Throughout the sixties I went to various war zones and I met numerous mercenaries in Algeria and South East Asia, so I had my own personal strings to draw on. I would say our depiction of mercenaries is pretty accurate. We talked to a lot of mercenaries and were able to get a lot of information from them about how they would have handled the operation. As the movie's major battle sequence was directed by director John Irvin and not the Second Unit Director . Rating  Nice picture , better than average . Worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"A gritty and hard-boiled adventure.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sent to checkout the political situation in the Africian nation of Zangaro, Shannon (Christopher Walken in a solid performance), a tireless and money-hungry American mercenary, get caught spying by the president's secret police and nearly beaten to death before sent back to the States. Determined to strike back, Walken urges a few of his friends (Tom Berenger and Ed O'Neill being a few of them) to join in the mission and get the necessary weapons. Director John Irvin (Hamburger Hill, When Trumpets Fade) plays his cards right in saving the best stuff, which is the raid and how the scenery is displayed by veteran cinematographer Jack Cardiff is also great. The film was based on a novel by Frederick Forstyh (The Day of the Jackal). "}{"Title":"Importation Tax, Airport Tax","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the most realistic treatment I've seen of what real mercenary operations and business travels are like.  Any who have traveled to third world hell holes like Zangaro feel as though they must have had a camera following them around to get the background for this movie, the airport arrival, the hotel holding passports, the tour guide and the bar toast are as realistic as you can get. If you like movies that show the real nitty gritty, the backdoor politics, the backstabbing and intrigue that is international diplomacy catch this one the next time it's on cable. "},{"Title":"Pretty intelligent and calm film by John Irvin","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  John Irvin directed this film, starring Christopher Walken as war veteran mercenary who gets a job by government to travel to Africa and inform the situation that is pretty hot in there. He does it, and sees the violence that takes place there, and when he returns to US and tells about the evil dictator that dominates there, the new job for him is to travel there again and wipe out the incarnation of evil..This film isn't any action film as many seem to have expected - me included - but this is pretty sophisticated, but still also little slow moving (dir. cut. 15mins longer than the US version) portrait about the state of some countries in the world, and what these dictators can do to people and country. I'm mostly fascinated by the film's atmosphere and calmness as there isn't stupid gunplay or other usual flaws often found in these films. Walken acts greatly in his role of retired war veteran who takes the job only because of money offered to him. At the end, a twist in plot is coming and all the greediness and betrayal in the film gets a new face.The end is little stupid as it tries to imitate Apocalypse Now a little, by depicting Walken's face and the horror as Francis Ford Coppola did, and the gun fights at the end are also little unnecessary, especially when the film managed to be without them for so long. Still the result is satisfying, yet little too long and occasionally may make the viewer feel little tired, but this film isn't meant to be watched when tired. The US distributor cut the original version by over ten minutes, and I saw the original director's cut which includes many important bits of dialogue and things that add to the film. So I recommend the director's cut of the film as it is the directors original version.Dogs of War is pretty intelligent and interesting depiction of power and dictatorship, and also very nostalgic in its atmosphere and scenery. The gun battle at the end of the film is great looking and also gripping, but as mentioned, also little unnecessary and too traditional finale. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good detailed film, though faulted in its battle scenes","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The entire beginning and middle of the film are utterly engrossing.  It was a nice change to see a film that showed the amount of planning and attention to detail and contingency plans that goes into preparing a military operation, even a quick raid like the one planned here.  The final raid however is a disappointment though, especially because of the realistic and detailed nature of the film to that point.  These are serious professional mercenaries in a gritty realistic film and in the final battle, logic and realism go out the window as these professionals walk slowly in the open firing from the hip like they were in a Rambo film.  Had they fought like that in real life, they'd have all been killed in the first few seconds.  I don't think the director understood the nature of combat and that's too bad because otherwise, this film is a gem.  "},{"Title":"The working class/US 'Wild Geese' has its' cake and eats it.","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this film in the early 80s as my uncle was a big fan. I didn't really get it at the time but appreciated the action packed last 20 minutes or so enough to later read the book it was based upon. Needless to say as an adult I then rewatched the film with new eyes and appreciated it all the more. The movie and the book are very different but you forgive it all, the changes made in order to appeal to an American audience and to cut it down to a workable length. Some say it's nihilistic and critical of post-colonial Africa but that misses the point. Shannon and his team come across as absolute mercenaries, willing to work for revenge and whomever pays their fee. But in the end Shannon develops a conscience, killing the puppet dictator the mining corporation wishes to install in order to exploit the mineral wealth of the country, trying to save the journalist who threatens to expose their plot and avenging his murder at his employer's hands. A huge step forwards for a man who when not paid to kill perfect strangers spends his time watching mundane television and playing computer chess (a great performance from Christopher Walken, a man seemingly dead inside but who actually defies our expectations by doing the right thing). It is only in the heat of battle that Shannon and his fellow 'Dogs of War' seem to truly come alive, addicted to the adrenalin and thrill of combat. Yet in the end they care for the people of Africa whilst the refined and civilised corporate executives blatantly do not. What happens to the country after Shannon leaves it? Maybe the Dr becomes yet another dictator, corrupted by power? But I prefer to think he does a deal with the mining corporation and uses the money to build a better future for his people? In that we have the true message of this film, the mercenaries actually doing the moral thing. And let's face it, that rotary grenade launcher is SOOOOO cool! "},{"Title":"Can't always be a beggar when you grow up","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Unspectacular, but tough and lean slow pot-boiler anti-war feature sees a stoic Christopher Walken on reconnaissance, before leading a group of mercenaries to push out the tyrant dictator of the African nation Zangora. Walken was the lone reason I decided to stick around to watch The Dogs of War when it appeared on TV. It's a real mixed bag, as somewhere there is so much potential, but what eventuates is something quite ho-hum. After an excellent build-up (the recon mission) formulating intrigue, tension and harbouring conflict, then midway (the planning) it still remains interesting (because of the intensity Walken and Tom Berenger) despite stodgy pacing and the last quarter (the final assault) is uninspiring and rashly staged, but the closing frames has a neat touch of irony. There's no knocking that it's more thoughtful and conniving in its narrative drive, but the context never truly pushes the boundaries, but gladly it never tries to manipulate the situation either. It's interesting seeing Walken's character really have a change of heart after his returns from his recon mission, well more so booted out with the bruises to prove it. Director John Irvin really does make you feel uncomfortable during those scenes, when it focuses on a badly beat up Walken. It was like fear had engulf his character and then he questions; is there's something better in life than what he does, but after realising he can't go back (the sub-plot midway with his girlfriend) he turns back to what he knows best and the torture he suffered would be a driving force. It almost becomes personal and what he also learns about the devious nature of the American government official he was hired by makes for a powerful climax --- the value of human life, where he would turn a blind eye but not now. Irvin's direction is competently workmanlike and straight-face with a gritty surge, stalwart pacing and some striking international locations. Not your typical war film, but a decent study. "},{"Title":" This  guy  is  so  paranoid,  he  rations  the  bullets  of  his guards ","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Around the world there are countries which rise and fall to the sound of bullets and bombs. Some countries are so unstable they are called LP records as their countries have a revolution every 33 and a 1/3 minutes. Thus the work of the mercenary is never finished. This movie is called  The Dogs of War  and stars one of the best dramatic actors to date. Many recall his work in ' The Deer Hunter.' In this story Christopher Walken is James Shannon an experienced soldier of fortune and Mercenary for hire. Although he is visibly disenchanted with his work, he takes his doctor's medical advice seriously. The doctor has warned him after his last torturous encounter with the enemy, he has taken a lot of years off his life. To that end, he hopes to take on one more job which may give him enough money to retire. This film tells the story of a group of greedy but traitorous wealthy financiers who hope to stage a Coup d'etat to overthrow president Kimba (Illario Bisi Pedro) of Zangora and replace him with Col Bobi (George Harris) an equally despicable character. Entrusted with the job, Shannon assembles his elite mercenary team which includes Tom Berenger as Drew, a moderate candidate called Dr. Okoye (Winston Ntshona) and a well trained Cuban force of Zangora rebels. If they fail and be captured, they will all be shot and killed. The film is well directed by John Irvin and written by Frederic Forsyth. There is a well charged atmosphere and Walken gives a most stirring performance, together the end result is nothing short of a war Classic. Well done! **** "},{"Title":"The acting, directing and cinematography were okay, but...","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...this movie no doubt severely disappointed most Forsyth fans. It had very little to do with the book. It seems that (as usual) some Hollywood wonk, noting that the novel was a best-seller, gave some hack the basic premise from the back-cover blurb and got him to make something up that would appeal to Joe Sixpack and his girlfriend. The result? A cliché-ridden B-movie. Forsyth must have been livid.It's competently handled (for such an old film it holds up amazingly well), but what presumption! The original story was just fine. What made them think that their version would be better?Pity they didn't have the sense to hire Kenneth Ross to do the screenplay. He'd already done two of Forsyth's other books (Day of the Jackal and Odessa File), and at least made the effort to be faithful to the originals. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if a bit slow","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Dogs of War, based on the novel by Frederick Forsyth, is an entertaining film that takes its time to get to the action.  Unlike most films of this sort, we aren't thrown into the fighting in the first act.  It is wisely saved for the climax.  With that said, there is enough along the way to keep you interested, although I recommend the longer cut, as it contains vital information and character interaction. SPOILERS The film follows mercenary Jamie Shannon from his defeat in Central America to the execution of a contract to stage a coup in West Africa. The film updates the opening from the Biafra war in Nigeria, in the 60's, to the various civil wars of Central America, in the late 70's and 80's.  Shannon and his men are forced to flee when their side collapses and they barely escape with their lives.  Shannon returns home, where he is lost without a war to fight.  Enter Endean, a representative of a conglomerate that wants to stage a coup in Zangaro, an African state.  Their reasons don't become clear until later (platinum), which is dispensed with an off-handed remark in a phone conversation.  Shannon ends up taking the contract, after suffering a brutal beating during his initial reconnaissance. Shannon puts his old team together, minus one, played by Ed O'Neill. They make their plan, gather their resources and launch the coup.  When Endean arrives with the new president, Shannon pulls a double-cross.  Now Endean faces a new problem as Shannon departs with what's left of his men.Winston Ntshona returns in a similar role as he played in The Wild Geese, that of a deposed leader.  He is quite good in his small role.  Tom Berenger, pre-Platoon, is too over-the-top for my tastes.  Paul Freeman, of Raiders of the Lost Ark fame, makes a credible mercenary.  Jo Beth Williams is a bit wasted, especially in the American cut.  She disappears fairly soon after her introduction.  The real stand-out is Christopher Walken.  He is the cool planner and leader of this pack of Dogs.The final double-cross is a staple of Forstyth's writing and the movie greatly improves that of the original book.  In the book, Shannon places his former employer from Biafra in power.  There is no real set-up for this in the novel, other than the obvious respect he shows the man in the opening chapter of the book.  Here, he places Winston Ntshona's character, who had a background with the country, in power.  It makes far better sense.If you can stay interested at the beginning, you will be rewarded by the end.  The main flaws in the action are the Hollywood-style gun play, rather than authentic weapons handling by trained soldiers.  The film took great pains on technical details up to this point, and then just dropped the ball. Still. its a minor flaw.   "},{"Title":"Hazards of the Soldier of Fortune profession.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Taken from the Frederick Forsyth novel of the same name. The screenplay is not as good as the book, which went into detail about mercenary operations but does do a good job in telling a mercenary tale. Christopher Walken leads a team of Soldiers of Fortune to overthrow a corrupt and brutal coastal African government. Unlike 1978's The Wild Geese this shows a more sinister side of the hazards of being a mercenary. One point in the film in order to make money Walkens character Shannon takes a contract to do a Recon mission on a country. He goes alone and nearly loses his life. When he returns to the states his doctor gives him a rundown on the many wounds and diseases he's had over the years attributed to his profession.  Another point Shannon tells a group of Army regulars that Mercenaries only provide support and tactics and it's actually their fight. If they fold in combat the hired soldier can find themselves in a bad situation. Plenty of explosions along with small arms warfare that includes a unique grenade launching submachine gun weapon. If you're a war film fan you'll enjoy. Other mercenary films to check out are 1968's Dark of the Sun and the above mentioned The Wild Geese. "},{"Title":"God's in the details, but deeply asleep.","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In this movie, the national airline in Zingaro has a great airplane, a two-engined Convair from the 1950s. They don't make 'em anymore. I mean the airplane, not the movie. They make movies like this all the time.A mega corporation wants the mineral rights in an African country ruled by a ruthless dictator. So the corporation organizes a private army to invade the nation, kill the dictator, and install a business-friendly dictator in his place. (Is that far fetched, or what?) Christopher Walken is hired to organize the mercenary army. They do their job, except that, at the end, in an ironic coda, they substitute a more independent president who will now rule his country with compassion.The film could have been written by a committee of MBAs who have figured out what the bottom line is. Whatever the bottom line turned out to be it was surely preceded by a dollar sign. The plot goes kind of in this order intrigue, a little teaser of violence, more intrigue, a little completely irrelevant sex, more intrigue, the introduction to a couple of particularly lethal and ugly guns, and a violent shoot out full of explosions. The climactic violence assumes the familiar form of a handful of courageous and supremely skilled military types attacking a garrison of disorganized native troops. (Cf., Predator, inter alia.) One of the mercenaries is killed through an excess of pity. The number of dead garrison troops is uncountable. Walken himself cold-bloodedly and deliberately shoots two unarmed men. It's a happy ending though because the guy who finally sits on the throne is a doctor and an idealist, and we are compelled to hope he remains that way instead of discovering that, hey, it's good to be the king.I haven't read Frederick Forsyth's novel on which this movie is based but I can't believe it's the sloppy lash up job that the movie is. Forsyth's details are usually exquisite. When you finish one of his novels you're likely to know how to rig up a bomb that will explode only when the car hits a bump.That was the beauty of Fred Zinneman's The Day of the Jackal. How to commit identity theft, for instance. Here, all of that tedious business is skipped over. Walken is able to board a freighter posing as a seaman. Where did he get his credentials? Who knows. The producers don't care and we're not supposed to care either. We never heard of forged passports.Just before the invasion, the mercenaries are together going over the attack plan one last time and when they are done, Walkin raises his fist and shouts the name of the dictator they are about to murder and the other soldiers echo his gesture. And, mind you, these are supposed to be heroes, and we are expected to identify with them. Why don't they raise their fists and cry, Money!Not that pelf is the primary motive. What kind of person is willing to kill strangers and risk his own life for money? How do you murder someone whom you don't know and against whom you have nothing? And how do you think of yourself as a better man for having done it? Are there many of them around? I mean in the private sector? There must be some. There is Executive Outcomes, and there is at least enough of an audience of fantasists to support a magazine designed for mercenaries, Soldier of Fortune. Of course we all seek self satisfaction through doing something that we know we can do well. The Germans called it Funktionslust. It may be innate in higher organisms. But this goes way past self satisfaction. Dignity elevated beyond pride into grandiosity. "}{"Title":"One of my favorites.","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I liked it because it really showed the process of setting up this kind of operation. Usually movies just start and then jump to the action. This showed all the planning and what can go wrong. They make a big deal about the end user certificate. This is used to show the government where weapons are going to end up. This can be avoided by getting a certificate showing the weapons are going to one place and then the weapons are diverted to another location. I loved the ending. The scene where Shannon and men are in the open shooting was something not done in real life but its point was, these men were in the glory. This is what they live for. They hate every day life. Tom Berrenger said his wife was pregnant and the thought of watching her just get fat was making him sick. This was the high point of their lives. It seemed for most of the men this was their last mission. Most people don't understand the mentality. These men know they will die sometime but want to go out in a Blase of Glory "},{"Title":"New dog, old tricks","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Dogs of War is a familiar but rock-solid early take on the international mercenary-led political coup before it became bastardized by a generation of pulpier Rambo knock-offs (including Christopher Walken's own McBain in 1991). Based on the novel by Frederick Forsyth, veteran of '70s spy-thriller The Day of the Jackal, there's more than a whiff of John le Carré here in regards to tone and pacing, and it's a worthy comparison. Debut director John Irvin keeps politics and social commentary a priority, while the poster fodder, blockbuster-y action is still thrilling, but a more grounded, associative afterthought. It's a fairly simple, firmly three-act affair, as Walken's steely mercenary Jamie Shannon leads two incursions into the (fictional) corrupt African republic of Zangaro one surveillance, and one military siege. Irvin certainly isn't afraid to take his time, devoting long stretches to the intricacies of Shannon's subterfuge, from his being held up at the airport by corrupt border guards, to his fastidious memorizing the Latin names of local birds to substantiate his cover as ornithologist. It's slow-burning, but Irvin handles it capably, keeping the pacing magnetic. His work is fairly unshowy, and it's tempting to imagine how a more experienced director might have pushed the envelope further and really transformed Shannon's isolation into a transcendental Apocalypse Now type cinematic experience. Still, the film's almost entirely absent soundtrack is effective, and keeps the tension bubbling claustrophobically throughout. In fact, it's really just in the film's middle third, where a disgraced Shannon is unceremoniously evicted from Zangaro, where Irvin's slow-burning turns sluggish to a trying extent. Here, Irvin uncomfortably mirrors Shannon's listless reevaluation of his life, including a logistical planning segment that could easily have trimmed 20-30 minutes without sacrificing any cohesion. Still, Irvin is good at interrupting the potboiling with bursts of frantic action. The opening sequence, dropping the viewer in midway through a previous incursion, is a perfectly chaotic and disorienting note to ground the film on. Midway through the film, Shannon's capture and brutal beating by the Zangaro military (aided by some distressingly believable prosthetic work) lends gruesome consequence to his actions. Finally, Shannon's return with his strike team (including a moustached Tom Berenger and Raiders of the Lost Ark's Paul Freeman) is a long time coming, but such a spectacular maelstrom of pyrotechnics and grenade launchers it's a spectacularly cathartic blowout to the nearly two hours of buildup preceding it. Is it all worth it? By the end, we, like Shannon, are too bludgeoned by the senselessness of combat and political string-pulling (including a seedy reveal of Zangaro's coup being largely funded through British mining trade interests) to be sure. The War! What is it good for? moral isn't the most original, but Irvin certainly reiterates it with conviction. If nothing else, The Dogs of War is a crucial illustration in how best to work the notoriously eccentric Christopher Walken as a leading man let him play the strong, silent type, and allow his eerily riveting facial expressions do the heavy lifting. Slinking through the film with ruthless composure like an eerily doll-like Terminator, Walken's Shannon is perfectly bottled up - hard-edged professionalism as survival mechanism. It's probably the closest he's ever come to a conventional leading man performance - there's no dancing, weird inflection or goofiness here, just the occasional sarcastic one-liner or glint of pure madness in his eyes exposing his stunted ideals and the deep responsibility he feels for his strike team threatening to volcanically explode. There's a multifold catharsis that comes from Shannon finally getting to let loose with a grenade launcher in the final incursion on Zangaro, but his dead-eyed departure from the war zone suggests there is still no peace to be had. It's a remarkably subtle performance, and enough to make you miss the days when Walken was an actor foremost, and Christopher Walken the cult icon second. -7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Tyranny, corruption, mercenaries and mayhem","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Dogs of War of 1974 is an early third world action film that combines several themes. A tyrant is in control of the fictitious African country of Zangaro. The local people are oppressed. A British mining company eyes the country for its deposits of a rare mineral. A rebel leader in exile has designs on a coup and taking over the rule of the country. The industrialists and he strike up a deal. The mining group hires Jammie Shannon to organize and lead a mercenary force to overthrow the reigning tyrant, and install the new tyrant who will be friendly to the money mongers. Shannon goes to the country to scout it out and he is tortured by the leader's henchmen. So, he also has a personal score to settle. Christopher Walken plays Shannon, and he assembles a group of former fellow mercenaries. They do the job, but it's not quite how the exiled rebel leader, the mining moguls or the reigning tyrant expected. For all of their killing and mayhem, the mercenaries have something of a code of ethics. The personal danger in films like this is that a person may find oneself applauding or favoring the killing of many people. However bad they are, this is violence on a large scale. Walken and the entire cast do very well in this action thriller. It was filmed in Belize. The movie is based on a novel by British author Frederick Forsyth (born Aug. 25, 1938). He is one of the more popular authors of crime-suspense-thriller-action stories on whose books movies have been made since the third quarter of the last century. Two other such authors are John le Carré and John Grisham. Forsyth had considerable experiences and background in the milieu in which his novels are set. Forsyth was an RAF fighter pilot during the Cold War, and is a former newspaper reporter and spy. He joined Reuters news service in 1961 and the BBC in 1965. During that time, he served as an assistant diplomatic correspondent. He had covered the Nigerian civil war in 1967 when the BBC decided to end its coverage in favor of the growing coverage of the Viet Nam war. So, Forsyth quit the BBC and returned to Biafra on his own. He spent two years reporting on and observing that civil war as he wrote his first book. During that time and for some 20 years, he worked as a spy for M16 British Intelligence. Several of Forsyth's books have been made into movies &#x96; some with considerable alteration. His books have sold more than 70 million copies. The fictional country in this movie is based upon Equatorial Guinea, which once was a Spanish colony. Among Forsyth's other best- selling novels that have been made into movies are The Odessa File in 1974, The Fourth Protocol in 1987, The Day of the Jackal in 1997, the TV movie, Icon, in 2005, and Avenger, another TV movie in 2006.The expression dogs of war may first have been used by William Shakespeare. It appears in a line from his 1599 play, Julius Caesar. In Act III, Scene 1, Antony bereaves the murder of Caesar and says loudly toward the end, Cry 'Havoc!' and let slip the dogs of war. Another film, about WW II, used part of this same line. Cry Havoc of 1943 was about the Army nurses on Bataan who were caring for the Allied wounded and who became prisoners of the Japanese. "},{"Title":"Required Viewing for Walken Talking Cineastes","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Dogs of War was a techs and specs special ops novel by Frederick Forsyth before it was adapted into this film starring Christopher Walken.The adapting screenwriters made an interesting choice to depart from the book in one central way. The focus of the book is on a group strike mission to a fictional African dictatorship. This film is instead focused on the protagonist, Jamie Shannon's, solo scouting mission that precedes the group assault.Walken plays Shannon, and he is revelatory. A purebred action hero, and while thinner than most action heroes, he, in the tradition of James Coburn, pulls off every bit of the rough and dusty action the role requires. One other choice the production team makes can be off-putting. Tom Berenger is billed as a co-star, but he barely gets on screen. His character is left with almost no development, and no chemistry with Walken, simply owing to his absence from the action. Walken's solo trip to the fictional Zangara is brooding and meditative. It plays like a micro John LeCarre story in the film's sprawling, all-consuming middle. When Walken's Shannon finally assembles his multi-national strike force, a group action romp in the tradition of The Great Escape or Force 10 From Navarrone begins to build, but again, the director and producer leave all too little time for what the viewer expects will be the film's main course. Walken is very good in his role. Cinemaphiles and Walken completists cannot follow his career without study of this performance. The minor paucities in the overall sweep of the movie aside, Walken creates the character of mercenary Jamie Shannon in a way that Forsyth's book never gets around to doing--so busy is it with measuring ship cargo space and counting grenade pins. "},{"Title":"You have to make it home to get paid......","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Jamie Shannon is a soldier of fortune who will stage a coup or a revolution for the right price. He is hired by British mining interests to scout out Zangaro, a small African nation with rich mineral deposits but a brutal dictatorship. Arrested soon after his arrival, Shannon is imprisoned as a spy, badly beaten, and tortured. While in prison he meets one of the country's leading intellectuals, Dr. Okoye, also imprisoned by the regime. Eventually released, he returns to London and is subsequently offered to opportunity to secretly invade Zangaro's capital and lead a military coup. Shannon accepts, but quietly has his own agenda to pursue.......Bearing in mind this is a review of the theatrical cut, I couldn't possibly comment on the coherence and character development of the extended cut, hence the low rating.Walken is an always watchable screen presence, and always brings something more to the material he has been given, but here, he really struggles with such a poor narrative, and an incoherent cut of the film.What we have here is Walken pretending to be an ornithologist, taking pictures of restricted areas, getting tortured, coming home, and then assembling a team to get his own personal vengeance.Whoever edited this cut of the film really needs to made to watch this over and over, because once Walken leaves the country, it becomes baffling.Berenger just turns up for no reason, and if you didn't know that there was a longer version, or the fact that he has bad mouthed this particular cut of the film, you'd be forgiven in thinking that he was a random stranger annoying Walken.And then it goes to action territory, and by this time, all the cast look bored, despite the plethora of firepower they have, and the rest of the cast just jump at the right time as the explosions.It's annoying really, because I've heard so many good things about this film, and the easiest version to get is this butchered monstrosity.One to avoid, unless you get the full version. "},{"Title":"Great opening but too long","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It' 1980. Jamie Shannon (Christopher Walken) and his men including Drew Blakeley (Tom Berenger) and Terry (Ed O'Neill) are soldiers of fortune. They force their way onto a plane barely escaping a chaotic battle in central America. Their friend Richard is killed and his widow tells him not to see her family anymore. Shannon is contacted by Brit businessman Roy Endean who is interested in the west African nation of Zangaro. He goes to recon but the brutal dictator General Kimba captures him. After being torture, he is released. He tries to go straight with his ex Jessie (JoBeth Williams) but then Endean hires him to lead a mercenary army to overthrow Kimba.The movie opens with a terrific sequence. It lays out the manners of Shannon and his men. There is a great effective sequence. However the movie is a bit too long trying to do too much. The reconnaissance inside the country could have been handled better. Shannon is so condescending that he is simply a bad spy. As for the battle itself, director John Irvin may have seen real fighting but he's not cinematic enough yet. There are lots of shooting and explosions but they're not really that exciting. Overall, the movie is just too long and trying to do too much. "},{"Title":"An excellent book turned into typical 80s action movie","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Frederick Forsyth's book 'The Dogs Of War' is one of his best, well-written books with unbelievably detailed descriptions of what it might take to carry out a coup d'état. Apart from a fantastic story, there's a level of detail and knowledge of arms, procedures of acquiring them that make the story seem very real and intriguing.I watched this movie recently, and for the first time. I had high expectations going in, as I'm a huge admirer of all literal works of Frederick Forsyth. It could have been a great movie, given the source material. I understand that book adaptations are not easy and a lot of detail is expected to be lost, plots have to be reduced to fit in the entire story in a space of 2 hours. I was also excited because it stars Christopher Walken in the lead and he's just brilliant.The movie made deviations from the book and in the beginning, they were OK. The setting was different, the characters' back stories were different but then the movie started chopping down everything, skipping on incredibly important elements of the story - the entire thread of the discovery of precious metal reserves worth over $10 billion, leading to corporate interests in overthrowing President Kimba of fictitious country Zangaro in West Africa, was reduced to a 10 second telephonic conversation.The sub-plot with the ex-wife was an unnecessary deviation as well and it was probably done to give a more 'human' face to mercenary Jamie Shannon. A big part of the book was spent in describing how the team of mercenaries prepare for an assault on Clarence, the capital of Zangaro to overthrow Kimba. That part in the film felt really rushed through, with everything covered in about 10 minutes. That aspect of the book was one of the entertaining bits and makes for the perfect buildup to the climax. In the movie, it could have done wonders if done well.Then came the final assault itself, bereft of any suspense and so ridiculous that it could have been out of any Chuck Norris action movie. Here's where the film especially failed the source material. Hardly any buildup or thrill and then, when the dust settles down, it all ends too quickly. In summary, the movie had all the ingredients to be a classic but just messed up the recipe. Walken is fantastic, but the other characters barely leave an impression. If you've not read the book, its still good enough for a Saturday afternoon watch. But, the fans of the book will know a great opportunity has been missed. "},{"Title":"They're Loose.","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Christopher Walken plays ruthless mercenary Jamie Shannon, who is hired by a British mining company to lead a revolution in an African nation to overthrow the dictator, so that they can install their own leader, who is friendly to their interests. Things go wrong and Shannon is captured and beaten, though manages to escape, and vows to return, seeking vengeance, though again this doesn't go as planned either...Based on a novel By Frederick Forsyth, this adaptation falls short of his other two films(The Day Of The Jackal & The Odessa File). Characters are unsympathetic, and action scenes are pretty routine, though the acting is fine, film is just mostly forgettable. "},{"Title":"Just an Average Day in the Life of a Mercenary","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When it comes to war movies, there's no shortage of them be they the civil war or Vietnam. Yet, when it comes to war movies concerning mercenaries, there aren't too many out there. The Dogs of War is one of the exceptions. Christopher Walken stars as Jamie Shannon, a no nonsense soldier of Fortune who's seen more than his fair share of wars and lost comrades. It all begins when Shannon gets an offer to do a re con mission from a mysterious representative of British mining interests in the small, fictional, African country of Zangaro. He accepts and nearly loses his life in the process when his cover is found out by the brutal dictatorship that rules the land. After being deported (not before being beaten within an inch of his life, mind you) he finds out that the shadow mining interests want the dictator removed to make way for someone who will be more reasonable, meaning someone they can buy lock, stock, and barrel more easily. From there, its all about getting the right people and weapons together for the job and going to work. Christopher Walken plays the role of the mercenary very well as does the other cast members, such as Tom Berenger as his long time brother in arms. In addition, there are lots of explosions and plenty of action, particularly at the end. But the film also shows the brutal reality of international relations and dictators which is this when it comes to deciding whether or not a dictator should be overthrown or not, more often than not it has less to do with human rights and more to do with whether that country has something valuable -be it gold, diamonds, oil, etc.- and whether that dictator is being reasonable. Its a sad truth you can find anywhere, whether it is the tragedy that is Africa or in any third world hell hole. And in the end, when its all said and done, you just drive off, probably to another war someplace. A number of people have said that the book by Fredrick Forsyth was better and that may very well be the case since a book can give you more information than a movie can. However, for what it is, The Dogs of War is a movie that is worth watching for its realism and good production. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Solid mercenary action thriller","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" James Shannon is an American mercenary hired by a mining concern to perform a reconnaissance mission in the fictional West African nation of Zangaro; his task is to determine whether or not it would be possible to depose its current president, a psychotic megalomaniac called General Kimba. He goes in posing as a wildlife photographer and learns a little bit about the countries history; after gaining independence from Britain there were three candidates for president; General Kimba, the now exiled Colonel Bobi and the now gaoled Dr. Okoye. It isn't long before he comes to the attention of the authorities and soon after that he is severely beaten before being deported.Back in the Unites States he is approached once again; this time they want him to put together a mercenary force; return to Zangaro and overthrow Kimba so somebody more biddable can be installed in the presidential palace. Shannon sets about recruiting mercenaries before heading to London and arranging to get all the equipment they will need on the mission. He also learns who the new president is to be; Colonel Bobi; a man motivated solely by greed who is unlikely to be any better for the people of Zangaro than Kimba. Once everything is arranged they take a freighter to Zangaro and storm the barracks in the capital where Kimba resides and once he is dealt with they wait for Col, Bobi to arrive; but when he gets there he will be in for a surprise.This is a solid mercenary action film that should please fans of the genre. The final action sequence is both exciting and spectacular but that isn't the real meat of the film. The thing that makes this film interesting is the way it focuses on the preparations. The reconnaissance section was almost as exciting as the finale as Shannon was alone and unarmed in a very dangerous place; where any mistake could, and nearly did, get him killed. The preparations were interesting as we see the team discussing what equipment they will need and haggling to acquire it at the lowest price to maximise their profit. Christopher Walken puts in a good performance as Shannon and the rest of the cast are decent enough if not exactly spectacular. The action is well directed and it looks good although some scenes felt rushed... although I fear that is because I saw the shorter version of the film and I wouldn't be surprised if there weren't some 'cuts for television' as well so I can't really hold that against the film! If you like films such as 'The Wild Geese' I'm sure you will enjoy this too; it is well worth watching even in its abridged form. "}{"Title":"Walken shines in well-photographed tale of a coup d'etat","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie portrays a coup d'etat in a realistic fashion. Not all coups follow this pattern, but this is one possible pattern that could be done by the CIA or by private contractors hired by the CIA or by companies in cahoots with CIA-types.We see the coup from its start through all the preparations and to the finish. Most of what we see is the preparations, shown in loving detail and suspensefully, and we see the kinds of men who might participate in it on a paid mercenary basis. We see the moving mining interest behind the coup, and we see the old leadership to be replaced and the new to replace it.We see the country itself and its corruption when the Walken character visits it, posing as a naturalist. That part alone is done very, very well.The cinematography of Jack Cardiff is outstanding. We are completely immersed in the country's atmosphere and people. The acting of Christopher Walken carries the movie. His style is of the cool school, like Alan Ladd. It will last and always be fresh and watchable. It is not hard to identify with his character. His character goes through a character arc (some change from start to end) and that enriches the story.The movie ends with plenty of action, in a night scene. For awhile, I had difficulty understanding the flow of the action. That would be my main criticism.This is a well-told story that arises out of political-business machinations. "},{"Title":"If you were forced to see The Notebook ....","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If your better half forced you to see The Notebook, there are only a few movies that will cure you of the dreaded chick-flick movie exposure infliction.The Dogs of War is one of them. Take two viewings of this movie and call me in the morning (lol). Truly one of the best scripted and well filmed movies that any guy (or gal who is a fan of well done modern flavoured military films) would be proud to own.I first saw this movie back in the early 80s and as soon as it was available to own on video, I snatched it up and it is still in my collection. "},{"Title":"The Dogs of War, simply entertainment!","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Nice to see this movie has it's fans, especially as it seems to get such a rough ride from the critics, it's in MY top ten of films I never get tired of watching, even more so when I discovered some ten years ago on VHS tape the longer version with scenes cut from the original release. Over the past few years BBC1 in England have been showing the same version, albeit a shade sorter due to the way TV stations shorten films. Although completely different to the source novel, it strives to show exactly what an empty existence Shannon has both on and off the battlefield. While setting up the mission and when fighting he seems alive, but really he's going through the motions, his body constantly damaged each time, back home he's almost a hopeless drunk, (interesting his choice of beverage is Budweiser, not the cliché'd bottle of scotch, or maybe that was a way of raising funds by advertising)! As I say, the addition of previously cut scenes brings the film back to life. The big difference is the inclusion of the scenes between Shannon and his ex Jesse, the cuts made to the original release render that remaining scene meaningless. He drives all the way to see her, sleeps with her, then goes home? What!? No, there's more, they meet after a long time, his salvation lies in her agreeing to go away with him and starting a new life away from his demons and her father, they still love each other, but their fates are sealed. Interesting to see the African scenes were filmed in Belize. A great film, Walken in his prime, superb, in fact, guess what I'm going to watch now? "},{"Title":"Get him out of here! This whole country's been bought and paid for!","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Action and intrigue on four continents, North and South American Africa & Europe, with mercenary leader Jamie Shannon, Christopher Walken, getting together a group of fellow soldiers of fortune. The group of mercenaries are hired by the mysterious Mr. Endean, Hugh Millais,to overthrow an African dictator the insane maniac President Atta Kimba, Liarrio Bisi Pedro, of Zangaro.Shannon having been paid $15,000.00 by Endean to cased out Zangaro's defenses earlier, posing as a photographer for a nature magazine back in the states, was saved by the skin of his teeth from ending up before a firing squad. Arrested beaten, to within an inch of his life, Shannon was then kicked out of the country as an undesirable alien. It was only after Shannon's unceremonious exit from that country that it was found out that he killed a member of the Pres. Kimba's palace guards that resulted in the execution of nine innocent Zangoriens in his place.Back in New York City recovering from the beating he took Shannon is again contacted by Endean with another offer of big bucks, $100,000.00, to get a bunch of fellow mercenaries together and get the person that he want's to replace Pres. Kimba. The arrogant and very highly thought of, by only himself, Man of the people Col.Bobi, George W. Harris.Shannon getting his friends mercenaries Drew Derek & Michel, Tom Barenger Paul Freeman & Jean Francois Stevenin,to map out an invasion plan of Pres. Kimba's palace, known as The Garrison, with a company of troops from the Zangorien army loyal to Col.Bobi. Shannon get's a bit ticked off at his boss Endean when he has Shannon's newsman friend North (Colin Blakely), whom he met when he undercover was in Zangaro, run down and killed by one of his henchmen David Schofield.North was a pain in Shannon's butt following him around London, like a homeless mutt looking for someone to give him a place to stay, sniffing for a story about his secret mission in Zangaro. Sill he wasn't a threat at all to Shannon's operation and it was that killing of North that got the not too stable to begin with Shannon very angry. North's murder put ideas into Shannon's head, about screwing up Endean's plans, only if Endean tried to double-cross him which Shannon was sure he would do.Getting Schofield alone in a public mens room Shannon and Drew tried to beat a confession out of him about why he killed his good friend North. Schofield kept his mouth shut about Endean's involvement even after a piece of broken glass, how sickening, was shoved into his mouth by a vindictive Shannon, in order to loosen his tongue, and painfully took his secret with him to the grave.Getting on a freighter Shannon & Co. later meet up, off the coast of Zangaro, a boat-load of Col. Bobi loyalists. Shannon now with a well armed fighting force the group make their way onto shore, under the cover of night, to put an end via a Coup d'etat to Pres. Kimba's brutal regime.Wall to wall combat fills the movie Dogs of War final fifteen minutes with Shannon and his men taking on the entire Zangorien military as they fight their way into Pres. Kimba's palace. Where he's found by Shannon he puts a bullet in his chest. Pres. Kimba was at the time trying to check out of the country with the national treasury. Drew who should have known better turned his back on a Zangorien woman who, being a Kimba loyalist, shot him in the back killing him. With most of his men killed and wounded Shannon is mad as hell at both Endean and his paid off stooge Col. Bobi for failing to show up at the alloted time so that the carnage would end with Col. Bobi being installed the new president of Zangaro. Waiting for all the dust, and bullets, to clear the two cowards, Endean & Col. Bobi, waited for hours which resulted in unnecessary fighting that cost hundreds of lives! Shannon now looking to get even with the two back-stabbers gets Dr. Okoye (Winston Ntshona) who was thrown in jail for daring to run for president against Pres.Kimba and makes him the new president of Zangaro over the smug and self-centered Col. Bobi. Endean and Col. Bobi reacting like spoiled brats over Shannon's actions has him then blow, with a burst of his 45mm, Col. Bobi away! This has the very talkative Endean, now for the first time in the movie, struck speechless with all the work and efforts that he did for his bosses to get their man Col. Bobi into power. Manson is now left empty handed and not in control of Zangaro's vast natural resources that he so long wanted to get his greedy hands on. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken and Ed O'Neill","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is pretty cool. Christopher Walken gathers an army and enough large caliber weapons to overtake a country and he overtakes a country. He declares war on some African nation just because he can. Ed O'Niell rules as always and could have been better if not given the part of the wuss. And Chocalate Mousse from Top Secret is here. Yes thats right Chocalate Mousse! Opening scenes of Walken as a paranoid loner are awesome. He has guns stashed everywhere in the house including a gun next to his beer in the fridge. (Always gotta guard the beer) There's enough gun play and explosions to make this worth while. "},{"Title":"The Code of War","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A fine war movie. It tells more about gaining oneself dignity. I've never read the novel, but I guess it would emphasize more in Christopher Walken character, struggle between the code of honour. As appeared in the movie but not deep enough.The road to invasion itself is very interesting and worth watching. Fine and detailed.A classic war movie & political intrigues. "},{"Title":"Great for any War Dog.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my personal favorites. First of all seeing Christopher Walken when he was a lot younger. It has everything an old War Dog (if you don't know what the term means, ask someone who was in the military and actually participated in something) would like. The best part of the film was the step by step process of what they did to actually set up the Coup.All in all it is a cool movie.  "},{"Title":"THE DOGS OF WAR is a little too mercenary...","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Plot A team of mercenaries are hired to overthrow an African dictator.Adapted from the Frederick Forsyth novel (or 'how to' guide depending on your tastes in fiction), this is a superior thriller from that wonderful moment in the 1970s (well, 1980 in this case) when low-key realism and humanity were so important. After a bravura escape scene in South America the plot shifts to the US where the protagonist (an excellent Christopher Walken) is hired to reconnaissance a fictional African country for a coup. Captured, tortured and released he then ends up leading aforementioned coup. It's tough, realistic and with a good eye for detail and the mechanics of launching a coup. Unfortunately it all falls apart in the climax as it turns into an overblown action movie full of our heroes shooting from the hip and giant orange gasoline explosions. This appears to be the fault of the grenade launcher carried by the main character -- a desire to use it in-film leading to silly sequences. The inevitable moral ending, with the bad African dictator replaced by a good African president, also feels deeply naive. "},{"Title":"another missed cinema wonder, often misunderstood","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" this was my first notable exposure to mr. walken, vs. previous 'plastic' roles. i feel it his best---the only slip i saw in his work could have easily been 'editing'---it's in the scene where his 'arms merchant request to 'opt-out'. few seem to remember the 'editor', as a very key figure in what you will see. i've only read a few of the posted reviews, and they cover the plot well.what seems missing in other reviews is an old story, old as The Illiad--why do men fight? in this film it is revealed as a consequence of his past woman's rejection---rare depth for a war-movie.so many scenes are unforgettable, his 'custom's clearance' in Zangaro, the torture and beating scenes are absolutely authentic, as walken's portrayal of a savagely beaten man. ms. williams has an awkward bit of 'overacting' when first seen, again probably editing-error. overall this is easily the most accurate treatment of a mercenary mission on film---as would be expected, given it's based on an author's Real experience---not some ridiculous 'commando' work, 'hollywood' fantasy. "},{"Title":"Well done and technically well executed","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Dogs of War is perhaps one of the finest war movies ever made and is the best mercenary movie ever made. From a technical and tactical perspective (with one notable exception when the four main characters stand together improbably for a moment) the movie is extremely accurate and gets both the details of the business correct and the tactics of such an operation correct.There was a time in the 60s, 70s and 80s when these kinds of operations were carried out by men like Mike Hoare. In the aftermath of Vietnam, veterans who felt out of place and out of sync often fell in with the mercenary crowd, willing to fight someone else's battle for money or loot.Perhaps one of the more impressive sequences is all of the logistical work which captures the nature of the dark world of the arms deals overseas and how the law is skirted.Chris Walken is especially effective in the title role; believable, yet vulnerable and certainly not the Rambo who always wins the fight. "}{"Title":"How good is this? Let me tell you","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Dogs of War is a great, unheralded and very much underrated film and I've seen it more than a few times, one of few films that succeeds as a multi-genre; thriller/suspense/action/drama and war film well balanced without really dominating in any category. It has a simple yet interesting plot with something of a twist to the ending that isn't contrived or relied upon to validate or prop up the rest of the film like some other movies.The plot revolves around a group of mercenaries recruited, organising, preparing and carrying out the overthrow of an African despot dictator. The real strength of this film is in the attention to detail with regards to the preparation and logistics involved in such a task, the motivations of those involved, back room deals and wheeling and dealing and indeed a great part of the film is devoted to the little things. This is something undoubtedly attributable to the writer of the book Frederick Forysth and in keeping with the earlier film adaptation of another of his works 'Day of the Jackal'.Rambo this isn't and as stated by no shortage of people it isn't wall to wall action and may move a bit more slowly than many might expect, an acquired taste perhaps and possibly something of a letdown for some given the very title of the film.Walken isn't outstanding in the film but he is very adequate all the same and the film certainly doesn't hinge on the dramatics.When I can't decide what I want to watch, this is one of the films I fall back on and one of the reasons I've seen it quite a few times. I've never been disappointed to date, though if you can't sit still for five minutes and want a body count meter spiraling upwards in the corner of the screen it might not be for you.Don't forget your passport.....AR$%#*LE! "},{"Title":"Terrible adaptation","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What a disappointment! Forsyth's book is one of his more varied, in terms of characters as well as in visual terms. Unhappily, the scriptwriters pretended that they knew better than Forsyth how to tell a story, and they got rid of the mining guy's story, of old Manson's greed and of young Manson's lust, and of the tribal question story, in exchange for a meaningless story about Shannon's wife, and the one of the pain-in-the-ass journalist who gets killed, which distracts the spectator's attention. As a result, the special effects/explosion specialist is given a free hand in a pitiful attempt to fill the holes in the story with smoke and fire... Walken is great, as always,locations are good, but they are no reason to avoid films scripted by Gary DeVore and/or George Malko in the future.Yiiiik! Don't see the film, read the book. "},{"Title":"Bloody Business","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not a nice book is how Frederick Forsyth once described his third published novel, The Dogs Of War, a stinging depiction of the captains of industry who mistreat the Third World, and the soldiers of fortune who do their bidding. Credit director John Irvin for getting the tone right in this adaptation of the Forsyth story. It's not a nice movie.Christopher Walken stars as Jamie Shannon, whose otherwise empty life sitting in a Manhattan apartment watching John Roland and the Channel 5 newsteam on a snowy television screen is relieved only by the occasional assignment to gather up some equally dissolute comrades and blast their way through some far-away trouble spot for a few thousand bucks. The latest job Overthrow the vicious leader of the African nation of Zangaro. With nothing much to live for, Shannon agrees.Walken is the central reason to watch Dogs Of War. His intensity in this early period of his career could be off-putting, but it fits Shannon like a glove, his glazed stare and choppy line readings suggesting a person who knows life is cheap and words cheaper still.Just so we understand each other, you're dead, is his way of starting one conversation. Give me straight answers and I'll keep it painless.As a war movie, Dogs Of War doesn't exactly play things straight, though. Like the novel, it spends much of its time dealing with the preparations for the Zangaro raid, long sequences of soldering metal barrels and running cargo that drag. There's also a visit Shannon pays to his ex-wife, which features some nice acting from Walken and JoBeth Williams but establishes nothing other than the emptiness of Shannon's life, about which we already know.Joining action and character is the hallmark of any good war movie, and this Dogs Of War fails to do. Shannon takes a trip to Zangaro to investigate the country, a sequence that proves nothing other than that he's a lousy spy and the Zangarians play rough. Colin Blakely overacts badly as a reporter who makes Shannon's acquaintance and then decides to see what he's up to, for reasons that seem to have more to do with the character's drinking than any logical journalistic reason. The big finale features a good deal of sloppy exposition, particularly a revolving grenade gun Shannon wields that hit pillboxes with pinpoint precision.It's smaller moments that connect in Dogs Of War, like Shannon talking to his doctor (the always reliable Shane Rimmer). You've taken a lot of years off the back end of your life, the doctor says, to which Shannon can only shrug. Or Shannon in a customs office with an unnamed agent (Olu Jacobs) who seems to think himself fair for stealing only half of Shannon's valuables.Ultimately, it's Walken you take away from Dogs Of War, his hooded 1,000-yard stare, occasional bits of surprising pre-cowbell humor, and his naked way of projecting both toughness and insecurity. If only he had been given a better script, Dogs Of War might have been an early milestone in his celebrated career. "},{"Title":"It's great when a plan comes together -w/a Vengeance!","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Great structure and characters.I liked Dogs of War 20 years ago when I knew nothing about film and I liked it even more after seeing it again tonight.There are many parallels to the modern era in terms of the mercenary and commercial aspects of War of course. I understand the book got more into the shadowy games played by the 'commercial interests' who just wanted to write a check to gain license to plunder an entire country's natural wealth. Syriana? Iraq? Anybody? Walken's Commando boss character seems weird and out of sync in the civilian world, but the hour-long slow-burn between his initial rough treatment during his reconnaissance and the climactic main scenes makes for a great story arc and Walken's best role ever.He never asks himself 'Should he do the job even if it means that Evil will triumph?' He wants to survive, and he wants to get paid. At most, he does feel a personal responsibility for the members of his team.Action film fans have complained about the unsophisticated battle scenes, but this is really more of a dramatic 'caper' film with only a few violent scenes. The unrealistic Hollywood firefight ending should be forgiven due to limitations of the times, but those who are used to modern combat 'shooting' scripts and realistic storyboards and the accompanying visual and sound effects may be disappointed.Those who love a good story and characters will not be. Walken Rocks! "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation of the novel, but still enjoyable","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Since I've read Dogs of War novel, I was rather disappointed to watch the adaptation. However, one should realize that a detailed adaptation of the novel would result in maybe 3 hrs duration! However, good improvisation should be credited here, especially in weapons, Schmeissers is replaced by Uzi, and bazookas are replaced by rocket launchers and light grenade launchers with drum magazine, cool stuff! Anyway, if you haven't read the novel, it's still enjoyable and recommended.  "},{"Title":"Visit Belize","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was filmed in Belize, and I took it with me when I moved there, used to show it to Belizeans, who were hugely entertained! The movie has cameos by Emory King, The Movie Minister, and a lot of shots taken around Belize City. The assault on the dictator's estate is actually filmed at the old colonial Governor's house. Belize is littered with the bones of old Brit Rover trucks (it used to be British Honduras) so the early combat scenes are fun. Third world countries are all alike, so the scene with the importation tax rings true! Rent this movie if you want a quick trip to BZ.All in all, I loved the movie. See my website belizenorth.com "},{"Title":"Good, but missing a lot from the book","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a good movie, but having read the book I felt a little cheated by how much the corporation behind the coup was cut out. Simon Endean gets an honorable mention, and I think when addressing him at the end of the movie, Shannon mentions his boss, James Manson.However, if you read the book, close to half of it is devoted to all the corporate goings on behind the coup. Combine that with the top notch planning and execution of the coup by Shannon and his men, and you have a thriller worthy of Forsythe.Despite this, the movie tells the mercenaries' side of the story very well, showing the tension and problems involved in organizing a coup in West Africa. The view we get of the country during Shannon's reconnaissance visit really shows how it has degenerated since independance and being taken over by the dictator.Christopher Walken is perfect in the role of Shannon, he's an incredibly talented actor.I just wish that the movie had been an hour longer, and had included some of the corporate side of things. That would have raised this to a 10, in my book. "},{"Title":"A Great Adventure of War and Moral Code of a Man","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Paul Shannon (Christopher Walken) is a veteran soldier and presently a mercenary, invited by a former contact to visit the fictitious African country of Zangora, which is rich in platinum, and check its political situation. The dictator and corrupt Kimba governs the country with iron hands and an English company, which has interest in Zangora's mineral wealthy, wants to depose him, putting the corrupt and already sold Col. Bobi in his position. Shannon prepares his team to fight against Kimba. This movie is almost a classic of war, filmed in many countries. It is a great adventure of war and moral code of a man. I love the scene when Shannon empowers the correct Dr. Okoye as the substitute for the former president Kimba. The beautiful Victoria Tennant (of 'All of Me'), in the beginning of her career, has a minor participation as a dinner party guest of Col. Bobi. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) 'Cães de Guerra' ('Dogs of War')  "},{"Title":"Doesn't matter. My wife's six months pregnant. Wherever we're going, it's gotta be better than sittin' around watchin' her get fat.","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Do I have a favorite Christopher Walken movie? Not really. He seems to be a couple of cans short of a six pack in most films. It is not to say that he isn't an interesting character, but he is not a favorite. I'll probably catch hell for not being in love with him, but que sera sera.This movie was made soon after The Deer Hunter, and it is a serious Christopher Walken we see. His acting ability is in full review, and it is a pleasure to watch.Not and action film, it is a bit more complicated with only a very big bang at the end. Walken is supported by some surprising actors in minor roles like Jim Broadbent, Victoria Tennant, and Ed O'Neill. "},{"Title":"One flew over the coup-coup's nest.","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie oozes African post-colonial corporate intrigue. It was just what the cinema escapist needed after Christopher Walken's seminal role in The Deer Hunter, which bashed us all (well, Americans) with post-Viet Nam War guilt.A not-so-modern thriller, The Dogs of War communicates quite nicely thank you without lap tops, cell phones, GPS's and spy satellites. The unseen communication device that lurks beneath the script is called a telegraph.I'll pass on tapping out the Morse Code, but the give-away is the scene in prison where Mr. Brown is treated by the incarcerated Dr. Okoye before he (Brown) is deported. This telegraphs the surprise ending.One more thing--if Mr. Brown was gonna get the crap kicked out of him, it should have been for a tryst with the dictator's mistress, not for a limp photograph he took of her in front of the dictator's palace. "}{"Title":"A Hollywood War","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Every scene of this movie hit you over the head with the fact that it was - indeed - a movie. I could never believe that Walken was a hardbitten mercenary anymore than I could believe that a tinhat dictator would be so easily overthrown, or so given to fits of cowardice.And the battle scenes all seemed to be exactly what a movie version of war would look like. Lots of carefully placed explosives, lots of propane torches to simulate fire, and lots of schmaltzy acting in all the death and dying.And then the film just sorta ends with little or no real conclusion. The fight was over and the credits rolled up. Ho hum. Why did they bother? "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There was nothing that great about this movie, and a few things that were rather annoying.  It just kind of rolled along with a lot of little peaks of excitement but nothing that incredible.  By the time the end sequence came around I was rather bored, and the ending, although good, couldn't make up for the earlier scenes. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Goes Nowhere","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok, this action film began as an action film then went nowhere. A lot of talking followed by more talking. Some scenes weren't even needed. What was with the scene JoBeth Williams and Walken? Did we need to have this 5 minute part in the movie. You ask me, they had the scene just to take up 5 minutes.90% of the movie is leading up to the final 10& of the movie. And is it worth it? Not really. Yes, you get your explosions and a lot of things blow up with fire and blood, but it's not enough. No real meat on the bone. Just coming off of an Academy Award with the Deer Hunter, I think Walken had too much responsibility of holding together a movie. You ask me, the film needed a rewrite and a re-edit. Maybe so more star power besides having tiny roles for Tom Berenger and Ed O'Neil "},{"Title":"Too little war and action","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Recap Jamie Shannon, a mercenary, is hired by a company to go on a information gathering mission to Zangora, an African country ruled by a unstable dictator. The company is uneasy to invest in country where the situation is not under control. So, posing as a bird photographer, he goes to Zangora to collect as much information as he can. But it soon end with him being arrested, beaten to pieces and deported. The company is unhappy about the whole Zangora situation though and hires Shannon to make a coup. Shannon puts his team together. but it is not easy to plan a military operation without alerting the authorities, especially when your employer don't trust you.Comments First of all, I have not read the novel, I just rented the movie expecting a good action filled war movie, as suggested by the poster for example. I was disappointed. The movie contains precious little war and almost less action. I can believe that the whole part when Shannon assembles his team works well in a book, when you can elaborate and create some suspense. In a movie, like this, when you have to cut it down to a few loosely connected scenes, all suspense is lost and all we have is a long dull waiting before the action finally begins. And when the coup starts it is a quick and easy one. Some of the potential personal vendettas that were established during his first visit is cut to a minimum, and the entire coup is without any trace of suspense. And the action was rather bad too.3/10 "}]