[{"Title":"Worse things happen at sea!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I first began my relationship with Death Ship when I were a lad growing up in the Heart of England - we had a little video library in our village that had quite a nice selection of horrors and I was always fascinated by the garish, ghoulish box art... Oh, and there were few as ghoulish as the spooky cover of Death Ship, which I vividly remember recreating with pencil sketches in my schoolbooks. We rented it and I have VERY vague recollections of it not being very good but I never got round to see it as an adult. When the video certification act came to pass in 1984, Death Ship (rated X) was removed from the shelves, never to be released again in the UK. Which brings us to the present day - after all these years, I finally score a copy by chance, excitedly bring it home and, with a set belief in my mind that it's going to be a huge disappointment and a rubbish movie, I line up the alcoholic anathestic and push the tape into the cringing VCR... To my surprise, Death Ship turns out to be a winner! In fact, I'd file it quite high up in my Lost Gems folder - quite why this one has been resigned to the Dustbin of History and the Golden Turkey awards is beyond me. I was greatly impressed!The plot is reasonably simple but inarguably bizarre. In the opening scenes, a luxury cruise ship packed with holidaymakers collides with some kind of ghastly black vessel in the middle of the ocean. The cruiser sinks, killing almost everyone on board. There are only about eight survivors who sit floating in a lifeboat, waiting for someone to come and rescue them... Unfortunately the only sign of life for miles is this horrific looking black ship that's just lingering ominously in the ocean. The cruiser's curmudgeonly Captain (George Kennedy) is becoming increasingly ill, having nearly drowned, so the group of survivors decide that they will have to board the evil looking vessel in order to get food, drink and shelter. It doesn't take long to find that the ship is completely deserted and, although no one can rationalise how or why, it seems to be running itself! Worse still, we start to see through a series of unusual events (ie people being hit over the head with flying objects, doors locking folks in spooky old rooms) that the ship appears to want its new passengers offboard as soon as possible.It's all quite Twilight Zone to begin with but as the film moves along, it gets increasingly horrific and frenzied, hurtling towards a (quite literally) crushing climax. The film is shot mostly onboard the ship and it's a wonderfully unpleasant set. From the moment they first board and get covered with oil and grease, you can virtually smell the rust on the ancient machinery and, as it develops, the stench of putrefaction. Oh, and THE SMELL OF FEAR (oh c'mon, it's a George Kennedy movie, I had to make at least one Naked Gun joke!)... Seriously though, it's clearly low budget, but I really enjoyed the rough and raw directorial style - the darkness and the frequent use of shaky, hand-held camera angles and really lend it an air of madness and menace. I felt the energy of the direction coupled with such genuinely ugly and sinister set pieces combined to create a very unique atmosphere that is, from start to finish, thoroughly unpleasant. There are certain scenes, mostly in the chaotic second half, which just make your skin crawl - the murder scenes aren't particularly *gory* as such, but they're shot in such a feverish manner as to prove really quite unsettling indeed. When the real identity of the ship is finally revealed and we discover what befell of the 'crew', it's an almighty suckerpunch and, again, the use of maniacal camera-work and some utterly disgusting sets just add to the overall effect.As I said before, I can't understand why Death Ship gets such a bad rap. As a haunted house movie, it's one of the better ones I've seen - on top of the rabid direction and deathlike atmosphere, we even have some real quality actors in this one (Kennedy is particularly menacing as the cruiser Captain whom the death ship begins to drive slowly mad) *AND* a cracking script to boot. The storyline moves at just the right pace (the first half builds up creepily and then the second one is a breakneck descent into the inferno) and it's unusual enough to make Death Ship an extremely memorable horror movie. I'd give this one an easy 8 out of 10 on the Horror-O-Meter. If you can find a copy, it's well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Great trash movie!!!","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"37 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Atrocious acting,nonsensical script,very low production valuesall these elements can be found in Alvin Rakoff's Death Ship.So why am I not going to trash this little movie?It's simple,I really like this film for those very reasons.It is everything low-budget horror movie should be,yet still manages to tell its story and generate a considerable amount of unease and dread.A cruise ship is destroyed by another ship(the Death Ship),killing most of the crew.The few survivors of the crash,who include the captain(George Kennedy from Creepshow 2 or Just Before Dawn),a family of four and some others,decide that it would be a good idea to board the same ship that crashed their cruise ship.The death ship then starts killing its new victims.Despite so many bad comments Death Ship is still watchable.It has some really creepy scenes and memorable moments.Yes,the film doesn't make very much sense,but that's not what director Alvin Rakoff intended.Instead he puts together nightmarish sequences surrounded by an eerie sounds.You have to be a real horror fan to fully appreciate Death Ship.Check this one out,it's pretty good.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Inventive and unsettling","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This low-budget horror film, produced as one of the last gasps of the late 70s UK/Canada co-production treaty, is a ramshackle affair in places, particularly the early shipwreck scene, cobbled together with stock footage from earlier films (such as The Last Voyage).  Nevertheless, the premise of a Nazi torture ship endlessly roaming the oceans in search of fresh victims is a genuinely original one, and it's well-handled by director Rakoff.  The ship itself looks appropriately forbidding and the various mishaps that befall the luckless survivors are nasty and inventive.  You never quite know when the film is going to deliver a nasty shock moment, or just an unnerving frisson - such as the projector that goes on playing footage of Hitler rallies even after it has been destroyed.  Wisely, the film doesn't attempt to explain why the ship has never been detected previously, how it is powered or what became of the crew ; it works on the level of a nightmare and becomes increasingly surreal the more heroes Crenna and Mancuso delve into the ship's horrors.  The ending is well-conceived and extremely gruesome.  Effective music score too.  Nobody seems to rate this film too highly yet I find it chilly, unsettling and considerably more powerful than many better-known horror movies.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies I saw as a kid, was terrified by and have been trying to find ever since.I finally obtained a copy and watched it again for the first time in twenty years.Until that moment though, I had sought out various opinions of the movie on the internet, the place where everyone has an opinion on everything, and I must say, the majority of comments I recieved were less than encouraging, however my mission would not be swayed.Now, here I am having seen this obscure little flick again and I must say, it wasnt as bad as all that.I think the sense of atmosphere and eeriness, while quite tacky, were effective and charming.One scene that stood out in my mind since that fateful night I watched it as a child, is where Mrs. Morgan eats that poisoned lollie, turns into some creature, is killed and tossed overboard. Ah joyous memories "},{"Title":"A decent horror flick...for the most part","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has a lot of 80's slasher cheese to it--I will freely admit that--but overall I think it is a pretty good movie.  It is good enough to be added to any horror fans video library.  The idea behind the movie is interesting.  The whole haunted Nazi ship thing was really creepy (especially with the spooky ship used to make the flick).  The cast did a pretty good job.  The only thing that bothered me was the way that the initial ship collision was shown--no one bothered to explain how the 8 survivors got off their doomed ship or why a group spread out all over their ship would manage to get together on the lifeboat (and oddly they all seemed to know each other before the crash)! Maybe I shouldn't be so picky though.  It isn't like I haven't seen cheesier horror flicks than this one in my life.  Watch Death Ship only if you are a die hard B-movie horror fan! It is worth a view. "},{"Title":"Creepy and very atmospheric","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, we've already stated the fact that I LOVE b-movies. A lot of them are cheesy, badly acted, and have horrible plots. But that's what I love about them. And surely this film has all those right elements for a b-movie. But what this film does better than those other films, is that I manages to maintain atmospheric. Some of the scenes in this film were absolutely frightening! It kept me spellbound and wondering what was going to happen next. Even though, it was blatantly obvious and predictable. It still kept me guessing at certain parts. I give it a 9. Watch it if you are a die-hard horror fan or b-movie fan. Oh yeah, George Kennedy actually gave an award winning, creepy performance as the captain who wanted to take over the Nazi Freighter. "},{"Title":"Some castaways from a passenger  luxury cruise are trapped  inside a mysterious freighter on open seas","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Creepy and exciting movie about some shipwrecked lead to remains of a deserted ghost ship that's been missing for more than 40 years , since WWII, it is packed with good actors and slick direction . The film concerns about a passenger luxury liner is crashed by a strange freighter . The castaways enter into the rare German ship and after encounter themselves trapped and they figure out that things are not as they should. A frightening vessel lost from the 40s at a remote region nowadays is floating drift.The mysterious Nazi vessel is lost at sea for more than 50 years.But one time aboard the cavernous, eerie ship, the group encounter that the decaying Oceaner freighter is anything but deserted. Boarding the ship results to be a big mistake since the tragedy that overtook the lives of crew and captain lingers and starts to affect the present passengers. When a series of bizarre occurrences happen and the crew becomes caught in a web of ghastly deeds ,they soon learn is inhabited by haunting previous crew.The picture contains scary suspense, thrills, terror,tension, chills and is quite entertaining. Deserted ship is portrayed as a complete riddle with weird events,screams and grisly horrifying happenings. The movie paid attention to building up a terrifying atmosphere instead of violent and stabbing killing spree.The action takes completely place into a rusty ship wreck .The argument isn't original but it's being gradually revealed with nutty enchantment , such as ¨The shinning(Kubrick)¨ style and it attracts viewer's attention. The picture is starred by fine actors, doing some correct performances, as Richard Crenna, George Kennedy, Sally Ann Howes and nice secondary role for Saul Rubinek .If you're enthusiastic of the mystery tales and B films, so you'll encounter this picture to be agreeable. If your interest lies on a more cerebral terror movie,then I highly recommend you skip this one.This eerie movie is rightly directed by Alvin Rakoff during the 8os, he is a craftsman Canadian director as cinema as television . The film is recommended for all horror lovers which will find many nice eerie shots though not very logical but still their appetite for gruesome scenes will be satisfied.Other adaptation about 'ghost ships' are the following  For television titled ¨The triangle(2001)¨by Lewis Teague with Luke Perry, Dan Cortese , Olivia Dábo and Polly Shannon, the high budgeted by Joel Silver titled ¨ The Ghost ship (2002) ¨ by Steven Beck with Julianne Margules, Ron Eldard and Gabriel Byrne and for Sci-Fi channel titled ¨The ghost voyage¨ with Antonio Sabato and Gary-Hiroyaki Tagawa. "},{"Title":"Ship of Death The Haunting of Unspeakable Acts from the Past","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I was a little kid, driving by this local videostore on my bike, I always stopped to take a quick peek at this amazingly cool video-cover displayed in front of the store window (just look up the poster art here on IMDb). Around that same time I saw on television just a few little fragments of a French-dubbed horror movie taking place on a ship. The name George Kennedy both on the cover and on the credits linked the two facts together. By the time I was old enough to go rent it, the copy had mysteriously disappeared from the videostore. I've been on the look-out for this film ever since.Thanx to Dario_the_2nd (fellow horror-boarder) the wait finally came to an end. And to say it right away I honestly don't understand the low rating this film has here on IMDb. Sure it's not a perfect movie; the story is pretty thin and the acting isn't really memorable or something (though not bad at all either). What this movie lacks in the plot-department, at makes up more than enough in eerie atmosphere and creepiness. When a luxury cruise ship sinks, a few survivors adrift find their way onto a huge, dirty and abandoned ship, apparently floating dead in the water. But not quite as dead as they expected, they'll soon find out. The pace of the movie is rather slow, but the ship itself is frightening and menacing. With numerous shots of its self-functioning engine, countless pipes, valves and other iron-work, the vessel establishes itself as a threatening presence, or even more so a real character, throughout the entire movie. It's no secret at all that this ship is haunted and the reason why is quite shocking. Two scenes that stayed with me from when I was a kid, were that-one-lady-in-the-projection-room-turning-ugly and especially the blood-shower scene. The latter one really is a foul scene. Of course, you've seen that before, but this is one of the better efforts. However, this still remains a very un-stylized B-movie. No fancy cinematography, no well-balanced lighting and a lot of hand-held camera shots. But all this adds to the effect of realism. And at not one point I found myself giggling at the sort of clumsiness of the mise-en-scène (which I actually expected to do so, before going into this movie). As much as the editing is rudimentary, their are some fine textbook examples of cross-cutting to be found. A technique seldomly used anymore. At least not in mainstream films. The rather minimalistic but effective musical score helped to set the right tone from the opening credits on.I could conclude that this flick might perhaps not be enjoyed by the general horror-fan nowadays, but if you're interested in the weird and bizarre, then this one is worth hunting down. Good luck with it. "},{"Title":"I remember it from 20 years ago-Better than the film- Ghost Ship-","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film, Death Ship, while it was a made for TV movie, is actually pretty scary. Considering it has been awhile since I saw it last (then I recently rented it). George Kennedy is the main character, and is rather creepy in this movie.It is definitely worth viewing. The set of an abandoned Nazi ship conjures up the torture chambers and murder which occurred there. There are also some strange sound effects, the voices he hears remind one of what the gas chambers must have sounded like. The ship itself is a nightmare, and the acting is plausible.If you have seen the recent Ghost Ship, with Gabriel Byrne and Ron Eldard, rent this film, It is a lot more frightening with a better story to it. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Dying to see land.","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Along with 1981 sci-fi / horror 'Galaxy of Terror' (which only a couple months back I saw for the first time), 'Death Ship' has been at the top of my must see list and finally it was fulfilled. The most striking aspect to the film for me was its ominous looking poster artwork (which would be reused by the similar in plot 2002 'Ghost Ship') of a skull transpiring from the front of ramshackle ship. Creepy! And this co Canadian / UK produced low-rent, b-grade picture effectively delivered on its promised chills, despite its low-budget that shows from its creaky, murky and minimal execution. The off-kilter, but downright fixed premise is cut and dry (as the original idea, before the story/script was chopped and changed around was originally penned by cult exploitation filmmaker Jack Hill) with it projecting a Gothic haunted house atmosphere aboard an ominous looking rust-bucket ship endlessly travelling the high seas with an sinisterly deranged twist behind it.A group of passengers that were on a cruise ship that went down in the Caribbean end up climbing aboard a mysteriously rundown ghost ship that seemed to come out of nowhere. While boarding the vessel they find themselves trapped on upon it, as if it has mind of its own.Blaring on the back on the DVD case The Shinning meets The Poseidon Adventure! sounds about right. Familiar staples in a basic haunting set-up, but a motivated cast keeps it chugging along with the names of George Kennedy, Richard Crenna, Sally Ann Howes, Nick Mancuso, Victoria Burgoyne and Saul Rubinek. Very committed and hardened performances help to keep the tainted script afloat. Alvin Rakoff's sub-par direction is humidly tight and moody, letting it unfold slowly which actually made the nightmarishly suffocating atmosphere drill in some surreal (if tacked on) imagery and an unsettling ambiance when the true horrors are discovered (oh those Nazis). Stemming from that is an unpleasantly crude quality and some anxious suspense (characters losing their marbles); as the survivors are picked off one by one. Some flaws cropping up would be some sequences seem to be overlong, and the editing at times can be rather ragged. Sometime flashes of what's about to happen would work their way in&#x85; which would spoil any sort of impact. Ivor Slaney's softly spooky score is instrumental in setting the air. It won't set the world alight, as it's a limited, but resourceful minor production that sticks to its strengths. 'Death Ship' is a junky and makeshift, but fairly eerie and cold horror piece. "}{"Title":"Interesting Howler!! Possible Spoilers","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" DEATH SHIP turned out to be my Halloween 2004 movie without even intending to have it be the feature of the night. One of the most notorious bombs of the 1980's, DEATH SHIP actually turned out to be one of the most interesting movies I've seen in a while for a couple of reasons. George Kennedy stars as the captain of an excursion liner who is facing retirement with less than a dignified attitude, who's boat is rammed by an old Nazi freighter that apparently acted as a sort of floating death camp, complete with a medical atrocities ward. For reasons never clearly explained the ship has become haunted or possessed by the Nazis who manned it who's demise is also never explained and continues roaming the seven seas looking for souls to torment by ramming pleasure yachts and lurking around until the survivors scrabble on board for refuge.We do indeed get a new batch of survivors to be tormented, and the bulk of the film has this apparently none too bright handful of humanity slowly figuring out that the DEATH SHIP is not just some old boat floating around, but not until after an old lady is mutated by some sort of leftover germ warfare experiment, Kennedy is possessed by the DEATH SHIP and goes insane, one guy gets thrown down into the flooded hold and onto a pile of rotted human remains the film's finest ewww moment, and the hot panted chick decides it would be a good idea to TAKE A SHOWER on the DEATH SHIP, to disgustingly amusing results. To a certain extent this is a masterpiece of trash 1980's horror and another one of those you can't make 'em like this anymore movies you sort of watch with a quiet awe, wondering to what depths it will sink next to elicit a howl or two. To be sure it is a somewhat uneventful movie, with not really much happening once you get down to it, and only two or three graphic deaths depicted on screen. The meat of the film lies in the territory of previous Ghost Ship type films there is a great deal of resemblance to Amando deOssorio's GHOST SHIP OF THE BLIND DEAD especially, with endless panning shots of the rusted hulk, dimly lit interiors and surprisingly well maintained engine room -- coupled with appropriately gloomy mood music -- that convey without a doubt to audiences that something is creeping in the dark, though we never see any zomboid Nazis.And on that note this film has a curiously indefinable moral position The movie goes out of it's way to show us the dusty echoes of Nazi horrors, but beyond showing them to us never has anything to say about them or the people who committed and suffered these atrocities. I liked how the film has the boat dunk oil onto the white uniforms of Kennedy and two of his officers as they clamber on board, giving their clothes a sickening gray hue that said to me It just turned them into Nazi sailors. We also get a somewhat disturbing shot of Kennedy all mucked up with his hair slicked across his forehead Hitler-style, but what does that really have to say about who his character is? Is he an escaped war criminal? We are shown movie reels of Nazi rallies and concentration camps that supposedly drive one character to throw himself off a high ledge, but what of it?The answer is that this may have been one of the last of the great Nazi Exploitation Films, with the distinction being that it was a predominantly American production. By not necessarily staking a moralistic claim on what it shows us, the film exists as a sort of quasi mood piece, instowing revulsion, dread, and above all curiosity in the viewer as they try to make sense of what they are seeing & hearing, which is what those Nazi horror flicks like ACHTUNG! THE DESERT TIGERS and THE BEAST IN THE HEAT were all about. Here we get a supernatural angle where the Nazis are all gone, with only the legacy of horror left to bear witness upon how evil they were -- The pain and anguish they created still haunt the DEATH SHIP, but who or what is behind the DEATH SHIP's actions, and how are we supposed to feel about it?By not providing an answer the film succeeds where it's ultra-lowbrow production values may not. I like how the victims of the DEATH SHIP's horrors all describe what is happening verbally while it takes place in case the disjointed editing intended to keep the budget down leaves anyone behind. I appreciated the unpredictability of the script, and also liked how the movie ends, with the DEATH SHIP apparently just continuing on it's miserable way to the next victim, and making this just a snapshot in a couple of days from the life of a never ending nightmare now happening to whomever gets in it's way. Definitely worth seeking out, though the film is out of print and not likely to be revived anytime soon.I give it ** out of **** for being so utterly unpredictable and single-minded; A howler to be sure, if you're in the right frame of mind. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Gem.","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Like at least one other reviewer here the lurid cover art of Death Ship drew me in as young, impressionable boy standing in the local dodgy video store in the early eighties shortly before many of the horror and exploitation films therein were whipped from our shelves by the fledgling BBFC and consigned to that cinematic void that lurks somewhere between obscurity and cult-fame.Of course the over-zealous authorities did us a favour really. Ridding the shelves of films that in many cases were utter dross, propelled forward by enticing cover art. However there were some diamonds among the dung, Death Ship being a particularly shiny one, and it truly is a mystery how such a great film remained almost completely unavailable and unknown until it's recent repackaging and rerelease.Despite a few B-movie clangers like the ridiculous day/night differential in the opening scenes Death Ship isn't true horror trash. For a start, it's got a famous-ish cast including George Kennedy, Richard Crenna and not to mention that bloke who went on to play Donnie in Frasier! But the area in which this film really sets itself apart is the set. The Death Ship in reality, I understand, was a decommissioned Canadian freighter of some description (albeit from the sixties rather than the forties) and most of the movie was filmed either on the decks or in the vessel's actual interior. It certainly looks the part with the ship's black, rust streaked exterior and grim, outdated interior brilliantly telling the tale of a Nazi interrogation ship given a life of it's own by the ghosts of it's past.As the eerie first half of the film gives way to the helter skelter second half there are some truly sinister moments with the old woman's disfigurement at the hands of some innocent looking candies ranking as particularly shocking as was Nick Mancuso's wretched demise in the ship's flooded hold.Rather less impactful was the supposedly infamous shower scene in which the gorgeous Victoria Burgoyne takes a bloody shower. The reality is however, overlong and sightly tedious.I guess I could complain a little bit about the lack of answers provided. For example what was with all the frozen sailors and airmen? Were they poor unfortunates the ship had picked up for interrogation during the Second World War? But perhaps I should be grateful that the Death Ship just sailed off into cinematic obscurity rather than ruin it's poise by spelling every single thing out to the audience.In short, this is a cracking horror yarn that deserves to take it's rightful place in the annals of history. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but it sure left a lasting impression..","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If Death Ship were made today, it would probably be a Made for TV movie. But, when it made its limited run on cable, I watched it by myself in the middle of the night with no lights on. It creeped me out pretty well. I suspect that it has not held up well to time. I'll try to find a copy of it at Hollywood Video and see if the <spoiler-alert, scroll down to read on otherwise bah-bye>....pool of decaying bodies a-la Poltergeist is as bad as it seemed over 2 decades  "},{"Title":"The teeth were terrifying, but watch it for the shower scene !","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This has the most gratuitous shower blood-booby scene imaginable - everything that Terror Tuesday should be.Over twenty years on, it was as atmospheric as I recalled from watching it as a teenager on the late Saturday night horror shows, and whilst a tad predictable after years of horror-enjoyment, some of the scenes such as the frozen locker of bodies and the 'interrogation room' still gave me jitters.This film is so different to much contemporary horror, creating an atmosphere of tension instead of showering us in blood. I love the gore, but atmosphere is a prerequisite, and this film showcases how well it can be done. Not to mention the blood covered tatas ! "},{"Title":"A little horror gem from the 80's.","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Sure it's a low budget horror b-movie but what it lacks in budget and script it makes up for in very uncanny and eerie atmosphere. That is probably why late 70's and early 80's horror/splatter movies still stands today. The atmosphere in the movies of that time era simply can't be reproduced today. I don't know if it was the film in the cameras or some other technical aspect but todays films are just too clean and polished.Anyway, the story is rather simple  People get shipwrecked, gets on board this nasty haunted ship. The haunted ship knocks people off one by one. Yep, simple as salt BUT as i said with a simple story like that you have to compensate and here is where the atmosphere comes in. A record player coming to live twice by itself and the sound crawling through the steel corridors of the boat really crept under my skin. A woman 'transformed' by eating some(very) out of date candy and scaring the hell out of her companions. And the blood in the shower scene where the poor girl gets totally frenzied and so on....My recommendation  See it for yourself(preferably alone at night with the lights turned off) but get your brain down on low gear and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Weird but scary","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Death Ship is about an old ship that collides with a luxury liner having a party.  The survivors enter the ship.  They believe everything is ok.....until dead bodies start to appear.....and weird things begin to frighten them.  Why?  Because.....THE SHIP IS HAUNTED!!!!!!  Check out the scene where a woman tries to take a shower only to end up being completely covered in blood.  Richard Crenna(of The Evil)  returns to save the day. George Kennedy turns evil and ends up losing his life.......and his arm.....for it.  A weird but good movie.  ***stars.  (Embassy) "},{"Title":"Under appreciated classic horror film was one of the last to put mood before blood.","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a 1980's video and cable classic. Many was the night that this played on HBO and other pay services that I stayed up late to watch. It was also a perennial renter. Working at a video store in the late 80's I saw this film rent better than many better films. However as time has passed, the screenings have been reduced to odd ball commercial TV screenings, if its screened at all. People have all but forgotten it. I recently broke down and picked up a really neat UK release on DVD and so got my first look at the film in a decade or so.The plot of the film has a cruise ship collide with a dark shadowy ship somewhere along its trip to nowhere. The few survivors make their way on board the new ship, only to find it empty. Well not really empty, it does have the ghosts of its Nazi crew on board and they begin to pick off the survivors. (okay maybe its not the crew but the twisted spirit of the ship, either way its haunted). Things get more complicated when George Kennedy, the Captain of the cruise ship, falls under the spell of the ship and begins to take out his frustrations on Richard Crenna, the man who was going to replace him.Not very gory, but with mood to spare this is a film that works on a visceral level. To be certain the film doesn't make a great deal of sense, but at the same time there is enough of a dream logic to carry it along. We can almost buy that this ship has been wandering the seas for decades, even if we're forced to wonder what happened to everyone else who was on the cruise ship.How do people find each other when there is no way they could have heard each other? These things just sort of happen. And then there are the mistakes that work to the films advantage, the ship is suppose to be empty, but more than once we see an arm or some part of a person opening or closing a window, its a fleeting glimpse that some how helps ratchet up the tension.(maybe the dead do walk especially since we see so many corpses). Its the small moments of implication that freak you out, not the showers of blood.Shot so that you not only have a real sense of place, you are on a ship at sea, but also to express a mood of dread, this is a rotten and decaying place and you don't want to be there. What amazed me was seeing the film in widescreen for the first time I was struck by just how good the compositions are. Watch how the survivors move across an empty deck so that they seem to be in a vast expanse of nothing, or how the increasingly insane George Kennedy storms down a hall way almost completely filling it. Its a text book example of how to shoot a horror film and have it give you a mood before anything ever happens. What I wouldn't give to see a film maker today shoot a film like this where the pictures on the screen are more than razzle dazzle. Honestly this is one of the best looking films I've seen. I'm not saying that lightly, since I realize that with a film beautiful sunsets and picture perfect moments do not result in a scary horror film.If you can take the film for what it is, a real exploitation horror film with its own logic and made before effects and gallons of blood, then you're going to have a good time. if you want logic and reason and gore, look elsewhere.But what ever you do don't watch this alone at night with the lights off. "},{"Title":"Watch it alone at 3am","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love this film. It was always on the TV at 3am in winter. I remember getting home many times after a night out and frightening myself stupid watching it. it's a never let you down scary flick. In my top ten horror flicks for sure. I was just watching the film 'Triangle' and 'Death Ship' came back to me. The shower scene was horrific! I don't think I recognise any of the actors but the film stays with you all the same. Good old fashioned film making. No over the top special effects, just a genuine good horror story. Chilling. It kind of reminds of the film 'Duel'. Maybe because of it's simplicity. My brother is a horror film nut and this one really had him bricking it. Ha. WOuld love to watch it again now that I'm 30... "},{"Title":"Deathship available on DVD in region 2 japan import","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes its true! One of my favorite B Horror movies of all time Death Ship (1980) has been available on DVD in Japan as an official release since July 2004.Check out www.hmv.co.jp You will need to translate the page into English.I live in Australia and have purchased quite a few CD's from hmv and have been more than impressed with the speed and quality of the service they provide. It retails for around 4.000 Yen. It includes the original English audio with an option for Japanese subtitles.Digital Transfer from the original 35mm negative.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Big Cheese","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The only reason I find myself talking about this movie is that it seems to have wound up on many late night reruns lately. As a nightowl, I keep watching it. This is a cheesy movie, the effects aren't great, but dammit, if I'm flipping the stations and its on, I just can't stop watching it. Maybe its the atmosphere, because this movie has one of the greatest creepy atmospheres I have ever seen. An abandon, rusty, Nazi torture ship, roaming the seas, looking for victims. Ok, so its not real believable, but the concept is scary as hell! The horror of who the Nazis were and what they did, adds a whole other dimension of terror to this movie. Do not watch this movie if you only like good movies and good acting. Your prudish sensibilities will be very disappointed. However, for the rest who aren't as picky, this is a great chilling movie. N.B. beware of the severe late 70's early 80's problem with lighting. This movie is very dark, lots of shadows.  "}{"Title":"Inventive and unsettling","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This low-budget horror film, produced as one of the last gasps of the late 70s UK/Canada co-production treaty, is a ramshackle affair in places, particularly the early shipwreck scene, cobbled together with stock footage from earlier films (such as The Last Voyage).  Nevertheless, the premise of a Nazi torture ship endlessly roaming the oceans in search of fresh victims is a genuinely original one, and it's well-handled by director Rakoff.  The ship itself looks appropriately forbidding and the various mishaps that befall the luckless survivors are nasty and inventive.  You never quite know when the film is going to deliver a nasty shock moment, or just an unnerving frisson - such as the projector that goes on playing footage of Hitler rallies even after it has been destroyed.  Wisely, the film doesn't attempt to explain why the ship has never been detected previously, how it is powered or what became of the crew ; it works on the level of a nightmare and becomes increasingly surreal the more heroes Crenna and Mancuso delve into the ship's horrors.  The ending is well-conceived and extremely gruesome.  Effective music score too.  Nobody seems to rate this film too highly yet I find it chilly, unsettling and considerably more powerful than many better-known horror movies.  "},{"Title":"One of the most masterpiece in the horror history???","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Unbeknown to the passengers on board a cruise ship in the Caribbean, a mysterious vessel is approaching on a collision course. Despite the attempts of the crew to avert disaster, the liner is lost with all hands down, except for seven survivors. They are saved when they clamber aboard a ghostly freighter where they discover an even worse fate. They are now prisoners on a former wartime vessel. As this ship speeds towards an unknown destination, they realize that something is intent on destroying each one of them in a gruesome and terrifying way. From an original story by Hollywood legend Jack Hill (COFFY, FOXY BROWN, SWITCHBLADE SISTERS) and starring none other than George Kennedy (COOL HAND Luke, THE DIRTY DOZEN) and Richard Crenna (FIRST BLOOD) comes the long-awaited UK DVD premiere of DEATH SHIP. Unseen in the UK since 1983, this deranged horror film is now widely regarded as a must-see cult classic! "},{"Title":"Far from the total turkey its reputation would suggest.","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Professionally wanting as this may be, film-makers have re-worked the concept twice now. VIRUS in 1999 (rogue ship seemingly abandoned, which when boarded proves to be an unpleasant experience) and this year's GHOST SHIP, an even closer related caper, which has even ripped-off the original POSTER with only subtle alterations. Matter of fact the entire FILM has been ripped off with only subtle alterations....less Nazis, more ghosts!You just know with Richard Crenna up front in the credits you're looking at a B-Grade production from the outset. Live with it! For my money too, give me a REAL ship with REAL people anytime...leaves the digitised variety for dead. The brooding leviathan that (I have to admit laughably) sneaks up on Crenna and the few survivors of the opening rammed-ship sequence (yeah, that wasn't great either!) is all menace from the opening scenes. Big brute too! one would wonder how 35-40,000 tons of ship can sneak up on four people floating in the Atlantic without a sound! Anyway, lets not get into semantics..it DOES and our intrepid bunch board the seemingly deserted vessel and make a most unpleasant if not illogical discovery. (Don't ask how the vessel has been cruising around for forty odd years without a grease and oil-change, never mind a re-fuelling!)Some intense and really quite chilling scenes manage to lift the film way above the dialog which rarely gets past high school work-experience level. Some quite effective camera work too supports the view that the film has its moments and does not deserve to be consigned to the junk bin. Actually it plays way better these days if you go watch GHOST SHIP first. Not one in 2000 of today's viewers has ever heard of DEATH SHIP so the makers need never have been concerned with viewer comparison. George Kennedy playing right against type is a hoot as Captain Ashland, who by degrees loses it, as he is possessed by the ship's original Germanic complement of officers. Trust me, it gets better after multiple viewings over twenty years.....and I paid $5 for it! "},{"Title":"A well made film.  Bravo!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The people that have rated this film low are trying to compare it to a full budget film.  Don't let the ratings fool you.  I give this one a whole bunch of thumbs up.  This is an excellent movie.  The story line will keep you on the edge of your seat.   "},{"Title":"Ship of doom!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie at a drive as a double feature with Scanners, I thought both films were great, but then I saw this film on video about ten years later,and I understood it a lot better. The theam and the creepy ship were enough to scare me once again. The actores are great, and the fact that I have seen George Kennidy in other kooky horror films that are much worse then this one, makes this one of his best works in this kind of film (see Just Before Dawn!). Also, it has one of those great endings where you know that the evil Death Ship is out there looking for more BLOOD! "},{"Title":"Cheap but has its moments","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Death Ship was obviously produced on a flimsy budget, as the cost-conscious opening shipwreck demonstrates - we're not talking James Cameron here!  There are other flaws - plot loopholes, dodgy acting and one extraordinary moment of bad editing/continuity.  Nevertheless, I think it's an effective film because the basic idea is strong and there are some good creepy moments.  Alvin Rakoff's direction makes the most of the location and the climax is well-managed. "},{"Title":"Only worth watching to see good actors in terrible trouble.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is ludicrous and forgettable. The plot should be clear, but is actually rather confusingly conveyed on film...as far as I could establish, it is something to do with a shipping accident in which the few survivors board a haunted Nazi torture ship controlled by spectres. The ship then sets about killing them. However, it is one of those films which is only worth watching on a curiosity level, in order to see a crop of talented stars struggling embarrassingly against a trashy script. It resembles The Island (1980) and The Swarm (1978) in that the people who made it have managed to attract some high profile actors, then proceeded to waste them in the most degrading way imaginable. If you want to see killer vehicles in your movies, then  stick with Christine, or even The Car, or even Killdozer.....this one is strictly for afficianados of bad films!  "},{"Title":"This ain't no Love Boat","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite horror films. Yes the beginning ship collision is poorly done but nothing afterwards is. The mysterious roving Nazi death ship that picks up the survivors of the rammed vessel(including George Kennedy and Richard Crenna) is perfectly creepy--all rust on the outside and dust covered rooms within. That the ship seems to have a mind of its own and that unseen crewmen seem to be just around the next corner compliments the aire of uncertainty and mounting claustrophobia which builds as the one time survivors fall prey to the forces of the ship. One scene in particular, when Nick Mancuso falls into a water filled hold of the ship only to be scooped out in a net full of rotting corpses is the stuff of nightmares! Check this one out and give it time--it won't let you down.  "},{"Title":"Horror Comedy","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'Death Ship' is so unintentionally hilarious that all the thrill doesn't even shock the viewer because they are still laughing at the previous ridiculousness. Some people might even miss quite gory and effective death scenes. The story is simple, characters paper thin and there isn't much logic or explanation. Acting is nothing magnificent (except George Kennedy in the final stages of the film when his character really starts to lose it) like usually in these cheap trashy horror films, but nothing exceptionally bad either. Still nice entertainment for those who enjoy these kind of movies that rely more on shocking gore than atmosphere. Guilty pleasure, but only for one viewing. Rather forgettable film. "},{"Title":"Creepy and atmospheric Movie","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I first got this movie on VHS back in 1991, when i was 11 years old. And what a movie it was, scary and very atmospheric, and the sense of dread is all over this movie. Not much blood and gore, but that is fine, in this movie. But it sure is an awesome movie, still in my top 10 of the best horror movies of all times. If you like ghost movies at sea, this is a must see. I can see that they copied the movie Ghost Ship ( 2002 ) of this one, even the same cover art, but Death Ship is much better. It has a lot of good actors in it, like George Kennedy and Richard Crenna, and they do a fine job. It is out on DVD and Blu Ray in Europa and USA. "}{"Title":"It's a different horror film even though it still has big problems","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" By the last half of 20th century film making, horror genre pictures had solidified themselves in pop culture. Plus, the horror genre began splitting off into various sub-genres like the slasher and monster flicks. But when it came to out at sea related adventures, it's hard to say whether there was a lot of them around yet that delved into the horror genre. The biggest noticeable boom in this particular kind of story / setting would be seen later with pictures like Leviathan (1989), Deep Star Six (1989), Deep Rising (1998), Virus (1999) and Ghost Ship (2002). But for Death Ship (1980), it seemed like this was the grandpap of all of them. It is by no means a true gem but it at least has certain aspects that should be respected for.After being shipwrecked and stranded in the ocean, a group of survivors from the wreck discover an abandoned rusty derelict. Once on board, they begin to realize that the ship is running with no crew. Odd. There's more than meets the eye to this ship that's for sure. Apart of the survivors are George Kennedy as Capt. Ashland, his second in command Trevor Marshall (Richard Crenna - with a full beard) and his wife (Sally Ann Howes - from Chitty Chitty Bang Bang (1968)) and kids. Although these actors are good choices, their performances aren't among anything moving. Other than these actors, the last bit of the cast is highly forgettable. Partially this is due to the writing, which addresses some motivations, like the Captain's but not all of them, and this isn't the only flaw.The ship that which these survivors take refuge on has supernatural powers. It can close its own doors, control its own chains, pump its engines, steer itself and even is accompanied by ghostly voices. Nice! So how did it get these powers? Was it cursed? Don't know, a topic that is never touched on sadly. There is an explanation to what it thrives on but that still doesn't explain its current condition. But going back to the actual ship itself, is something to behold. The production design by Chris Burke and cinematography by René Verzier blend evenly. The look of this ship is as grungy and weather worn as they come. Not to mention all of those cobwebs all over the place. Although the back-story to the ship is not expanded upon, the mystery of not knowing does make it entertaining to a point.The camera-work is also done differently. To simulate that of being on a boat, the camera sways making it unleveled with square surfaces. It can get a bit nauseating at times but it feels realistic. The practical effects are nice too. All the ship's eerie movements and creaky noises help make the vessel feel that much more bizarre. The horror aspect to the film is probably the weakest though. None of it was scary, it was just unsettling (and that's OK). Adding to that unsettling feeling is Ivor Slaney's score, which incorporates classical sounding orchestral tones and some synth. The best theme was the tune that plays for the ship's engine pistons where horns crescendo and decrescendo for the swinging movement every time they pump. Too bad the complete score isn't available. Horror fans may find something to like about, but I don't guarantee a whole lot.It has a few respectable cast members but their characters' are not developed fully. However, the ship's production value, camera work, music and all around eerie surrounding is enough to make it somewhat likable. "},{"Title":"Dreary Ship-Board Horror.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Richard Crenna and George Kennedy star in this violent, unpleasant, and dreary film about sunken cruise-ship survivors who board the Death Ship which turns out to be haunted by the Nazis who conducted experiments there, and now the ship has attained an evil life force of its own, and roams the seas in search of new victims.Plot has potential(could have been on a very dark episode of Night Gallery) but it is squandered in a film devoid of style or impact, despite the good actors, who can do little with it. Confusing at times, with annoying use of slow-motion.This film's poster is the best thing about it! "},{"Title":"Adequate terror tale.","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In this okay horror picture, a luxury liner collides with an enormous, mysterious freighter. The next day, the handful of survivors from the liner come across the freighter, which is now anchored, and not knowing any better, board the strange vessel, thinking this will be their means of rescue. However, the Death Ship which they've boarded truly does have a life of its own, and the characters meet their demise one at a time, while grumpy Captain Ashland (George Kennedy) falls under the evil influence of this ship. Don't go into Death Ship expecting a lot of sense, or a whole lot of exposition, as that doesn't seem to be the priority of the filmmakers, led by director Alvin Rakoff. They'd much rather wrap you in the ambiance of the Death Ship, falling back on shots of its inner workings on a regular basis. Unfortunately, the presentation is somewhat uninspired; there may be some decent atmosphere, but there are also no real scares. The movie is rough going for a while (and doesn't even show how this small group of people came to survive the collision), but eventually delivers some standout scenes, chief among them the fate of Sylvia (Kate Reid), whose face turns hideous, and the comeuppance of sexy young Lori (Victoria Burgoyne), who is drenched with blood while trying to take a shower. For the most part, the characters are ciphers, and the big name cast deliver just-cashing-a-paycheck performances, especially Crenna. Kennedy tries but isn't that convincing here at playing evil and psychotic. Also among the cast are Sally Ann Howes as Crennas' wife, Nick Mancuso as a liner crewman, and Saul Rubinek who is at least pretty amusing as the bandleader who receives particularly rough treatment. Production design (by Chris Burke), cinematography (by Rene Verzier), and music (by Ivor Slaney) are all reasonably effective. Things pick up considerably in the final act when we get some horrific imagery in the form of a lot of dead bodies. Overall, this isn't very good, but isn't as bad as some reviews would have you believe, remaining watchable enough and clocking in at an acceptable running time of just over an hour and a half. Story credit goes to David P. Lewis and B movie icon Jack Hill. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"eerie atmosphere","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This flick never had a really proper release. It was available on DVD but was missing 9 minutes. X Rated Kult released it years ago full uncut, the whole 91 minutes. But that label is only available in Germany and most of their releases aren't that cheap but in 2011 this flick got finally released full uncut. It's strange that it was missing 9 minutes because it wasn't gory after all, in fact, there's not that much going on. It's easy to see that it was low budget, no extra lighting, colour temperature which is wrong and bad editing. And some scene's were way too dark. It was one of those final UK/Canadian horrors. A new era was born, the slashers. If you look closely than there are other examples that are showing that no money was involved. They used stock footage of other flicks to make the scene were the cruise ship is being hit by the ghost ship. On the other hand, that ghost ship or death ship was in fact an old ship broken down. Parts were it is moving it still worked but once broken you could see that the ship was anchored, the water didn't move, they filmed it from a moving small boat around that ship.Nevertheless, this flick, although some break it down do deliver due some eerie and atmospheric shots. The red stuff is left out, maybe only the shower scene (one scene that was cut due nudity) contained a lot of it. But on the other hand Death Ship contained a lot of big names in it. George Kennedy I guess doesn't need any explanation. He was believable here as he was in later horrors like Just Before Dawn (1981) or in Creepshow 2 (1987). But it's also worthy to see Richard Crenna who went further in the 3 Rambo's (1982 - 1988) as Trautman. The UK actresses were also not uncommon on the television screen as in flicks like Chitty Chitty Bang Bang ((1968)Sally Ann Howes).If you are into eighties and seventies horror then this is a must due it's weird camera angles and the way they used Adolf Hitler in this flick, weird scene, even as the projector is destroyed the film keeps going on. Not gory at all but I'm sure that Ghost Ship (2002) was some kind of tribute toward Death Ship. Once hard to get, now to find easily on DVD.Gore 1/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 2/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"For a retro horror and a lesson in how to create a solid horror ambiance, Death Ship is still a pretty good watch.","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the movies that I remember to be better than it probably was when I was watching it.Death Ship is about a shipwrecked crew who find an abandoned ship that they eventually realize is haunted by its past crew - a Nazi interrogation brigade.One of the things that's better in retrospect is the ambiance created by the sound effects, which augmented the already cool visuals of a creepy, desolate ship. It got pretty jarring after a while but it worked. The makeup on the spooks, while hardly mind-blowing, was also adequate enough for the movie.The main problem, as it has always been with me for old horrors, is that what was perceived as scary back then really isn't all that scary now, jaded as we are. But for a retro horror and a lesson in how to create a solid horror ambiance, Death Ship is still a pretty good watch. "},{"Title":"Creepy and chilling","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't believe this is rated so low, considering how chilling and creepy it is. It's very effective for a horror film. It doesn't have tons of blood and gore like many horror films but instead it creeps you out with its dark atmosphere. Scenes such as the woman in the shower being showered with blood, the rotten dead bodies in the interrogation devices, the dead bodies on hooks; they all send a chill down your spine. This is an amazing ghost story and is especially horrifying to those afraid of ships. I have always had a fear of water so scenes such as the woman being thrown into the sea, and the man being dunked head first into the sea both made me cringe. The story is also quite interesting, if not slightly confusing. It has to do with the fact that the ship used to be a German interrogation ship, and it appears that the ship has been sailing around the ocean in a circle. It is even suggested that it has been doing so for eternity. I would urge all horror fans to see this and ignore the bad reviews. "},{"Title":"Lets see! Should we board this spooky ship?","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Like many others on this board I saw this when it first came out and horror on film became my passion. So I was just now lucky enough to obtain a VHS copy in reasonable condition and looked forward to the viewing. Although in my memory a couple of the scenes where longer. So! okay a cruise ship gets ploughed into by this ship and hundreds of people drown. A bit picky I know but how did the select few to survive end up together considering most of them where no-where near the others when this disaster struck. Told you I was being picky. In another scene Richard/Trevor told them all they would be safe if they stuck together and immediately afterwards they all hived off. Observation. How on earth does one end up with lovely clean jumpers if they had been worn by those now deceased sailors in the war? But, aside from that I thought that this was a good movie. Filled with scary expectations and such an awful premise. A torture boat that ran on the blood of those that had been murdered. Check out the bunks with all those who can be heard screaming, gold fillings and the amount of people who had to die in order to achieve this. Check out the Nazi film to instil murder in the hearts of those running the boat. The floating death-camp. This movie is one for the enthusiasts and although Ghost-Ship does bear a close resemblance to this (or is that because of the boats?) I think that this is far better as it relies on a great special effects team (in not the CGI genre). And what little boy goes searching for a toilet when anywhere (on an abandoned rusty old haunted ship) would do? "},{"Title":"Bad in a lot of ways but still interesting ** out of 5","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After opening on a really bad and hilarious note (two ships crash but the cut backs to each ship reveals one during the day and one at night) we actually enter into a desolate and dreary kind of movie. There are some creepy moments here and there, but the poor editing and over used slow motion can be overbearing and funny at times. The gore factor isn't huge but I recall a bloody moment from time to time. There are some creative kills. Watch for the scene where the kid attempts to drink rusty old water. Funny stuff. Overall, it's a good way to spend a couple of hours on a Sunday afternoon. A decent flick to watch on a cruise or something. "},{"Title":"Quality Film Making?...NO - Fun Kitsch?.....YES!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Now, I feel I am a man of decent taste, and I don't normally go for films like these, but I have seen it, and don't think Death Ship was too bad for what it is.Its going back a few years since I've seen it, probably about 8 or 9 now, but it has surprisingly stuck in my head for such a terrible movie; which I think is some credit to it.But really, it was a crappy film - fairly bad acting (despite a decent cast), sloppy directing, a basically non existant plot and an obviously low budget. But for a kitschy kind of tastless horror film, these are the basic ingredients for a great time for the trashy horror film buff.Although the plot was desperately lacking, the premise of an evil Nazi death ship roving the seas looking for innocent holiday makers to kill in nasty ways, is to me, really terrifying, and a great idea for a horror flick. The director, if nothing else, created a really evil and heavy atmosphere (you could almost smell the decay inside the ship)and in addition to this, or may be due to this, some of the death sences are really chilling and effective and memorable.Now maybe this is because I was only an early teen when I saw this, or maybe its because I saw it around 1 a.m; but I saw the re release of the Exorcist recently (on the big screen)and I actually remebered being more scared watching Death Ship. The Exorcist was a great film, but it was simply too glossy, too polished, too perfect to be an effective horror film. The dark, low budget,tacky and gloomy feel of the Death Ship conveyed the message of 'unsavoury' alot further, and for me was a more effective and more uncannily wierd horror film.Critically speaking, its total rubbish lacking a plot, good directing, acting and a budget. As a schlocky horror film that does its tacky little job well, its a decent film to pass a boring evening with. If, unlike me viewers, your a fan of this kind of genre, you'll probably like it even more.  "},{"Title":"A tasty cheese of steel","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Very underrated movie. Far from being the best horror flick ever made, this piece still deserves a place in any horror movie fan's shelves. Great performance by Richard Crenna and George Kennedy, there's a very strange and disturbing mood from the very first minute to the last one. Some shots are also _very_ scary, thanks to the use of blood red images and the hysterical screams bathing the nightmarish scenes. This film drags a reputation of very bad schlock at some point the producers seems to have lost the soundtrack, so you see actors speak with no sound, while the music goes on, and the weird use of mismatched stock footage, you'll swear only Ed Wood can use stock footage that way! Anyway, you have to give a chance to the flick, get your hands on it if you see it somewhere, this is quite a great midnight chiller. -sv "}{"Title":"Creepy and atmospheric...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to agree with some reviewers,who claim that this film is pretty bad.The story is a little bit confusing,the acting is so-so but the atmosphere is suitably creepy.There are also several scenes of graphic violence but without huge amount of blood-letting.In conclusion,Death Ship is a curiosity,nothing more,nothing less.Certainly it's nothing to be really ashamed about-it is frequently an interesting movie.On the other hand,if you expect something spectacular-you'll be sorely disappointed.Please,don't take this movie seriously-it exists only to entertain or scare the viewer. "},{"Title":"THE SHIP NEEDS BLOOD! or maybe just breath-assure....","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A sad-sack of a film about a group of cruise-goers who's cruise ship is rammed by a haunted oceanliner. Our inept survivors clamor aboard the vessel, which of course, being haunted, kills them one by one. I will give this farce credit, it's the only movie yet to have a woman killed by blood. Otherwise it's all abored-om. "},{"Title":"This ship needs blood.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ~Spoiler~ I never realized what a huge rip-off Ghost Ship was, right down to the poster design! Death Ship had the exact cover art that Ghost Ship had, and a highly similar storyline, so I had to rent it. But, despite many positive reviews here, I felt the flick was pretty weak. Academy Award winner George Kennedy (no, he didn't win for Death Ship) and Rambo's Richard Crenna are headlining this thing and they are the only names (aside from a young Saul Rubinek who has a small role). The other characters are downright unlikable and bad actors are playing them to boot. Even Crenna and Kennedy don't seem to want to be there. Another bad element were the horrible day for night shots. Were they even trying to make it look like certain scenes were going on at the same time? Apparently not. And the final bit of lameness comes from the ending. Not only does the entire family survive the first shipwreck, but they survive the Death Ship completely intact. Come on now. That's just ridiculous. Have some guts, kill off the goofy kids. Would it hurt to throw in a little realism? So even though Ghost Ship may have lifted heavily from the film, it was still the better movie. "},{"Title":"A good and entertaining movie","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a creepy and enjoyable movie from the start.  The death ship's searching and finding a ship to ram in the opening is excellent. I especially liked the shadows moving around the ship when the alarm is sounded to get underway.  You expect to see a person, but none appears. Very good.George Kennedy's development as a totally unlikable person is also well done. The ramming sequence is also good.The dialogue is not the greatest, but the atmosphere created by the camera work is always menacing and frightening. The scenes in the engine compartment of the ship's propeller drivers is somehow unnerving and scary.The one good piece of dialogue and acting takes place in the wheelhouse between Kennedy and Crenna.  Worth watching the whole movie just to see it in context.All good actors struggling with mostly a poor script.  But the visuals make up for it.Could never happen?  Draggy in spots?  Yes.  But this is true of many horror flicks.  An excellent and enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"Terrible and yet successful","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw DEATH SHIP as a double feature 20 years ago. I thought it was a great premise but a dreadful film. The stock footage of the sinking ship has to be one of the worst use of stock footage ever. That sequence is in B&W, for crying out loud. Pretty much everything is average to below average in DS. And it's EXTREMELY ugly. But as bad as it is (and it is BAD) the film does leave you with a lasting impression. It's such an ugly looking film that it's almost unique in its ugliness. In fact, the filming seems to be so unpleasant that I actually felt bad for the actors. Not because they're in a forgotten movie (they signed that contract) but because the conditions of the movie seemed so bad. In the end, the film's many shortcomings (story, acting, dialogue, etc) are eclipsed by the truly creepy and unpleasant look and feel, which are usually what I look for in a horror movie in order to determine how successfully horrific it is. And this is one horrific looking movie.BTW, Hollywood just released a big budget copy of DEATH SHIP called GHOST SHIP. Something tells me this film won't be as memorable as DEATH SHIP. Arf! "},{"Title":"Highly recommended if you're 6 or younger","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Saw the movie in Taipei more than 20 yrs ago when I was six, and it left the indelible impression as the scariest movie I have ever seen.  Truth is, I did not understand any English at the time, but the creepy and eerie atmosphere presented in the movie really did not need any translation. After immigrating to the US, I have been trying to find the English title of the movie but failed miserably until the debut of Ghost Ship.  Thank you IMDB for rounding the circle for me.  I now know the title of the scariest movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Nazi-boat ride!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Once again, the charm of movies like Death Ship passes by on many people. Sure it's trashy and shot ugly, but it's FUN! It's got a freaky plot (Nazi-ghosts floating around the oceans and torturing survivors of a horrible shipping disaster), and an amazingly chilling atmosphere. The images of the abandoned ship, guided by unsettling noises really chills you. The isolated setting is elaborated rather professional by director Alvin Rakoff. The undertones and references towards the Nazi reign are eerie and photographed in viciously black and white. George Kennedy and Richard Crenna definitely are decent actors, although they're not really showing it here. Doesn't matter... a film like Death Ship doesn't depend on great acting. It already has got the things it really needs tension, a fair amount of effective horror and great music. Oh, and one of the coolest original movie posters ever designed! Just ask the guys who developed the campaign for Ghost Ship They obviously thought so too! Don't expect logic, just a bunch of fun.  "},{"Title":"A different kind of ship that won't live up to every horror viewers expectations","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Deathship, kind of like 2002's Ghostship, is a slightly bland horror, that starts off a little slow. A cruise ship is on a collision course, with another ship, obviously the Deathship. The hand full of survivors, includes a bearded Richard Crenna, Nick Mancuso, and horror icon, George Kennedy. Out in a dinghy, they come across an old ship, or this wicked, ugly and fascinating ship, comes across them. But this ship, harvests a murderous secret. The survivors that board the ship, one of them dies before doing so, start to be picked off, one of them falls into a fish net of human skulls. Another can't get out a shower, where the water becomes blood red, another watches a film she shouldn't have, and another eats something she shouldn't have. Kennedy, the quiet captain of the other ship, who doesn't like crowds, is the raving psycho behind ship's secret. Made in 1980, Deathship, is o.k. horror, one flick, the horror viewer has to be patient with. Some gore scenes are worth the wait, though the movie seems to missing a little of something. That awry eerie music score is fantastic in a film just above par. "},{"Title":"A Nazi ghost-ship unexpectedly changes its mind. The reasons? Read below.","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" An unmanned German WW2 ghost-ship from the past spends its abundant free time by seeking out cruise-ships and ramming itself into them, sinking them. It's a peculiar hobby for a ship to have, I admit, but one that allowed this fairly fun story to unfold.George Kennedy, who always sticks in my mind primarily as a cop from the Naked Gun movies (even though I've seen him in many other movies), is at first a little hard to accept as the movie's Main Menace; I sort of half-expected to at any moment see Leslie Nielsen hanging around on deck as well, tripping over things. Kennedy plays a perpetually grumpy, misanthropic soon-to-be ex-Captain of a cruise-ship, so &#x96; naturally &#x96; the Nazi ship has an eye on him to become its new captain he might just be evil enough to steer it yet more large circles around the Atlantic.The movie wastes no time in getting down to business, unlike some horror films which take eons to get the plot rolling. In a matter of a few minutes we are given only the raw bones of who's who, without the unnecessary personal details that time is wasted on in slow-moving horror films that want you to get to know the characters. Why would we need to? They're monster/zombie/ghost-fodder anyway, most horror-flick characters. Only 10-15 minutes into the movie, and we already have the survivors aboard the Nazi ship, and that's when the fun starts. Nice and quick.Once on the ship, the perpetually morose Kennedy agrees to become its new Nazi lunatic, accepting his new position as the ship's Eternal Captain &#x96; or so he (and the viewers) mistakenly thought. Inexplicably, the ship &#x96; which had been aiding Kennedy in bumping off the shipwrecked survivors - eventually and very suddenly turns against him, thereby saving Crenna, his wife, their daughter, and their son (who seems to suffer from severe incontinence; his urination came quite close to becoming the running gag). It isn't clear why the ship did this. Until then, its sole purpose was to kill everyone aboard it (aside from Kennedy) i.e. all the un-haunted passengers, including the kids. Perhaps the Nazi ship finally realized that Crenna's children are blond and blue-eyed so it changed its mind about offing them? Who knows; I can't get inside the heads of most Hollywood writers, let alone inside the mind of a fictional Nazi ship.There is some other nonsense, though. This is a horror film, after all. 1) After the ship had sunk, Crenna and the other survivors drifted on a lifeboat for a while. It isn't quite clear how long they drifted, but the editing suggests that it must have been a few hours at least, a half-hour minimum. After this vague time-period, suddenly Kennedy appears from under the boat, gasping for air! OK, fine, the Nazi ship has magic powers and has kept him alive against all biological odds, in order to turn him to the Dark Nazi Side. But how come none of the passengers said hang on! How the hell did the Captain manage to hold his breath underwater for this long?! Where's he been all this time? Under the friggin' boat??? 2) Crenna, after having endured hours or maybe even days stuck on a life raft with presumably little or no water (on an open ocean) is finally offered some water by his wife a little after they board the Nazi ship. So what does he do? Does he perhaps drink it? No. He washes HIS BLOODY FACE with it. Damn, I'm surprised he didn't ask his wife for soap too. I refuse to wash my face and hands without soap, and when I'm done with that, and only THEN, will I drink it, but NOT before. Ever been VERY thirsty? Of course you have. Extreme thirst makes people lose all sense of dignity; yet Crenna seems to have both dignity and patience in superhuman amounts. 3) The kids are awful actors. Each one snickered in at least one scene, when they were supposed to be scared &#x96; or at least when they were supposed to be not snickering. I am amazed the director failed to notice this. Or perhaps he did &#x96; but only in the editing room months later when it was too late to re-shoot the scenes with the undisciplined little brats. Needless to say, I doubt these kids had much of an acting career after this film.A huge plus, and one that makes it easy to overlook some of the (minor) flaws, is the film's typical early 80s look which gives it a visual edge which it otherwise might not have had, had it been made later (especially in the visually awful mid and late 80s). The early 80s American films still had some of that wonderful 70s graininess. Very nice photography and an ideal, desolate setting for this kind of a horror flick. I wouldn't call this a hidden gem, but it's not too far from it, and definitely worthwhile for people who like early 80s horror/fantasy films. "},{"Title":"If you love 80's cheese-ball horror you'll love this!","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" C'mon I mean how could you not love this movie? It delivers exactly what the title promises, it's a ghostly ship that just prowls around the Atlantic in aimless circles arbitrarily ramming other ships and trapping any survivors in a twisted maze of rust, fascism, and horror. It's the kind of movie you randomly stumble across on TV a stony Saturday afternoon when your like 15 and you and your friends are still laughing about it a full hour after it's over. Super low budge, bad acting, story gets a lil' patchy at times, basically so bad it's good. A movie really dose not need to be Oscar material to be entertaining. For what it is it's actually a great movie with some really scary scenes. The Nazi element in the story line makes for some really creepy stuff. If you like simplistic, cheesy 80's horror movies like Maximum Overdrive or Return of the Living Dead WATCH THIS MOVIE! "}{"Title":"One of the funniest bad movies I've ever seen","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Death Ship is bad, real bad.  Laughably bad.  yet, i could not take my eyes off it.  George Kennedy (this should have been a tip off right there) and Richard Crenna star as part of a group of survivors on an ocean liner that get rammed by a big hulking Death Ship of the title.  The cost of an expensive sinking is saved by showing just who the survivors are going to be by showing them all in establishing shots at the beginning, ramming the ship, then showing these same 8 people in the life raft. Jim Cameron take note!  Then these brainiacs swim to the very same ship that rammed them in the first place (yeah, that's where I'd go!). Death and mayhem ensue as the ship takes over the lives of the survivors. Jabootu, please let me review this one for you!  "},{"Title":"Pretty Boring","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Captain Ashland (George Kennedy) is in command of a cruise ship which is operating in the Atlantic Ocean. He is not a people person and because of that he is being replaced after this voyage for a more personable captain by the name of Trevor Marshall (Richard Crenna). What neither of them realize is that there is a ghost ship also operating in the same waters and it is on a collision course with them. Only 9 people manage to survive the collision and they take shelter on the very ship that killed all of the other passengers. Anyway, rather than reveal the entire story I will just say that, because of some of the top-rate actors involved, I had high expectations for this movie. I was disappointed. Not only was there very little character development, but the special effects were practically non-existent as well. There wasn't much suspense or horror either. As a matter of fact, the only part that was remotely interesting was the shower scene involving Lori (Victoria Burgoyne). Everything else was pretty boring. In short, this film had a decent cast to work with. Unfortunately, the people on the other side of the camera weren't nearly as competent. Below average. "},{"Title":"What can one say? It's the beginning of the 80's.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Somewhat interesting movie I'd have to say. And yes I'd have to say I was a little tense at some points in this movie. But, I'd also have to say that at these points, the anticipation was inherent in the thought of the scene, not in the actual scene itself. The movie had a couple of those Boy, that could have been scary had they have done this... scenes. Should have invested a bit more into writing this movie.The funniest parts in this movie were definitely the shower of blood scene, and the scene of Mr. Kennedy speaking to Trevor, saying This ship needs blood! Your blood! The blood of your wife! The blood of your children! Oh, that was a memorable moment indeed. I would have to say that any of the scenes where there was a closeup on Mr. Kennedy's face were the worst scenes. It was like looking into the face of Jo Don Baker, all fat and sweaty... Uggghhh. But, I would have to say, overall, this movie wasn't that bad. There have been worse... much worse. I would even have to say that I was a bit chilled by a couple of scenes (again because of the inherent scariness, not the executed scariness) Maybe it's because I have always had a bit of a phobia of an unoccupied ship afloat at sea. Or maybe's it's just because of George Kennedy.The only thing that really struck me as odd, was the fact that nobody ordered for the ship to be destroyed after the whole ordeal was over. I would think that Trevor might have the insight to tell somebody with power to destroy that thing. But hey, if they had done that, the movie wouldn't have had a way to end itself. It would have just been left open, and we wouldn't have really cared.  Good day to all. "},{"Title":"George Kennedy IS A Sadistic Nazi!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (Includes Spoilers) How many movies can actually say that they had George Kennedy playing a sadistic Nazi?  Not any, but DEATH SHIP.  DEATH SHIP is yet another Sandy Howard/Harold Greenberg Canada/UK production.  When I found DEATH SHIP for $3.00 in a video store, I was attracted to it because I enjoyed the previous Howard/Greenberg production of TERROR TRAIN.  Then throw in the Derek Gison (II), executive producer of THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD one of my favorites, and I figured we would have a fabulous movie.  Not to mention it had a great plot.  But when the movie finished, I was disappointed.  This film could have been SO MUCH MORE!  I mean, the goofs are terrible!  The Death Ship is attacking the cruise ship, but where the cruise ship is at, it's night and where the Death Ship is at, it's day.  So basically you have a Death Ship coming from 2PM attacking a cruise ship where it's at 12AM, except they're about ten feet from each other, so...  We go from night (cruise ship) to day (Death Ship) and back and forth.  Then the collision which was LARGELY LIFTED from other films.  Even when the below-deck crew is talking and trying to escape, you can tell that it's a 1950's film.  INCREDIBLE!  Some scenes are fun, like the shower of blood.  And just about every word out of Kennedy's mouth is funny (some intentionally, but most unintentionally).  I loved when Kennedy kept yelling The ship needs BLOOD Marshall!  Your BLOOD!  The BLOOD of your wife!  The BLOOD of your daughter!  The BLOOD of your son!  There are also very chilling moments in this film, which make it effective lots of times.  I even noted the striking resemblance between this and 1999's VIRUS with Jamie Lee Curtis.  Except, here you have Nazis and there you have machines.  **1/2out of****To pass the time by or if you want a B-Movie to laugh at go ahead.  If you want top, class act entertainment skip it. "},{"Title":"Interesting premise let down by shoddy direction & miscasting","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A prime example of a potentially solid and effective fright film premise being done in by a deplorably inept and spiritless execution. The basic narrative set-up is novel and intriguing (Jack Hill co-wrote the story) a gigantic crewless haunted freighter powered by the demonic evil of the brutish Nazis that once manned it keeps said Nazi torture and sadism alive throughout the decades by sinking luxury ocean liners and allowing their survivors to board it so the foul festering behemoth can bump 'em off and derive energy to sustain itself from their precious lifeforce. Unfortunately, Alvin Rakoff's lifeless, fumbling, snoozing-at-the-helm direction totally ruins any vitality or creepiness needed to make the promising plot work. Rene Verzier's hideously mannered cinematography hurts matters all the more, overusing nausea-inducing zoom-ins, annoyingly tilted camera angles, whiplash-causing overhead shots, and some strenuously labored slow motion to an irritating extreme. The crucial miscasting of George Kennedy as the luxury liner's gruff captain who after boarding the Nazi ship degenerates into a ranting, demented, murderous crazy-as-an-outhouse-rat loons constitutes as another grave error. A friendly, comforting, avuncular screen presence, Kennedy's cuddly over-sized teddy bear persona proves to be all wrong for the part, therefor making his character's gradual descent into madness laughable instead of frightening. Richard Crenna as the fretful, worried out of his skull hero likewise is pretty embarrassing glum and dejected, Crenna carries himself with the defeated, resigned air of a man who knows he's trapped in a turkey and mostly grits his way through the whole rotten mess. The big shock scenes are seriously bungled as well, especially a limply staged drowning and an excessively bloody Psycho-style shower sequence that goes on forever. Only in the last reel when a bunch of revolting decomposed skeletons in tattered rags are discovered does the movie finally deliver a few uneasy shudders, but by then it's much too little way too late to compensate for the grueling tedium which precedes it. The death ship itself, a 50-year-old Canadian coast guard ice-breaker called the N.B. McLean, sizes up as a fabulously ghastly monstrosity -- dark, rusty, and grotesquely immense, with dimly lit hallways covered in cobwebs -- but just like the lackluster cinematic clunker it's stuck in it proves to be slow, meandering, heavy-handed and ultimately quite dead in the water. "},{"Title":"Sh** Ship","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, you've got a ship, you've got death, you put em together and what do you get? One of the worst films ever made. It just goes from bad to worse. When the director runs out of ideas, he just fills in with shots of the bottom of the ship travelling through the water with some creepy music. Takes itself far too seriously and the cast are annoying and frankly deserve to die. Which is a good job considering they're on the death ship. They're a freaky bit with some skeletons and an amusing bit with a swinging anchor but that's about it. Oh and they're Nazis as well... "},{"Title":"When the box art is scarier then the movie........","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That's when you know you're in trouble. Words alone cannot describe how horrid this movie is. Horrible special effects,cardboard acting and a terrible,terrible stor.......oh wait there was no story to this movie i forgot. Even if you love bad cinema you'll run away in disgust from this movie. If you want to rent a movie for cool box art this is for you,if not avoid it like the plague. 0 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Ocean-bound Nazi horror","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Death Ship may not be a very good film, but this cheap and cheerful little eighties effort still offers much in the way of fun for the cult horror fan. I was hoping for a lot more gore from a film about a bunch of people trapped on a Nazi torture ship, and while the film features blood and guts; there's not as much as you would expect. The film is more about booby traps and psychological horror than the real visceral stuff, but the film presents a good atmosphere and the central location - a huge, old black ship anchored in the middle of the ocean - makes for a great base to set a horror movie in. The simple plot follows a crew on a ship that is unlucky enough to be breached, and promptly ends up sinking. A few survivors manage to get themselves on a raft, and their luck changes when they come across a boat in the middle of the ocean. However, this luck is short lived as it's not long before they realise that the sinister black ship is not a friendly place and is, in fact, a boat formerly used as a Nazi torture ship! Nazi's don't usually make for the most intelligent horror films, and even though Death Ship doesn't feature any in the flesh; it clearly can't be described as a horror film with brains. The plotting is largely rather well done, however, and even though not a lot happens in the first hour; the relaxed pace means that the film moves in an assured manner, and even though the first hour isn't the most exciting cinematic experience, it's not boring either. The gore starts in the final third, and this is where the film really starts to live up to horror fans' expectations. The gore is never gratuitous, but it's put across well enough to border on being shocking. The only real name on the cast list belongs to George Kennedy, who I was actually surprised to see starring in this low budget horror flick. None of the acting here is particularly good, but Kennedy manages to deliver a strong camp portrayal of the ship's captain. Alvin Rakoff's direction is assured and makes the best of the claustrophobic location, and overall while it's hard to deny that Death Ship is a bad film, it makes the most of its location and the overall result is fun and creepy enough. "},{"Title":"This Ship has sunk","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A sort of combination between The Shining (even though this film was released first, so I really shouldn't compare it in that perspective) and The Poseidon Adventure a rusted out, old Nazi torture vessel floats aimlessly about the open waters killing people so it can live off of the blood of its victims. Why does a ship need blood? That is never explained. Not much about this movie makes sense, with rotting corpses showing up in about every other scene for no real reason.This is a movie that could have, and should have, been a lot more fun than it is, but it takes itself entirely seriously, instead of trying to have fun with its absurd premise. This grimy little movie ends up being absolutely no fun at all, and not worth even considering watching it a second time- except maybe for the shower scene, the highlight of the film. It comes complete with the obligatory setup for a sequel which, happily, never materialised. "},{"Title":"Death Ship Possibly Worst Film Ever","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've just thrown 90 minutes of my life down the drain seeing this excuse for a movie and I'm still trying to think of some worse movie than this absurd and erratic waste of film but I'm just unable. It was so remarkably bad and talentless I just had to keep watching till the end. To be honest I didn't know the kind of film it was so I was expecting something more (anything,at least!!), and having George Kennedy and Richard Crenna leading the cast made me have some expectations.I'm not too keen on terror films and that's the perfect movie to reinforce me or anybody in that opinion. That's the kind of movie that keeps average terror cinema quality well below minimums.Well... maybe if you are one of those terror-film fans looking avidly for some cheap crap to worship as Cult Masterpiece no matter the ultra-low quality of every single aspect of the film this is the flick for you; if you are in the other 99.99% of the human race and are expecting for at least a minimum level of quality then you'll find this film is a real insult to Cinema and to the intelligence of the spectator.I'd like to comment the negative aspects of the film but as I said EVERYTHING is just appalling and done carelessly From the minimal and unnatural dialogues, reactions and actions of the void characters to the Ed Wood-like sea scenes made against a still of the ship. The cruiser the characters are supposed to be on in the beginning is not seen in any moment from the outside!!, not even when it is sinking!!, except for a few distant lights in a night shot that could be anything. The whole part of the pleasure cruiser sinking is specially bad and confusing... the sinking is not seen AT ALL, just the ship collides (well, that's what we're told at least) and the next moment they are in a life raft in the middle of nowhere, apparently next morning because it's clear sunlight, and then the captain is found underwater - has he stayed there the whole night or what?? Then after being adrift for some hours... ta-dam! they're EXACTLY where the big still picture of the mysterious ship is in the background. (You can see pretty clear in the photo that it is moored - duh!).The plot or argument is so inexistent that in most parts of the film there isn't even any attempt to try to explain it - that why it seems fair to say it is an insult and done carelessly The people just go from here to there without knowing why like lemmings, stone-faced and totally silent, with that sloooow-paced walk only terror-film directors love, and their only concern seems to be to get separated from all other people and into the isolated danger zones at any cost, with no reasons explained.It is amazing to see how the poor script (if any) and the apparently inexistent director can squeeze absolutely no juice at all out of good character actors like George Kennedy and Richard Crenna and make them look like the worse actors on Earth, and it is sad to see what some actors have to do to get a living. "}{"Title":"could be better","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie had a great idea, a Nazi ghost ship, searching the seas for victims. But its seriously badly made, with a seriously low budget, which is so obvious. The special effects, well what more can I'm say about em, there is none.If this movie had a great director and budget, with a more spooky and scary story-line, this would be a master-piece.Some of the other comments made, stated that Ghost ship 2002 is a rip of, of Death Ship. I'm hardly think so, they both have different budgets and story-lines, were much effort was put into making of Ghost Ship, were no effort was put into making Death Ship. "},{"Title":"great choice for B movie lovers! =)","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" instead of scaring me, this movie actually made me laughing. for a B movie lover, this one is an essence. includes very bad editing, bad acting and poor plot. but i enjoyed watching this movie anyway, it has many i don't believe my eyes moments (that's the reason i won't give this just 1 star)...*SPOILERS* the only scary moments i noticed was when the ships were about to crash, with shots of death ship (almost daylight) and the cruiser (pitched dark, we can see just the ship lights). also, when ashland rises from the water... how long must have been under the water? 4 hours? oh come on... also the group of survivors is highly selective - how could they survive? they were on different parts of the ship. and there are much more stupidities in this movie... i love it. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A luxury liner sinks and the few remaining survivors seek shelter on a an empty ship little realizing that it is the same ship that sunk them and that the ship travels the sea looking for victims to claim. Good cast tries hard, but an awful premise and slack direction bring it down. Does have some rather intense scare scenes though. Rated R; Violence & Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"Very, very bad.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was really bad. Worst than a Breath Assure commercial. Good actors, bad idea. The cover of the box was not bad though. "},{"Title":"Good Attempt, Spooky But Uneven Attempt","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For a movie described as The Shining at sea, one would expect a film that might almost pass for a Stephen King novel if not a Stanley Kubrick film, but while Death Ship fails on both those requirements, it doesn't even measure up to films like Ghost Ship or Triangle. Now don't get me wrong, it has a heavily artistic style with quick bursts and flashes of scenes and interspersed clips, but it also has the look and feel of a television movie. It stars a frustrated George Kennedy as the captain of a Caribbean cruise ship who is being forced to retirement because he has lost touch with his passengers and has become too rigid in his duty. Richard Crenna of Dynasty plays his replacement on board just before their craft is hit by a mystery ship at night and sinks with practically everyone on board, at least that's what we're lead to believe. Even the Andrea Doria floated long enough to save much of its passengers and crew. The survivors include Kennedy, Crenna, Saul Rubinek of Warehouse 5 and Sally Ann Howes of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang looking all but unrecognizable as Crenna's wife and mother of his two annoying kids. After floating a while on a raft, they drift up along this old freighter, unaware it's the craft that wrecked their ship the night before, and make their way aboard for the main plot of the movie. Unfortunately, there are no real scares in this movie, just unconvincing hysteria and madness. Yes, it's a large deserted ship, yes, it's very spooky, but unlike The Shining, there's no real build-up or exposition to the haunting phenomenon. There are some strange events. A phone rings but there's no one there, an abandoned phonograph restarts itself, doors slam themselves closed and a few inexplicable deaths that barely register in the minds of the characters, but there are no ghosts, whispering sounds, footsteps or anything remotely close to a haunting to provoke any fears or encourage the film except the flashes of corpses and blood in Kennedy's mind. Is he dreaming? Is he hallucinating? It's never revealed. Once on the ship, Kennedy is barely a part of the plot until practically the very end when he becomes a poor man's Jack Nicholson. He tosses one naked young lady off the ship, he drowns another in the corpse-filled flooded hold and he fails pitifully along the way to shoot Crenna and Howes. This man is a worse shot than the Storm-Troopers in Star Wars. Along the way, it's revealed the ship is a Nazi Kriegsmarine prison ship filled with numerous decaying bodies of P.O.W.'s in the hold and the ship's freezer, but by now, it's too little, too late. It's obviously too late to explain why the ship is haunted when it has barely scared you to begin with. Don't forget, we already known Kennedy from those Naked Gun movies, so watching him trying to be scary is like watching your uncle at Thanksgiving using the turkey as a ventriloquist dummy. At the end, the movie doesn't so much as end but runs out of steam. It's a very stylish film, but it's not as scary as one would hope. The simpler efforts to create atmosphere such as the voices and windows swinging open and closed are much spookier than the flashes of blood and dead bodies. It's not a terribly bad movie inasmuch as it's a disappointing movie with some needless exposition. You just want so much more than just sinking to the level of a would-be slasher flick. Overall, it's a guilty pleasure that is only going to appeal regular horror fans or fans of nostalgia Eighties movies. "},{"Title":"Better Than You Might Expect","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Death Ship (1980) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Low-key but mildly effective horror film from Canada has a carnival ship get struck by a mysterious boat, which seemed to ram them on purpose. A group of survivors get aboard a lifeboat and soon come across an old ship, which they're able to get on. It doesn't take long for them to realize that the ship has a life of its own and needs blood in order to keep going. DEATH SHIP isn't a completely successful film and a part of me was very disappointed that the movie wasn't better but at the same time there are several effective scenes that make it worth viewing. It should also be noted that the movie was released during the slasher era of horror movies and if you're expecting violence and gore then you're going to be disappointed. There's one scene where a woman gets into a shower and the water turns to blood and this here is the only time you see any red stuff and if it wasn't for the nudity in this scene you might even give this a PG rating. With the lack of blood the film tries to get it right with mood and I think on this level the film works. I found the ship itself to be quite eerie and the scene where the ghost ship pretty much sneaks up on those in the lifeboat was very effective and shot extremely well. The first murder sequence was also quite effective because it didn't have to use violence and gore to get its point across. The majority of the death scenes are low-key but this is why they work so well. Another good thing the flick has going for it is the plot point that the ship was used by the Germans during WWII in order to do tests on humans. This makes for the perfect setting, although the film never clearly goes over who or what is possessing the ship and eventual captain. Is it the Nazi ghosts? Is it the victims? The film doesn't hit on this but perhaps they were just wanting it to be a mystery. DEATH SHIP also benefits from having some familiar faces in its cast including George Kennedy and Richard Crenna. Neither of them offer up Oscar-worthy performances but they fit their roles just fine and at least keep you interesting. Sally Ann Howes, Jennifer McKinney and Saul Rubinek round out the supporting players. As good as this film is at the same time you can't help but wish it was a tad bit better. There are certainly some pacing issues and I think it starts to lose its way during the final twenty-minutes but overall I'd still recommend the film simply because it did try to do something different in an era when most movies were getting away from the atmosphere and going for gore. "},{"Title":"1 out of 10","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A luxury liner sinks and the few remaining survivors seek shelter on a an empty ship little realizing that it is the same ship that sunk them and that the ship travels the sea looking for victims to claim. Good cast tries hard, but an awful premise and slack direction bring it down. Does have some rather intense scare scenes though. Not to mention a rotten script and acting. If John Carpenter was directing this, he would have did some really scary music. The score is rotten and dirty and it should be ka-put! The people must have been thinking Let's make Death Ship. But this, is nothing like it. Skip this and rent T2 instead. AVOID THIS AT ALL COSTS!!!! Rated R for Violence & Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"Terrible, but not completely worthless.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" But then what did you expect? The start of the film after the opening credits is set on a large cruise ship somewhere in the middle of the ocean. In this sequence we are introduced to our main cast of characters. And the on board band, who judging by their music thankfully don't survive for much longer! All of a sudden the crew notice a large ship heading straight for them, on a collision course. Despite the feeble attempts of the captain and crew to avoid a disaster the liner is sunk. A sequence you have to see to believe, the shots of the liner are at night while the shots of the death ship appear to be in the day, and you never see the two make contact just an awful looking super imposed explosion, and shots inside the liner of water pouring in and thats it. How to sink a cruise liner in a low budget B-movie. Only nine people survive, the captain, Ashland (George Kennedy) and his wife Sylvia (Kate Reid), second in command Trevor Marshall (Richard Crenna) plus his wife Margaret (Sally Ann Howes) and their two young children Robin (Jennifer McKinney) and Ben (Danny Higham), a young couple Nick (Nick Mancuso) and Lori (Victoria Burgoyne), and one member of the crew named Jackie (Saul Rubinek). After drifting for a while they come across the ship that sank them anchored in the middle of nowhere doing nothing in particular. They all just about manage to board the ship, despite collapsing ladders and oil spills. Once on board the ship itself is old run down, dirty, rusty and seemingly deserted (even though the engines look clean and very well oiled and maintained!). While walking across the deck a crane hook snags Jackies ankle, hoists him up over the side and deposits him in the ocean, one down eight to go! As they explore the ship strange unexplained things start to happen. Doors open and shut on their own, old record players start themselves up, a phone rings and yet when answered no on is on the other end and the fact that no one is operating the ship also seems odd, as it would. The captains wife Sylvia decides to eat some sweets and before long she has caught something that makes her face look like a pizza, two down seven to go! They decide that the best thing to do would be to leave the ship, however the lifeboats are released by themselves and are lost. The captain then starts to go a little crazy as the ship starts to possess him. In the final third of the film the ship starts to reveal its shocking secrets as our unwitting passengers fight for their lives!Director Alvin Rakoff at least tries something different, I don't think I've seen another film like it, except ghost ship made in 2002 over twenty years after this. He manages a few nice shots here and there, I especially like the shot when a crane hook was swinging towards and away from the camera, at its furthest point from the camera the sun was visible and would make the screen glare thus we could not see the hook, but at its nearest point to the camera the hook would block the sun out and the glare would disappear and the hook was a almost perfect black silhouette, whether he thought about this shot in this way or was just lucky I don't know. And there is a bizarre, but pretty cool shot where the camera moves along the deck of the death ship, only the shot is presented upside down, with the sky at the bottom of the screen and the deck at the top, personally I found this shot a bit disorientating! However these sorts of shots are few and far between. We are also treated to endless shots of the engines pistons and machinery, and the same shots of the death ship sailing through the ocean accompanied by some OK-ish music, for this type of film anyway. Most of its pretty dull looking, but professional enough. The death ship itself is meant to be a Nazi war ship, it looks more like a cargo ship with all the cranes and the cargo holds, one of which contains a net full of skeletons. Its secrets aren't so shocking either, a room full of skeletal corpses and a walk in freezer full of perfectly preserved dead soldiers. Thats about it. There's no real violence or gore in it, but the film does contain a shower scene which features full frontal and rear nudity, which is good. As far as acting goes I don't know whether to laugh or cry! George Kennedy looks embarrassed to be in this, just look at the expression on his face when he is supposed to be dead, funny stuff. The rest of the cast give a more restrained performance, their OK I guess. Some of it is rather stupid, the water in the middle of the ocean is not that calm, why has this ship been floating around the ocean for years and no one has ever noticed it? Its a very silly, unusual film thats pretty hard to come by, but if you like low budget B-movies and you want to watch something a little different give it a go if you can find a copy. You might get something out of this, but probably not too much. I'll give it five out of ten for at least trying something different. "},{"Title":"Interesting plot but mediocre movie overall.","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not exactly the Poseidon Adventure I must say.Death Ship is a mediocre, boring, poorly produced Horror movie that seems to be forgotten. And I can understand why.The plot is actually very interesting but it's poorly executed. So we have the unfortunate ship with some survivors and then the ghost ship with Nazi spirits. Even the captain gets possessed by them. Things are good by not but lame acting, HORRIBLE editing, and low production values ruin this movie.Then again the cast is very poor. Come on, George Kennedy? Well at least the man can perform some action scenes and run very fast.There are some moments that were intended to scare the audience but to be honest, it does not work.I had the chance to watch this movie on late cable and I regret for spending almost an hour and a half. Avoid it all costs unless you enjoy cheesy low budgeters from the 80's. But really this is crap. "}]