[{"Title":"Wilder And Pryor At Their Peak","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor was a good comedy team of the 1970s, making several hit movies together, this being one of the more memorable. Viewing this movie recently after a 25-year absence, it was a shock to me to hear the language. I had remembered this strictly as a light-hearted comedy but I can see why it's rated R. That is solely for the language, especially by Pryor, but he was known for his profane humor.If you can put up with that, the film is downright funny, even today. I found myself laughing out loud at a few scenes, all of which I remembered vividly from several viewings in the '70s. They are still just as funny.Who could forget that mammoth criminal with the long, long name - Erland van Lidth de Jeude? He was the guy that scared the hell out of everyone, just by his physical presence. In real life, that man was the opposite of his projected image on screen. He was a graduate of MIT, an accomplished opera singer, an Olympic wrestler, devoted husband and father, writer, etc. The poor man died at the age of 34.It also was interesting to see such a young looking Craig T Nelson and JoBeth Williams.This might have been the best of the Wilder-Pryor films. I was shocked to see that Sidney Poitier directed this movie. I didn't know that until seconds ago when I looked at this IMDb title page. "},{"Title":"Humor and suspense","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Skip Donahue (Gene Wilder) and Harry Monroe (Richard Pryor) are best friends living in New York City. Donahue is an amateur playwright, working a day job in department store security. Monroe is working as a catering assistant. When Donahue is canned for harassing a starlet and Monroe is fired because his marijuana ends up in the food at a society dinner on the same day, Donahue takes it as the perfect opportunity to finally leave the cold, unfriendly metropolis and head out West. Unfortunately, neither is very well adapted to life outside of New York, and they end up framed for a crime.I hadn't seen Stir Crazy since at least the early 1980s. Recently I had a chance to rewatch Gene Wilder's The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother (1975), which I hadn't seen since the 1970s, and I was a bit disappointed. So I was nervous that Stir Crazy might also be a let down this far removed in time. That couldn't have been more wrong. I may have even thought it was funnier and more exciting this time around than when I first watched the film as a teen.I had forgotten that Stir Crazy isn't just a comedy. It's also fairly suspenseful and surprisingly serious at times in the last act. Director Sidney Poitier makes a smooth transition through many genres--buddy film, road movie, fish out of water story and prison film, aided of course by Wilder and Pryor. While both actors have had plenty of performances just as good as Stir Crazy, neither have had any that were better.In a way, this is really more Wilder's film than Pryor's. That's no slight on Pryor; Wilder just ends up getting more screen time. He presents a hilariously bizarre, complex character who is full of contradictions--kind of a channeling of a less loquacious Woody Allen through a more down to earth version of his Willy Wonka (Willy Wonka & The Chocolate Factory, 1971). Wilder's Skip Donahue has an air of Mister Rogers-styled good-natured innocence, with the same kind of odd and maybe creepy homoerotic overtones, but he'll also turn on a dime into a neurotic, screaming loon. As I said, it's all very complex, but extremely funny and enjoyable to watch.Pryor's Harry Monroe is more of a streetwise perpetual victim who doesn't adjust to the social world of the criminal justice system as well as Donahue does. He has a much more typical reaction, with no misconceptions about their dire circumstances.The crux of the humor in the first section of the film is the naivety of Donahue's grass is always greener on the other side conception of the Western U.S. compared to New York City. Of course, things turn out to be not quite so simple, but it's funny and charming that Poitier and writer Bruce Jay Friedman have Donahue never quite wake up from his naïve misconception. It also turns out to have much more weight than just a comic device Donahue survives in prison as well as he does, and it brings about the profound changes of character--Donahue becomes much more authentic, realizes his potential, gains material for his art and even gets the girl--because of his continued misprision (in the Bloom sense) about life outside of New York City, and in the end, it enables a return to the market, as they say in Zen Buddhism.Watching Stir Crazy at this later point in time, some of the humor might seem a bit clichéd to younger viewers. It's important to remember that this is where a lot of those clichés came from. In 1980, everyone was mimicking scenes from this film (such We bad . . .) and repeating dialogue and jokes. Some of the filmic (and by extension general cultural) folklore or urban legends about prisons contained in Stir Crazy had made appearances in films prior to this one, but not in the particular irreverent way that they're satirized here.This is an important film in the careers of a few of the greatest actors and comedians (Wilder, Pryor and Poitier), with an important place in the history of Hollywood comedy. The fact that it's also suspenseful and has philosophical things to say about human nature is a bonus that makes this a film you shouldn't miss. "},{"Title":"crazier and crazier","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Everyone likes a prison movie, and everyone likes a Gene Wilder-Richard Pryor comedy, so combine those two genres, and you've got a formidable piece of cinematic history. The two comedians play Skip Donahue and Harry Monroe, a pair of New Yorkers whose lives are going nowhere. After witnessing a very unpleasant scene in a bar, they decide to move out west. In Arizona, they get a job in a bank as dancing woodpeckers. Then, some thugs get hold of the costumes and rob the bank. The crime naturally gets pinned on Skip and Harry, who get put in jail. Adjusting to life behind bars isn't all that easy for them, until Skip everyone discovers Skip's rodeo talent.Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor always made a great comedy team, and Stir Crazy is no exception. When I was in fifth grade and the teacher showed us Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, she told everyone that Gene Wilder was a great actor in many movies. I said Stir Crazy, and she asked Uh, did your parents let you see the whole thing? My parents did let me see the whole thing, although there are some scenes that make it R-rated. But it's a really funny movie; you should see it. "},{"Title":"Pryor and Wilder Behind Bars","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stir Crazy once again brings together the comedic talents of Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor. Here, they play Skip and Harry, two hapless slackers in New York who decide to go west to find their fortunes. On the way, they stop in Arizona, and get framed for a bank robbery. This lands them behind bars. This movie is loaded with screwball comedy, and it shows Gene Wilder at his most manic. His methods at pretending to be insane and keeping his spirit from being broken will elicit the big laughs. It all climaxes with a prison rodeo, and an elaborate breakout scheme. Stir Crazy is a comedy classic, and reminds us all of the comedy team of Pryor and Wilder. "},{"Title":"a timeless comedy","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Recently i bought a DVD-recorder. As a stunt the shop sold it at a special price, together with a selection of Movies on DVD. One of these DVD's is Stir Crazy. I watched the film again, this time together with my 13-years old son and a friend of his. The boys were rolling on the floor with laughter, so one can definitely say that this is a timeless comedy, that never ages. The film always leaves me with a good feeling and i have seen that it still works, even with kids these days. The acting is superb, the dialog continually funny, the prison setting convincing and an extra credit should go out to Jobeth Williams' small but heat-warming part. Guaranteed to bring a little sunshine to a rainy day. "},{"Title":"The best Pryor-Wilder movie","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Many people considers Silver Streak as the best Pryor-Wilder movie. I don't think so. Silver Streak is Gene Wilder's movie, Richard Pryor didn't get much of the show. In Stir Crazy both of them get equally of the show. Both of them were very funny, though (as I noticed) they were a little different from nowadays comedians, maybe that was even better. I think at that time comedy makers knew what they are doing, because all of the jokes worked, not like in most of the nowadays comedies. My favorite scene was where Gene Wilder's and Richard Pryor's characters where pretending that they are bad, you won't see such a funny stuff in nowadays movies. "},{"Title":"Pryor and Wilder make a great team","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two guys doing a bank promotion dressed as Big Bird are mistaken for the bank robbers who stole their costumes in Stir Crazy, a 1980 film starring Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder, who worked so well together in several films.Two friends, Skip and Harry (Wilder and Pryor) both lose their jobs and leave New York City, planning to work their way to the west coast. When the unfortunate situation described above happens, they wind up in prison. The naive Skip (Wilder), an aspiring playwright, takes notes and Harry (Pryor), facing the reality of the situation, is terrified. In prison, they meet the very gay Rory (Georg Stanford Brown), the sweet Jesus (Miguel Angel Suarez), who misses his girlfriend Teresa, the huge, scary Grossberger (Erland van Lidth de Jeude) who turns out to be a pussycat with a beautiful singing voice, the miserable guard (Craig T. Nelson) and the warden (Barry Corbin). When it's discovered that Skip has a natural ability to ride a mechanical bull, the warden enters him in a rodeo where he has a huge bet with another warden (Nicholas Coaster). Harry, Skip, Rory, Grossberger, and Jesus plan an escape to take place at the rodeo.Very funny film, with one of the highlights being Pryor in the prison hospital because he was told he had to have his appendix out, though they had already been removed. Skip is advised that in order to get the team he wants at the rodeo, he needs to turn down the warden's request that he ride. Putting Hank in the hospital is just one ploy to break him down. The scene is hilarious.Pryor and Wilder work beautifully together, the street smart black and the naive dreamer. There's always something so sweet about Wilder and nervous about Pryor, one walking into obvious danger while the other one desperately tries to pull him out, that just worked in all their films. It's also a rare chance to see the uniquely talented Erland van Lidth de Jeude, a huge, 6'6 Dutch heldentenor who qualified for the Olympics in wrestling, was a teacher, an MIT graduate, and had his own computer company. An absolutely amazing man who died 7 years after this film.Lots of fun. Recommended. "},{"Title":"a very funny film","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Thats right,thats right we baaaad...... That line was probably the most famous that Richard Pryor ever uttered on screen. He and Gene Wilder made a great buddy team just like Newman and Redford...only they are a helluva lot funnier! This was one film that critics hated but audiences loved. Wilder's nice guy is a perfect match for Pryor's wisecracking. This film has a fine supporting cast as well, George Stanford Brown (although his portrayal of a gay inmate may not seem politically correct today, he is hilariously swishy though!) Jobeth Williams, Barry Corbin (as the corrupt warden)and Craig T. Nelson (before he became a Coach). Sidney Poitier does a wonderful job of directing these two comedy legends I might add. The prison escape in the end kept me on the edge of my seat. I liked Skip and Harry so much that I was just rooting for them all the way! Pryor was burned shortly after this film was completed.  "},{"Title":"'Arrrgh! I can't feel one of my legs!'","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stir Crazy was one of the first films I ever remember watching, it came out the year I was born and I always associate 1980 with the time I came into the world and Stir Crazy. I was about 3 or 4 and my grandfather rented the video (back in the early 80s, this was INCREDIBLY sophisticated). Even though it's pretty much an adult film, with swearing, nudity and adult themes, I found it to be hilarious at such a young age and I watched it few times. Over the years I've watched it more and more and I only just got round to buying the DVD a few days ago. And now, at 26, the film is still just as funny as it always was. There is not a single unfunny moment from the beginning to the end, even though the last act gets serious and suspenseful.Gene Wilder and the late Richard Pryor play Skip Donahue and Harry Munro, two NYC losers who are making no money in their dream jobs of play-write and actor. Stuck with insulting service jobs they both get fired on the same day, at the same moment, for various reasons. Skip, the apparent ladies man and ever the delusional optimist, talks Harry into seeing it as their big chance to escape NYC and head for LA 'where you smile and they just POUR money on you'.In their rusted, derelict combi, they make it as far as Glenboro, a hicksville backwater desert town, where they are promptly framed for bank robbery. Their lawyer is utterly useless and they are in jail before they know it, literally. Skip only realizes the seriousness of the situation as they are being shown into their cell. But when Skip shows he has undiscovered talents as a rodeo champ the crooked Warden forces him to compete in the annual rodeo competition, giving Skip, Harry and some others a chance to escape.The chemistry between Wilder and Pryor is insane. Skip is innocent, optimistic, romantic and sees the good in everything. Harry is cynical and reactionary and is frequently the real victim of Skip's impossibly good-natured personality. Everything they say and do is brilliant and every scene has something special about it that you'll remember always. It's literally impossible for me to pick out one in particular as they are all as great as each other.It's hard to believe that auteur actor Sidney Poiter directed this movie. I've never really seen in do a crazy, comedic performance, so for him to be so on-the-ball and humorous behind the camera is always a surprise when watching Stir Crazy.There's so many things that Stir Crazy has going for it. It's not just a crazy comedy, it's also a character drama with wonderfully surreal and authentic moments (mass-mass-mass murderer Grossberger sining 'Down in the Valley' and proving to be as timid as a kitten being one of them).If you don't find Stir Crazy funny, you're dead. And if you've never seen it...you're certainly no movie buff. "},{"Title":"no laughs???? CHECK YOUR PULSE!!!!!!!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the scene when grossberger meets pryor, and wilder alone is worth it! and when they are playing cards!!!!! and wilder's back problem cure scene is astounding!!!!! these two actors were made to work together! "}{"Title":"Really funny buddy, buddy crime comedy.","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stir Crazy starts in New York City as best friends Skip Donahue (Gene Wilder) & Harry Monroe (Richard Pryor) are both fired from their jobs on the same afternoon, drowning their sorrows in a local bar Skip tells Harry that he is fed up with New York & convinces his friend that they should set off on a road trip across the US to Hollywood to find their fame & fortune. Harry agrees but their old van breaks down in a small town called Glenboro, needing money to pay for the repairs Skip & Harry are hired by a bank to sing a song dressed as Woodpeckers. Two local crooks steal the Woodpecker costumes & rob the bank for which Skip & Harry are blamed, they go before a judge, found guilty & sentenced to one hundred & twenty five years each behind bars in state prison. Both Skip & Harry are unprepared for the harsh reality of prison & decide to use the upcoming rodeo to escape...Directed by Sidney Poitier this is the sort of film that you will get & roll around on the floor laughing or find crude & unfunny, comedy like so much else is subjective & what makes one person laugh will not necessarily make the guy sitting next to him laugh so when I say that I thought Stir Crazy was often quite hilarious it's only my own personal opinion as I know quite rightly the person I was standing next to in the que at the bus stop may not. Simple. I won't say that you will find Stir Crazy as funny as I did but I think you would need to be pretty devoid of emotion not to find at least some of it amusing & as I said I think it's often outright hilarious. The film starts off almost entirely as a showcase for the comedic pairing of Wilder & Pryor with some terrific scenes including the Woodpecker dance, the 'I'm bad' scene in jail, some priceless one-liners & reactions to the general likability of the two leads as they turn the material into gold. However once the rodeo aspect & jail break angle kicks in during the second half of the film the comedy seems to take a back seat as gambling, cheating & an odd jail break (why did Harry have to go back into the rodeo? Why couldn't Rory & Jesus climb up the shaft & into the popcorn thing like Harry & Skip do?) take center stage. Also the ending is a little silly & unsatisfying in it's attempt to finish as quickly as possible, sure Harry & Skip have been acquitted but that still leaves the fact they broke out of jail & helped two other convicted criminals including a murderer to escape too. While I am poking holes in the plot would a lawyer's niece really get a job in a topless bar just on the off chance she might see a guy with a particular tattoo? Now that's going above & beyond the call of duty, unless of course she needed the extra money as well.Shot in a real Arizona prison this has good production values & is well made for what it is although there's no real action apart from some rodeo footage of horses & bulls thrashing around. While there is plenty of bad language & profanity there's no violence to speak of. Apparently Richard Pryor refused to wear the Woodpecker suit while filming but strangely did wear for the poster & promotional materials.Apparently a big success at the time even though the critics generally hated it, some of the country & western style music & songs are a little nerve grating & distracting but nothing too major. The acting is good, Wilder & Pryor in particular are brilliant here as a pairing & it's said a lot of scenes were improvised between the two. Even though their character's never meet in Stir Crazy both JoBeth Williams & Craig T. Nelson went on to star in the excellent Poltergeist (1982) a couple of years later.Stir Crazy is a film that I found extremely funny, Wilder & Pryor are on top form & while the logistic's of the story seem to have been shoved to one side Stir Crazy is just a film to be enjoyed & not taken too seriously. "},{"Title":"Wilder and Pryor reunite for a zany prison break comedy.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" After their successful partnership in Silver Streak, comic duo Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder reteamed for this wacky prison comedy under the direction of Sidney Poitier. Originally intended as a film entitled Prison Rodeo, the film eventually got released under the title Stir Crazy - complete with a catchy title tune sung by Wilder himself - and was a big hit for its two stars. In truth, it is considerably short of the brilliant standard set by Silver Streak.... while that film was witty, charming and exciting, this one is very broad with lots of outright silliness. But having said that, Stir Crazy is still totally enjoyable in its harmless way.New Yorkers Skip Donahue (Wilder) and Harry Monroe (Pryor) decide to head out west, dreaming of a new start away from the Big Apple. En route, they stop off in various small towns and take on part-time jobs to fund their trip. In a town called Glenborough, Skip and Harry are hired by a bank manager to dress up in woodpecker costumes and entertain the waiting customers with a song-and-dance act. However, a couple of rednecks steal their costumes and rob the bank while Skip and Harry are on their lunch break.... when the unsuspecting pair return to work, they are promptly arrested for the robbery they didn't even commit. It isn't long before the innocent duo are locked up in the penitentiary, with a 135-year sentence hanging over them! Skip impresses the prison warden by riding a bucking bronco (mechanical bull) at full speed, and is later approached to represent the prison in a forthcoming annual rodeo show. The rodeo provides Skip and Harry, plus a few of their new convict pals, with a chance to attempt an audacious prison break....Stir Crazy is more entertaining during the opening two-thirds than the final third. The comedy aspects seem to run out of steam, and the last half hour is dedicated purely to the jail break sequence. While the escape is tolerable enough to watch, it isn't really in keeping with the zany tone established earlier in the movie. Wilder and Pryor are good together (despite their well documented on-set differences.... it was around this time that Pryor was getting out of control with drugs); the supporting actors have amusing moments along the way too, especially Erlind Van Lidith as a mass murderer who develops an unlikely affection towards Harry and Skip. The film is quite episodic in some ways, especially during the middle section when the prison guards try various nasty strategies to intimidate Skip into joining the rodeo team. The funniest moments are the more spontaneous bits, where Wilder and Pryor's chemistry is thrust to the fore (the scene where they get bad upon first entering a jail is a wonderful example of this). All in all, Stir Crazy has much to enjoy but just runs out of gas on its final lap. "},{"Title":"short to the point","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Simply put, one of the greatest buddy movies of all time. Pryor and Wilder were great together. At least for their first two movies together. Pryor and Wilder are at their funniest as two guys wrongly convicted of a bank robbery. "},{"Title":"one of the best comedies i've ever seen","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first watched this movie as a kid in cinemas I had to go and watch it like 10 more times.my stomach was in cramps every time and tears were coming out of my eyes of laughter.Right from the beginning jokes and one liners.At the lunch when Henry finds out his drug was used as oregano.The Californian earthquake line as epic as any. But of course the most funny scenes are in prison,especially when they pretend the are bad.Unforgettable! I cannot analyse this movie or any other the way critics do.As long as I like it and entertains me or makes me thinking then it works for me. The only flaw of this one probably the last 10 minutes of it,when you don't get any more laughter only the outcome of their attempt to escape from prison.But even this works as the storyline requires an ending. The team of Wilder and Pryor at their very best.U wanna have a good time u must watch this!!! "},{"Title":"Having not seen this in 30 years, I still found Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor funny in Stir Crazy","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not having seen this in about 30 years, I didn't know if I'd still think Sidney Poitier's Stir Crazy was as funny as I originally thought it was. I just watched it again on Netflix Streaming and the answer is yes! I mean, from the set up beginning sequences with Richard Pryor as a waiter and Gene Wilder as a store detective, there's plenty of funny stuff here. By the time they get to prison, Pryor and Wilder try lots of crazy stuff that still got me in stitches especially when Richard's character has to deal with a gay inmate named Rory Schultebrand (Georg Standford Brown) who has a fancy for him. Fellow inmates Gene and Richard befriend include Jusus Ramirez (Miguel Angel Suavez) and Grossberger (Erland Van Lidth De Jeude). The latter doesn't talk but he does provide a nice singing voice that compliments Gene's in a later duet. Others they meet in the cell include Blade (Charles Weldon), Big Mean (Cedrick Hardman), his sidekick-Slowpoke (Grand L. Bush), and a guy who punches the former (Tony Burton). Outside of the jail are many now-familiar faces like Joel Brooks as lawyer Len Garber, JoBeth Williams as cousin Meredith, her future Poltergeist co-star Craig T. Nelson as deputy Ward Wilson, and Barry Corbin as warden Walter Beatty who has the distinction of appearing in two 1980 movies featuring the mechanical bull, the other being Urban Cowboy. Since this is Black History Month, I'd like to complete this review by citing three more African-American players other than Pryor, Brown, Weldon, Hardman, Bush, and Burton Franklyn Ajaye-who previously appeared with Pryor in Car Wash-as a young man in hospital ward that accidentally got a nut cut off, Esther Sutherland as the cook Sissie in the beginning sequence, and Pamela Poitier-Sidney's daughter-as the cook's helper. So on that note, I highly recommend Stir Crazy. Oh, and I also noticed Luis Avalos-the guy named Chico who uses pliers for sinister purposes-from my childhood TV show, The Electric Company from the '70s. "},{"Title":"A hundred and twenty five years... Oh God, Oh God...  Ill be a hundred and sixty one when I get out.","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stir Crazy is directed by Sidney Poitier and written by Bruce Jay Friedman. It stars Gene Wilder, Richard Pryor, Miguel Angel Suarez, Georg Stanford Brown, JoBeth Williams and Erland Van Lidth. Plot has Pryor and Wilder as two care free New York buddies who after getting fired from their jobs decide to make their way to Hollywood in search of better fortunes. However, after taking up a gig as promotional woodpeckers for a bank's advertisement drive, they find themselves framed for robbing the bank and sentenced to 125 years each in prison&#x85;..The second pairing of Wilder and Pryor proves to be the best of their output on film. With their chemistry skin tight, film is full of laughs until a big slow down for the last third when the inevitable attempt at a prison break out occurs. Poitier's direction isn't up to anything other than correctly letting his two lead stars strut their stuff. But along with writer Friedman, he has to be accountable for letting the comedy dry up as the film chooses tension over humour which undoubtedly doesn't sit at all right. Still, the first hour is a joy ride, particularly once the guys land in prison, here the comedy reaches its peak and the contrast of the two characters played by Wilder and Pryor really mines the set-up for all is worth. Wilder is oblivious to the hazards of prison life, Pryor is street savvy and fully aware of the perils around every brick walled corner.Naturally there's a hope on the horizon, which here comes in the form of Rodeo skills, this too brings the laughs, as does the number of prison characters that join in the plot. Notably Van Lidth's monstrous, and monstrously funny, Grossberger. Yes it's a roll call of prison stereotypes, from the top where the morally dubious Warden (Barry Corbin) sits, down to the cons where gays, bullies and gate happy loonies reside. With that, some of it now seems twee and badly out of date. So much so it's a film that is unlikely to garner a new and appreciative audience. However, those who were enamoured and found themselves laughing heartily with it back in the early 80s, should find that like myself, it holds up real well. Kind of like an old friend you call on when you need a pick me up. Hardly a superior comedy classic, then, but a film that rewards its fans on each subsequent revisit. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Richard & Gene do time.","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stir Crazy isn't anything too difficult to explain. It's simply pure comedy from the talented duo of Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor, directed by the fantastic Sidney Poitier.Gene and Richard play two friends from New York who are moving to California. They stop over in a town in Arizona, get a job as dancing woodpeckers who do jingles for a bank and then are arrested when two other men steal their costumes and rob said bank.They then are sent to jail for 125 years by the no-nonsense judge and the film documents their attempt to get used to prison life, pray that their lawyers can prove their innocence and hope Skip (Gene's character) can dominate the prison rodeo.As I said, there's nothing deep or thought provoking in this film. It's just the zany antics of the two comedic legends. Some strong acting by the cast and excitement are in the offing and the film delivers that in spades.What was neat to see were all the T.V. stars of past and future in the supporting cast, like Luis Avalos of The Electric Company and Craig T. Nelson of Coach. It was fun to recognize all these old faces.The only flaw was that the film's writing seemed geared for an easy job of editing for T.V. I wonder if just making it PG would have been better for their box office numbers. Nonetheless, Stir Crazy was the 3rd highest grossing film of 1980.If you're looking for a real comedy film, a blast from the past, Stir Crazy delivers. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Light Comedy","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Comedy duo Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor teamed up with director Sidney Poitier in 1980 to bring us this highly improbable tale of two New Yorkers who flee the 'Big Apple' for the west in search of sun, surf and simplicity, but wind up being framed for armed robbery and sentenced to 125 years jail.Bruce Jay Friedman's script is purely a vehicle for the combined talents of Pryor and Wilder, and to this end it serves its purpose well. Wilder gets the best of what comic lines and routines there are, and he's always an enjoyable screen presence. His character is saintly to the point of naivety, and he makes the most of its humorous possibilities. Pryor backs him up well, and has one particularly memorable moment with Blade, as he learns what it means to be a rodeo clown. The rest of the support cast, including George Stanford Brown, Craig T. Nelson, Jobeth Williams and Barry Corbin, are merely background.Director Poitier is well aware of the plot's limitations, and so leaves his two big Saturday Night Live stars to carry proceedings with their slapstick routines and verbal banter. The pair do well and produce an enjoyable, light comedy.Tuesday, June 11, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"Witty, sweet, and endearing.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love and miss this comedy team! This time our two hapless heroes are framed for a bank heist and find themselves in prison.These two actors have a wonderful chemistry together and generate a marvelous feeling of kinship, friendship, and give us the feeling that everything will be fine as long as they are working together as a team. The story here is both touching and creative. The direction by Sidney Poitier no less, is wonderful, and the sets are well designed. This movie gives you a wonderful feeling of hope.I love this movie, as I have all the others these two have done together.It rates a 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"From trains to chains. Wilder & Pryor at it again!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After the success of Silver Streak it was inevitable that Gene & Richard would be teamed up again & they are here in another very funny outing for the comedy duo. Maybe this is not quite as good as their first film together but it is still one of the best comedies around. Framed for a crime they didn't commit the two new yorkers find themselves facing a long time behind bars. Skips new found talent may be their ticket out of prison, just maybe. The film runs out of steam a bit towards the end, they don't appear to know how to end it! However the chemistry between Wilder & Pryor coupled with some other great characters & scenes make this a classic prison comedy. "}{"Title":"Hilarious, although the 'plot' gets in the way of the comedy!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Classic comedy from two of the funniest men in cinema. The film itself is a vehicle for some of the best slapstick in any modern film. The main critism is that the film gets slightly boring towards the end as the comedy is replaced by the plot as both characters attempt a jailbreak. That said however, it is definately worth seeing this film just for the classic scene when Wilder and Prior are convicted of Armed Robbery and sent to the county jail. For the next hour the film is as funny as any I have seen. Classic Stuff! "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Comedic Legends Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor have been paired together numerous times, but this is quite possibly the most memorable of all their comedies as a duo. The plot is actually quite simple, they both flee New York to find a small peaceful town, then while finding work they are framed for a bank robbery and placed behind bars, then in the thick of it all they plan an escape while Wilder's character participates in the Prison Rodeo. All in all it is a classic comedic performance from both Wilder and Pryor. Wilder's character brings probably some of the biggest laughs of all time. His film career is legendary, but these laughs are truly memorable from him. Pryor also is a very hilarious friend sort of character. This has truly the makings to go down as probably one of the greatest comedies of the 1980's.10/10 "},{"Title":"A laugh a minute!!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is just hilarious, It's definately the best movie Pryor or Wilder ever did. The slapstick comedy, and jokes from Pryor and Wilder still have me laughing. The plot does need some work, but it's so funny I dont even notice! If you are a fan of any of the actors in this movie, check it out. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Enjoyed this film starring Gene Wilder, (Skip Donahue) and Richard Pryor, (Harry Monroe) who are arrested and sent to prison for a bank robbery which they did not commit. Skip & Harry are from the East and are sent to a prison in the Western part of the country and they have to face some very difficult situations in the prison and just can't seem to adjust to prison life. One day the warden of the prison finds out that Skip has a great deal of experience in riding broncos in rodeo's and asks him to participate in a Western rodeo which is going to be presented to the prisoners and general public. There is some romance which goes on between a girl named Meredith, (Jo Beth Williams) who is attracted to Skip Donahue and obtains a lawyer for him to be able to investigate this false prison sentence and get him free. There is plenty of action with Skip & Harry trying to run away from bulls who are out to attack them and lots of great comedy. "},{"Title":"A showpiece for Pryors talents","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an all-time favourite of mine. Yes, it's got its flaws but it is what it is - a rip-roaring, blundering, comedy classic. I must have seen it at least 6 times. The late Richard Pryor was a comedy genius and gelled brilliantly with Gene Wilder. It is a sad, sad shame that he deteriorated in health with the onset of MS, culminating in his tragic passing yesterday (December 10th 2005). Stir Crazy was the 2nd greatest movie of 1980 in my opinion (true movie buffs will know which was the greatest of that year). Fans of the movie should also view the inferior, but still funny See No Evil, Hear No Evil which sees the partnership of Wilder and Pryor re-ignited for a third time, following on from Stir Crazy and Silver Streak before that. "},{"Title":"Yeah, that's right, we bad...","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor starred in several movies together, and in Stir Crazy their comedic chemistry shines strong. A very good supporting cast (including Jo Beth Williams, Craig T. Nelson, and Barry Corbin) add to the strength of this entertaining film. And let us not forget that the one and only Sidney Poitier showed his ability as a comedy director for this.The scenes which slow this picture down are the rodeo-escape scenes toward the end of the film, and display very little life and are somewhat boring. The plot of Stir Crazy, though, where Wilder and Pryor are framed for armed robbery and sent to prison, is quite amusing and hilarious, with the right amount of flavor and texture to grab my attention! Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rich & Wild","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Fun jail break film. I get the impression this film is mostly ad-libbed and just lets the 'comedy duo' play in each scene. In fact the scenes seem so loose that it almost suffers in some parts. Some scenes are unforgettably funny, and others are plain bizarre but i enjoy the fearlessness of both actors. It's the usual naive and optimistic Wilder versus street wise and pessimistic Pryor, but it works for whatever reasons. People seem to find this film on a comedic par with Hear No Evil See No Evil, despite them being made nearly a decade apart. There is definitely some weird magic happening on screen, and the supporting cast is at their best. Stands strong for 1980. "},{"Title":"An uneven film where there were definitely more laughs in the first half than the second half","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When both Skip Donahue (Gene Wilder) and Harry Monroe (Richard Pryor)discover that they are now unemployed they decide to leave town in order to make a new start. However, when two men commit an armed robbery wearing the woodpecker outfits that Skip and Harry had been wearing and when these men escape in Skip and Harry's van, both Skip and Harry are sent to prison where they have difficulty adapting to their new life.This film starts out strongly and for me Wilder was probably the stronger of the double act in this film (I thought Pryor was slightly stronger in See No Evil, Hear No Evil). Skip consistently sticking his nose in where it doesn't belong (despite Harry constantly telling him to leave everyone alone) and trying to be some kind of 'social worker' to everyone was pretty funny - the scene where Skip first approaches Grossberger for one of his talks was a notable highlight with Skip running away like a little girl (although in fairness most men would cower when confronted by someone that size - I know I would!!!). Other funny moments included the scene where Skip and Harry first arrive in prison and we see them do their tough talking within the cell and we also see them do their tough walking. I also thought it was funny seeing the prison guards continually punishing Skip only to find that nothing fazes him. I think there's one moment where he'd been in solitary confinement for 5 days and rather than be distraught by the experience he asked the guard if he could stay in there just one more day.Sadly, most of the good stuff is confined to the first half and I have to admit that it kind of went downhill as soon as we reach the inter-prison rodeo competition. If I'm honest, whilst I thought it was quite creative, I didn't think it was particularly funny and sadly it's this element that pretty much drives the second half of the film. Whilst it's certainly different and creative, I think we need to remember that being creative isn't always a good thing (anyone remember the Millennium Dome??). The only good aspect in the second half was the inmates fairly imaginative escape during the Rodeo, but even taking that into account, I still felt that the film started to run out of steam about 30 minutes from the end and I started to feel quite bored if I'm being honest - which is a real shame as it started out with a lot of promise.Even through the film as a whole is somewhat uneven thankfully Pryor and Wilder were fantastic and shared great chemistry, but sadly for me they were the whole show and they just weren't quite good enough to carry this one on their own. "},{"Title":"Wilder And Pryor At Their Peak","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As it was a movie I enjoyed watching as a kid with my dad and brothers, when I start the Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor comedy Stir Crazy was on TV, I couldn't wait to watch it and have s couple of laughs and reminisce about great times.Plot In As Paragraph New Yorkers, Skip (Genr Wilder) and Harry (Richard Pryor) are best friends who are both fired on the same day. Fed up with life in the Big Apple, they head out to Hollywood, But in the way they are framed for a bank robbery, and end up in a western prison. They have difficulty adjusting to the new life until the warden finds that Skip has a natural talent for bull riding with the prison rodeo coming up.Wilder and Pryor are a great comedy duo, and still make me laugh even though I have seen it multiple times. Barry Corbin, Craig T Nelson, Erland Van Lidth, Georg Stanford Brown, and Miguel Angel Suarez all offer great support, whilst Tony Burton (Tony Duke from the all the Rocky movies) has a small role, credited as The guy who punched mean his Rocky co star Al Salvani is also here credited as Inmate. Jobeth Williams looks great as a brunette. As a side note, Gene Wilder should not sing!! "},{"Title":"Stir Crazy is a film that I found extremely funny from a comedic genius partnership.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Skip and Harry are framed for a bank robbery and end up in a western prison. The two eastern boys are having difficulty adjusting to the new life until the warden finds that Skip has a natural talent for riding broncos with the inter-prison rodeo coming up. Roger Ebert wrote Stir Crazy seems to change its mind, halfway through, about the kind of movie it wants to be. It starts strong It's a comedy that teams up, once again, Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor, who were the best things in the big 1977 hit Silver Streak. Stir Crazy is a film that I found extremely funny from a comedic genius partnership. It has received mixed reviews but I really liked it. "}{"Title":"Great duo find some funny moments in certain spots","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Skip Donahue (Gene Wilder) is a playwright. Harry Monroe (Richard Pryor) is an actor. They are unsuccessful best friends in NYC. After both getting fired, Skip is tired of the city and convinces Harry to move out to the west coast. Their van breaks down and they take jobs as mascots at a bank. Bank robbers steal their mascot outfits to rob the bank. Skip and Harry are arrested for the robbery and sent to prison for 125 years.Gene Wilder going crazy in prison is hilarious. That's the best scene in the movie. However it flattens out and loses some of the comedic tone. It's too bad. It becomes a bit too serious about an escape attempt and a rodeo contest. I still love the Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor pairing. They are one of the best comedic duo of all times. They do some really fun back and forth in this one. However there isn't a single laugh in the last section of the movie. "},{"Title":"Love the Bromance, But the Jokes Aren't So Funny Anymore","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I love the bromance between Wilder and Pryor. They were both very charismatic in their films together, their comedic chemistry was synced up like the periods in a women's barracks, and they didn't rely on their differences in race to establish a masterfully balanced contrast. But, over time, the jokes that used to kill back in the 70s and 80s just don't have the same impact anymore.Also, is it just me, or is it a little unbelievable that a prison rodeo would draw the huge crowd seen in this film? I had similar thoughts during The Longest Yard, and I love football.This movie is amusing, and it's not bad background, but it's not worth dedicating an exclusive 2 hours to. On the other hand, I'm definitely going to try to incorporate kiss the baby into a future conversation.For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out www.livemancave.com "},{"Title":"Appreciating the sanity of your own backyard, even in Manhattan...","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It takes a visit to middle America for two jaded New Yorkers (Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor) to figure out. They are framed for a bank robbery, end up in prison, and plot to escape while performing in the warden's rodeo, a supposed fund raiser where the profits end up going in his pocket rather than to make life for those behind bars a bit better. Like the much later rodeo, this is a comedy about showing country folk that just because someone comes from an urban jungle, doesn't mean they can't handle a wild ride on a bucking bull. In this case, it's Gene Wilder, who amazes everybody around him with his ability to remain afloat no matter what messy situation he gets into, while Pryor is playing an updated version of Stepin Fetchit minus the stereotypes.This is an enjoyably funny popcorn film with the two stars supported by the lovely Jobeth Williams as the attorney determined to prove their innocence and George Stanford Brown as a flamboyant gay prisoner who actually shows heart underneath his pansy exterior. An interracial buddy type Road movie, this was the second of three pairings for Pryor and Wilder, each of whose brand of comedy flatters the others. This is one time where you want to see the men behind bars outwit the men guarding them. "},{"Title":"Many hilarious scenes","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is actually my favorite of the four Wilder/Pryor team ups. In the second of these match ups, Wilder and Pryor play a struggling playwright and actor in New York City. The two finally decide that they are sick and tired of just sitting around with their lives and careers going nowhere(we have seen this plot probably 100 times). They decide to take off in an a rickety old van across country to try and find some work and eventually end up in California.On the way to California, the two men get framed for a bank robbery at one of the banks they took an odd job at and end up in prison. This is where the real fun starts. Gene Wilder is especially hilarious as the more naive of the two who gets duped into competing in the prison rodeos.If the film did not run out of steam in the final act, I would probably rate this a nine. Still, there are some hilarious scenes here, including one where Wilder and Pryor try to look bad when entering the prison. "},{"Title":"This is one of the quintessential comedies of all time.....","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" See this film, and marvel at the comedic pairing of straight laced Gene Wilder, and frantic Richard Pryor. A more bizarre odd couple of comedy I don't think I've ever seen. The dead pan, stiff style of Wilder is dramatically improved when placed alongside the kinetic energy of the street wise, Afrocentric humor of Pryor. Now, while Pryor doesn't need someone to be funny, he's a riot on his own, Wilder and his style seemed to bring out an appreciate of Pryor's approach. This film isn't a gut buster, like watching a football to the groin, but the comedy suffices, and the writing does enough to fill the time of the two leads enough to hash out a plausible, likable film. "},{"Title":"An old personal favourite","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ** Possible Spoilers **I remember seeing this movie a long time ago, and watching it last week made me remember how funny this movie is.  Pryor and Wilder are a great double-act in this movie, where they play two travellers in America who get wrongly accused of robbing a bank and get sent down for 125 years!!! Yes, just look at Wilder's reaction when he hears this in court.The film from then on shows their experiences in prison, while a duo on the outside try to convince the law of Wilder's and Pryor's character's innocence.  There are some really funny scenes in this section, especially the scene where the two have to share a cell with an extremely large and dangerous man.Yes, I consider this a classic comedy and far more better than Pryor/Wilder recent efforts.4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Stir Crazy","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I recognised the title and knew the two leading stars, I didn't realise though that actor Sidney Poitier has done directing, and this was one of the films he made, so I was definitely going to see it. Basically in New York, writer Skip Donahue (Gene Wilder) and actor Harry Monroe (Richard Pryor) are fired from their jobs, and try to get any odd job to get by, one such job being dressed as woodpeckers and singing and dancing to promote a bank. Two crooks take their costumes while they are on a break, and they rob the bank, and not recognising them under the costumes they have been framed for the robbery, and are immediately arrested. They are sentenced to one hundred and twenty five years in prison, but their lawyer Len Garber (Joel Brooks) says he can get them an appeal case, they just have to wait until they can go to court and prove their innocence. In the meantime, Skip and Harry are having a hard time getting used to being in jail, but they do make friends with real bank robber Jesus Ramirez (Miguel Ángel Suárez) and gay killer Rory Schultebrand (Georg Stanford Brown). They are informed of the status of fellow prisoners, contraband supplier Jack Graham (Jonathan Banks) and murderer Blade (Charles Weldon), and they make an unlikely ally with the most feared prisoner, Grossberger (Erland Van Lidth), a mute convicted mass murderer who does have a soft side. Three months pass Skip and Harry are brought to the office of Warden Walter Beatty (Barry Corbin) to have a test, and Skip is the first to get on a mechanical bull to see how long he will last until chucked off, and the surprise of them all he stays on even at maximum speed, and he has passed the test. The prisoners tell him and Harry that the test was for a rodeo competition that the Warden wants to enter on behalf of their prison and the neighbouring prison run by Warden Henry Sampson (Nicolas Coaster), so they say that Skip should refuse to participate until they can strike a deal. So Skip refuses, and it is up to Deputy Ward Wilson (Poltergeist's Craig T. Nelson) to break him, i.e. put him and Harry in labour, deprived of sleep, Skip in solitary confinement and them encountering an originally fearful Grossberger, but none of this works. After Harry has a spell in prison hospital, Skip eventually agrees to do the rodeo, but only if he gets to choose his team, and a bigger jail cell, of course the prisoners and he have planned a break out. So it comes to the rodeo, Skip is read to take on the one or two bull riding contests against the prisoner he is against, while Harry and the gang work their way through the stadium and make their escapes in disguise and hidden places. In the end, lawyer Len Garber, alongside his cousin Meredith (Poltergeist's JoBeth Williams), who Skip instantly took a liking to first seeing her in prison, they reveal to him and harry that they have been found innocent after all and are free, so they speed off in the car they nicked, with Maaredith joining. It is a little odd that they were just allowed to drive away having escaped from their prison status, i.e. the Warden may have kept them without finding out their innocence, but it doesn't matter. Wilder and Pryor both get their time on screen and together as the out of place prison buddies, there might not have been so many laugh out loud jokes for me, but it was a humorous comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"All right collaboration movie for Gene Wilder and Richard Pyor.","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film was okay and mildly amusing, however I prefer See No Evil, Hear No Evil and Silver Streak as far as movies I have seen with both of them in it. This one just seems like it could have been really funny, but it simply took the wrong direction for my tastes. The movie is about two men who do a little act at a local bank. They perform this act while wearing bird costumes and they really entertain the crowd. Unfortunately, two other men dressed exactly the same go into the bank and proceed to rob it. Of course, Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder's characters get the blame and proceed to have a super fast trial and are sent to prison. Soon after they arrive Gene's character gets on a mechanical bull and the whole film takes the wrong turn. I so would have rather seen these two innocent men adjusting to prison life rather than having the whole prison rodeo thing. Not saying it was bad, just not what I expected. There are some funny scenes as the warden does things to try and make Gene's character agree to ride during this rodeo, but Gene tries to hold out so he can make a few demands of his own so that he and his prison buds can plan an escape. Like I said some humor in the film, but I think it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"I don't understand","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor. Silver Streak was great. Hear No Evil See No Evil wasn't bad. I just don't get why this movie is so highly thought of. It has a few chuckles here and there, but all in all I didn't find it that funny. The funniest moments were Gene Wilder's craftiness in dealing with the guards brutality. Richard Pryor's striking a match to the big guy in jail was funny too, although it didn't make much sense. I have seen both the TV and DVD version of this film and neither were able to impress on me the reason this movie is considered to be a classic. Both actors have had funnier films (together and on their own). "},{"Title":"Good enough film but something was missing,","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stir Crazy is a good movie,its enjoyable and its not a waste of time but if your opinion is a lot like mine you would probably feel like something was missing,especially for the fact that they got actors as good as Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor.Two best friends (Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder) leave there home town to meet lovely women,and get a part time job as two singing birds,but two criminals take the bird costumes and rob a bank in the costumes,which makes the two men framed to be the criminals and they get sent to prison and plan to make an escape at the prison rodeo. -DILLON HARRIS "}{"Title":"Like Pryor, Like Wilder, Stirring Up Crazy!","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a hard to explain Pryor/Wilder film. Its everyone's favorite, but still, nothing has came close to beating See No Evil, Hear No Evil with the exception of Another You. This is a Pryor/Wilder movie that I like, but I don't think it lives up to its hype. Now sure its good and some jokes in it are hysterically funny. It just is not my favorite. Some would agree, but I think its because of all the problems I've heard about it like Pryor deeming things as racist and how the duo didn't get along on the set of this. I believe and blame those reasons why I didn't enjoy it to the fullest extent. Just hear me out, I liked it. But it'll take some funny jokes to beat See No Evil, Hear No Evil.Pryor and Wilder play Harry and Skip two friends who after fired from their job, take on to be dancing woodpeckers promoting a bank. When leaving the job, two thieves come in dressed in the woodpecker outfits and rob the bank. Upon returning to the bank, Skip and Harry are arrested and wrongly thrown in jail. The two friends try to cope with being in prison, but when the warren realizes that Skip is a good bullrider, he wants to put him in the Prison Competition of being the representative for the jail in the competition.Its a crazy movie, with a lot of things happening, but its an interesting and funny 1980s film. I've heard a show follows the movie in a way, but still I read terrible reviews of it and as far to my knowledge no DVD of the show exists. When viewing one episode, I questioned how it was greenlite? Were the producers that desperate for money they make a TV show on a movie that has no actors from the film and plays a half assed, almost unwatchable show on the original film? Of course. What did you expect? A show with Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder? Get real.Id also like to note that there is only one movie I need to watch by Pryor/Wilder to state that I have watched everyone and that is Silver Streak which I will watch sometime this month. Don't know much about it, but I highly doubt it will beat See No Evil, Hear No Evil. If Another You couldn't I really don't see what else can. Most of their films were panned by critics, but fan reception sores for all four of their films. So all in all, their another duo thats a bit underrated, but the statements from the critics are far from the truth. If Silver Streak is good, I will conclude my Pryor/Wilder experience saying, they never made a bad film together.Starring Richard Pryor, Gene Wilder, Miguel Angel Suarez, Georg Stanford Brown, JoBeth Williams. Directed by Sidney Poitier. "},{"Title":"Gene Wilder is God","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok maybe I overdid it in the opening line.  My point is what a wonderful talent Gene Wilder is.  He can take a relatively normal character and turn it into hilarious comedy, such as he did in the producers, silver streak, and this movie.  His character was basically the whole movie.  The wonderful thing about watching Wilder is you never get the feeling that he is desperately trying to be funny.  It just comes natural to him.  There are only two other comedians that add such spice to their parts, Woody Allen and Grouch Marx.      Aside from Wilder the movie was pretty funny though it was boring at times, such as the end, where it turned into an action film more than a comedy, much the same that silver streak did.  I would rate this movie as funnier than silver streak but silver streak was a better movie. "},{"Title":"A very funny comedy starring two great comedians","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is one of the better comedies I have seen over the last few years. The comedy duo of Wilder and Pryor are one of the best we have seen in movies. They have such great comic chemistry. This is the best prison comedy ever in my opinion if that is saying much. I highly recommend renting this movie or at least catching it on the tube. "},{"Title":"Goofy comedy brings belly laughs","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder are one of the best comedic on-screen duo's here in Stir Crazy about a couple of yoyos who wind up in prison after a bank robery frame-up.  With Pryor and Wilder at the helm, loose is not in the vocabulary.  The story is not perfect, but they make up for it.  Funniest film of 1980.  A "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie ROCKS This movie is great. It is so funny that I couldn't believe it at all, not even a little bit.If you watch this film you will discover it is all about two little men with curly hair who go off on an adventure. When they rob a bank they quite rightly get put in a prison, where all they can dream of is to escape to a life of luxury in some other small town. They are allowed out to join a horse-burgling competition and have lots of fun.This movie is so funny, like killing a wasp right in the face, or when your chickens have gone walkabout. There is even a big fat man who sings beautifully LOL! My favourite part was when they escape from the prison BECAUSE THEY ARE DRESSED AS CLOWNS! The two men who play the two men are very funny. When they speak, amusing little speech comes out (so you can hear them). The one with orange hair looks like a cat LOL and he is the funniest little man since that other guy I like. "},{"Title":"OK, but it could and SHOULD have been better.","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie. For the most part I did, as there was a good mix of physical and verbal comedy. I remember thinking that, with the basic premise established in the first 20 minutes or so, they probably could have the whole thing be nonstop laughs for 90 minutes. Somewhere along the line, the writers sort of lost track of the jokes and the film ended up being much longer than it needed to be to tell the story. The last half-hour or so is pure plot without any reason to laugh. There are some very funny moments here, but, given the participants, there should have been more. It's Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor and they are stuck in a film that's too long and not funny enough to justify the running time. "},{"Title":"Go west young men, go west!","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stir Crazy capitalizes on the previous, better film Silver Streak, as it reunites two of the best comedians of that period, Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor. Under the direction of Sidney Poitier the film is a lot of fun to watch, but in viewing it again after so many years since we last saw it, the film feels flat, at times.The best excuse for watching Stir Crazy is Gene Wilder. Mr. Wilder is, in my humble opinion one of the most original funny man during the 70s and 80s. He was in a lot of excellent movies. In Stir Crazy, he demonstrates his genius playing against Richard Pryor, who is the straight guy. The rodeo sequence is one of the best things going for the movie.The picture is dominated by Gene Wilder. Richard Pryor has some funny moments. Evidently Mr. Poitier must have encouraged his stars to improvise a lot, and it shows. This picture, is still worth a look just to watch this winning team together. "},{"Title":"Great comedy actors in this boring comedy movie","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I didn't like this movie, I found it so naive and boring.Stir Crazy is entertaining and funny for about 10 minutes and those minutes are just at the beginning, so if after this comment you are going to watch it anyway I recommend you to stop watching it just at the first moment you find it a little boring because from that moment the movie will get after each passing minute even worse until the end.The plot is about 2 friends (Wilder and Pryor) who live in NY and are fired from their jobs on the same day so they agree to go to L.A to follow their dreams to became a playwright and an actor respectively but on their way to L.A they are sentenced to prison by mistake, but at prison they will have yet a couple of chances to be free again.....Don't waste your time watching this terrible movie, If you do you will regret it. "},{"Title":"Memorable only for the comedic genius of Pryor and Wilder.","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is memorable for one reason and one reason onlyGene Wilder and Richard Pryor,together as a unit.They had a chemistry that was undeniable,and they are in full force here.The script is flawed,the supporting cast,at least for the most part,forgettable,and I'm not knocking Sidney Poitier as a director,but I always considered him to be much better in front of the camera than behind it.Much of the dialog and interaction between the two main stars was no doubt improvised,and they probably needed no instruction from Poitier whatsoever.As funny as the two men were separately,there was just something special about them on screen together.They were just knock down,drag out funny,and if you were to just put them on an empty stage with no sets,props or even a script,put a movie camera in front them and just said action!,the result would most likely be priceless.See Stir Crazy for the unbelievable talent that was Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor.Without them,the film would have been forgotten,and very quickly. "},{"Title":"Wilder & Pryor = Madcap hilarity","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  STIR CRAZY (1980) **1/2  Richard Pryor, Gene Wilder, JoBeth  Williams, Craig T. Nelson, Georg Stanford Brown, Barry Corbin, Joel Brooks, Jonathan Banks.  Pryor and Wilder rise above the stilted writing as two buddies being framed for an armed robbery and ending up in jail with some amusing moments, particularly the duo getting bad (That's right, that's right we bad!).  Directed by Sidney Poitier. "}]