[{"Title":"I LOVE this movie!","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is good old fashioned scary fun, like walking through a haunted house at Halloween. The songs are fun. My ten year old niece really likes I'm just a sucker for your love (sung by a vampire- get it? wink-wink). It's a great Saturday afternoon- popcorn- scary- movie for the whole family (those old enough for trick-or-treat type scares. A refreshing break from the slasher, gory, sicko movies that they keep churning out at an annoying rate these days.Vincent Price is charming as a sweet, non-lethal vampire (the only time he ever played one, by the way.). Patrick Magee and Donald Pleasance, veterans of the old Amicus films, are terrific also. Rounding out the cast are Britt Ekland, Stuart Whitman, and Simon Baker. I really wish Hollywood would make more movies like this- imaginative stories with great spooky atmosphere instead of gallons of fake blood and body dismemberment. "},{"Title":"Fun Horror Collection","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Monster Club was the final installment in Amicus studios portmanteau series and concerns R.Chetwynd-Hayes(John Carradine)a noted Horror writer who runs into an elderly Vampire named Erasmus (Vincent Price) .Erasmus duly takes his fill of the authors blood and after recognizing him becomes all apologetic and invites him to The Monster Club where he hopes Chetwynd-Hayes might garner some new ideas for a new book.As the guest of Erasmus, Chetwynd-Hayes is regaled with three stories of the macabre.Story 1A young couple George and Angela are hard up for cash, so they answer an advertisement in a newspaper looking for someone to help catalogue antiques in an old manor.Angela goes and meets the owner who as it turns out is a Shadmock,kind of a Vampire/werewolf hybrid,Angerla is scared of at first but soon settles in to her job.Angela soon becomes friendly with the soft spoken and thoughtful employer but comes under increasing pressure form George to steal something from the house, and she decides to take advantage of an invitation to a masqued ball with the Shadmock's family at the manor to fulfill her objective.Story 2A Vampire stalks the London underground is being chased by the B-squad a team of vampire hunters lead by Pickering, (Donald Pleasance) . Pickering uses the vampires son who unknowingly leads the B-squad right to his father.Story 3 Stuart Whitman plays Sam an American movie Director scouting the English countryside for the perfect location for his upcoming movie. He stumbles across a fog bound town full of Ghouls where he befriends a Humghoul (Human and ghoul hybrid) and struggles with her help to make his escape from his living nightmare.Review The shadmock story I found to be quite unique, its nice to have a different monster and this one was a rather a nice chap and I felt for his pain at the end, but it was definitely a missed opportunity, the idea of a masqued monster ball I find intriguing, but Ward obviously only used this as a means perhaps to save money on Monster make-up.The second story is played for laughs which is a shame and is by far the least of the three stories.The Ghoul story I found to be the best,and full of atmosphere with a nice twist at the end.The in between segments with Price and Carradine are poor and full of very bad monster make-up and annoyingly bad music(No really bad), these two great horror legends were fine,considering the quality of script, but they deserved more. This is the kind of film I was raised on and for that reason and the people involved I really enjoyed it,sure its not the best from the esteemed Amicus studio or Baker,but for pure fun its hard to beat and I unreservedly give this a whopping 6/10 against my better judgement. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What can I say? I liked it. Then again, I've had a love affair with Britain's Hammer, Amicus and Tony Tensor's Tigon films since I was a kid in the Los Angeles area in the early 60s and caught Hammer's Hound of the Baskervilles (1959).For me, it's just a kick to see John Carridine and Vincent Price together again. I'm also a Roy Ward Baker fan and enjoy most of his work.Are the stories truly scary? No, not really. They're eerie. Strange. That's good enough for me. That works. And the capper is getting The Pretty Things as the Monster Club's house band. I have no idea what song Phil May & Co. play, but I love it. I've got several PT CDs as well as their 2-CD anthology and it's not contained in anything I've ever found. I'd dearly love to get a copy of their MC music.Any horror fan who writes that it was high time Hammer and Amicus rode off into the sunset ain't no horror fan, because they just don't make classy little gems like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Charming little stories...","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Monster Club is certainly not a masterpiece,but it's fun to watch.All the stories are tongue-in-cheek,so don't take them seriously.It's great to see Vincent Price,John Carradine,Donald Pleasance or Patrick Macgee in the film and the stories are interesting enough to keep a viewer occupied.Absolutely no violence,plenty of black humour and nice(albeit dated)music.If you like English horror movies this one is a must-see.Check it out. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated final movie from Amicus!","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE MONSTER CLUB is the final movie from the excellent British movie production company, Amicus.Although the movie is an anthology, opinion is divided as to whether or not it forms part of the Amicus anthology canon.I see THE MONSTER CLUB as a separate movie from the remainder of the Amicus anthologies. However, it is a highly entertaining final movie from Amicus. I'm truly puzzled as to why the movie was not successful financially.The single greatest idea behind THE MONSTER CLUB is the combination of three elements - traditional British horror Amicus is famous for, the darkest of dark humour and a collection of fine examples of 1980s disco music.There are only three stories in this compendium, rather than the usual four or five seen in Amicus movies. However the stories, along with the linking story, are so entertaining that this is easily overlooked.The linking story sees Ronald Chetwynd-Hayes, a character based on a real horror story author of the same name, who is attacked in the street by a sinister character named Eramus. When he wakes up after a vampire bite, the author discovers Eramus is a vampire. Ermaus promises to repay him by inviting him to a disco known as The Monster Club, where he assures him there will be plenty of material for a new book of horror stories. Vincent Price and John Carradine are on top form in their roles as Eramus and Ronald Chetwynd-Hayes respectively.The Monster Club is full of famous horror creations of various types including vampires, werewolves and ghouls. Disco music blends well with the setting, with almost all songs having a horror theme to them. The costumes are unbelievably cheesy but this is easily overlooked by the uplifting feeling of the disco atmosphere. As an added bonus, the movie brings something unique here - a monster genealogical chart.The first story sees Barbara Kellerman and Simon Ward as a pair of opportunists looking to take some rich person for all he or she is worth. Eventually Kellerman's character comes into contact with an eccentric man who lives in a large Gothic house. Without revealing spoilers, I can say that he turns out to be a shadmock, a hybrid of various creatures including vampires, werewolves and ghouls. James Laurenson gives a supreme performance as the shadmock, a kindly and gentle creature, who is simply uncomfortable with being outside his house. Predictably, the tale becomes a tragic love story that is so emotionally moving I was actually in tears when the ending came.The second story takes a different course to the first with more dark humour. Richard Johnson has a great time playing the vampire father of a young boy, Lintom. He goes out at night hunting for blood, whilst telling his son that he is working. Britt Ekland plays Lintom's mother but she has very little to do here. Lintom finds himself being bullied at school because he is quiet and shy. He is rescued from torment by a priest, played by Donald Pleasance in another of his superb performances. I will give away no further details. But I'll say that this story was highly enjoyable due to its tongue-in-cheek approach not only to vampire clichés but to clichés of another genre as well. Look out for Anthony Valentine and Neil McCarthy having fun as a pair of vampire hunters dressed up as undertakers who carry violin cases! The final story is easily the darkest and best of the three. Stuart Whitman is cast perfectly as an impatient movie director looking for a remote location to make an atmospheric horror movie. His impatience with his crew leads him to seek out the location himself. We get to see some of the beautiful English countryside as he drives down a country lane hoping to find a remote village at the end. What he finds in reality is a very strange foggy place with only an old crumbling inn, a church and a graveyard. There is more to this atmospheric location than meets the eye. I will spoil no more of this story as this is one you'll want to see for yourself without warnings. But I will say a few things about the characters. The innkeeper is a very sinister character, played perfectly by the always great Patrick Magee. Lesley Dunlop deserves credit for her superb performance early in her career as the innkeeper's daughter, a hybrid of a human and a ghoul.Roy Ward Baker directs Amicus's final movie perfectly. He demonstrates a clear understanding of the various subject matters - Gothic horror, dark humour and 1980s disco entertainment, directing each element accordingly. As a result, he guarantees the three blend well enough to produce a highly entertaining piece of entertainment worthy of a final movie for such a great horror production company.Douglas Gamley, an Amicus veteran, produces some excellent background music to the movie including an excellent score. His choice of music in the first story blends perfectly with the Gothic setting and the tragic love story theme.As was the case with previous Amicus movies, this one makes excellent use of classical music. These blend perfectly with the settings.Kudos to the music bands - The Viewers, Night and The Pretty Things - whose catchy tunes make this movie worth watching by virtue of their presence alone. Special kudos as well to 1980s singer, B.A. Robertson, whose song - Sucker For Your Love - performed after the first story is easily the best of his career.Overall, THE MONSTER CLUB is a highly entertaining final movie from Amicus and a must-see for all fans of movies made by this great movie production company. I especially recommend it for fans of Vincent Price and John Carradine who have a superb time in this late stage of their careers. "},{"Title":"Not Amicus' Best, But Still Has Something To Offer...","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Amicus enjoyed success in the late 60s and early 70s with their now-classic anthology series of movies. Starting with Doctor Terror's House of Horror the formula was simple a group of people at a gathering tell each other stories (or recount their nightmares) as a way to pass the time.The set-up was a success for Amicus it allowed them to employ big names (as they weren't needed for a feature-length shoot) and if the viewer didn't like the tale, fear not, as another would be along in a few minutes...In The Monster Club we follow R. Chetwynd-Hayes (an on-screen analogue of the writer Robert Chetwynd-Hayes) who after an encounter with Erasmus (Vincent Price playing... Vincent Price) is invited to learn more about the history of that we call the monster and so enters The Monster Club, where Erasmus explains monster genealogy and illustrates his points with three short tales...The Monster Club is the last of Amicus' anthologies - and indeed productions. Never quite as visceral as Hammer's T&A technicolor excesses, Amicus always relied more on suggestion and kept a tighter reign on their bloodletting. But by 1980, things had changed and Amicus' suspenseful, ironic twists didn't sit well with an audience looking for a more effects-driven stabfest...The Monster Club looks cheap. It's an unfortunate choice the producers made to not show a little more restraint with the *ahem* creature effects in the club. Essentially, it looks like a bad Halloween party where nobody spent more than a pound on their mask.Added to that is the soundtrack. Presumably intended to appeal to the kids the decision was made to include musical performances at the club between tales. Whilst they're catchy in their own awful 1980s manner (and The Stripper provides a hilarious sequence I won't spoil) they do feel like padding.On to the tales themselves. The first is a tale of dark love and the Shadmock, one of RCH's many unusual creations. The story works well and has a quite ghastly ending. So far, so good.Next up is a tale played for laughs (with a nice in-joke about updating a story to modern times for the movie adaptation, as it saves on the budget, something Amicus were known for.) Not bad, but let's move on.And finally, the most memorable tale, featuring a lost village where not is all as it seems... And this is where The Monster Club shines. Had every story been able to reach the levels of this, The Monster Club could have been Amicus' crowning glory.Unfortunately, though, the movie's pacing suffers due to the slackness of Tale 2. We all know the twist but have to spend another 10 minutes waiting for the movie to reveal it, then get on with it. Which is a shame, as it's a bit of a waste for all involved, really.The biggest problem with The Monster Club though - as stated above - is it looks cheap, looking like a TV anthology show, which is ironic, as many people often mistake the final segment as being an episode of Hammer House of Horror.But look beyond the cheap rubber masks and campy performances and you'll find a fun - but not always scary - movie here. Maybe not the best of Amicus' output, but it still has charm and a few twists, which is more than can be said for many other movies... "},{"Title":"Not at all scary, but so enjoyable.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  From the moment I started watching, I was enthralled by every set piece, costume and plot detail.This film, to understate, is rare indeed. A low-budget horror movie with a moral, loveable monsters and superb acting. Each of the three stories is well thought-out and entertaining, and the scene in which we learn of monster genealogy is wonderful.Price is on top form, as usual. He is, with the possible exception of Peter Cushing, the best horror actor of all time. His sincere manner coupled with his traditional English accent make him the most unusual vampire you will ever see.The first story is slow to start, but soon quickens pace. It features the best acting of the three tales, and the three lead characters have deliciously different personalities. It encompasses a moral, and is touching at times, but still manages to retain at least a little horror. The premise is not very good, but I liked it all the same.The comedy in this film is plentiful. The second story features horrormeister Donald Pleasence in his catch-the-evil-creature role he played six times in the Halloween series. But the way his character meets his demise and the wonderful plot twist will have you rolling on the floor with laughter.The third story is not really funny, or scary. It is the most serious of the bunch, and I suspect the filmmakers intended it to be awfully frightening. It just isn't. It show its age, and features poor acting. The set pieces are top-notch, though, and are definitely its saving grace. I can tell you now that the plot twist at the end is totally expected, and not very good.The stories are interjected with entertaining dialogue between Price and Carradine, and new wave 1980s rock music. Some of you will recognise a youthful UB40 performing a song. There is also one about a stripper, and when you see the stripper's act, you will be suitably impressed. I won't say any more about that - watch it for yourself.All in all, it was a good way to spend an hour and a half, and I was sad when the stories were over. Just one word of advice, though - don't be put off by the costumes of the monsters. "},{"Title":"Where do I join?","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First off it was cool to see John Carradine and Vincent Price in the same movie, it was way too long coming. Secondly, the stories are kind of cool. The soundtrack has some great eighties music, some of the best bands of the eighties are monsters apparently who play at the Monster Club. Now for the bad part. You heard me, the bad part. In the club sequences some of the background monsters look like store bought masks and Hollywood Toy and Costume on Hollywood Blvd. But that's just minor compared to the big picture. The girl that played the Humgoo was pretty, as a whole the monster club is major league cool movie with great performances and great story telling. So I would call the Monster Club a buried treasure worth discovering if you haven't seen it. 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"The Monster Club (1980) **1/2","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's been many years since I last saw this anthology, and though it's usually reviled I think it's gotten better with age. I love the air of black comedy that prevails in the scenes with Vincent Price and John Carradine in the Disco (both perform very tongue in cheek and appear to be having some fun spoofing their images), and the three horror tales aren't bad, either. The stories manage to be satirical, humorous, and even a little scary. I even liked some of the rock tunes sung at the club (my favorite probably being B. A. Robertson's SUCKER FOR YOUR LOVE). I also like MONSTERS RULE O.K. by the Viewers. Okay, so I wouldn't go out and buy the album perhaps, but the songs work nicely within the bizarre context of the film. Price and Carradine actually get up on the dance floor to boogie with the ghouls, and it's good fun all around. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"the most underestimated film in history, everybody must see itt","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Me and my sister really like this movie. Every story is unique and it's a perfect parody on all this ridiculous so-called serious horror films. It has great humor and we fell in love with the vampire family immediately,as well as with the other characters. Great actors, especially Vincent Price. We don't understand how you can rate this film 3,8, we're giving it an A+.  "}{"Title":"Dig it, sucka","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie. When I began renting exclusively horror movies in the late eighties I'd rent movies like The Seven Brothers Meet Dracula and Monster Club and The House That Dripped Blood... and eventually I realized they were all by the same director, Roy Ward Baker. What stands out in his fillms to me is the colors. He goes for some really bold color choices. Monster Club is a funny movie. The musical interludes betw2een the vignettes are pretty damn snappy f you've heard them a hundred times, and I have. The stories are good. The dippy costumes are effective and fun. I saw it hosted by Elvira Mistress of the Dark and that made a lot of difference but it's a good movie with or without her breastesses. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film....... And what a great cast!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film was the last horror film Milton Subotsky ever produced and Roy Ward Baker ever directed. It's a mish-mash of good and bad. Except for the songs Welcome to the Monster Club and Monsters Rule Okkayy the rest of the musical numbers are bloody awful but the opening score is fantastic.Vincent Price and John Carradine really shine here in their respective roles especially Vincent Price as the very friendly vampire Eramus.Spoilers MAY BE CONTAINED The first story starring Barbara Kellerman is decent and features a cameo by Geoffrey Bayldon.The second is horrible and features Donald Pleasence, Britt Ekland and Richard Johnson.The third is the best and features Patrick Magee as a cannabilistic landlord who is one of a village of ghouls which is stumbled upon by an American Film Director.Overall a good British Horror film and well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fun movie with a few cracking moments - the stripper and the musical interludes springing to mind. The songs in between the stories may not be to everyone's taste, but are undeniably hummable. The first story is probably the best, being rather solemn and tragic, and a complete contrast to the rest of the film. The second story is far more light-hearted, revolving round a vampire's family life, and the third, about a forgotten village is fairly grisly. The 'wrap' story is amusing, with the writer R Chetwynd-Hayes (a real-life horror writer, who's stories have themselves inspired horror anthologies) being accosted by a vampire who turns out to be a fan, and takes him to the Monster Club for a few drinks and tall tales, revolving around a monster's family tree, and the offspring of different types of monsters. UB40 make a cameo as one of the monster bands. Good fun if you like horror movies or if you have ever wondered what happened if a vampire and a werewolf were to have a kid. It's not massively scary, but some moments will live on in your mind for a while. "},{"Title":"A strange film, out of it's time","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A very strange film. So weird that it features Donald Pleasance who was currently starring in the 'Halloween' series which did so much to rewrite the entire genre and bring it into the 20th century. 'The Monster Club' seems so very out of time in contrast.Vincent Price is always a joy no matter what he's in. Such a shame he died before being able to make more films with Tim Burton. The framing device is rather dumb but not without it's charm, I really like the song 'Sucker for your love' and 'The Stripper' is amazing, you wonder if the makers of Robbie William's 'Rock DJ' video saw it?As for the tales themselves the first is pretty good, even for an aurephile such as myself, the ghoul in question showing extreme pathos, more humanity than many humans. The second is rather stupid although the gag about the vampire film director 'aren't they all?' is funny. The third is perhaps the most effective but you're left wondering what happens in the end? For my money Stuart Whitman's character, Sam, seizes the wheel of the fake police car and drives it into the churchyard, killing the ghoul-policemen who cannot bear holy ground. Then he plays demolition derby with the villagers and 'Elders'. Because humanity rules the world, not demons, fire, TV, opposable thumbs and we're really sneaky. And adaptable. All told it's a great film and I'd highly recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"Great fun, both funny & eerie I really like this.","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Monster Club starts late one night in London as famed horror author Ronald Chetwynd-Hayes (John Carradine) is attacked by a Vampire named Eramus (Vincent Price), afterwards Eramus invites Hayes back to a late night party at a club where he will get inspiration & material for some new books...First up Hayes is told the 'Shadmock Story' in which a odd looking & lonely man has a very powerful whistle...Then Hayes is told the 'Vampire Story' about a young boy named Linton (Warren Saire) & his Vampire father (Richard Johnson) who is being hunted by the 'Beenie Squad' & Chief Pickering (Donald Pleasence)...Finally the 'Humegoo Story' sees a horror film director (Stuart Whitman) trapped in a spooky village by Ghoul's & finds himself on the menu...This British production was directed by genre veteran Roy Ward Baker & was the final film produced by Amicus studios who at one point had specialized in these horror anthology films & made some of the best the genre has to offer including Dr. Terror's House of Horrors (1965), The House that Dripped Blood (1971), Tales from the Crypt (1972), Asylum (1972) & The Vault of Horror (1973). Based on stories from the book by the real Ronald Chetwynd-Hayes the script tries to be a little more light hearted than one might expect, it still has a few scares & some eerie moments but overall the tone is lighter than usual for Amicus, I assume The Monster Club was made with a younger audience in mind. I have to admit that I am a big fan of The Monster Club, call it a guilty pleasure or just that I have no discernible taste in films but I really enjoyed this from start to finish & is a real product of it's time that maybe hasn't dated that well but so what? At about 100 minutes long The Monster Club moves at a decent pace & none of three stories outstay their welcome & all three offer something different. The first Shadmock story is a little weird but has a few great moments including a twin shocking & touching twist ending that is well handled. The second Vampire story is probably my least favourite of the three stories & in my opinion is the weakest, it feels more like a Vampire sitcom with one of the worst twist endings around. However, it does a have a few funny comedic moments & the build-up of the story is also quite good but it's a shame it all falls apart at the end. The third Humegoo story is easy the best of the three as far as I am concerned, it is a genuinely eerie little story with a fantastic atmosphere that ends a little abruptly but I think suits the story very well.One reason why I think The Monster Club has a bad reputation is because of the framing parts set inside the monster club itself, while it's great to see veterans John Carradine & Vincent Price bounce one-liners off each other the disco dancing monster look awful with joke shop mask's of the lowest quality. Then there's the truly terrible soft rock pop musical numbers by the likes of The Viewers, B.A. Robertson, Night, The Pretty Things & the then unknown UB40. There is one cool moments though when a stripper does her thing to one of the songs & ends up taking her skin off in silhouette to reveal her skeleton, very amusing & a nice touch. The Monster Club drips atmosphere with the third Humegood story in particular being very creepy, I also loved the comic book style black and white storyboard interludes that represent the flashback, very stylish & an imaginative way to not spend much money! There's not much blood or gore here, a couple of Vampires are seen with stakes in their chest, there's a melted Cat & a woman's face is also melted but otherwise there's nothing graphic here.Apparently shot in Hertfordshire here in the UK this is well made with a nice feel to the production, it's just so odd that while the stories themselves are so atmospheric & well made the monster club parts are horrendously dated & camp. There's a great cast here, Carradine & Price are terrific ('where are your fangs' ask's Carradine to which Price replies 'their retractable when not in use'!) while Donald Pleasence, Britt Ekland, Patrick Mcgee & Stuart Whitman are also great although I did think Richard Johnson's comic accent made him sound Italian!The Monster Club is great entertainment for an old school horror anthology fan like myself, I love the performances & atmosphere & even find the disco dancing monster funny in a camp sort of way. What else can I say? I am probably flying against popular opinion again but screw it, I thought The Monster Club was terrific, funny, eerie & creepy in equal measure. They just don't make them like this anymore. "},{"Title":"A tongue-in-cheek trilogy of terror!","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Throughout the mid 60s and early 70s Amicus Productions churned out a series of wonderful horror anthologies including DR. TERROR'S HOUSE OF HORRORS (1965), TORTURE GARDEN (1967), THE HOUSE THAT DRIPPED BLOOD (1970), ASYLUM (1972), THE VAULT OF HORROR (1973, second best of the bunch), FROM BEYOND THE GRAVE (1973), and TALES FROM THE CRYPT (1972, which is my all-time favorite horror anthology!) THE MONSTER CLUB features the legendary actors Vincent Price, John Carradine, Donald Pleasence, and the dazzling Britt Ekland.The film begins as Vincent Price, as vampire Eramus puts the bite on fiction writer R. Chetwynd-Hayes (played by John Carradine). Price is in top-form, as usual. He is, without a doubt the best horror actor of all time. I have all but one of his horror films on DVD.However, MONSTER CLUB is an anthology, comprised of only three stories plus a wraparound (the wraparound is the 'in-between' story that ties the rest together). I love anthologies; both for the hits and the misses&#x85; my general feeling is that about half of the stories work; and, the others not so well. This is truly an exception to that rule! The Shadmock Story involves a couple looking for their next big score. It comes in the form of Angela taking a position of cataloging antiqes for an odd-looking man, who rarely leaves his large estate. He seems nice enough, despite his ghoulish appearance; and, he has a tempting amount of valuables ripe for the taking. The man becomes enamored with Angela; and, proposes marriage. Things soon sour during the engagement party, as we learn that the odd-looking fellow possesses an interesting method of dealing with those who anger him.The Vampire Story deals with a shy, young boy and his parents. His father has a job that requires him to stay out all night, and sleep during the day. The boy learns that his father is a count who fled another country under distressed circumstances. Obviously, the story deals with vampires and vampires hunters; but, with a surprise twist! The Humgoo Story tells a tale of a director scouting locations for a horror film. Sporting about the countryside in his Porsche 911 SC Targa. He is looking for a village with lots of atmosphere. It turns out that the village he finds is populated by ghouls. And, they have plans for him. The notes from the long-deceased village pastor offer an amazing means of telling the story of how the town was besieged by ghouls. It's a wonderful tale&#x85; The wraparound story takes place in the Monster Club itself. It features entertaining dialogue between Vincent Price and John Carradine, as a lead in for the stories. The new wave 1980s rock music is great. There are terrific special effects during the second or third act, which features a stripper. When you see the stripper's act, you will be flabbergasted.For me, Amicus really defined the horror anthology. Overall the stories in MONSTER CLUB are an absolute hoot. I cannot better describe the movie, except to paraphrase Winston Churchill. It is a comedy, wrapped in a horror anthology, wrapped in the enigma of low-budget cinema. "},{"Title":"A Curate's Egg","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is a half-successful attempt to recreate the horror compilations of the sixties and seventies, such as The House That Dripped Blood or Vault of Horror.It has some good points. The three horror stories actually aren't bad, though the second one featuring Donald Pleasence as a star vampire hunter would have been better played straight rather than for laughs. Star turns by Simon Ward and Stuart Whitman among others work well if you can overlook the rather simple special effects.But the frame story is poor and there is far too much of it, reducing it to the role of a setting for some supposedly big musical talents of the time to strut their stuff. Against this background, I enjoyed watching Vincent Price explain the genealogy of monsters, but the rest was superfluous and might profitably have been sacrificed in favor of another story.Just about worth watching, but it could have been so much better.Rating 5/10. "},{"Title":"Decent 70's/80's Horror Anthology","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Film was just what I expected when I purchased it for $8 (AUD). If you need to make a comparison think - the original Tales From The Crypt films, The Uncanny, Hammer House of Horror (the series)etc. Thoroughly enjoyable with a very tongue in cheek style especially with regard to the narration, though certainly not scary. Vincent Price, a Vampire after borrowing a little blood from a successful horror writer (John Carrdine) invites the writer to join him at the Monster Club - as suggested by its name, a club for monsters. He thereafter proceeds to tell the writer three tales of terror to help inspire his writing. My only major complaint is the absolutely horrible 80's bands that get to play a set in between each story - truly the scariest part of the film (and I don't mean that in a good way!!!) "},{"Title":"A really GREAT monster flick!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE MONSTER CLUB (1981)Vincent Price invites John Carradine, a writer of horror novels, to The Monster Club a hangout / dance club for monsters. He proceeds to tell Carradine three tales of terror. This movie is just wayyyy to kewl. It's great seeing Carradine and Price together in this very fun to watch monster trilogy. The wrap is completely low budget, but looks just beautiful, with mask wearing dancers as monsterish patrons and tables in the shape of coffins.  "},{"Title":"Shadmocks and Hoogoo's rule!!","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved this movie with VINCENT PRICE. The seconds story was the worst. The first one was the best. The shadmock (a cross between a werewolf and a vampire) hires an assistant. This shadmock gets upset and whistles. Whoever he whistles to gets burned very badly. A very strange movie. The SHADMOCK is the same man who played Pink's father in THE WALL and he is BOB GELDOFF'S dad is real life. The last movie was good with the HOOGOO (a cross between a human and a ghoul-gewl). The people in this movie wanted to eat a movie producer. Very strange. In between, Vincent Price narrates with this guy and they are at a MONSTER CLUB which is like the star wars cantina. Vincent Price even DANCES at one point. Very odd and bizarre movie but fun. "}{"Title":"if my mommy was a shaddy....","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  let me preface my remarks by saying i consider myself to be a reasonable human being. this is the greatest movie of all time. i own it on video and have watched it maybe 100 times. it doesn't hurt that the first time i saw it i was like 15 and it was on friday night and elvira mistress of the dark was hosting. i nearly got caught taking the small vacation many times by my dad who worked second shift and came in right around midnight.but it's more than that. it must be a roy ward baker thing with me because i'm a fiend for the seven brothers meet dracula(another one hosted by elvira). each of these three stories has a different ambience and color scheme which just works. i wish i were fifteen and watching this movie for the first time againthe monster club itself is populated with hokey, masked creatures and the bands are marvelous. i'm just a sucker for your love. please. the final story is shot with a blue filter and just works.sequel. please. anyone? "},{"Title":"Kitsch with class","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Monster Club is the best of all worlds.  It features silly costumes for campiness and new-age rock music from 1980 London for a pulsating, driving beat to keep this roller-coaster of a film racing along.  Thrills and chills dispensed by Carradine and Vincent Price will leave you waiting for more. The film is an anthology-type, so it is composed of three vignettes narrated by Price.  Despite the traditional dislike audiences have for anthologies, The Monster Club is sure to please. "},{"Title":"Quite Enjoyable Comedy Horror","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the funnest films to watch - quite enjoyable. This is a Gothic comedy-horror for the most part and has a good message in the end about humans being the greatest monster of all.The Shadmock is the first story we are told and is not so comical - it's quite sad. This is my favorite story of the trilogy). The second story is of The Vampires and is funny. The Ghouls is not sad nor is it funny but it's a good story. The funniest parts of the film come from Eramus (Price) and R.Chetwynd-Hayes (Carradine) with their tongue-in-cheek humor.The music is not to bad - yes it is dated but then again the music in today's films will be considered dated too one day. I think the songs fit the film.I will admit that I would love to join this particular Monster Club.8/10 "},{"Title":"Vampire film producer? Well aren't they all?","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although Amicus broke up in 1975, Milton Subotsky carried on producing, making works like this and 1977's The Uncanny Amicus anthologies in a spiritual sense.Having said this, The Monster Club really is a horror movie at the end of an era. Most of these films look incredibly tame and dated in today's context and always struggle with the line between terror and camp. But The Monster Club is a film that genuinely attempts to be not only wilfully silly, but even post-modern, as the title quote suggests. Two of the three segments involve the movie industry, including a film within a film.Of those segments, then the final one, with a village of zombies-by-any-other-name is quite good, even though it does feature one of the most inexplicable moments in horror, the hero of the piece hailing down a police car and then not informing them that there's a dying girl just around the corner.What's most surprising though is how overt the comedy becomes. When I initially saw the inside of the titular Monster Club, with a hoard of completely unrealistic monsters, I'd assumed it was some new wave club with humans wearing masks. The end of the film reveals that they are, in fact, supposed to be genuine creatures of the undead.Each of the three segments are breached by a musical number, all of which are pretty good, but feel like they belong in a different picture. Vincent Price delivering a monologue about the evil of man to the skinny tie brigade may feel like an anachronism, but just three years later he was further cementing his status as an icon with his vocal performance on Thriller.Placing The Monster Club in an historical context reveals much. Old-school horrors like grown men wearing plastic fangs can compel because of the innate classiness of the production, but there's no such sophistication here. I'm no major fan of the slasher genre, but when you consider that guest star Donald Pleasence had made Halloween just two years earlier then it throws into perspective how antiquated Monster Club was.As for the likes of B.A. Roberton as the musical performers, then just two years later Annabella Lwin of Bow Wow Wow was derogatorily calling him a hippy and telling him his interview show was s***. The old crashes uncomfortably into the new, and The Monster Club tries unsuccessfully to marry the two in a brief window of opportunity. "},{"Title":"zoom zoom","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  John Carradine. Vincent Price. Donald Pleasence. Three great actors who appeared in a hell of a lot of lousy films. Does it really matter ? No. Any film featuring one of those old school horror guys is worth a look, if only for the performances they give. So, when the three of them late b-movie kings are in THE MONSTER CLUB, that makes for essential viewing (sort of). An ever tired-looking (watch his hands !) John Carradine and a no less ever tongue-in-cheek Vinnie the P provide a link between three different stories. Best one is the Vampire Story, with silly Donald Pleasance playing a vampire hunter who eventually turns into a vampire (these things happen all the time, ain't it ?).  A funny one. The remaining stories are not quite as successful, but there's still plenty to enjoy from a film that hesitates between horror and comedy. Not too bad a mixture. Nice supporting cast as well (Stuart Whitman, Richard Johnson), but truly awful music.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy but entertaining","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not a big fan of horror anthologies. It is always going to contain one I find silly or bad and it's usually the middle story. With The Monster Club this is no exception. Best story by far is the first containing most drama and horror. The last story surely had potential but the monsters looked more human, even the Addams family like monsters from the Monster Club looked scarier. Still I liked the sequence in the church with the creepy images from the picture book. And except for the first story the movie is not to be taken really serious, more comedy than horror. That we have Vincent Price as the vampire storyteller and host is always a treat and the songs in between were entertaining with the stripping to the bone scene as a pretty cool event. However the only song I thought was memorable was Sucker for your Love which felt very eighties and easy to sing along. Heck I even played that song again a few times after the movie was over. "},{"Title":"Highly engaging horror anthology.","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Monster Club is sort of the unofficial final anthology film from Amicus, retaining Amicus veteran Milton Subotsky as a producer. It's great fun, especially in the wrap-around segments. These come complete with a devilishly entertaining performance by old pro Vincent Price, and a few musical numbers by acts such as Night, The Pretty Things, The Viewers, and B.A. Robertson. In fact, I dare say that the wrap-around portions are more entertaining than the individual stories! It's all done in high style by director Roy Ward Baker, who at this point was a seasoned genre veteran.Price plays Eramus, a vampire who sinks his teeth into the neck of renowned horror author R. Chetwynd-Hayes (John Carradine, who has some priceless reactions to the goings-on), whose material provides the basis for each segment. As a means of apologizing for the snack, Eramus introduces the writer to his favourite haunt, the Monster Club of the title. Here he educates Chetwynd-Hayes on the various types of monster offspring before the writer hears three different stories.Story # 1. The Shadmock. Angela (the beautiful Barbara Kellerman) goes to work for Raven (James Laurenson), a creepy looking but pitiable character who only wants love. In truth, Angela and her boyfriend George (Simon Ward) only want to rob the guy, and when his heart is broken, he unleashes the deadly force of his whistle. Laurenson is wonderful, and there's an effectively nasty ending.Story # 2. The Vampire. A movie producer, Lintom Busotsky (Anthony Steel) - which, as you may well figure out, is an anagram of Milton Subotsky - tells the tale of his childhood, when he learned a macabre secret about his father (Richard Johnson), a count who is only out and about at night time. When Pickering (Donald Pleasence), leader of a B squad, arrives on the scene, he intends to put an end to the fathers' days, only to fall victim to an unforeseen circumstance. Played partly for laughs, this is agreeable stuff, with a delightful performance by Johnson. Britt Ekland plays the young Lintoms' mother.Story # 3. The Humgoo. A cantankerous horror film director, Sam (Stuart Whitman) scouts a remote location for a future production, and meets the decidedly decrepit locals. He also encounters the lovely young Luna (Lesley Dunlop), and tries to flee the place with her. He'll find that this is a very hard place to escape. The always welcome Patrick Magee co-stars as an innkeeper.With some of the soundtrack music supplied by the pop group UB40, The Monster Club is a good time for lovers of this format. It does know how to send its audience away with smiles on their faces.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Monster Club","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The title for this film and the poster are pretty cool, I wonder if Fred Dekker borrowed the idea for his movie 'The Monster Squad'. Anyway here we have another horror anthology (not Amicus) that's piece de resistance was having Vincent Prince and John Carradine star in the bookend story. Other horror (anthology) regulars such as Donald Pleasence and Britt Ekland also pop up but no Peter Cushing this time. Carradine portrays real life British horror author Chetwynd-Hayes whose stories are what this anthology are based upon.The film starts off in a fine manner with Price playing a vampire (he didn't play them often...or ever) and biting Carradine in a most polite way of course. To thank Carradine Price takes him to the Monster Club where various ghouls and...errrm monsters hang out and let their hair and fur down. Now this sounds pretty sweet no doubt but I'm afraid to say the entire idea is let down with the most dreadful looking sequences you'll have seen for some time. Think of the Mos Eisley space cantina in 'Star Wars' with all the alien creatures but no where near as good and with terrible costumes.When I say terrible costumes I mean it, they look like kids Halloween costumes your mum bought at the local supermarket. Absolutely horrendous, so much so in fact I'm not even sure if it was done like that on purpose for comedic relief. What's even stranger is the musical interludes between the short stories, you have a horror tale followed by some weird ass pop group dressed up with bad makeup singing a bad song, was this filler? At one point Price gets up and dances with the monsters on the dance floor...I'm still not sure if I should look on this as uber cool or just a crappy run time extension, its nothing like 'Thriller' so don't get excited.The actual stories are reasonable but pretty timid frankly, what's more they create new monsters or hybrids which sound daft. The first is based around a Shadmock which is the offspring of...something, I can't elaborate because the sequence where Price explains what monsters are called when they mate with other monsters is so confusing I just ran with it. Basically this creature looks like a pale male human but his whistle can somehow burn things to a crisp? whatever. The story is merely about a couple trying to get a hold of this Shadmocks huge fortune by having the young woman marry him under false pretenses of love. The setting and location are nice and atmospheric, bit of a 'Beauty and the Beast' or 'Phantom of the Opera' type premise but not up to the same standard.The next short is about a vampire family, well the man of the house is a vampire but his wife and boy are not oddly. Donald Pleasence is part of a secret vampire hunters team that carry violin cases that contain stakes for killing vampires (Robert Rodriguez see this film?). Pleasence follows the boy and eventually talks him into exposing his father even though the boy never knew his father was a vampire. In the end Pleasence gets bitten and must fight off his own men, its very shallow and hardly a horror tale at all, its not even spooky really. It raises more questions than anything but I guess its only a vignette.The final story is easily the best and revolves around a film director travelling to a small remote village in the English countryside to scout the location. There he discovers a century old race of ghouls that eat corpses. When trying to escape this village of the damned he only gets so far before discovering that more people outside of the village are in fact ghouls and escape may well be futile. Again many questions are raised but the tale is the most interesting and could easily be expanded, its basically your common zombie apocalypse type flick that obviously has lots of similarities with the 1960 film 'Village of the Damned'.I kinda had high hopes for this film but felt disappointed in the end. Everything looks a bit cheap and nasty and the vignettes are pretty low key with little thrills or excitement to be had. The cast is solid as usual but that doesn't really make much difference, its all about the stories and apart from the final one its all very drab.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Incredibly silly but a lot of fun nevertheless","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The famous British film production company Amicus were most famous for producing a string of horror anthology movies. The Monster Club was the final entry in this cycle. It came at a time where the quaint format was hopelessly out of date. The early 80's was a time of slashers, splatter films and video nasties, the old school charms of the British portmanteau movies were somewhat out of step with these times. So with The Monster Club, Amicus tried to update the format by including music performances from new wave and hard rock bands, while also ramping up the campy factor even further. The result was an effort that was the most self-consciously silly of them all.My introduction to the movie was a little unusual, in that as a kid I first encountered it in comic format. It was serialised in the magazine 'Halls of Horror'. I remember vividly the one about the Shadmock, it was so brilliantly illustrated and full of nudity and violence. When I saw the film on TV a year or so later I was very disappointed with the lack of any nudity whatsoever and the much less impressive effects. While the denizens of The Monster Club itself looked considerably better than the film version which seemed to consist of people in masks. You can still find the comic if you look for it but even if you don't, trust me it looked excellent and the film could only be a let down by comparison.But I guess what the comic showed was that there was great potential in this movie if it had more of a budget. The low production values really effected it though. Having said all that, I have revisited it recently and went into it knowing in advance what it is and what it isn't. And with that attitude I found it to be pretty good fun overall. It's based on the work of the author R. Chetwynd Hayes, who is portrayed by John Carradine in the movie. He encounters a vampire one night in the streets of a city, who attacks him but then takes him to a secret place where the creatures of the night assemble - The Monster Club. From here the vampire tells the writer three spooky tales of the dark side. The first one concerns a being called a Shadmock, who is a mysterious loner who causes real horror when he whistles. The second film is about a vampire and vampire hunters. The third is about a director scouting for a location for his next horror film, he comes across a weird isolated village populated by flesh-eating ghouls.The first and third stories are actually pretty decent with some nice atmosphere at times. The third was easily the weakest because it was far too silly. Previous Amicus anthologies always seemed to have a 'comedy' story but in this one it's more of a problem because the wraparound story is so silly to begin with and is much more extended than in earlier films, in order to include all the songs. It also means we only have three stories, as opposed to the more normal five. This all means that we don't really need more comedy and it would have been better having something more along the lines of the other two tone-wise.It is a monumentally daft film though overall and I reckon it's probably more fun now than it was at the time. The music scenes are very silly but entertaining never-the-less. And I was pretty surprised to see that the reggae-pop band UB40 were involved in this music! Aside from the bands the other entertainment on display in the club is a stripper who removes&#x85;well&#x85;everything. The Monster Club is an utterly ridiculous film but it is pretty unique, as I sure haven't seen anything quite like this before. If you go in with the right attitude and expectations adjusted accordingly, you might well have fun though. "},{"Title":"Monster Fun.","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In a misjudged attempt to move with the times, British studio Amicus punctuated the three short stories of their final film, The Monster Club, with musical numbers from a variety of new-wave/rock acts, including B.A. Robertson and The Pretty Things. These daft interludes, which see the bands singing their songs in their entirety (and which come complete with a ridiculous rubber-masked monster audience) spoil what is otherwise a very effective horror anthology.The film starts with a wraparound story in which popular horror author R.Chetwynd-Hayes (John Carradine) is fed upon by thirsty vampire Eramus (Vincent Price), who thanks his victim by taking him to The Monster Club, a members-only establishment where monsters go to drink and be entertained. There, the writer hears three tales guaranteed to chill the blood...Tale one A pair of con-artists plan to steal a valuable collection of antiquities from a lonely weirdo who turns out to be a Shadmock, a strange creature with a deadly whistle. A touching tale with a tragic ending, helped by a strong performance from James Laurenson as the lovelorn Shadmock.Tale two The B-squad are a special branch of the police dedicated to hunting vampires. Unaware that his own father is one of the undead, awkward loner Lintom Busotsky (Warren Saire) unwittingly leads the chief of the B-squad (Donald Pleasence) to his home. A wonderfully tongue-in-cheek story with great performances from both Saire and Pleasence, this proves to be a lot of fun, a jaunty Transylvanian folk violin score adding tremendously to the enjoyment factor.Tale three horror director Sam (Stuart Whitman) scouts a location for his new movie, unaware that the rural village is home to flesh-eating ghouls. Director Roy Ward Baker definitely saves the best for last, this memorable final segment oozing atmosphere and dripping with tension. Whitman does a cracking job and the final 'twist' is a corker.7/10 for the three stories, minus one point for the terrible scenes that take place within The Monster Club. "}{"Title":"The Good, the Bad & the Very Ugly!,","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Good bits are the individual tales of horror - some genuinely creepy and well made featurettes, a sort of Tales of the Unexpected but with more oomph.The Bad bits are the ridiculous 'Monster Club' monsters. I suppose if you're eight, great, but then you shouldn't be watching the Good bits (above). The often seemingly irrelevant live music interludes bridge the two, but generally they look (& sound) even more dated than the rest of the movie!The Ugly; well, the truly awful disco dancing fancy dress (sorry, but it is!) at the end.There are some LONG reviews here on Amazon; I'm keeping it a lot shorter. For a start, I'm not an avid fan of horror, but enjoy the better flicks of the genre.However, it's good that it's got Vincent Price in it. He indelibly stamps authority and authenticity on any horror film, even if it's rubbish.I give four stars to the short portmanteau stories, one for the Club and two for the live music - averaging three. I watched it on The Horror Channel. "},{"Title":"Okay horror anthology film.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Roy Ward Baker's The Monster Club is an above average horror anthology.Vincent Price plays a vampire who brings horror story writer John Carradine to a bizarre club for Transylvanian freaks.The club is used as a link between the three tales of horror,and Price relates the three stories.The second one offers some humour and a couple of shocks.Donald Pleasence is a detective,who finally catches up with and kills his nemesis but in the process is transformed into a vampire himself.The other two segments are rather dull and unmemorable.The soundtrack is extremely cheesy and annoying.Still the scene where a female stripper takes off everything but her bones has to be seen to be believed.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Bad, but not that bad!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice. Once as a kid staying up late after my parents went to bed and it scared the hell out of me. Also I was particularly fond of the stripper that peels off not just her clothes but her skin too - COOL!There are three short stories in this film. There's one about a gold-digger marrying a monster for his money, but when the monster discovers her plot he turns her into a hideous monster. That was okay, but the best one is the about a movie location scout stumbling upon a zombie village.Yes it's campy, yes it's dorky, but there are some good thrills and chills too. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a staple of the Creature Double feature block that made up my formative years back when Saturdays meant real cartoons in the morning and Godzilla and z-grade horror films in the afternoons before sports---not angst-ridden teen shows (we had the ABC Afterschool Special for that) or infomercials.What other movie has two of the masters of terror--Vincent Price and John Carradine paired up together in a rock setting?  True, the stories and the makeup left so much to be desired but that was half the fun.My favorite song was I'm just a sucker for your love.  Maybe because it's the only one I remember. "},{"Title":"One good story highlights this bland anthology. Price & Carradine are wasted","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Eramus (Vincent Price) is a vampire, who hasn't been fed in over two weeks. He comes across a horror writer R.Chetwynd-Hayes (John Carradine) and lures him in, so he can take a bite out of his neck. Eramus reassures Hayes that no ill effects will happen, and he won't become a vampire. Eramus invites Hayes to a club filled with all sorts of monsters and ghouls. Eramus shares three unique horror stories. In the end, Hayes might just be the most fascinating monster of allI wasn't too impressed by this anthology. It starts off amusing enough, with two consummate pros like Price & Carradine, but after the first story ends, it dwindles away into boredom. How is it that Carradine goes unscathed, after a vampire bite? I get that this is tongue in cheek, but come on! That's a bit much. Price and Carradine's bantering is fun, but the roles they have aren't big enough for my liking. I also got annoyed by the punk rock music. This was filmed in the U.K, and never got released theatrically in the US. Onto the storiesStory #1 The Shadmock. Raven (James Laurenson) is a lonely Shadmock, who nobody wants to date or see. He also happens to be filthy rich. George (Simon Ward) and his girlfriend Angela (Barbra Kellerman) conjure up a plan to obtain Raven's money. The plan is to make Raven fall for Angela, so Angela gets off Scot free with the money. I liked this episode quite a bit. It was original, and refreshingly unorthodox, with some really creepy atmosphere to go along with it. Raven's crippling whistle is also terrifying. I legitimately felt for the poor sap, as he clearly was in love with Angela. The ending is especially creepy, with Angela's disfigurement. I did feel that Simon doesn't show nearly enough shock at Angela's hideous appearance at the end, and kind of ruined some of the impact. But I liked this tale overall. Aside from Simon Ward, it's extremely well acted. Poor Raven. All he wanted was for Angela to love him 3.5/5Story #2 Vampires. This is not quite as weak as the third story, but it is rather lame. Busotsky's Father is a vampire, and he doesn't realize it. He often wonders why he won't play with him during the day, and only comes out at night. The B Squad, lead by Donald Pleasence is out to get Busotky's Father. This is mostly for laughs, and it's not that funny to be honest. Donald Pleasence is great as per usual, and Britt Ekland is a sexy M.I.L.F, but it's just a lame story. The ending is extremely silly, and had me shaking my head. It's a really poor gag.2/5Story #3 The Ghouls. Sam (Stuart Whitman) is a movie director, looking for the perfect place to film his movie. He comes across a decrepit village, which is completely isolated from society. The Innkeeper is rather spooky, and he meets a peculiar young woman named Luna. The village is filled with ghouls that have a thirst for the flesh. This was such a stupid and insulting story. Not only was it moronic, but very boring. It was a complete and utter snooze fest, and I had trouble paying attention. The ending is predictable and lame as well. By far the weakest of the trilogy 0/5Final Thoughts Aside from a good first story, and the presence of Vincent Price, and John Carradine? There isn't anything to see here, really. I suppose it's worth a look if you're a huge fan of anthologies, but you're not really missing anything. It's average stuff5/10 "},{"Title":"A shadmock?.........","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A writer of horror stories is invited to a monster club by a mysterious old gentleman.There, three gruesome stories are told to him; between each story some musicians play their songs.In the end, it's recognised he's the greatest monster of all....Anthology movies were rife in the seventies and early eighties, but none more is as camper as this very peculiar gem.I have never seen a movie where they play some utterly bonkers Ska music between stories.And those stories, just beyond bizarre.The best one has to be about the shadmock, a guy who lives on his own and can turn cats into cheeses on toast with just a whistle. A couple of crooks con him by getting the woman to pose as help, so she can get close and take everything.After a musical interlude, we are taken to the funniest story, involving Donald Pleasence, Ketchup, and a gang of mustachioed vigilantes.The poorest story is ironically the eeriest, but it feels out of place compared to the other stories, involving a film maker who somehow gets transported to another time.It's ludicrous, with silly wolfs and even cruder masks, but it works, thanks to the film being tongue in cheek and knowing it.well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"The End of Amicus' Reign in the World of Horror-Omnibuses","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Monster Club of 1980 is the last and least of the Horror omnibuses from specialist company Amicus. Fellow Gothic Horror enthusiast have warned me about the film, and so did several other reviews on this great page, but as an enthusiastic fan of even the cheesier kind of Gothic Tales, who loved the other Amicus Productions, I still decided to buy it cheaply, especially since Vincent Price is my all-time favorite actor. The warnings sadly turned out to be reasonable, as the film is an unworthy final entry to Amicus' reign in the Horror-omnibus world. The film is no total disaster, but it is entirely disappointing, which even the film's great cast does not change. While all the Amicus films had a (usually great) sense of humor, this one provides little more than absolutely mindless slapstick, and is accompanied by terrible music that will annoy the hell out of the viewer. What makes this even more disappointing is the fact that director Roy Ward Baker is a more than capable man, who enriched the World of Horror with such great films as Quatermass And The Pit, Scars Of Dracula, or The Vampire Lovers, which he made for the Hammer Studios. Even though disappointing, however, The Monster Club is still worth checking out for its superb cast. The film stars none less than three all-time Horror-greats, Vincent Price, John Carradine, and Donald Pleasence, as well as the always sexy Britt Ekland in a small role. The great cast is a reason to watch the film, and yet expectations should be kept low - The film is among the least memorable in either of the three Horror stars' repertoires, and the beautiful Miss Ekland has only a very small role.A Horror story writer (Carradine) runs into a vampire named Erasmus (Price), who subsequently takes him to a 'Monster Club' at which all types of monsters, such as Vampires, Ghouls, Werewolves and hybrids such as 'Vamghouls'. Erasmus then narrates three stories in order to explain the diversity of Monster species to his guest. The first and second stories are merely satirical, and in a very silly way. The first one, which introduces the monster species 'Shadmock', is amusing, in a way, but unfortunately also quite tedious. The second story, a slapstick vampire story which is actually a film in the film, is the worst of the three, very simple and even more silly, even though it is this one which stars both Donald Pleasence and Britt Ekland. The third story, a Ghoul story, is a lot better than the other two, and the only part of the film that has a certain creepiness. Hollywood tough guy Staurt Whitman plays a film director who visits a remote ghost-town - with ghoulish results... Inbetween the stories, the film switches back to the Monster club, where a dreadful band plays extremely dreadful 80s pop music. The music is so awful it is hard to listen to, and I admittedly watched most of the concerts at the Monster Club in the fast forward mode. The visibly aged stars, Carradine and Price are far from their best, and yet it is them who make the film a lot more worthwhile, especially Price brings in some great wit more than once. Overall, The Monster Club is watchable for its stars, and for the decent last story, but I can certainly not recommend it. My advice Watch the other Amicus productions, or any other film starring Vincent Price instead! "},{"Title":"Can't decide what it wants to be.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just saw this again and I think I figured out what's wrong with it; its indecisiveness. We have two separate movies here the first is a tongue-in-cheek, affectionate homage to classic monster flicks and figures, and the second is a (generally) straight horror anthology, consisting of three short stories. The two parts don't really click together, and despite Vincent Price's expert performance, his segments are the weaker ones (and after all the other comments, I don't think I need to say how lame the monster masks are). But the stories can stand on their own; they're fairly entertaining and creepy, and they make the stupid musical numbers worth sitting through.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Monsters You're Okay......Ra ra ra ra ra ra ra","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yep, the monster make-up in this film is the pits.  It is SO bad that the monsters in the wrap-around story look just too ridiculous.  I have had TONS of tricker treaters with better costumes and painted faces arrive at my door!  That being said, and the fact that the rock setting and music adds to the overall ambience of the film giving it the feel of a disco, The Monster Club is, for me, an enjoyable film.  I liked the stories.  The first was especially good about a Shadmock.  The actor playing this creature that looks deathly pale and can whistle a harrowing tune did an awesome job of creating a great deal of pathos in his performance.  The second story has some humorous touches(and a pleasant performance from Donald Pleasance), and the last story is easily the most atmospheric and creepy.  The acting in the stories is all pretty good.  Even John Carradine and Vincent Price are welcome additions despite their tasks of looking like fools amidst fools.  Vinnie dancing to rock music with a fat, short Wagnerian opera singer defies all logic.  But what the hey, where ya gonna see something like that again? "},{"Title":"The effort is often good, the result isn't.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In it's favor, this movie does make a serious attempt to conjure up dark moods and elegance for it's tales.  The tales aren't awful, but they really don't pay off. It's nice, though, to see people actually making an effort.  Against the film is the Monster Club itself, the device to tie the stories together.  Hokey and stupid, but lacking in any fun, even Price and Carradine fail to liven it up.  A thoroughly crummy gimmick... except for the whole stripper sequence its music, performance and final commentary.  For some reason I find it endlessly entertaining.  If more of the movie had been like that I might have recommended it.  As it is, it's worthy only to top off an armload of rentals, as long you don't need more than spare change to pay for it.  "}{"Title":"Really bad and ugly, but so good to watch !","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is certainly one of the worst for the makeup and masks of his monsters. The three stories narrated by Vincent Price the vampire to a poor horror story writer are really bad and pathetic. But despite all the ugliness of this movie, i found myself wanting more and more. Why ? Because this thing has all it needs to become a cult movie, you want to find and comment on all the errors and stupid lines. Every second is an enchantment of stupidity. And it has the merit of being bad known, so this movie can be, as it merits, a little cult among... well me i guess ! "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Monster Club is not a great or flawless movie, but it is decent and fun which is more than you can ask for really. The look of the monsters is awful, much of the dialogue is cheesy and too much in a painful sense and while there are a couple of snappy songs too many of them are forgettable and play too much like filler. However, I didn't find that much wrong with the camera work and editing, not award-worthy but not distractingly awful. And generally the stories are good. The second is the weakest of the three, Donald Pleasance and Britt Ekland are fun to watch and there is a little bit of clever dark humour but much of it is very familiar and in a overly-silly and non-scary/suspenseful sort of way. The first story is entertaining and perhaps the best paced of the three, and the acting is good, but the best story is the third, while the ending is abrupt-though also nicely ironic- it is the most atmospheric and has an element of creepiness. And of course John Carradine and Vincent Price(his first and only time as a vampire) are a pleasure to see individually and together. The scene with Price dancing has to be seen to be believed. In conclusion, a fun movie if very flawed. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"THE MONSTER CLUB (Roy Ward Baker, 1981) **","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although I generally lapped up the star-studded horror compendiums produced by the British film company Amicus (a Hammer rival), I kept postponing this one (despite there being a readily available SE DVD of it from Pathfinder) because of its poor reputation! I did acquire it from ulterior sources some time ago and, now that I was going through a Vincent Price phase on account of his centenary, I had the opportunity (or the excuse) to finally submit myself to it! Even if producer Milton Subotsky lived on for 10 more years and he made other films after it, THE MONSTER CLUB proved to be, sadly but unsurprisingly, Amicus' swan-song.Actually, on paper, this had all the right ingredients to succeed as much as Amicus' earlier efforts given the participation of past alumni like director Baker, stars Price, Donald Pleasence, Britt Ekland and Richard Johnson, plus character actors Patrick Magee and Geoffrey Bayldon &#x96; not to mention new additions like John Carradine, Stuart Whitman, Simon Ward (who, 3 years earlier, had appeared in Subotsky's non-Amicus but equally strongly-cast DOMINIQUE) and Anthony Steel! Apparently Christopher Lee was the first choice for the part eventually played by Carradine and Klaus Kinski was also offered a role but declined! Where it does go horribly wrong, however, is in the disco-set(!) bookend sequences in which vampire Price (only his second time playing a traditional monster! and an expert in monster genealogy, the hybrids between species and even humans being given would-be hilarious names) takes celebrated horror author Carradine (after giving him one harmless little bite!) for some more legitimately served liquid sustenance at the ghastly titular abode (which has a werewolf for a secretary!) brimming with hideously made-up punters embarrassingly gyrating on the dance floor to the sounds of UB40 and The Pretty Things (who perform the ska-tinged title song as Carradine and Price get embarrassingly footloose, the latter with a so-called Buxom Beauty!) among others!! Still, if one were to twist my arm I would have to say that I did like 2 of the cheesy numbers performed therein Night's The Stripper (with red-haired singer Stevie Lange energetically belting it out and accompanied by a blonde who, literally, strips all the way down to her bones &#x96; albeit in a silhouetted bit of animation!) and B.A. Robertson's cheekily goth Sucker For Your Love; the stupid Monsters Rule O.K tune is best forgotten, however.As for the trilogy of tales, these are decent enough in themselves but nothing that we have not seen before in better movies. The first has James Laurenson as a Shadmuck(!) whose whistle can prove deadly (a greedy cat falls victim to it after it attacks his pet pigeons), as well as Barbara Kellerman and the above-mentioned Ward as a couple who intend to rob the reclusive 'monster' of his fortune. To this end, the woman presents herself for a secretarial job but, besotted with her beauty, he asks her to marry him; naturally, she wants out of the scheme after that but Ward persuades her to go along with the ruse. At the nuptials, Laurenson's monstrous family turns up for a fancy dress ball (recalling the opening scene of Price's classic vehicle THE ABOMINABLE DR. PHIBES 1971) while Kellerman absents herself from the festivities to loot her brand-new hubby's safe. Caught in the act, he gives her the whistle...and she goes back to Ward a monster, assuring him that he can learn to love her despite her gruesome appearance (a hope Laurenson himself had harbored in her case), which drives Ward off-the-wall.The second tale involves the childhood of film producer Lintom Busotsky (Steel, obviously sending up Subotsky himself!) among his vampire parents Johnson and Ekland who are forever 'stalked not staked' by vampire hunter (masquerading as a priest) Pleasence and his men (who include Neil McCarthy, the memorably hideous Calibos in the contemporaneous original Malta-shot version of CLASH OF THE TITANS). This is perhaps the most enjoyable segment, largely eschewing the others' glumness for amusing campiness (especially by way of Johnson's look and Pleasence's antics &#x96; though the latter thinks he has killed the vampire, Johnson is revealed to have been wearing a stake-proof vest and, 'infecting' Pleasence, the vampire hunter can do nothing to stop his own men from giving him a dose of his own medicine!).The third story finds Stuart Whitman as a Hollywood director filming a horror film in London. Distracted by the unprofessionalism of his associates (a dig at the fall of British cinema, perhaps?), he goes in search of real atmosphere and stumbles upon a village that seems lost in time, presided over by creepy inn-keeper Magee. Eventually, it transpires that the locals are all ghouls (or, if you like, zombies) as, in fact, the graveyard is filled with holes through which the corpses had risen! Magee's daughter is the only normal person since she is a Hum-goo(!) and, given that she tries to alert him to the danger (he manages to barricade himself in the church fending off the hungry assailants with a large crucifix), eventually falls victim to their wrath as the couple flee. Meeting up with a cop, Whitman thinks he has reached safety but the car soon takes him back to where he had come from as it was officially escorting the Elders of the village just arrived from the netherworld to celebrate its anniversary! This is easily the least effective episode (if mainly because it is the most ordinary, with Magee in particular wasted); however, it does garner some extra points via the use of evocative illustrations in the flashbacks depicting the history of the cursed community. "},{"Title":"Classy camp Horror that is a lot cleverer than it appears.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Monster Club is a hugely underrated movie that is far cleverer than it initially pretends to be. Starting off looking like a made for TV Tales from the Crypt type story it soon unfolds to be a humourous but sharply observed analogy about man's frailties and desires. You can read so much into the seemingly simple stories, my favourite being the central tale about a vampire family starring Britt Eckland; although the last analogy about small-town attitudes and bigotted behaviour does come a close second. Even the interspersed 80's punk-style tracks work in a strange sort of way - Don't be fooled - this movie has far too good a cast to be as bad as it pretends to be. If you think it's crap - then think and watch again! An absolute joy! "},{"Title":"Not quite garbage, not quite good...","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Monster Club teeters between camp and ridiculous. Although it had the nice feeling and flavor of the Hammer horror anthologies a decade before (thanks to Direction by Roy Ward Baker and Production by Milton Subotsky), the cheap design of both make-up (they seem like $4.00 masks) and effects as well as the poor quality of stories make this a club I would not endorse. It was nice to see old horror vets like Vincent Price, Britt Eckland, Donald Pleasance, John Carradine and others back on the screen, but it cannot hold up to the lack of good stories and pitiful dialogue so prevalent throughout the film (can anyone say Stake-proof vest? - GAG!). The 80's have never been more cruel than with this movie. The club music is so unfitting this genre it's almost embarrassing. The only redeeming piece is the lead singer of 'Night' whose on-stage performance is delighting to watch. So, was the $100 budget for the movie on purpose? I do not know, but if you are going to employee the cream of the crop of seasoned horror actors, don't insult them - or us - with such a lame script (I don't see how Vincent Price did the lineage of hybrid monsters with a straight face). Pay them the respect that is due. Otherwise, this club should have its membership revoked. "},{"Title":"If They'd Only Stayed True To The Book...","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...there was a really cool story in the novel.  Yes, there was actually a book called The Monster Club with essentially the same premise.  Only The Humgoo story stayed more or less intact. The other two stories, however, were either a hybrid of two stories (The Shadmock) or not in the book at all (Vampire Daddy).But there was one story called The Vampire and the Werewolf which was really cool, and it would have been neat if only they had adapted that for the movie.  Of course, it would have been far too bloody for the 80's, but then, wasn't just about anything too bloody for the 80's?If you can get a hold of a copy of R. Chetwynd Hayes The Monster Club, then you'll find a very cool book with some neat tales.  The movie, while entertaining, just doesn't measure up. "},{"Title":"Doing The Mash","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many years ago this reviewer subscribed to fantasy-horror magazine 'Starburst', then in its infancy and rivalling 'Fangoria' for its lurid colour photos of blood, guts and exploding latex. One such issue covered new release The Monster Club, and to this 10-year-old it looked utterly brilliant, with its gallery of werewolves, vampires and ghouls. There was even a woman with a melty face! Yet if pre-teens had actually been allowed to see it, they might have found it less impressive. The monster masks alone, fashioned by freelance designer Vic Door, who also worked at a milk processing plant, are laughable when compared with those from the Mos Eisley Cantina just three years before - lending understandable succour to the myth that they were made by producer Milton Subotsky's milkman.Amicus Studio's death-rattle, and a homage to the 1970s glory years of its portmanteau horrors, if The Monster Club has accrued a certain cult status it's mostly down to its sheer awfulness; yet, bafflingly, The Monster Club, adapted from Chetwynd-Hayes' 1976 novel of the same name, does in fact boast a highly experienced and occasionally impressive pedigree.In director Roy Ward Baker it had the man behind cult horrors like The Legend Of The Seven Golden Vampires, The Vault Of Horror, Asylum - and, most famously, Quatermass And The Pit. As a screenwriter, Amicus co-founder Subotsky had also penned a number of culty items, including I, Monster and Dr Terror's House Of Horrors. Cinematographer Peter Jessop had shot the schlocky likes of Frightmare, Venom and Schizo. But most importantly, it stars a real horror triumvirate of greatness- Vincent Price, John Carradine and Donald Pleasence - along with veterans from past Amicus films Britt Ekland and Geoffrey Bayldon (here reprising an earlier role as an asylum keeper).This may have been made in 1980, but tonight they're going to party like it's 1973. To a frightful new wave soundtrack supplied by UB40 and BA Robertson who sings I'm just a sucker for your love. Oh yes, a strange concoction indeed. But ranged against the likes of classic Amicus anthologies such as From Beyond The Grave (another Chetwynd-Hayes miscellany) even its dubious cult status is unwarranted - although the song Monsters Rule OK is pleasingly jaunty, and you do get to see Vincent Price and John Carradine disco dancing.In keeping with the Amicus tradition, the film features a handful of not-very-creepy tales, plus a 'comedy' story for light relief, linked by a story-within-a-story - here played out between Price's vampire Eramus (his fangs are retractable when not in use) and horror writer Chetwynd-Hayes himself, played by Carradine. After necking his favourite author, Eramus ferries him to his members club by way of an apology, where they're subjected to forgotten new wave bands (down at the monster club/a zombie and a ghoul can do the monster dub), along with every kind of monster you could ever imagine... and some far beyond the imagining of mere mortals - which is just not true, unless you're actually incapable of imagining a one pound joke shop mask.Price also inducts him into the arcane mysteries of monster genealogy, handily illustrated on a wall-chart (scroll away at leisure) A vampire and a werewolf would produce a werevamp, but a werewolf and a ghoul would produce a weregoo. But a vampire and a ghoul would produce a vamgoo. A weregoo and a werevamp would produce a shaddy. Now, a weregoo and a vamgoo would produce a maddy, but a werevamp and a vamgoo would produce a raddy. Now, if a shaddy were to mate with a raddy or a maddy, the result would be a mock. Once we've waded through that gibberish (and how it must have pained the eloquent and mellifluous Price to utter it) we sample the delights of a stripper who takes her performance all too literally, and are told three tales, the first and most atmospheric of which is about a 'shadmock' (the lowest on the monster food chain) who possesses a deadly whistle - the Roger Whittaker variety, not the referee's aid.In the second, a vampire dad foils a vampire killer with... a stake-proof vest! The final story concerns a remote village of human-munching ghouls. Having convinced the author of the inherent humanity of his kind (there is nothing sadder than the agonised grief of a tender-hearted monster), Price counters that the 'real' monsters are humans. And to that we must add, jaded screenwriters. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" - The Monster Club is a three story anthology held together by Vincent Price and John Carradine. The first story is about a wealthy, pale faced creature with few friends who falls in love with the hired help. She turns him down and must face the consequences. The second story is about a modern day vampire hiding out from modern day vampire hunters. The third story concerns a town of the beaten path inhabited by nothing but ghouls.- Story 1 - 5/10 - It's not bad, just very predictable. With better writing, this story could make an entertaining feature length film on its own. I found the pale-faced creature to be unique and interesting.- Story 2 - 1/10 - What utter garbage. The story goes for laughs and fails at every opportunity. All of the humor is incredible obvious and, as such, I found it insulting. It's a shame that a talent like Donald Pleasence and Britt Ekland were wasted on drivel like this.- Story 3 - 6/10 - Easily the best and most chilling of the stories. While the ghouls are not particularly scary looking, the continued and relentless attacks are effective scenes. The ending is a good piece of irony.- The In-Between Bits - 1/10 - How embarrassing for Price and Carradine to be stuck in a mess like this. You can buy better looking monster masks at Wal Mart. The music that played between each story was especially rancid.- Take the four rating, add them together, and divide by 4. The result - 3/10. "},{"Title":"An almost good BAD movie","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay--so this movie wasnt good--but it was better than i expected. There was a certain art to its badness--Price and Carradine seemed to enjoy themselves with whatever little they had to work with(and they should--knowing that their fees probably resulted in the producers resorting to godawful masks for the club scenes).The stories told were not very good---the first was lame, the second goofy, and the third..interesting--but a little weak in the ending(it was the best of the three I think). Still--the film  had its moments. There was a neat use of illustrations to tell parts of one story(drawn by comic artist John Bolton I believe) and the speech by Price at the end was somewhat satirical.And the songs were amusingly bad--especially the performance by the singer of the second one. "},{"Title":"Strange group of 3 horror stories...","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 12/22/2008,(Dir-Roy Ward Baker) Strange group of 3 horror stories combined with weird live musical interludes from current British artists of the time(supposedly). The stories that the movie is based on were written by a popular horror writer and that writer is portrayed in the movie by John Carradine. He meets up with a real vampire, played by Vincent Price, who takes him to the Monster Club, which is where the rest of the movie is set. The Monster Club is a strange hippi-like club in which only vampires, werewolves, ghouls or a combination of any of those thru mating can join. The stories start at various times and are interesting with the first being the best, but the silliness surrounding them lessons their impact. Vincent Price has some funny lines but there isn't much else appealing in this movie. The second and third stories are forgettable and therefore the overall affect of the movie is a negative one. The attempt, I believe, was to honor monster movies, but despite many other horror character actors appearing it doesn't do a very good job at this. "}{"Title":"Poor","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Monster Club, The (1982) * (out of 4)Roy Ward Baker directs this film, which tries to be a throwback to the days of Amicus and films like Tales From the Crypt and Vault of Horror. A vampire (Vincent Price) takes a horror writer (John Carradine) to The Monster Club, which is a hangout for various monsters. Once there the vampire tells three stories of horror. All three stories are quite horrid, boring and flat out dull making this an incredibly hard film to get through. The only saving grace is the brief screen time of Price and Carradine who at least seem to be having fun including the ending where they jump on the dance floor. "},{"Title":"Let's not join this club.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Production house Amicus had a rich tradition in serving the so-called horror omnibuses. Long feature films telling three separate tales that mix humor and horror. The Monster Club was the last one and I can't really say I'm sorry for that. I didn't enjoy this film at all since it only has a few good moments and even those aren't highly memorable. Two absolute legends in the field provide the Monster Club with a silly wraparound story. John Carradine is a horror-author who donated a little bit of blood to vampire Vincent Price.this latter is so grateful for this that he takes Carradine to the 'Club' where the writer could find inspiration for upcoming horror stories. Let's start with the worst news first the second story is really stupid and a complete waste of Donald Pleasance's horror talent. It's a very boring vampire-tale that's neither scary.nor funny. The first and last stories are watchable, yet the quality level never surpasses your average 'Tales from the Crypt' episode or something. The reasons why these fables are more or less interesting are because they introduce interesting variants on the common monsters. The protagonists are for example a Shadmock and a Humghoul! This last one is a result of sex between a ghoul and a human being! The gruesome make-up effects are limited and the direction is really crappy. Which is really surprising since Roy Ward Baker did a few outstanding directing jobs in the past. For instance, Dr. Jeckyll and Sister Hyde and Quartermass and the Pit for the Hammer Studio's. Vincent Price looks so tired and fed up that he almost becomes pitiful.yet he still manages to ramble a funny monologue near the end. The whole thing is completely ruined by bad (and too much) pop/rock music that form yet another connection between the stories. The only sequence that is really worth mentioning is a female stripper that goes all the way.and I do mean ALL the way.  "},{"Title":"Useless horror compendium that wastes a good deal of genre talent.","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror novelist R Chetwynd Hayes is invited to a club frequented by ghouls by a vampire who relates to him three stories revolving around three different ghouls...Useless horror compendium adapted from short stories by R Chetwynd Hayes, the latter was reportedly horrified by what the script writers did to his work. All opportunities for suspense are completely sidelined in favour of a series of jokes which all fall flat on their face. For instance a vampire pulling a stake out of his stake proof vest using tomato ketchup as blood. The script hasn't been developed properly and it wastes the talents of veteran director Roy Ward Baker and the top notch genre cast which includes Vincent Price, John Carradine (as Chetwynd Hayes) and Patrick Magee. Produced by Milton Subotsky, it's an Amicus portmanteau film in all but name and it's certainly unrepresentative of their golden age like Dr Terrors House Of Horrors, The House That Dripped Blood and From Beyond The Grave. The latter was also adapted from R Chetwynd Hayes stories and is a superior horror film by far with the emphasis on straight horror and suspense. It also marked the highly promising directing debut of Kevin Connor. Miss this and wait for that instead. "},{"Title":"One Of the Worst Monster Musicals Ever Made","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Monster Musical has been a failed genre since the brave creation of The Incredibly Strange Creatures...   Like almost every monster musical before and since it has the distinctive characteristic of being truly awful.The best and by far one of the most painful scenes is when Vincent Price gives us a little lesson in monster genealogy. If you ever wondered the family history of the Weregoo or the Hudoo, this is your flick. "},{"Title":"Read the Book, Skip the Film","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Simply put, the film has as much resemblance to the book as the American Godzilla film has to the original.The book, which is actually written by R. Chetwynd Hayes, is much better. Had they remained faithful to it, people might have had a finer opinion of the film.The movie only has one story from the book, The Humgoo. The other two tales either are a mishmash of two stories, The Mock and The Shadmock, or aren't in the book at all (that horrid tale about the boy whose father is a vampire).If only the filmmakers had included The Vampire & The Werewolf, it might have done better.As it stands, though, you won't be doing yourself any favors by watching this piece of crud. Feel for John Carradine and Vincent Price, as they don't really seem to be enjoying themselves.Read the book. "},{"Title":"A Monster Bore","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ronald Chetwynd Hayes is a very underrated author . His horror stories often feature a twist ending mixed in with lots of black humour . I read his Tales Of Fear And Fantasy short story collection as a sixteen year old and can fondly remember the stories featured . Hardcore horror fans who enjoy gore will probably consider his stories quaint but as an entertaining read I recommend him . Unfortunately I find it difficult to recommend THE MONSTER CLUB to anyone John Carradine plays the author who goes to a club only to find it populated by monsters and meets a vampire called Eramus who describes different types of bloodlines of monsters and relates three short stories . There's two serious problems with the film 1 ) Director Roy Ward Baker doesn't know whether to make the film serious or amusing and decides on embarrassing camp 2 ) The stories themselves are pretty dire .Baker can defend himself in that he doesn't have much of a budget and much of the make-up is dire , especially the werewolf in the NHS glasses . That said however it's the way the werewolf is played that leaves a lot to be desired . Baker however does pull out a chilling sequence done via drawings where a vicar relates how he found a ghoul in a graveyard . The sequence is very well done but seems completely at odds with the rest of the film which is a badly judged jokey , camp affair . And the revelation that the human race is the worst type of monster isn't a revelation at all "},{"Title":"Amicus goes out with a thud. What WERE they THINKING?","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you love classic horror, this movie is a truly obscene experience. Milton Subotsky was the producer of some of the finest British horror in Amicus productions like the flawless Dr Terror's House of Horrors, while Price and Carradine are two of the greatest actors in the genre.So to see them all together here in the twilight of their lives trashing the memory of great monster films and their own careers is simply miserable.Amicus films had plenty of humor, but it never overrode the creepiness. The anthologies took themselves seriously, so we, the audience, suspended our disbelief and bought into the thrills.In this last gasp of a once-proud tradition, Subotsky apparently slipped his gears and decided to play it for yucks, but the result is simply idiotic. The music is the worst...efforts to portray fake rock bands in movies always have as much depth, credibility and coolness as The Archies or the Partridge Family. The actors, despite decent performances, come off looking like senile has-beens scrounging for a paycheck by savaging the genre that brought them fame.This film belongs in the bin with such gems as Abbot and Costello meet (insert overexposed Universal monster here) and Merlin's Shop of Mystical Wonders. "}]