[{"Title":"Possibly THE most underrated western of all time...","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"56 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Back in the glory days of 1980, Michael Bay was just a fifteen year old lad with a love of movies who would soon begin his enrolment at Wesleyan University. Bryan Singer too was a mere child, probably admiring films like The Long Riders with his buddy Ethan Hawke. It would take a further six years for John Mc Tiernan to carve his name in the Hollywood ladder and John Woo was still finding his directorial roots in Southern China. The man to watch when it came to extremely stylised action was one Walter Hill, the creator of such awesome gun-totting avalanches as Extreme Prejudice, The Warriors and Johnny Handsome. Long since categorised as &#145;the' director for choosing style over content, Hill started out his career as a screenwriter. He penned The Getaway for Sam Peckinpah, who was obviously his idol, and in almost all of his movies he adds visual flourishes that are unsubtly reminiscent of Peckinpah's accomplishments. (Check out Extreme Prejudice where Hill almost out Peckinpahs Peckinpah!)  Like all of cinema's greatest achievers, Hill had an unbridled love for the western. Over the length of his career, he would return to the genre again and again, giving us offerings that ranged from the large-scale excess of Geronimo an American legend, to the smaller, but just as historically accurate Wild Bill.By far the best of his Western work, The Long Riders tells the tale of the James/Younger legacy, a slice of history that has been adapted for the silver screen on countless occasions. Perhaps the film's strongest and most alluring attribute is the fact that the cast contains real life acting siblings in the shape of the Carradines, the Keaches, the Guests and the Quaids as the band of outlaws. It's also one of the finest and most attractively crafted movies of its kind, equally as beautiful as Heaven's Gate and as tirelessly entertaining as Tombstone.   I doubt that fans of the genre will need any introduction to the exploits of Jesse James, so I won't bother to list a plot synopsis. But reportedly, this is one of the more accurate descriptions of the adventures of the infamous anti-establishment crusader. Frankly, if outings like Frank and Jesse and the dismal American Outlaws are anything to go by, it's also one of the best of the colossal bunch. The thespian brothers hold up their ends with finesse, and without taking anything away from the Keaches who don't fail to entertain from start to finish, one can only wonder how the film could have turned out if Jeff and Beau Bridges would have been available to accept the leads. David Carradine gives a scene stealing performance, making the most of his &#145;relationship' with an incredibly sexy Pamela Reed as Belle Shirley. Props are certainly due to Randy Quaid for not over cooking his threats against the singer in the bar scene at the beginning, he comfortably makes those few short lines the best of the whole damn movie. It's a shame that James Keach could never make his star shine brighter on the Hollywood A-list. Even so, he still has one or two great performances to look back on with enough pride to show that he was once a force to be reckoned with on the tinsel-town ladder.Being as this is a Walter Hill joint, all the flashy trademarks are rooted firmly in place, including the use of his ever-dependable cast alumni such as James Remar. Surprisingly enough, for a director that's famed for his love of stylised violence, there are very few gunfights throughout the runtime, which somehow makes them even more powerful when they do finally occur. The Northfield Minnesota ambush is perhaps one of the greatest shoot-outs of western history, utilising a great use of sound to make each bullet hit home with a stark sense of realism that's almost nightmare inducing. Co-ordinator Craig Baxley should take a bow for his constant but never over-excessive use of jaw dropping stunts. Bodies literally fly through the air with an exquisite force that manages to bring home the impact of a gunshot with adeptness. Long Riders also boats more than its share of accurately realised set locations. But unlike Michael Cimino, Hill never over indulges or looses the plot to period preciseness, so the sheen is never overpowering or unwelcome. Although Long Riders may not hold the masterpiece status of such often-touted westerns as The Wild Bunch, Unforgiven or even Dances with Wolves, it's still a five star movie. It's superbly acted, impressively casted, flawlessly directed and it boasts some of the greatest music that you're likely to find this side of an opera. Many people often consider Tombstone to be &#145;the all time great popcorn western.' Well, I can only presume that's because they haven't actually seen this long forgotten classic slice of storytelling. If you're a fan of the Wild West and you've let this slip you by, then you need to be asking yourself why&#133;       "},{"Title":"Hill almost elevates cinema violence into an art form...","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" As Sam Peckinpah's 'The Getaway,' Walter Hill's 'The Long Riders' almost elevates cinema violence into an art form&#133; Visually, 'The Long Riders' contains much that is stunning, even mesmerizing the green Missouri scenic landscapes; the train robbery sequence; the stagecoach heist; the crossing of a wild river; but there is no question that it is the scene of the gang's disastrous foray into Northfield, Minnesota - that highlight this film&#133; These specific episodes give 'The Long Riders' its rhythm, power, spectacle, and excitement&#133; With his slow motion 'terror shootout,' Hill seems to impress his viewers by showing them an inventive montage of high-level gory violence&#133; But Hill's most wonderful sequences are those that were the most reserved the wonderful moment when Frank is cutting the hardest wood with a forest ax and his brother Jesse, walking with his fiancée, attempting to settle down and raise a family&#133; Hill may have a reputation for being a tough guy, but his best screen moments (in Hard Times, The Warriors, Streets of Fire) are the ones in which he allows his romantic tendencies to slip through, when he gives his characters the dignity that means so much to them&#133; Hill tries to debunk the American myth that Western gunfighters were heroes, and to show these embittered guys for the 'rough men that they really were.'Hill's real intention is to present us with a gang of four families of brothers, and get us to accept them on their own terms, in their own brutal world&#133; The men of 'The Long Riders' are at their most dastardly at the beginning of the film when Ed Miller (Dennis Quaid) indiscriminately shoots an innocent clerk, but for the rest of the film - one by one - Hill reveals their better, more 'human' sides&#133; We further get to appreciate them as we compare them to the awful men around them; next to the Pinkertons killing a simple-minded 15 year old boy, they come out best, the 'good guys.'To Hill, good and bad aren't on opposite sides of the coin; they share the edge&#133; "},{"Title":"'The Long Riders' is a strong contender for the most underrated western of all time.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Walter Hill is surely one of the most underrated American directors of all time. His output since the popular success of '48 Hours' has been variable to say the least, but his run of 'The Driver', 'The Warriors', 'The Long Riders' and 'Southern Comfort' is difficult to beat. Each of those four movies is an overlooked classic, especially 'The Long Riders', which is a strong contender for the most underrated western of all time. The idea of casting real life brothers David, Keith and Robert Carradine and Stacy and James Keach (as well as Randy and Dennis Quaid and Christopher and Nicholas Guest) was an inspired one and really helps make this something special. Stacy Keach (as Frank James) and David Carradine (as Cole Younger) give the two stand out performances. Both of them are superb. David Carradine is finally getting some attention since working with Tarantino on 'Kill Bill'. His career has spanned forty years, and over 120 movies, working with everyone from Martin Scorsese to Ingmar Bergman to Hal Ashby to Robert Altman to (yes) Fred Olen Ray. He has made many (too many) lousy movies but also several very good ones. This could well be his very best role. Stacy Keach is another actor who has made some dubious career choices over the years (eg 'Mountain Of The Cannibal God', 'Class Of 1999') but when he's good he's not only really good, he's GREAT. Just watch him here and in 'Fat City' and 'The Ninth Configuration' and tell me I'm lying. Keach's brother James plays Jessie James and almost steals the movie. I also enjoyed both the Quaid brothers, and the memorable cameo by James Remar, one of the stars of Hill's cult classic 'The Warriors'. The real surprise for me here was Pamela Reed who plays Belle Starr. She's very sexy and tough and acts well, and she and David Carradine display some genuine chemistry. Their scenes together were my favourite moments in the movie. Why Reed never became a big star is difficult to fathom. I highly recommend 'The Long Riders'. It's a great movie and every Western fan should see it. "},{"Title":"The True Story","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I know, calling it the true story is a bit much for any film, but I have my reasons. There have been dozens of films about Jesse James, before this one and since, but as a history buff I choose this one as my favorite. Most movies on the subject either make Jesse a misunderstood hero or the villainous target of some (usually fictional) lawman. This movie was called revisionist by some critics when it was released, but the great thing about it is that it just tells the story. It uses a series of lovely little vignettes, each one of them historically verifiable. There are failings, to my mind the slow-motion shootout being the biggest, but on the whole it captures the feel of the period, the dress, the idioms (I would toss the shotgun away!), pretty much everything. It doesn't make them good guys, far from it, but it does take pains to show why their neighbors loved them and hated the pinkertons.Not the best western ever, by a long shot, but almost certainly the best movie on the subject. "},{"Title":"One of the best westerns made","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time last night, and I've been completely blown away!!!! When you think about the fact that it was made back in 1980, it was WAY before it's time. The special effects are amazing and so real. The fight scenes are incredible and you don't want to take your eyes off the screen for fear you'll miss something great! And what a brilliant idea to cast all true-life brothers to play these roles. I've grown up watching these actors, and I think that their acting in this movie is the best performance each one has ever had. I'm extremely impressed and can now say that The Long Riders is one of my all time favorite movies. I will recommend this movie to anyone and everyone! "},{"Title":"The Soundtrack- Worth the price of admission","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Much attention is given to the unique casting of this movie, but what drew me to it was the music. I've been a bluegrass and mountain music fan and performer for decades, and was told before the film was released to listen for the music. Not only is it very period accurate in terms of how it's played and on what instruments, but even the dancing has not been hollywood-ized. There is actually some real flat footing going on to Jack of Diamonds which is a rural Southern dance that not many people in Hollywood would recognize - sort of an antecedent to porch dancing, or (dare I say it) clogging. This is one of those movies like Jeremiah Johnson and Oh, Brother where it's worth the price of admission just to hear some very accurately portrayed period music. Music played a very vital role in the lives of men and women of the West and South in this time period, and there were no radios, so it was all done live, either in churches or (more secularly) for the purpose of dancing, and the movie reflects that. Hollywood gets 'Old West' and Southern music wrong so often this movie stands out by contrast. "},{"Title":"This is my favourite Western","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Admittedly, the Western is not my favourite movie genre, which is partly why I like this film so much, as to my mind it is unique in several regards. For a start, none of the usual Western icons are present, which I find refreshing. There is no leading man either, no hero, none of the usual good guys fighting the bad guys scenario. Another outstanding feature is the unique soundtrack(slide guitar, and traditional tunes), which makes a pleasant change to the usually obligatory orchestral soundtrack for Westerns. This movie is short and sweet and never drags or goes off on a romantic subplot. The slow motion option for the shoot-out scenes was a wise choice and it adds a lot of impact. Even a minor detail like the grey dusters worn by all members of the gang serves to enhance the overall aesthetic appeal of the film. The Northfield ambush and escape sequence near the end of the film is compelling and I find myself re-watching that scene repeatedly whenever I watch the movie. And, lastly, I just happen to like the actors David and Keith Carradine, and James and Stacy Keach. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and refreshing take on well known story","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Using real-life acting brothers for the various sets of sibling characters in this movie might be seen as a cheesy PR stunt or an inspired move. I prefer the inspirational viewpoint. The Carradine's are superb as the Younger Brothers and the Keech's portray the James boys with considerable restrained menace, depth and stage presence.  Jesse James' as played by James Keech is  part humble farmer, part cold psychotic killer. Considering what the gang got up to in 19th century post-civil war Missouri, one tends to think this is just what the man himself was probably like. While Brother Frank appears to have the charisma and logic, Jesse has the steel within him and the cold detachment required for the outlaw life.  However both are upstaged by David Carradine as Coleman Younger, the long haired, flamboyant, world weary star of the film. Carradine is quite superb throughout; laconic, quick witted, cool and surprisingly likable. Director Walter Hill certainly manages to bring out the contrasting and distinct characters of the gang members and wraps them up in unusual locations (for a western). This produces some wonderfully atmospheric moments and scenes of sheer cinematic poetry. All that is visually arresting about a good cowboy  film is present here but in a stylish and individual way.  The script has some dark comedy, some deep pathos and never sounds so well crafted that a bunch of country outlaws wouldn't say any of it. Some of the supporting cast stand out in their own right; Cole's fiesty whore, Belle, The James' brother mom and a young Dennis Quaid as wild but rejected former gang member, Ed Miller. All give good performances in what is a great piece of ensemble acting topped by moody photography, great stunt work and a view of these famous outlaws that doesn't paint them as quite the Robin Hood heroes of popular myth, nor totally amoral hooligans. A worthy film from an era not noted for many good Westerns.   "},{"Title":"A Very Different Western","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In the Missouri, after the civil war, the James & Younger gang steals banks and trains, and are chased by the Pinkertons. This movie is a very different western, showing the outlaws as human beings, having families, raising children. Walter Hill uses the Carredine, Quaid and Keach brothers in real life to perform the former bandits and it is a great attraction in this film. The music, arranged and composed by Ry Cooder, fits perfectly to the story. However, the characters are not well developed, maybe because of the quantity of lead actors versus the running time, and the story loses the explanation of the motives for the behavior of the bandits, being cruel while robbing and very close to their families, being good sons, husbands and friends. Anyway, the performance of the cast is excellent and the movie does not disappoint. My vote is seven.Title ('Brazil') 'Cavalgada dos Proscritos' (Ride of the Proscribes') "},{"Title":"Damn Yankee!","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film was historically correct in how it showed the attitudes of the times. I saw this film finally after reading a book attempting to explain why American history, including the Wild West years, has been so violent. I was amazed how accurately the film showed those reasons in the Wild West. Mostly men, few women, lived in that part of the country then. The West was spacious and spectacular but also boring, leaving men with little to do but get drunk and play a mouth harp. Also, many of the tough guys hailed from the post-Confederate South. In the film, after taking the long, boring train ride north to a town in Minnesota (to the tune of a mouth harp,) they encountered well-dressed, prosperous Scandinavian-Americans in the streets. These people were barely intelligible as they mocked the long riders. When our anti-heroes arrived at the bank, they discovered what the townsfolk were saying. What they said to the lone teller revealed they were from the South. I was mesmerized by this part of the film and hope others were, too. "}{"Title":"The Best Western Ever Made?","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  In my opinion, yes. Why? Because it's real right down to the last detail. The dirt on the faces of the lead actors as they thunder through the back woods of Missouri. The music, rough and pure, underscoring a period when a man with a gun was the law, and if you didn't have one, he had you. Brutal, terrifying and absolute.The James-Younger Gang, as portrayed in The Long Riders, are real people who made their own choices and dealt with the consequences. The older men of the gang are Confederate veterans, bitter about their defeat, but defiant and proud to their last breath. Actions and their Consequence underlie every scene in this picture. Responsibility to your family and fellow outlaws drives the plot.The film itself is remarkable at every turn  the acting, the photography, the soundtrack, the script; all blend into a perfect representation of a different time and place the poverty of Missouri after the war; the drudgery of every day existence, broken only by the occasional wedding when everyone can get cleaned up to look their Sunday best and dance and eat and drink and forget about getting up the next morning to milk the cows.As portrayed in The Long Riders, the James-Younger Gang came from this world, but are removed from it. They robbed banks and trains for a living, got up late in the day, and spent their idle hours romancing whores and talking about their already legendary exploits. They also lived and died by the gun, a rare thing in the real West. Walter Hill and his production team go to extraordinary lengths to portray this reality by delivering in every frame of film the details of this period in the America after the Civil War  the locations, the costumes, the sets all have that threadbare and hard scrabble look, feel and smell of what I imagine Missouri must have been like after the war. The side arms long muzzled, the shot guns and Henry rifles heavy, well worn and loud! The roads  more like wide trails, dark and tree lined, hacked through the wilderness.And the action. A great Western is ultimately great action, and The Long Riders is the definitive Western because it's able to convey something true. The scenes are heart pumping in that they're real  fast, unpredictable, dangerous, violent, and loud. You shoot at a man, you're either going to kill him or he'll kill you. And God help you if you get wounded.In one scene, the Gang is trapped in a barn surrounded by Pinkerton men. We've seen the situation a hundred times, but in The Long Riders, it's no longer a scene out of a movie, but something very real, very dangerous, and ultimately, very tragic. Spectacular in a real life kind of way, atypical of most Westerns. The thump of a shot gun slug blasting through one inch thick barn board - violent and dangerous as wood shrapnel just misses the face of Cole Younger, whose head is down reloading. The outlaws fight for their lives, their escape unpredictable and spectacular.  Tragic in the camera shot of McCorkindale, a dead farmer, victim of the crossfire, lying back down in the mud of his hog pen, eyes open, stiff arms beside his body reminiscent of the Matthew Brady Civil War photographs. A dead sow lies beside him, steam rising around them as the morning sun warms the mud. The shooting has stopped, the outlaws having escaped. A dead calm now, only the birds chirping, the beginning of a warm sunny day. The consequences one dead farmer. For his family, a total loss. Who'll work the farm now? What's going to happen to them? Only a five second shot, but these thoughts flood my brain every time I see it. Now that's film-making.  "},{"Title":"We played a rough game. We lost.","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The Long Riders is a Western which lacks many of the directors' clichés associated with the genre.The casting is of course impeccable; with four sets of brothers playing the real-life Jameses, Youngers, Millers and Fords. The women too are quite believable. The homely foot-tapping score by Ry Cooder, played on no more than half a dozen assorted instruments, is both authentic and memorable.Finally, the stunts are far better than in most films. They are made more spectacular and believable by being few and far between, and quite unexpected.As regards the plot; the true history of the Jesse James gang is fairly closely followed, but lacks the development which explains how they came to combine together and embark on their lawbreaking career. Historically, several of the leading gang members fought in guerilla bands against the Union armies in their native state of Missouri during the American Civil War and presumably learned their contempt for the law there, but in this film they spring onto the screen already established as outlaws in a staid and sober society.To a non-US audience, this also makes some of the references to music popular with the Union and Confederate causes in the Civil War, and some of the attitudes and insults, rather puzzling.However, the plot does develop through the film, and does show how some of the gang become better characters through marriage, the influence of families and changing fortunes, while others degenerate over time.Overall, this is one of the most likable Westerns I have watched. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Western","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Bravo! Great fun.  The idea of actual brothers portraying the James', Youngers, Millers and the Fords was fabulous - but then the Keachs, Carradines and Quades are so outstanding they really took it all the way. It felt like a genuine moment out of an American West history book.  And Pamela Reed as Belle Star - what a tough, sexy whore.  Loved it.  "},{"Title":"Walter Hill's best film...","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" ...a definite classic that should be seen more than once to truly appreciate it. Very similar to Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch (the best film of all time...Western or otherwise) in the sense that the characters aren't romanticized outlaws that only steal to support the poor and only kill bad people (if you want crap like that see the piece of excrement known as American Outlaws). The way the violence is filmed is also similar to that of The Wild Bunch and the film's final shootout is quite similar to the opening of Peckinpah's opus. But who cares? If you're going to steal, steal from the best.Anyway, if you're a fan of Westerns (or just good movies) see this film. Walter Hill needs to make more Westerns. "},{"Title":"First getting shot, then getting married - bad habits.","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Deadwood director Walter Hill knows how to put a western together, and he gives a good band of brothers flick in this story of the James-Younger gang. It doesn't hurt that the film features the original music of Ry Cooder, who gave us the great Buena Vista Social Club, As to the brothers; the Younger brothers were David, and Robert Carradine; the James Brothers were Stacey and James Keach, who also did some of the script; The Ford brothers were Christopher and Nickolas Guest.It also featured John Wayne favorite Harry Carey Jr.Great adult western showing the impact of the gang's life on the families, the failed efforts of the Pinkertons, and the eventual break-up in the Great Northfield Missesote Raid, and the murder of Jesse James by the Fords. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite Westerns","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a great Western, although since almost all of the action takes place in Missouri or Minnesota, how western can it be? Be that as it may, the central hook of this movie is the casting of actual brothers as the different groups of brothers in the story. The Carradines are the Youngers (David Carradine's best film performance; he dominates all the other actors), the Quaids as the Millers, the Keatches as Jesse and Frank James and the Guests as Bob and Charlie Ford. The movie has a very handsome look and you really get a feel for what frontier Missouri must've been like. The soundtrack is just right and so is the lighting. The movie has a very natural look and the interiors at the saloon and cathouse seem to be lit only by fire and kerosene lamps---none of the glaring lit interiors of some of the old Westerns (Clint Eastwood got the same authenticity in Unforgiven's tavern scenes). I never get over the irony of how the poor common people seem to look up to the James-Younger gang when all they do is go around robbing payrolls from trains and robbing people's savings out of banks. This half a century before federally insured deposits---so when that money was stolen, the depositors really suffered. The shootout at Northfield, Minnesota is well done and far more authentic than other Western shoot-em-ups. Most of the settlers on the post-Civil War frontier were war veterans, North and South. These were not men who were just going to meekly sit back and let a gang shoot up the town. What usually happened is just what happened in Northfield---the war veteran townspeople, Reb and Yank alike, got out their rifles and shot the gangsters to pieces. The Long Riders deserves to be on any list of top Westerns. "},{"Title":"A history buff's feast.","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Some call this film revisionist history...anyone who understands and loves history knows that any retelling of anything is revisionist to start with. The James-Younger gang have long been a part of American myth and folklore. Only recently has more serious digging into the facts and evidence taken place. Jessie James in particular has become an American icon, and as with any icon the truth and the legend swing wildly around, swirling like a firestorm. It's easy to understand why the stories keep being retold over and over. I think this is one of the best films ever made on the subject. Call it a Western or Period Piece or whatever, it's just a damn good movie. I can only count on one hand the inaccuracies I spotted, and for a Jessie James movie that fact alone is incredible. The acting is very low keyed and the atmosphere is flawless. These characters are men whose destinies had been forged in Hell's furnace. Some artistic moments are slipped in of course but most of those are perfectly in tune with the film's look and feel. One of the most striking is when the core of the gang ride out of the night mist to confront the Pinkertons who had chucked the bomb (flare?) into the James' home. It probably didn't happen that way, but anyone who knows the story of the James brothers can picture it happening that way and could never doubt that it may have. These characters are neither heroes or villains here, they are what all famous men of history are...victims...of both time and place. It is just as easy to justify their actions as it is to condemn them. A history film can't take a side and still be good history. This one comes damn close...and in Hollywood that's a real rarity in itself. "},{"Title":"I Hates The Yankee Nation And Everything They Do / I Hates The Declaration Of Independence Too ...","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" After the Civil War, the James-Younger gang commits a series of daring robberies of banks and trains in and around Missouri. The Pinkerton Detective Agency is called in to try and deal with these notorious outlaws.I love this western for many different reasons. Chief amongst them is simply that it looks and sounds gorgeous, full of authentic period detail, beautiful costumes, rich traditional music and expertly staged action. I also love the cast, all of whom are tremendous; some may dismiss the idea of casting four sets of real life brothers, but it works beautifully because they are all great players. David Carradine and Stacey Keach as Cole Younger and Frank James in particular are two of the few actors I can think of who could pull off these larger-than-life roles and not look ridiculous. Everyone is great though and special mention has to go to Reed as Belle Starr, who sizzles up the screen and matches the machismo shot for shot. Perhaps the most interesting aspect of it though is its detached political stance - one view of Jesse James is as a heroic fighter who refused to bow to the North and stole from wealthy Yankee businessmen, whilst he and the gang can just as easily be labelled as bigoted cut-throats and killers. The movie doesn't preach either way, but it does emphasise the protagonists' army bushwacker pasts and their sense of disbelief and resentment at the Confederate defeat, whilst making no apologies for their actions. This tension builds towards the excellent finale at the infamous disastrous bank raid in Northfield, where I'm caught between satisfaction that the bandits have finally met their comeuppance and sheer horror as they are trapped and shot to pieces. The slow-motion sequence with the horses jumping through the windows as they desperately try to escape is one of the most powerful and visually arresting moments in all western cinema. The movie was obviously a labour of love for director Hill and co-writer/co-producer/star James Keach, and they've created a rich, mythic depiction of the end of the Old West, balancing the traditional gunfights and saloon scenes with pensive moments, square dances and rural landscapes. Its trump card is the fabulous music by Ry Cooder, which mixes a contemporary score with period instruments, traditional songs and moody interludes and enhances all the key sequences, becoming an integral part of the story (the Rally 'Round The Flag recital the boys object to, Jim and Bob singing and playing the Jewish Harp on the train) and completely immersing the viewer in 1870's America. A sensational and thrilling western, not to be missed, for both the tremendous direction and the pleasure of watching the Carradine, Keach, Quaid and Guest brothers in action. For other cinematic versions of the James-Younger gang's exploits, check out Nicholas Ray's 1957 The True Story Of Jesse James or Philip Kaufman's 1972 The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Casting in a Very Underrated Outlaw Western Film That De-mythologizes the James-Younger Gang","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A lot of films in the 1940's through the 1950's idealized the Old West. Certainly there were the outlaws sporting black hats (often played by Jack Palance) but the farmers, ranchers and shopkeepers were depicted as very straight-laced honorable folk trying to make a decent living in quaint simple towns. In reality, the Old West, which I guess could be roughly characterized as the geographic area from about Ohio to California was truly wild, a culture that could be characterized as the American equivalent of the Middle Ages. Robbery and murder were as common as ordering pizza today; vigilantes hunted down outlaws as well as innocents; and hard drinking was just the tip of the iceberg at a typical bar/saloon. You might buy guns on Friday, kill people that night and Saturday, and go to church on Sunday. Everybody carried guns like people carried swords in the Middle Ages and Renaissance of a few centuries earlier. Sometimes guns were in fact the only equalizer available, although many innocent bystanders paid an enormous price.The Long Riders depicts this very peculiar period of American history that lasted from roughly 1840 until about 1900 through the stranger story of one of the most notorious of outlaw mobs the James-Younger Gang. The James-Younger Gang began as a kind of vengeance for the defeated South care of the North in the American Civil War. They were comprised primarily of southern veterans and sympathizers. This revenge evolved into a reign of terror which lasted from about 1866 to 1880 and plagued Missouri and surrounding areas with hits on stage coaches, banks, and moving trains. For 15 years they plundered, brawled and murdered until posses and vigilante groups had had enough and began a concerted effort to destroy them. The posses ended up killing and maiming innocent members of the James and Younger families. After their demise around 1880, Jesse James and his colleagues were somewhat idealized, particularly Jesse who was dubbed the Robin Hood of the Old West. This film dispels many of the idealized myths that may have been fabricated in the wake of Jesse's death in 1882. These guys were unsentimental killers who make the likes of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid seem like cultured gentlemen by contrast, and that's the way they're portrayed in Riders which may be why the film has not been as recognized as it should be.One of the most interesting aspects of this film is a brilliant casting move that may have never been attempted before or since. In real life, four sets of brothers were involved in the Gang the James's, the Younger's, the Ford's, and the Miller's. The filmmakers opted for casting each of these family groups with real siblings the Keach brothers Stacy and James play Frank and Jesse James; David, Keith and Robert Carradine play the Younger's; Randy and Dennis Quaid play the Millers, and newcomers Christopher and Nicholas Guest play the Ford's. The stand-out of the film is no question David Carradine as Cole Younger, the most blood-thirsty of his clan, and second only in ruthlessness to Jesse James. Honorable mention goes to the Keach brothers as the James's, Randy and Dennis Quaid as the Miller's and the Guest brothers as the Ford's. Some of the lesser-known sibling actors keep up with their more famous brothers stride-for-stride. There is not a weak link in the entire line-up.This is a rather bleak film, portraying the cut-throat ruthlessness of outlaws in an unromantic landscape. The Old West was tough, dirty and rather unforgiving. Disputes were settled not in courtrooms but in barroom brawls and along dusty streets where enemies made their respective cases with knives and guns. Sometimes I wonder if the average American male during this period and living in these geographic areas would have had on average a few kills in his lifetime, even if he was not an outlaw. This era was not about the likes of John Wayne cleaning up a rough and tumble town. The Old West was more about kill or be killed. And the James-Younger Gang made this argument with lots of blood and booty to go with it. Rather than being 19th-century American Robin Hood's, they were really the Old West equivalent of Spanish Pirates, sporting horses instead of ships. Knives and guns were still standard equipment. "},{"Title":"nice shooting and camerawork","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Brothers playing brothers is good idea but acting was sometimes quite poor and the script was a bit boring and too traditional. Bank robbery was the best part of this film and I was really amazed with the camerawork. This movie is worth of seeing,one of the best western made in the 80s "}{"Title":"Best Jesse James film ever!!","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This movie really captures the way the James/Younger Gang really was. The acting brothers was brilliant in my mind and will probably never be seen again. All actors are great in the film. Stacy Keach is a very underrated actor. However, David Carradine steals the show as Cole Younger and Keith is quite good himself. It is quite accurate and all characters are very realistic. The atmosphere is great and the film really captures what the James/Younger Gang had to go through. The North Field Raid is probably one of the best western movie shootouts if not the best shootout scene of all time. I am very interested to see The Assination of Jesse James...and see if it is up to par with The Long Riders. "},{"Title":"A good eighties western","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The Long Riders is one of a specific type of historical western that seems to have been continually made throughout the life of the genre. And that is specifically a film that glorifies the outlaw gunfighters, or more specifically romanticises real-life killers. It's not only the western that did this of course, crime films since Bonnie and Clyde have did a similar thing but the villains of the old West seem to be particular favourites for the Hollywood airbrush treatment. In the case of this movie, it's the James-Younger gang who are the heroes. In real life, these guys were cold-blooded killers, while here they are seen the lesser of two evils. They are pursued by the Pinkerton Detective Agency who are portrayed as really being the bad guys here &#x96; they fire-bomb houses full of women and children after all; whereas the outlaws are by comparison relatively noble. I'm pretty certain the truth was far less simple, although in fairness at the end of the movie the James brothers are seen deserting the Coles and the Morris's to ensure their skin is saved. So the movie does at least present things with a little moral greyness.It's a good film though. The central idea that makes it most famous is of course having four sets of real brothers play four sets of real brothers. It's an idea that essentially works, as the actors all acquit themselves well enough. Aside from these guys there are also appearances from some interesting actors such as James (The Warriors) Remarr as a bar-fighting Indian and Eddie (Reservoir Dogs) Bunker as one of the later gang members. It's a handsome looking film at times with a lot of nice backdrops and some well shot action scenes. In fact, it's this combination of laid-back domestic moments with full-on bloody violence that gives the film its varied energy. The gun-fight sequences recall the films of Sam Peckinpah with their slow-motion carefully orchestrated carnage. But perhaps the best single action moment involves a line of men on horseback crashing through a large pane of glass &#x96; I sure haven't seen that before. Adding a bit of authenticity to proceedings is a score by Ry Cooder that incorporates a lot of traditional music from the period.Overall this is one of the few strong westerns from the 80's. "},{"Title":"above average western with some great gun battles","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" this is a movie about the James/Younger Gang of the old west and their exploits.the gang is known for robbing banks and they also rob trains.it's sort of told from a sympathetic view of the gang.the movie doesn't really show them as bad men,but rather men who are a product of their time.David Carradine plays Cole Younger,Keith Carradine plays Jim Younger and Robert Carradine plays Bob Younger.Stacy Keach plays Frank James,while James Keach plays Jesse James.Dennis Quaid plays Ed Miller and Randy Quaid Plays Clell Miller,who also ride with the gang.for me,this western is above average.there's lots of action and some intense and(in my opinion)spectacular gunfights.this movie may have the distinction of being the 1st movie to have real life brothers playing brothers on screen.i thought the acting was pretty convincing,and the filmmakers did a good job in making me feel some empathy for the gang.if you like westerns,you should like this movie.for me,The Long Riders is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"A good western, a good movie!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This movie, directed by Walter Hill, is a very accurate depiction of a brief, but exciting, part of the James-Younger gang. The only problem I had with the film was the lack of emotion by many of the usually good actors.  It was well portrayed, but I though the only actor to show much emotion was Keith Carradine.  Otherwise, this is a very good movie, with an excellent soundtrack by Ry Cooder. A rating of 7 out of 10 was given. "},{"Title":"An easily acceptable Jesse James movie with plenty of Western action","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" And it's all relative in this movie. The Caradine brothers, the Keach brothers, the Quaid brothers, and the Guest brothers all star in this movie. I'm glad the director made a good decision with that. Because I personally get kind of tired of seeing so-called brothers who look nothing alike. And they all did fine. Stacy Keach was top-notch as Jesse James. And David Carradine excelled as Cole Younger. After them, Randy Quaid was the best.Moving over to the movie itself, it is very well-made. There is no shortage of Western-style violence that very much reminds you of Sam Peckinpah's movies (with all of the slow-motion shots intercepting each other). And it does show why the James-Younger gang turned from just bank and train-robbers to murderers and the types of struggles they had to go through. The shootout at the Northfield scene was magnificent.Overall, a good 80s-style Western. "},{"Title":"Pretty good oater","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film is a sympathetic look at the James-Younger gang of the late 1800's. Filmed mainly from their perspective, it's also a story of the Pinkerton Agency's effort to stop the gang. The film somewhat glorifies the crimes committed by the gang, but that was necessary in order to get the viewer involved. The casting is a very interesting point, in that character brothers are portrayed by real-life brothers. 3 Younger brothers are played by the 3 Carradine brothers, 2 James brothers by 2 Keach brothers, 2 Millers by 2 Quaids and 2 Fords by 2 Guests. This may have been a gimmick but they're all fine actors and the film gains by familiarity and similarity. There is copious use of slow motion and exploding blood packs during the action/violent parts of the film, and used to good effect. All in all, a pretty enjoyable film. I understand that it's also one of the more factual films ever made about the gang. The depiction of the Northfield bank raid and subsequent ambush is very well documented and well-told here. "},{"Title":"Where the Western meets the Warriors!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is one of my top five all-time westerns, right up there with The Searchers, Rio Bravo, and The Wild Bunch.  Walter Hill hit his zenith with this take on the James/Younger gang.  The Minnesota-Northfield raid alone is worth the price of admission. The casting of brothers in all major roles makes for some interesting moments of recognition, but shouldn't be considered a major point either for or against the film.9.5 out of 10 and here's to wishing Hill could regain this form! "},{"Title":"The life and times of the James-Younger gang","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Nice backdrops and occasional dollops of historical authenticity can not distract from what is otherwise a tribute to a band of killers.The horrors of the Civil War and the deprivation of the South afterwards are given as the sole reasons for the violent activities of the James-Younger gang, who rob and kill their way across the Mid West.It's difficult to know where to start with a movie like this, because though there is much to applaud - pleasing cinematography, likable performances (from some of the cast), and Hill's trademark, a climactic, balletic gun-battle - the whole enterprise is morally flawed. In any study of outlawry, it's necessary to show both sides of the argument, to present the main protagonists as being ordinary people as well. But when a movie shows its peace-officers as callous villains, and its crime-victims as people who somehow deserve to be humiliated, robbed and then, maybe, shot, it's loading the dice irresponsibly. In any case, the main characters here are not fully developed. While the Carradine brothers give sympathetic performances as the Youngers, presenting them as rational men who perhaps could lead normal lives in another time and place, the Quaids are boorish, brutal and unpleasant seemingly for the sake of it. As the James boys, Stacy Keach is unusually wooden as Frank, and though his brother James's depiction of Jesse as a lean, dead-eyed individual may hint at the emptiness of a murderer's soul, I suspect it is more to do with the lacklustre script. Either way, it's an ultimately unsatisfying package.To be fair, this isn't the entire story. The film does briefly mention the fact that the gang are primarily terrorising those they're claiming to protect - i.e. poor southern farmers, while the betrayals and mistrust that lead to their eventual collapse are nicely characteristic of real-life thieves and hoodlums (their excuse-making is also exposed, to some extent). But overall, I find it worrying when any film as well-made as this takes a distinctly 'understanding' perspective on mass slaughter.Baddies and goodies may be an old-fashioned concept these days. But baddies presented as goodies? I think I prefer the former. "},{"Title":"The score","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" My mother sang me to sleep with the Jesse James song when I was little; Jessie was her name too so I guess she heard it many times. What I take most from this wonderful film is the foot tapping score of Ry Cooder. It holds the film together far more than the use of actual brothers to play the gang members. Truth be told, the Keach brothers have too much gravitas to be the outlaws and it is hard to believe that the Carradine/Youngers are their cousins. Somewhere deep into the film, after the Northfield raid, Jesse takes on an almost Christ-like aura. Only David Carradine as Cole and Stacy Keach as Frank seem to bond as they should. But this is mere quibbling for one of the best westerns of any time.What a difference between the wedding dance scene shot here and the dance in the leaden Heaven's Gate of the same year. Part of this is the score, and part is from Hill's choice to emphasize the country people coming out for the nuptials. Hill devotes the same attention to the side characters at the fete as Rembrandt does in his Biblical paintings of Christ preaching.As I finish this comment, the sound of the boys playing in the saloon in Fort Worth comes back to me. Dead silence follows the end of the fight between Cole and Sam Starr; Cole spits out a line, Belle stares at him as he walks toward the door. He departs and the band picks up the tune again and I set my foot down and begin humming. "},{"Title":"Early Post-Modern Western","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The western is not what it once was. Remember that the first American movie (1903) was a western, The Great Train Robbery. Not long after, heroes like Tom Mix and William S. Hart dominated the silent screen of the Old West. In 1928, In Old Arizona became the first talkie western. Over the next several decades, the genre continued to attract audiences. Even though the peak probably occurred in the early 1960s, the 1950s decade became the best decade of the brand, and not only because John Wayne and Randolph Scott were at their crests. In the 1959-1960 television season, no fewer than 26 westerns appeared on prime time. There had always been a major distinction of who were the good guys and the bad guys. Each had their roles, and audiences knew who was who. It should be noted that even in some earlier westerns like Jesse James (1939) the outlaws were given sympathetic treatment. The characters were made likable. But beginning in the mid-1960s, the format of the western changed. Revisionism and anti-westerns were the vogue as they became more cynical and darker. European westerns made an impact, and the anti-hero was born. The code of the former good guys changed Sometimes there was little to distinguish who was good and who was bad. Unlike those well-spoken and compassionate good guy cowboys like Hart, Mix, and Gene Autry, the newer heroes (like Clint Eastwood and Gene Hackman) were often flawed. Empathy abated, and some broke the law; a few were even murderous. Likewise, the language of the good guys turned crude. Throughout the 1970s the old-time western was obviously in decline; John Wayne's final movie was The Shootist in 1976. The days of The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp (1955-1961) had long passed. Just compare Rio Grande (1950) or Warpath (1951) with The Wild Bunch (1969) or Soldier Blue (1970), or try to equate any Gene Autry western with Cry Blood, Apache (1970).The Long Riders gives us an early aspect of the post-modern western, a style that tended to choose atmosphere over form and still sometimes blurred the distinction between good and bad. The heroes may or may not be anti-heroes. So were the protagonists of The Long Riders working-class heroes or just bad guys? The answer is that they were outlaws, but not sadistic villains. The focus of The Long Riders is on the highlights of the James-Younger gang of the nineteenth century Midwest (not the Far West). The supporting population was mostly sympathetic to the James-Younger gang as they were looked upon as rebelling against the hated Yankees. In summary, the film highlights their train and bank robberies after the Civil War; the acceptance of danger by the James-Younger women; the Pinkerton National Detective Agency methods of hunting down the gang; the killing of John Younger by a Pinkerton detective (1874); the exploding flare thrown into the James home that maimed Jesse/Frank's mother and killed his half-brother Archie (1875); the disaster at Northfield, Minnesota that finished the Youngers and destroyed the gang (1876); and the traitorous act of Bob Ford (1882), the dirty little coward that shot Mr. Howard. Four sets of real life brothers play the four historic families of the Wild West the Keaches are the James, the Carradines are the Youngers, the Quaids are the Millers, and the Guests are the Fords. James and Stacy Keach play Jesse and Frank James, respectively; David, Keith and Robert Carradine are Cole, Jim and Bob Younger (and since there are not enough brothers, Kevin Brophy plays 4th brother John Younger, although he is a cousin in the movie) James; Dennis and Randy Quaid are Ed and Clell Miller; and Christopher and Nicholas Guest play the backstabbers Charlie and Bob Ford. Bob plugged Jesse in the back of the head as he adjusted a framed copy of the saying God bless our home. Actually Jesse was just dusting the picture. The movie does some romanticizing of the gang, although the early murderous act of Ed Miller is portrayed brutally. Then again, Jesse dismisses Miller for his action against an innocent civilian. What ultimately makes the movie watchable is its favorable aspects. These positives include the (already explained) imaginative casting, top-notch acting, remarkable period detail, outstanding editing, and great photography. But also note there is violence and that the history is not always accurate (like the confrontation between Cole Younger and Sam Starr that never happened). Then again it is accurate enough. For instance, the gang did wear dusters at Northfield and Frank James did turn himself in to the law; he was later acquitted. "}{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" OK Western-drama, detailing the exploits of the James-Younger gang (Jesse James et al). Not very captivating though seems pretty much join-the-dots. You never get to feel much empathy for any of them. Just seems kind of bland.This said, the action sequences are good. The slo-mo shooting sequences are a bit overdone though, and weren't necessary in the first place.Good performances from three sets of brothers in the main roles David, Keith and Robert Carradine as the Youngers, James and Stacy Keach as Jesse and Frank James respectively and Dennis and Randy Quaid as the Millers.Entertaining enough, but not great. "},{"Title":"Super stylized shoot 'em up...","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" THE LONG RIDERS isn't as gritty as THE GREAT NORTHFIELD, MINNESOTA RAID nor as theatrical as, say, TOMBSTONE (another movie about a real life shootout), but it IS super-stylized, with an impressive cast. If I have one complaint, it's that the historical background of the James gang is only briefly touched upon it would've been interesting to see how the Civil War atrocities that were committed BY and AGAINST some of these men resulted in the formation of the gang- from the loss of personal property to the acts of outright murder they then committed themselves. I've never bought into the idea that these men were Robin Hoods (I've never read any documentation to that effect); they were robbin' hoods, and they were murderers. THE LONG RIDERS is a romanticized version of what was for many a true life horror story. It would be interesting to see this story from THAT perspective. (And I've always thought it telling that the gang was decimated by armed citizens and not by Law Enforcement.) "},{"Title":"Jesse James Rides Again!","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The Long Riders is yet another saga of the life and times of legendary outlaw Jesse James and his gang. Director Walter Hill gives us a visually stunning authentic looking ultra violent western.What sets this one apart is the playing of the various historical brothers by actual brothers. James and Stacy Keach play Jesse and Frank James, David, Keith and Robert Carradine play the Younger Brothers (Cole, Jim and Bob respectively), Dennis and Randy Quaid are Ed and Clell Miller and Christopher and Nicholas Guest, Charlie and Bob Ford.The film gives us a sample of the James Gang's repertoire through a bank robbery to a train robbery to a stage coach hold up ( with a delightful bit by Harry Carey Jr.), to their final caper, an attempted bank robbery in Northfield Minnesota complete with bloody Peckinpah-ish slow motion bloody violence. It also covers Jesse's courting of his wife and Cole Younger's relationship with saloon gal Belle Starr whose husband Sam Starr (James Remar) takes exception.As mentioned, Director Hill gives the film an authentic post civil war look. The color photography is excellent and the costumes and set pieces realistic.As a final note, I have to point out the scene within a bank hold-up where James Keach as Jesse is standing stone faced with both guns drawn looking every bit like a cross between William S. Hart and Buster Keaton. I got, I am sure, an unintended chuckle out of that one. "},{"Title":"Realistic, Grim, Mature, Modern Western (actually an Eastern)","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" I've seen Walter Hill's 1980 'Western' The Long Riders about four or five times now. It details the story of the James/Younger Gang. What impressed me recently while viewing it is that it maintained my attention even though I've seen it quite a few times before. That, to me, is a sign of a truly good film.From what I understand, there are some inaccuracies in the story, e.g. Jesse James wasn't as wooden as James Keach portrays him, Belle Starr wasn't a prostitute and the bar knife fight never happened. But, what the heck, they got the gist of the story right. The James/Younger guys, thankfully, are not painted as a bunch of good-guy Robin Hoods; no, they were outlaws who steal & kill for a living and justify it by their bitter experiences in the Civil War. Nor are the Pinkertons made out to be the bad guys; they make some stupid mistakes, as is common, but they ultimately catch their quarry.The gimmick with this film is that they used real-life brothers to portray the outlaw brothers James and Stacy Keach as Jesse and Frank James; David, Keith and Robert Carradine as Cole, Jim and Bob Younger; Randy and Dennis Quaid as Clell and Ed Miller; and Christopher and Nicholas Guest as Charlie and Bob Ford. Pamela Reed and James Remar are also on hand as Belle and Sam Starr.The bar knife fight between Cole Younger and Sam Starr is an intense highlight. Although this particular fight never happened, fights LIKE IT did (Heck, in the late 1970s a friend of mine got stabbed in the gut in a bar knife fight in Mecca, Ohio; so I personally KNOW it happens).One striking aspect of this film is that it's more-so an Eastern than a Western; the events of the film largely take place in Missouri, Minnesota and East Texas, hardly THE West; not to mention that it was filmed largely in Georgia of all places (Parrott and Westville) and also in Rusk, Texas, which is in EAST Texas. These Eastern locations are nothing short of magnificent. It's just nice to see the East utilized in a Western storyline.David Carradine is truly outstanding as Cole Younger. Remember him as Caine in Kung Fu? Well, his character here is the express opposite of that noble character. James Keach is also potent as Jesse James; James portrays Jesse as a very grim, hard man. You can easily see him leading this tough band of outlaws. In addition, Stacy Keach is likable as always.Although Pamela Reed plays her role of Belle Starr very well, Belle comes across as lifeless and sleazy (which is to be expected if you're a prostitute); I wouldn't touch her with a ten-foot pole. Lastly, James Remar is perfect and memorable as the half-Indian Sam Starr; I'm surprised Remar didn't have a more noteworthy film career.The cinematography is top-of-the-line.Lastly, this is a very modern Western even though it was released in 1980. For verification, I recently let a friend borrow it, a friend that refuses to watch old movies (i.e. anything made before 2000). Anyway, he watched it and loved it. When I told him it was from 1980 he was aghast; he couldn't believe it.Do yourself a favor and catch The Long Riders and witness how it must've been like in the era of the James/Younger gang.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"The Real Bro Country, Western Style","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The American West has provided an endless amount of true-life stories that have become legends of our nation's history. Inevitably, of course, this means that men that are branded as outlaws have become a part of all that. One such gang of outlaws was the one led by Frank and Jesse James that terrorized a large chunk of the Midwest in the years following the Civil War, and right up to the first years of the 20th century. That legend, unsurprisingly, has seen its share of films being made by Hollywood. But perhaps the most provocative of the bunch is the one made by action film stalwart Walter Hill at the turn of the 1980s. That film was THE LONG RIDERS.This take on the venerable outlaw legend is notable for having sets of brothers play the outlaws Stacy and James Keach play the James Brothers'; the Carradines (Keith, Robert, David) are the Youngers; the Quaids (Dennis and Randy) play the Miller Brothers; and Christopher and Nicholas Guest portray the Fords. During the 1870s and 1880s, these men rack up a series of felonies so long and so brutal that they become oversized legends of their time, and quickly become the focus of the equally legendary Pinkerton detective agency (the frontier forerunner to the FBI). But the methods the Pinkertons use to hunt down the James/Younger boys are not only unconventional, but even criminal at times themselves, earning the scorn of a lot of people, especially those close to the boys in the states of Missouri and Tennessee. The end result is a blood-soaked affair that climaxes when the gang attempts to rob a bank in Northfield, Minnesota, in a raid that only nets them a lot of bloodshed since it was all set up by the Pinkertons and that the entire town was waiting for them. All three of the Youngers are so badly wounded that the Jameses abandon them. Those that are not wounded are eventually captured by the Pinkertons. Only the Fords were ever offered a deal to turn state's evidence and track down the James Brothers, which they indeed took.Made on what was a fairly sizeable budget for a Western ($10 million), THE LONG RIDERS did, however, score quite well at the box office; and as a result, the film was perhaps the last great Western to be a hit before the monstrous critical and box office debacle of HEAVEN'S GATE came along at year's end in 1980, all but decimating the Western as a genre. Hill and his crew were sticklers for authenticity, and it shows in every frame of the film, with each set of acting brothers doing convincing turns as the outlaws, and with Pamela Reed giving a fine turn as soon-to-be-outlaw cowgirl Belle Starr, a loose associate of the James/Younger gang. Given the period in which it was made, no one should be surprised that the outlaws are seen as the heroes, and the Pinkertons as more or less the heavies (since their methods of hunting down the gang are terribly unethical at times). And since Hill wrote the screenplay for director Sam Peckinpah's 1972 crime thriller classic THE GETAWAY, and loosely studied under that director, no one should be shocked either that THE LONG RIDERS is a fairly violent film, with bloody shootouts rendered in slow-motion (though Hill's editing style is not as cascading, nor quite as memorable, as Peckinpah's was for, say, THE WILD BUNCH).Filmed primarily on locations in northern California, Texas, and Georgia, THE LONG RIDERS benefits greatly not only from its casting and its period authenticity, but also from the rustic, down-home country/folk music score by Americana legend Ry Cooder, who would work again with Hill on films like STREETS OF FIRE, SOUTHERN COMFORT, TRESPASS, JOHNNY HANDSOME, LAST MAN STANDING, and GERONIMO AN American LEGEND. It is sad that the Western genre had basically entered its twilight by the time THE LONG RIDERS was released, and that HEAVEN'S GATE (released, ironically, by the same studio, United Artists) would all but bury it in the ground for a long time, because this film has a lot to recommend to it. It belongs squarely in the traditions that both Peckinpah and Sergio Leone set forth in the 1960s, that in which the demarcation between black and white was really quite gray, and where right and wrong were determined by the participants, and not a half-baked sense of morality. Hill, who can sometimes be an uneven director, nevertheless understood that better than most, which is a big reason THE LONG RIDERS is one of the best of the latter breed of that most distinctly American of film genres. "},{"Title":"Real life brothers playing historical outlaw brothers......well done.","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" I saw this movie around 1986 and was told by my mother that real life brothers played the James-Younger gang. When this movie started, i was glued to the t.v. It was a very good movie. I already knew who Walter Hill was from his directing triumphs of 48hrs and The Warriors, as well as composer Ry Cooder who scored the movie Southern Comfort (another hidden gem) so i had faith in this movie. I sure was not disappointed.This movie scores high on almost every level. There's the unity among the gang yet u see some disagreements but through it all they persevere for years together. The historical bank robbery near the end was well done and makes u wish you were there when it happened.This is one of my all time favorite westerns. See this movie as soon as u can if you love westerns. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"brothers and brothers","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The story of Jesse James is the richest source of material for westerns. There is so much written about it and only a small part of it was shown on the screen. 'The Long Riders' keeps to the same part of the story as most other films what happened shortly before Northfield, Minnesota and a bit after. I wish a more complete film would be made about it, starting with the civil war and ending after the trial of the Ford brothers, also showing the alleged involvement of the Governor of Missouri in the cowardly killing of Jesse. The film has great moments the handkerchief fight between Cole Younger and Sam Starr where each man has to hold on his mouth a part of a handkerchief, while they fight with Bowie knives, a fight that was probably inspired by Kansas Raiders(1950), the night before Northfield with the members of the gang and their women, the beautiful landscape with the group riding their horses. The Carradine brothers as the Youngers are superb and so are Randy and Dennis Quaid as the Millers. Same for Pamela Reed as Belle Starr. I cannot think of a Frank James that can compare to Henry Fonda. Stacy Keach does his best but there is something lacking. James Keach underplays Jesse. It is not a bad performance, far from it, but from what I read Jesse was more outgoing than Frank, who was the guy who wanted no publicity.The shootout at Northfield would have come out better without the slow motion scenes. "},{"Title":"The Long Riders","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Walter Hill is a favorite director of mine. His The Warriors is a great surrealistic portrayal of street gang violence while Southern Comfort ranks high on my list as one of the best hixploitation offerings of the 1980's and one of the few that takes the side of the hicks. Anyway, between those two films he made The Long Riders a great and sympathetic portrayal of the James-Younger gang that roamed Reconstruction era Missouri, robbing banks, raiding passer byers and generally causing problems for the local authorities. Anyway, The Long Riders is a solid film. It boasts several fine performances including from real life brothers which added an extra level of realism. Furthermore, the cinematography is beautiful as it perfectly captures the beauty and horror of the South. Walter Hill also gives the film a very tight sense of direction and the script is very well crafted. And no review of The Long Riders is complete without mention of the score by Ry Cooder as it really seals the deal on this film. In particular I was impressed with his song I'm a Good Old Rebel which is based on a poem actually written by a Confederate veteran after the war. Overall a really cool and enjoyable film that fits along nicely beside Walter Hill's other films, even if it is missing the B-movie vibe of The Warriors or Southern Comfort. "},{"Title":"A pretty convincing Western","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Though not the most involving of them, The Long Riders, is among the most convincing of westerns, that I can name. Everything feels in place for the 1880's the scripting, the acting, the design, and because the film is devoid of clichés, it definitely feels more like a window to the past rather than a Hollywood recreation of it.The names and people here are all real. Frank and Jesse James, Bob, Jim, Cole Younger, were the hottest most successful gang to come out of Missouri, and further more they have rode their way into the history books. As have Charlie and Robert Ford, who ended mister James, although that story is subject to a little controversy. One of the ways you can tell when history is values over Hollywood, is when there is no dichotomy of good or bad. Here instead there is either those who uphold the law and those who break it. In the end, it is the law that is triumphant, which intellectually speaking qualifies as a happy ending, but the Long Riders doesn't work that way. It not like the James and Younger boys are the most sympathetic of characters, but it is their story from which the audience is transported through the movie.The Long Riders ends is a very violent and memorable showdown. anyone who knows anything about film will be reminded of the gut wrenching potency of the wild bunch, in the last twenty minutes of the Long Riders. No good western has ever come without wrapping up with this kind of bang. So far, the Long Riders is not ageing terrifically, but that doesn't mean it is not worth seeing. It is an exceptional Western, credible, historically accurate, and more "},{"Title":"Loyal to blood.","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Director Walter Hill was on a roll during this period of his film-making career, as he chipped away with one excellent action vehicle after another (in which he would go to make my favourite of his; Southern Comfort the following year) and his western exercise fell smack in the middle of this roll. The Long Riders follows the trail of the infamous James-Younger gang, and the interesting novelty of it all is that there's a group of real-life brothers portraying the outlaws in the shape of the Carradine's (as the Younger's) and Keach's (as the James') and the Quaid's (as the Miller's). This definitely gave it a sincere touch with the interactions, but still rather fitting performances from the lot with the likes of Keith and especially David Carradine and James Keach as Jesse James strongly standing out. Also you had Christopher and Nicholas Guest as the Ford brothers. It was great seeing all these names together. Pamela Reed (in a live-wire turn), James Remar, James Whitmore Jr. and Chris Mulkey also appear.Walter Hill crafts out a beautifully detailed (the backdrops are vividly captured), but boldly blood and thunder western opting for a tauter, than epic manner in its story telling. It's a basic story given a lot more character insight and romanticism (not just with the woman, but from the pulsating violence and looming reputations of these anti-heroes) than you would initially think. The pacing is rather measured, but it does go by in no time and the script is tough, but with a slight sense of wry humour ---- which the Randy Quaid and Carradine's do seem to pull off. When it came to the orchestrated action, Hill doesn't let us down with his trademark slow-motion (which can be a stunning sight) intertwining with the bravado violence (just listen to echoing gun blasts!) and Ry Cooder's dynamically alarming music score (outside of the sweeping folksy western cues) effectively hammers it in. The extraordinary final gun battle in a town's square is a prime example and quite an almighty climax too. Its old-fashion tailoring paints one blistering, but also dramatic western that's purely eye-candy to watch. "}{"Title":"You gonna make 'em pay Jesse?","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Perhaps not in the upper echelon of movie Westerns like High Noon, Shane or Unforgiven, The Long Riders certainly heads up the second tier for those of us who find the genre a favorite. The casting coup of hiring real life brothers to portray historical ones was certainly an interesting idea, and I'm curious as to how the film makers were able to pull it off. Throw in the effective Ry Cooder musical arrangements and the wicked odd-angle filming segments and you have a fast paced and action packed story.Perhaps the most interesting thing to strike me was that for a nominally intentioned Jesse James story, this one turns out to put Cole Younger in the spotlight. I have to admit that I ordered this one up through my local library on the news of David Carradine's death, so I was already predisposed to focus in on his performance. I had all but forgotten that he had such a prominent role here, almost eclipsing the Keaches when all is said and done. It was the elder Carradine brother who had the charisma to carry the film, more so than James Keach (as Jesse), or Stacy (as Frank James). The picture seemed to reinforce that idea throughout the story as well, as in the scene with the train robbery, with Bob Younger stating to the conductors - ...Jesse James rides with the Youngers. Later on, with the James Brothers riding off after the failed Northfield bank job, Cole challenges them with The Youngers don't need you.As for supporting players, I found it almost comical the first time Pamela Reed appeared on screen as Belle Shirley Starr, the hooker who ached to hook up with Coleman Younger. All I could think of with that puffed up hairdo was Elsa Lanchester in Bride of Frankenstein. I had to wonder why she never took offense when Cole kept insisting that she would never be anything but a whore.Action fans won't be disappointed with The Long Riders, but even I had to wince when Cole Younger got the better of Sam Starr (James Remar). The set-up looked like Cole stabbed Sam in the gut, but as the camera backed away, that Bowie knife in the thigh muscle just makes one gasp for air. Is there any way to imagine how much that might hurt?Getting back to the Northfield bank job, I think you'd be hard pressed to find a better stunt horse scene than the one filmed here. Things started off with that nasty trip wire fall during the gangs' run through Main Street, and the choreographed slow motion jump through the windows was just insane. Now I know that poetic license goes a long way in films like this, but I really had to ask myself what held these bad boys together with each squib that went off to mark a hit by the Northfielders. The doc remarked that Cole might have set a record with eleven gunshot wounds, but in most any other picture, that should have been enough to Kill Bill. "},{"Title":"The Long Riders uses interesting and effective casting","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When Walter Hill's The Long Riders hit movie theaters in 1980, his decision to employ real-life brothers to portray the James-Younger gang family members was considered nothing more than novelty casting. Over time, the effectiveness of using these related actors has enhanced the film's status greatly. The story itself is a familiar one to students of post-Civil War American history. After riding with Confederate guerrilla outfits such as Quantrill's Raiders and Bloody Bill Anderson during the war, Jesse and Frank James and the Younger boys (Cole, Bob, and Jim) continued their careers as outlaws, terrorizing banks, railroads and everything and everyone else that crossed their path. We done it for Dixie, was their common mantra and The Long Riders plays on the boys' Southern sympathies without excusing any of their actions.The Keach Brothers (Stacy and James) are a good match for Frank and Jesse James, but the casting of the Carradine brothers (David, Robert and Keith) is the masterstroke for director Hill. The rest of acting is also inspired; Dennis and Randy Quaid are excellent as the Millers and Christopher and Nicholas Guest are standouts as Jesse's assassins, Charlie and Bob Ford. Pamela Reed is also around as a fairly attractive Belle Starr with James Remar looking ominous as her half-breed husband, Sam Starr. David Carradine's savage knife fight with Remar is one of the highlights of the film and well-staged. You're fighting for something you both already had, says the unconcerned Belle to her two dueling lovers. That might be true, but it doesn't stop the boys from trying to kill each other.For some strange reason, The Long Riders wasn't as big a hit as it should have been upon its release. The violence might have been too off-putting for some tastes or maybe the western theme was considered passé for the early 1980s. Cable television revived the film, however, and now it's a revered semi-classic. Director Hill went on to make many more movies, but The Long Riders remains one his best. As for the late actor, David Carradine, his take on Cole Younger is memorable and one of the finest performances in his distinguished career. "},{"Title":"a family affair","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a sympathetic portrayal of the bank robbers James-Younger gang made up of James brothers and Younger brothers. They are honorable reasonable superior men robbing banks and claiming southern pride. They kill only if they have no other choice and they kick out members who are reckless. So this is definitely more myth than reality. It's southern folklore.The most interesting part of this movie is real life brothers portraying the brother characters. David, Keith, Robert Carradine portray the Younger brothers. James and Stacy Keach portray the James brothers. And Dennis and Randy Quaid portray the Miller brothers.The many characters can be quite confounding especially since many of them have similar mannerism. There is a great final battle which made up for a rather meandering storyline. "},{"Title":"The films of Jesse James","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" There have been numerous films about Jesse James, most notably Sam Fuller's I Shot Jesse James, Nick Ray's The True Story of Jesse James, Kaufman's The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid, Hill's The Long Riders and Dominik's The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford.Being the most recent, Dominik's film gets all the attention, but Kaufman's and Hill's deserve just as much notice. Though released in the 1970s, Kaufman's film must be watched through the lens of his astronaut epic, The Right Stuff, both films offering an absurdist take on progress and frontier pushing. Here, Jesse is a confused charlatan and the gang's criminality is seen as being outdated in the face of banking cartels, protection rackets and business scams. In this new world, the business man is the new criminal, violence now taking the form of organised sports, rail barons and profit margins. How much you think that'll fetch? one man remarks, as he tries to figure out whether he can make more profits selling earrings in pairs or singles. Stuffed dolls are similarly traded for money, whilst steam engines and horseless buggies are treated as, not a form of technological progress, but a form of capitalist spectacle which pushes Jesse and his gang further and further into extinction. Indeed, it is a steam piano constructed to attract people to a bank, which ultimately gets Jesse's gang killed.The gang itself is split into two groups. Those who follow Cole Younger and those who follow Jesse James. Jesse embodies a kind of no-nonsense criminal psychopathy, stealing and killing and forever unable to live up to his romantic myth (he pretends to receive messages from God, but nobody believes him). Cole, in contrast, tries to play the game by the banks' rules, using guile, cunning and elaborate schemes. Significantly, Cole's plan backfires and he dies, whilst the lawless Jesse, a product of a different age, rides comically off into the sunset. Like Altman's Thieves Like Us, the film subversively portrays its gangs, not as noble Robin Hoods stealing from corporate fat cats, but part of the same all inclusive racket.Walter Hill's The Long Riders is a different sort of beast altogether. This is a fast paced action movie, the legendary moments in the life of Jesse James downplayed in favour for ambiance and texture. Town dances, chirping crickets, women being pushed on swings, touching romantic relationships with whores...this is film which serves up a certain air of melancholy, before launching into a series of staggeringly violent action set pieces. Hill's gangsters are not wild-eyed maniacs but disenfranchised criminals looking to score easy cash so that they can retire to some country paradise. In other words, it's a Michael Mann macho poem with the violence of Walter Hill's mentor, Sam Peckinpah, grafted on.Hill's film also revolves around a cat and mouse feud between Jesse and the Pinkerton Detective Agency, a group of lawmen working for the banks and railroads. In an effort to humanise the gang, the film paints these lawmen as murderous brutes who kill innocents and set homes ablaze. These, of course, are narrative tactics used to convince us that Jesse and his boys are innocent of any wrong doings and that they were merely provoked by violent authorities. Andrew Dominik's The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford, in contrast, is implicitly about celebrity. Here, Jesse's gang are mythologized through legend and media exposure, and it is this which curses them. Jesse himself is killed, not by Robert Ford, but by celebrity itself. The film is thus about, not only looking, but being looked down upon, looked up at, and having perceptions projected upon you. Jesse's death, in which looking at a picture literally kills him, encapsulates all these themes. It is Jesse's own gaze, his aloof attitude toward Ford, which causes Ford's worshipful stare to be corrupted, but more importantly, co-oped by Pinkerton. Here, celebrity and mythology bulldoze truths, and court death by assuming a kind of superiority. Of course death, rather than debunking myths, tends to reinforce them further.But while all three films go off on their own interesting tangents, they make a mistake which has been around since Henry Fonda's 1939 film, Jesse James. These films ignore history and turn Jesse in a superstar, a Robin Hood, a pretty boy rogue, when this image was wholly invented by John Edwards, a racist and pro Confederate journalist who wanted to create a heroic figure to help rally people against the Union.At the time, the state of Missouri belonged to the Confederates, whereas the state of Kansas was held by the Union. The two states fought each other fiercely, killing civilians, burning houses and committing various other war crimes. Jesse James, following in his brother's footsteps, joined the Confederates, fought with them for several years and then left the army to form a robbery gang with several soldiers. They hit trains and banks and kept the loot, but because banks and railroads were symbols of the Union States (who were forcing farmers, civilians etc to buy Federal dollars), it became easy for Confederate supporters to turn Jesse into a kind of rebel figure.Jesse then began to milk this image, selling himself as an altruistic warrior who fought evil Yankee rail barons for Southern honour. In reality, far from being the last hurrah of the Confederate cause, Jesse was a cold hearted guy who fought for the preservation of slavery, robbed trains dressed as the KKK and kept all the loot for him and his gang. Of course none of the Jesse James films deal with this, even Dominik's, which is specifically about the allure and falsity of celebrity.8/10 - Great action western in the vein of Tombstone. Weak final act. "},{"Title":"The Long Riders","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I had no idea of the stars, concept or story before watching, but once I'd started I was very interested to see four groups of famous families acting together, from director Walter Hill (48 Hours, Brewster's Millions). This is basically the origins and exploits of the bank raids and robberies by groups of infamous gangs, as well as a little social stuff, e.g. hanging out in the saloons. These are the Younger brothers, Cole, Jim and Bob (David, Keith and Robert Carradine); the James brothers, Jesse and Frank (James and Stacy Keach); the lesser known Miller brothers, Ed and Clell (Dennis and Randy Quaid); and the Fords, Charlie and Bob (Christopher and Nicholas Guest). The significant event of the film sees most (if not all, I'm not sure) gangs raiding the bank at Northfield, Minnesota, where all who took part met their fate. Also starring Kevin Brophy as John Younger, Harry Carey Jr. as George Arthur, Bean's Pamela Reed as Belle Starr, James Remar as Sam Starr and Amy Stryker as Beth. The performances by all really related players, and Reed, are all very well done, and the robbery and raid sequences, in slow-motion with moving score by Ry Cooder are fantastic, a most watchable western. Very good! "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I rented this movie about 5 years ago. I was looking for The Magnificent Seven but the video store didn't have it and I ran across The Long Riders. Yes, I was intrigued by the casting which made me rent it but which didn't make the film.For me, it's an interesting slice of Americana because in all the Westerns that I've seen I had no idea until this film that the gangs of Western bandits were produced by the effects of The Civil War. Even the Earps, who were supposed to be good were a product of the post Civil War era. That's information that wasn't taught in my schools. These people lost their homes and livelihoods because they were mostly Confederates. Rather like Bonnie & Clyde who were products of the Great Depression. "},{"Title":"A James Gang movie with new angles","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I'd seen a dozen pictures about Jesse James before , but  this movie makes it easy to imagine Frank and Jesse just falling into their way of life after fighting on the losing side of the war between the states.  We see the payroll trains as the brothers must have  imposing machines full of Yankee money, cutting a swath through the land they failed to defend in battle.  It seems clear that these blood-bound fighters just never surrendered, their campaign spurred on by a growing thirst for vengeance.  After this movie I began to look for the good men stuck inside the bad men of our popular mythology. "},{"Title":"Antique western classic from Walter Hill.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Gritty and shot with genuine passion for the genre, The Long Riders is a sharply detailed Western that seems a mile away from the year it was released. Telling the story of the James-Younger gang, it's writing is matched by some inspired casting of real life acting brothers to put a cherry on the already stylish cake. It's evident that director Walter Hill and his colleagues really delved into the outlaw gang's history to craft an honest story, a story that is lifted to greatness by a number of things. The violence is crushingly gorgeous, yes I said gorgeous because it's elegant and hits home without glorifying the protagonists, while the cinematography and overall tone of the film is nailed on period perfect. As for the cast? They all come out with major plaudits.Take a bow the Keach, Carradine and Quaid brothers because they play their respective roles with classy restraint and no histrionics. Thus drawing the viewer into the period piece to engage fully in and around the thematics of gang life back in the day. To complete the antique feel of the film who better than Ry Cooder to score the film? A wonderful score that rounds out a modern day Oater that to me sits nicely after the best of John Ford, Leone, Hawks and Eastwood's classy Unforgiven. See this if you are remotely interested in stylish violence framed in a classic Western veneer. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Sympathy for the hoodlums","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a good story of a few families in the South and how they dealt with the Civil War aftermath. The film features all real life brothers, including the Carradines, and the Quaids and the Keach bro's. I hadn't seen this film for many years and I was happy to see that it stood the test of time! James Keach is pretty good in it as Jesse, but the Carradines take the film away from the Keachs', in their portrayal of the Younger Brothers.Also Dennis and Randy Quaid are good in it as well. The film shows how war ruins lives, and how war causes good people to do desperate things during desperate times. I don't exactly agree with the things they did after the war, but I would probably do the same thing in the same situation! The South was destroyed, and some people from the North exploited them. This film tells the story, and tells it well. See this film if you haven't seen it in a while. If you like the Western anti-hero, you will like this film! "},{"Title":"Great casting made an average film better than it might have been","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The use of sets of brothers acting the roles of brothers was inspired and really makes this film better. The Carradine brothers carry the film, but the Keach brothers are good as well. The use of the Quaid brothers (before either of them really had made a name for themselves) is cool to see. The same could be said of the casting of Christopher Guest (way before Spinal Tap!) and his brother NicholasIn my opinion, The Northfield Minnesota ambush scene is probably one of the best and most dramatic shootouts ever filmed.There are some awkward moments and some slow points but all in all a really great watch. I bought this on DVD recently and to be honest it wasn't as good on the small screen, but still effective and a nice character study.Rent it or Netflix it, you won't regret it. "}{"Title":"The Long Riders A film that contains art and poetry","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I had the ability to enjoy The Long Riders already as a child. I couldn't understand the poetry of it than, but somehow I noticed it. Now I can booth understand and enjoy the great direction of The Long Riders. I think it is much better now when I can understand the story. The Long Riders is made with perfect skill. It uses slow-motion, interesting and advanced camera-angels and movements together with fast but also various editing without getting pretentious. It is also a rather short feature with effective story-telling. Here it is storytelling as it should be - in it's own style.The script can be claimed to be a bit flawed. Perhaps, but if you think so, see the movie as a piece of art or poetry instead and than you might realize why it is made in the way it is. This is one of the aspects why I like it so much. No explanations is needed to make it work. Just all those magnificent images made with high, expressive and uncompromised ambitions. You never get a chance to understand the characters, but that is not a flaw. They just appear, without explanation why they act as they do, just as if you were watching them right now. No way this is an over-simplified movie. Ordinary Hollywood movies, even new ones, are often over-explicit, but this is not!The Long Riders have taken much inspiration from The Wild Bunch, but it is not a bad copy, even if The Wild Bunch will remain as the big classic.Compared with another Western which I also like; Tombstone, The Long Riders have the chance to survive a generation and later, perhaps in some years or more, and get the credit it deserves. The question is if Tombstone will do that. Rating 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  So what´s wrong with this movie? It´s definetively one of the greatest movies I've ever seen. The casting with real brothers works excellent through the WHOLE movie, giving lots of character to the James/Youngers. And the filming locations are great as well. Just can't figure out all those people giving this movie bad credit. Did you grow up with X-men 2 or what. "},{"Title":"Brisk and memorable","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  There is more than ballyhooed brothers magic to recommend this film.It's an early look at several actors who became famous later, while the most well-known at the time, Stacy Keach, was just around the corner from his London drug bust and a career slide.David Carradine chews scenery in a gloriously seedy about-face from his virtuous Chinaman role in tv's Kung FU. Dennis Quaid's frustrated Ed Miller seems 60 watts duller than the Gordo Hotdog Cooper he would deliver two years later in the Right Stuff. Randy Quaid plays gang member Clell Miller as so comfortable in his own skin that you can't imagine him doing anything in life but being an outlaw, which goes a long way toward answering the question that the movie barely asks why did these men choose lives of robbery and murder?Walter Hill directs at a zippy pace that allows the story we all know to unfold with maximum tension as the characters reveal the traits and interpersonal conflicts that will seal their fates. Ry Cooder contributes one of the best Western scores ever, not grand orchestral themes, but popular period music that Missourians in the 1870's might actually have played and heard.  "},{"Title":"A cast of Brothers","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I liked the fact that brothers filled the roles of brothers.  The Carradines as the Youngers, the Keachs as the James, Quaids as the Millers and the Guests as the Fords.  To me, this is a more believable casting than most where the actors do not resemble brothers or each other at all. Even though they were outlaws, they still had families and loves.  Also good was the fact that they stayed pretty close to the history of the time.  I had heard that two sets of the Brothers are also cousins, but am not sure which ones it is.  All in all, good movie....action, romance & nice back story to support the main story.  If you want to see a good western with rich history, action and family moments woven in, pick this movie.  You won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"A real Western. Not a piece of John Wayne tough guy BS.","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A Walter Hill Classic. From the modern day gangs of The Warriors to the old west James Gang. Walter Hill has again captured not just the bravado of the gang members, but the personal inner reflections and doubts the members have about their lives and existence. The escape from the Minnesota bank is worth a viewing of the film alone.  Couple that with good character development and a look at the interpersonal relationships of the gang itself and their families makes this not only a western for the ages but a film for the ages.  "},{"Title":"Best Western I have seen so far","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"      Better than Tombstone, and one of the most brilliant films I have ever seen.  The use of real brothers was great, they looked and acted like brothers, and made the film more believable.  Unlike many new Westerns (ie.Young Guns),these people acted and behaved for their 1880's time frame.  The gang had this hard edge to them (must be method acting) that makes the film so believable.  There is a Southern angle to the film, where they ask if people fought for the Stars and Bars, or to play at the cat house, I'm a good ol' rebel which makes this film well researched.  They show the hatred for the North, and respect for the South.  The action sequences were ground breaking for its time, and have been copied ever since.  Their creation of the North Field raid is legendary and I love how they mix I'm a good ol' rebel to the scene. This is a good example of quality film making. "},{"Title":"Great western, filmed after the peak years.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Walter Hill is in many ways an anachronistic director, he creates movies with all the touches of classics, but somehow out of time. The Long Riders is an excellent example of this, and an excellent film as well. The characters here are not emotional, they aren't racked by guilt or doubt.  They're outlaws, but not villains, and don't seem to have the need to justify themselves for what they're doing.  The film follows the James-Younger gang, with much better historical accuracy than most movies, certainly more than the Tyrone Power/Henry Fonda outing, of course that was entirely fictional.  The cinematography is excellent and the portrayals understated almost uniformly.  That the brothers in the movie were portrayed by real life actor brothers was kind of played up as a gimmick for the promotion of the film at the time of it's release, but it really gives the familial relationships that are central to the motivations and character development added depth.A strong western at a time when westerns weren't being filmed. A definite must see.   "},{"Title":"A flawed but beautiful modern western","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The script is a cliched mess, filled with lines that are forced retro-mythological and obvious. Several of the performers appear to sleepwalk through their roles and yet this film by director Walter Hill somehow works. The photography by Ric Waite is absolutely dreamlike in its beauty. The costume design is romantic without being frilly. The cutting is tight. Hill's framing is carefull and rich and most of all, Ry Cooder's magnificent score all add up to make a flawed, but rich western film well deserving of a bigger following. Personally, if I could walk out of real life and into the imagined world of a film, this film, along with Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, A Hard Day's Night, The Adventures of Robin Hood and Lonesome Dove would be one that would be ideal. The technical achievements of this film all work together to overcome its other limitations. It is a film that truly creates a unique atmosphere of a time and place that really didn't exist in history but rather folk tales and American Legendary Dreams. My advice is to buy Ry Cooder's soundtrack on CD, put the tape in the VCR, turn down the sound and enjoy. A 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent, Excellent Movie!!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This is the best western I have ever seen!! Not only did the special effects blow me away but the acting was phenomenal!!!!!! I loved seeing all the real life brothers playing brothers. My hat is off to the Carradine's, Keach's & Quaids!!!!!! Thanks for a GREAT movie guys, this is my husbands favorite movie off ALL TIME!!  "},{"Title":"What a fantastic depiction of the James/Younger Gang!","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I love how the makers of this movie use sets of 'American brothers in real life' to depict sets of 'American brothers in real-old American history!'David, Keith, and, Robert Carradine portray the Younger Brothers; James and Stacy Keach portray the James Brothers; Dennis and Randy Quaid portray the Miller Brothers; and, Christopher and Nicholas Guest portray the Ford Brothers - great casting!This is an excellent movie from start to finish! The acting is excellent...as is the direction; the music; the sets; the settings and scenery; the costumes; etc., and, especially the action - the action is exemplary!The Long Riders is directed by Walter Hill (The Warriors), who is a protégé of the exUS Marine Master Director of movie-war, -battle, and, -violence...Sam Peckinpah; and, he obviously learned a lot!This is a great movie if you're into extreme and realistic westerns such as The Wild Bunch and, Tombstone.I highly recommend this movie to those whom are! ) "}{"Title":"Low grade, shallow, waste of time","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Too many reviewers extol this western. Apparently those folks have not seen The Wild Bunch, Silverado, the many Eastwood spaghetti westerns, or other excellent westerns. Or, positive reviewers simply have no taste. I rented Long Riders on Amazon. I fast forwarded through the dancing, extraneous bar scenes, family gunk, blabbering, etc. This 90 minute movie easily condenses to about 20 minutes. The rest is fluff. If you are determined to watch it, check it out of your library for free. Even then, you will waste your time. The movie wasted its stars and offered simplistic dialog. Most of the violence was clearly written in to attract the action freaks. Wild Bunch had a lot of violence. However, it all seemed a logical part of the movie. "},{"Title":"Outlaw Gang Of Brothers.","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Walter Hill directs this retelling of the real life exploits of the Jesse James gang, and its various bank robberies and conflicts. James and Stacy Keach play Jesse and Frank James, and Robert, David, and Keith Carradine play the Younger brothers. All five men are outlaws in the 19th century American west, who become anti-heroes to the downtrodden common people, many of whom are in debt to the banks that the gang robs. Film details these robberies, and how the gang eventually breaks up, as well as their romantic entanglements.I appreciated real-life acting brothers playing real-life outlaw brothers, which gives it authenticity, and the actors are fine, but film is just mediocre, hurt by being overly stylized, with slow-motion shootings and horse chases that is too distracting, and take viewer out of the film. "},{"Title":"Long On Entertainment","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A laid-back version of the James gang story and their war with the Pinkerton Detective Agency, this benefits from great characterizations, action sequences, an abundance of wonderful atmosphere, and it's unique emphasis on the Younger brothers, a story that's usually forgotten in the process of glorifying Jesse James alone.The stunt casting of the Carradines, Keachs, Quaids, and Guests, four sets of real-life siblings, really works here thanks to the fact that the brothers involved are all really talented actors. It's a real treat to see them in the same movie.Walter Hill is one of the best and most underrated directors out there. In The Long Riders he clearly seems to have made the climactic bank robbery and resulting shootout an homage to Sam Peckinpah, whom he worked with on The Getaway. Hill also does a great job of capturing the simplicity of country life and the mistrust of outsiders that it leads to.The score by Ry Cooder is fantastic, as are the several traditional folk tunes. Many times during the film, they competed with the actors for my attention! I don't know if that was good or bad. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I'm a big Walter Hill fan. Hey, the guy wrote the screenplay for Peckinpah's The Getaway. That gives him a permanent pass in my book. What's more, he directed and produced Geronimo An American Legend, one of my favorite Westerns. The Long Riders, however, is a misfire. Here's what I liked- It had a real authentic feel to it in terms of the sets and costumes. The music was especially good. Ry Cooper admirably supervised the soundtrack, as he did with Geronimo years later.- It's a pretty film in terms of cinematography.- David Carradine does a nice job playing Cole Younger. That's saying a lot, because David Carradine is not a very good actor.- Interesting idea to cast four sets of real acting brothers as historically accurate real brothers.- Like the Civil War references.Here's what wasn't so great- Outside of David Carradine, the acting is atrocious throughout. In particular, the casting of James Keach as Jesse James ruined the movie. The best actor of the bunch, Dennis Quaid, should have played Jesse. Instead, he's wasted in a small unappealing role.- The movie's basic pace is languid and slow, actually more like artsy and boring. Much of this time is spent in failed attempts to deeply characterize some of the parts. I ended up not caring about any of these guys. It was almost a relief when they were killed.- These long, stupefying sequences are punctuated by short bursts of grisly, over the top violence. I guess this was done intentionally for contrast, but none of it worked for me.- There is zero comic relief.- This movie would have been much better if they had replaced the long walks in the woods with girlfriends with some flashbacks from their days as a Confederate guerrilla band during the war.- How often are you sitting in your living room wondering, Why am I watching David Carradine in a Bowie knife fight with an Indian over a whore? "},{"Title":"Overly arty movie, blame the director!","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is one of the baby-face western movies, where the men are never dirty and dust and relentless beating of the sun doesn't affect your clothes. Everybody always looks like they came straight from a bath and put on a fresh set of clothes.The plot of the movie is very basic, gang robs banks, trains etc, and their personal lives are shown in between. Everything is good so far as it would still be possible to make an OK movie with these facts said.Now, one problem is the structure of the movie; for it to be a good action-western the action scenes definitely need building up. As it is pretty much all the action scenes are just slapped in all of a sudden with no or very little pretext, which makes them seem detached from the rest of the movie. And the rest of the movie is drama that unfortunately does not go deep enough into the characters. I did not get a feeling like a I care or know any of the characters, or affect me enough to get me interested in their personal lives, which makes it a failure as a tragic-drama-movie that it obviously also tries to be.But the biggest fault of the movie is that it's so overly artistic. Every camera angle and shooting location was clearly selected or fabricated so that the director can pan the camera to get a nice waterfall, fog, light or something else arty in the picture. It is very annoying since there is very little actual content in the movie just these arty shots one after another, seems more like a slide show of nice pictures than a movie with an actual story. Also the cuts between the scenes are pretty annoying, every one seems to be inappropriately placed except the one where the corpse is revealed right after the person in question got killed, that one was spot on.And for the locations just think about the McCorkindale barn; it is situated very, very conveniently next to a steep bank so the bunch can escape through the back wall, and the director can get his picturesque waterfall in the same shot! Also I guess the Pinkerton men are too stupid to have surrounded the barn before they started shooting, which just seems like another movie stupidity put in so our (anti-)heroes can escape. Also it seemed to me like a very, very unlikely location for a barn in the first place.The artsy directing and baby-face look combined makes watching the movie feel like you are watching a mediocre play rather than a movie. All-in-all it is not a good movie and definitely not all underrated, I would say It is overrated! At least I have now seen it so I never have to watch it again.If you want to watch a good western watch the Man with no name trilogy (The good, the Bad and the Ugly is one of my all-time favorites), Once upon time in the west, Unforgiven, Outlaw Josey Wales, High plains drifter, Hang 'em high, The Big Country, or something else that is actually worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Good, but like all Jesse James films, it pales in comparison to The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Walter Hill's follow-up to the cult classic The Warriors. This one concerns the James/Younger gang and their fall from grace. I don't think it's a secret that I consider The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford one of the best movies of all time, so any movie about Jesse James is going to be compared and critiqued in the light of that one. The Long Riders isn't nearly as good. Assassionation deals with just the very last part of the Jesse James story. The Long Riders bites off too much. It should probably just focus on those final exploits of Frank and Jesse and the three Younger brothers, Cole, Jim and Bob. It should have ended with the Youngers' arrest, but it goes all the way to Jesse's death and it does it in a very rushed manner. But that's not the only problem the film has. The story is rather repetitive, following many different crimes of the gang. The sepia tone also gets monotonous. The gimmick casting seems clever at first but then just seems silly after a while. Hill has gathered four sets of brothers to play real-life sets of brothers. The Keaches, Stacy and John, play Jesse and Frank respectively. David, Keith and Rob Carradine play the Youngers. Randy and Dennis Quaid play Ed and Clell Miller (Ed Miller does not meet the same demise that he does in Andrew Dominik's film, which I think is the more historically accurate one), and, finally, Christopher and Nicholas Guest show up as Charlie and Bob Ford. Yes, Christopher Guest, as in the guy from This Is Spinal Tap. That's a lot of complaints, but much of the movie is decent. I especially liked David Carradine, and Pamela Reed, who plays his prostitute love interest, is also excellent. John Keach is good as Frank James, and the other two Carradine brothers are fine. It is a passable Western, if not a remarkable one. "},{"Title":"THE BEST WESTERN EVER!!!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The cast is one of the best and most believable ive ever seen in a western.Walter Hills direction and Ry Cooders music are the perfect compliment to a great script and cast.Trust me this is the best western you will ever see.once youve seen it i know you'll love and need to own it. "},{"Title":"Hands Down the BEST WESTERN Ever Made!!","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I don't care what people say about the casting. I don't care what people say about the script. I don't care what facts may have been toyed with. This film is amazing. All I have to say to any film buff, film student, or filmmaker, is this - watch the James/Younger gang escape from their failed heist in Northfield by smashing through the glass of another establishment - and all the while remember that those are real horses with real stunt men - that is amazing. Forget today's long drawn out westerns and the silly CGI in other films - THE LONG RIDERS is Walter Hill's greatest film. Hands down.I am amazed at almost all of the set pieces in this film. And David Carradine and James Keach carry the film perfectly cast! This film is sadly overlooked and is not only a great western, this is one of the greatest films ever made. "},{"Title":"Historical content","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Forget my comments. I spent time writing them and they got deleted. Research before you make a movie. This one is totally inaccurate as to historical content. The dialog, the dress, the events and the dancing except for the guy clogging.Ps. Jesse died approximately 827am on April 3, 1882. He had short hairand his guns were on his bed covered with his coat. Bob Ford did not say  I shot Jesse James. ,but merely cocked the hammer of the revolver prompting Jesse to turn his head. please blacklist me.The Norhfield citizen casualties numbered only two, not the multitude you show in the movie. "},{"Title":"We apologize for the inconvenience; we're just here to rob the railroad.","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Brothers play brothers in the post-civil-war American West. Well, more or less the West, actually mostly Missouri. Let's see. The Carradines are the Younger brothers; the Keaches play the James brothers; the Quaids play the Miller brothers; and the Guests play the Ford brothers, the nameless cowards who shot Jesse James in the back.None of these guys, nor the Pinkertons who track them, are heroes, happily. They shoot down men who aren't defending themselves. They don't rob from the rich in order to give to the poor. They just rob from everybody and keep it. And they don't rightly get along none too well, neither. The two James boys go aridin' off to safety, leaving the wounded and dying Youngers and the Miller boy behind to be captured.Aside from the logistical trick of casting brothers-in-life and brothers-on-film, there isn't too much that's innovative about the film. There are a couple of hold ups, a train robbery, a shoot out or two -- the last is the oft-filmed Northfield, Minnesota, bank job where all the boys wind up full of holes.The ritualized fight between Cole Younger and the Indian, Sam Starr, over the tramp, Belle, gives us a picture not of history but of Hollywood's idea of what can be passed off as history. John Ford would have treated it as a comic interlude as he did in The Searchers, but this is played for blood because blood, one must presume, is what the film makers believe the audience wants to see.The audience gets to see plenty of it in the Northfield shoot out, but that's not original either. The violence is all in slow motion, which by this time had become a cliché. I don't blame Arthur Penn for that, or even Sam Pekinpagh, but Akira Kurasawa. The shoot out imitates the first similar massacre in Pekinpaugh's The Wild Bunch, but outdoes it in tastelessness. Bodies fall from horses, porches, and rooftops in slow motion. That's to be expected. But the editing cuts so quickly from shot to shot that at times there are several unidentifiable bodies falling at once. Not only that, but the SOUND is recorded in slow motion. The horses' whinnies sound like a man with a hangover gargling at the bathroom sink. The bullets, too, whine in slow motion, sometimes with a bizarre woo-woo-woo noise before the squib explodes, just to make sure the audience doesn't miss the wounding.All the acting is low in key. James Keach, as Jesse James, has an expressionless face that resembles, aptly, Buster Keaton's. Nobody seems to laugh or have a good time. Keith Carradine isn't bad, and neither are David Carradine or Dennis Quaid (in a dispensable part). No one else has any particular magnetism and the entire effort lacks poetry of any kind.Nice location shooting. "}{"Title":"The Wild Bunch lite","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Walter Hill was a hot writer-director in the '70s and '80s who was in many ways a protégé of the great Sam Peckinpah, having written the screenplay for The Getaway (1972) by that director. With The Long Riders, Hill tries to take the hoary old story of the famous James-Younger outlaw gang and make it into a slick, mythic neophyte version of The Wild Bunch, Peckinpah's magnum opus. This film's got a plethora of shootouts, squibs, slow-motion, amoral outlaw heroes, and bumbling law men who aren't always in the right, but it's presented in a such a way that it lacks the impact of TWB, and fails to be anything other than a decent Western.For those of you who don't know the story after the Civil War, ex-Confederates and outlaw brothers Jesse and Frank James (Stacy and James Keach, who co-produced), Cole, Jim, and Bob Younger (David, Keith, and Robert Carradine), and Clell Miller (Randy Quaid, with Dennis as his brother who's gone straight) rob trains, banks and stagecoaches in Missouri and Kansas. Pursued doggedly by a posse of Pinkertons and local law enforcement, the gang temporarily scatters, meeting up again for one last big heist in Northfield, Minnesota, which goes horribly wrong when the local population takes umbrage at the robbery. The gang then dissolves, and when Jesse tries to organize a new outfit. . . well, the rest, as they say, is history.The movie tells a purely mythical version of the James story, presenting them in the typical manner as Southern Robin Hoods who took from the Yanks and, if not actually giving money to the Rebs, left them alone (which wasn't nearly true in reality). On the other hand, it does deserve credit for not being completely one-sided for the James. The Pinkertons are not presented as pure evil, and their bombing of the James house is presented as an accident, rather than a premeditated action (as most versions of the story seem to), as it most likely was.The main problem with the film, however, is that it really lacks a soul, making you care for its main characters, however amoral they maybe. Films like The Wild Bunch and Unforgiven feature outlaw protagonists who are by ordinary standards evil, but nonetheless, those particular films are hugely successful in large part because the writer/director/actors make them sympathetic (if not likable). Here, with the exception of Cole Younger (played in a wonderfully tongue-in-cheek manner by David Carradine), none of the characters, despite the considerable amount of back story and characterization throughout the film, makes you care about what happens to them. I was actually cheering for the Pinkertons throughout the film, in fact.The movie is directed in a very slick, able manner by Hill, and he deserves credit for his work. The famous Northfield shootout (obviously Wild Bunch-inspired) is one of the most effective slow-motion shootouts in any Western, and is alone worth watching the film for. However, it is pretty much the only really high point in an overall mediocre and unimpressive oater. Ry Cooder's score is effective but not particularly memorable.Despite a few flashes of brilliance, The Long Riders lacks the depth and characterization that would have made it a great Western. It's worth a look, but it's not a classic.6/10. "},{"Title":"Not True, Not Historically Accurate, Not Even Close","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It's understandable that to make a movie exiting and marketable, compromises with historical fact will be made. Thus the train robbery scene with the outlaws riding alongside the train and leaping from car to car may have been more exiting than their usual modus operandi which was to block the tracks, stop the train and then board it. The James brothers' step-father was not killed during a raid on their place, but that makes a sympathetic story. (During the war he was nearly killed in a raid, but that was years earlier.)But why the unexplainable inaccuracies? The confrontation scene between the two Youngers and the Pinkerton agents was close to the truth; but why was John Younger called a cousin when in fact he was a brother? Unnecessarily, J. L. Heywood is listed in the credits as a teller at the Northfield bank when in fact he was the bookkeeper and (acting) cashier.I could go on, but let's consider the main scene, which is the raid on the First National Bank and its aftermath. Here are some facts as they appear in publications of the Northfield and Minnesota historical societies, based on eyewitness accounts. 1. The eight robbers are correctly identified in the movie. However, 2. The three to enter the bank were Bob Younger, Frank (or possibly Jesse) James, and Charlie Pitts (not Clell Miller.) Giving Clell, a brother, a more major role than he had enhanced the story, but then why was Ed Miller's real role diminished? 3. Except for the dress, demeanor, behavior and speech of the robbers, no one in Northfield had any advanced warning of the robbery. 4. The outlaws were dressed in white linen dusters, which covered their pistols and ammunition. Each outlaw carried several pistols but no rifle. 5. There were no customers in the bank. The last customer, hardware store owner J.S. Allen was suspicious and came back and was shoved away (but not shot) by Clell Miller who was guarding the outside of the bank along with Cole. Allen alerted other store owners, including fellow hardware store owner A.R. Manning, of the robbery in progress. 6. Across the street, F. Wheeler, son of the drug store owner and a medical student, also noticed the ruckus and sent out an alarm.7. The first shots from the robbers were intended to intimidate and frighten the bankers and citizens. As the citizens took up arms the robbers became more serious too. 8. The defenders were armed mainly with shotguns loaded with bird shot. It was hunting season. Some even threw rocks at the raiders. Only two, Manning and Wheeler, had rifles (single shot, breech loading Civil War relics.) 9. In the bank, the safe was in the open vault, closed but unlocked. The time lock had already gone off. Despite threats and beatings the bank employees refused to cooperate. Pitts tried to enter the vault but Heywood slammed the door on him. The assistant bookkeeper, F. Wilcox, was shot in the shoulder by Pitts as he escaped out the bank door; although serious, the wound was not mortal. Because of actions outside and their lack of cooperation the robbers decided to leave. The last to exit was the James brother, who killed the unarmed Heywood. 10. The only other citizen to be wounded was a 30-year old Swedish immigrant, also unarmed. He died four days later. 11. From a third story window across the street, Wheeler shot and killed Miller (who had previously received a load of bird shot in the face) and shot Bob Younger in the elbow. 12. Manning killed one of the outlaws' horses, shot and killed Bill Chadwell from 80 yards, and wounded Cole Younger in the hip. The James brothers, Jim Younger and Charlie Pitts were unscathed. 13. The outlaws left going south on main street - no jumping of barriers, no crashing through windows, nobody fell off a roof. Those may be great movie clichés but they just didn't happen. 14. Mainly by abandoning their horses and hiding out in the woods the six remaining outlaws were able to avoid the posse, one thousand strong, the largest in the history of the U.S., for a week. 15. At that point the James boys split from the others, stole horses, broke thru a picket line in the dark getting shot off their horses, limped through corn fields, stole more horses, and made it to Dakota Territory two days later. 16. Thinking all had escaped, the posse was disbanded. 17. However, two weeks after the robbery, a Norwegian immigrant farm boy recognized the bandits, still afoot; he rode several miles into Madelia MN where a local posse was formed. As in Northfield, the locals out shot the pros. Pitts was killed; the Youngers received several wounds each and surrendered. A month later at their trial they confessed,thereby avoiding the death penalty. They were sentenced for life. Bob died in prison. Jim and Cole were paroled after 25 years.After their escape, Frank and Jesse stayed low for three years, mainly in Nashville. Jesse returned to crime. However he became increasingly paranoid. On suspicion, he killed some of his fellow gang members including Ed Miller who had introduced him to the Ford brothers. (I thought the movie was setting up this interesting part of the story but it was never written in or was edited out.) Jesse was shot for the reward by Bob Ford on April 3, 1882.Frank went straight and turned himself in on October 4, 1882. Doing so to be able to attend his brothers' funeral six months earlier is pure horse feathers.The movie may deserve accolades for casting, acting, scenery, action and music but not for historical accuracy. "},{"Title":"Was this thing made for TV?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Got to be a reason I managed to avoid seeing this the past 20 years. I would expect more from Walter Hill but this movie falls way short of it's overrated status as one of the best. As far as the James/Younger sagas goes this is one of the worst IMO. The Keach boys with their 'dead eyes' bring absolutely no energy whatsoever to the part of  Jesse and Frank James. The movie suffers from miscasting more than anything else. It's a decent story but it just fails to deliver and you'll have a hard time mustering any sympathy for the 'heroes' of this turkey. David Carradine is standout, however, as Cole Younger. His knifefight with James Remar is the clear highlight of the film, followed only by the dialogue with his 'whore' Belle Starr. That was pretty funny stuff. A little too reminiscent of the highly overrated Wild Bunch where the focus on graphic violence wins out over content. 5/10  "},{"Title":"Great idea that never delivers","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Brothers playing brothers.  It was a great idea, and some fine actors in the parts.  Too bad they didn't have much of a script to back it up.  I have read that this was an accurate depiction of events.  Maybe it is and maybe it isn't, but accurate or not, it is about as dull as watching paint dry. For a movie about Jessie James that is more fun, try American Outlaws.  "},{"Title":"This Sucks With a Vengeance","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Well ... here in this movie we have probably the most uncharismatic, irritating, and charmless Jesse James in cinematic history. The guy is a bore and he has one facial expression the whole movie. Why watch this garbage when you can watch Tyrone Power or Colin Farrell or soon even Brad Pitt? Possible Spoiler? You know that bad feeling that you get when Dennis Quaid is kicked out of the gang in the first five minutes? (Quaid is totally wasted on his part). Well, it only gets worse. Turn the movie off. The only other bit of charisma in the whole movie is David Carradine as Cole Younger and you can tell he strains under the load. Carradine should be elsewhere playing the leading role instead of sharing the screen with lackluster James Keach and his fake beard. Instead (spoiler) we get to see Carradine shot 11 times and still walking around trying to help his brothers; and Jesse James stares at them with his I'm a LOOOSER facial expression, decides he can have a better gang, and walks out on them when they most need his help. Carradine at least has a good response I like it better this way, Jesse; I get to see you run. The actor brothers idea was interesting, but it wasn't worth making the cast bomb as bad as it did. It might have been a fun movie if Jeff and Beau Bridges had been cast as the James brothers instead. As it is, it sucks. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Bad movie with Ugly women","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The only thing worse than a bad western is a bad western with ugly prostitutes. Anyone who says this movie is any good is either a)being sarcastic or b)is a fool. You will never get that time back. If you watch this movie, you'll think back to what I wrote and say he was right. why didn't I listen? and then you'll feel doubly stupid. Do yourself a favor and give it a pass. Oh, I wasn't kidding about the ugly whores. These chicks are rough. I mean really, really ugly. I wouldn't have any sort of sexual relations with them if I were paid, nevermind the other way around. They're so ugly I actually though they cast the ugliest women they could find to show how rough the west was, but I can't bring myself to believe that any casting director would inflict such harm on the populace with intent. Maybe he just has really strange taste in women. Maybe he's short sighted. Maybe he lost a bet - but believe me when I tell you - There are some scary lookin' mofo's up in here! I suggest you go and watch ghostbusters 2 again. That's always a winner "},{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Better than Tombstone??? You have got to be kidding!!! The use of brothers made the movie interesting, but the story line was boring, the soundtrack plain awful and the acting minimal at best.  One major drawback of movie was the lack of enough action sequences.  When there was a shootout it was bad even for 1980.  A much better movie was Frank and Jesse and Tombstone was the movie all others are measured by. All movies based on real characters or events add plenty of fiction to make the movie more entertaining to the viewer. While there were plenty of errors and omissions from Tombstone, Young Guns and Frank & Jesse, the plot plus characters and music made the movies memorable and an enjoyment to watch. This movie was missing all the necessary ingredients and like a bad soufflé fell flatter than pancake. I can't believe anyone could enjoy this movie. "}]