[{"Title":"My guardian angel","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Tony Bill's My Bodyguard seems to be a film that has been forgotten. Thanks to the Fox cable channel, it turned up the other night. It doesn't seem possible this movie is twenty five years old already. Not having seen it when it was released, we took a chance and it paid off handsomely.The film addresses the bullying in schools, a nightmare for those students that appear weak, or easy marks for these predators to make a name for themselves among their peers, at the others expense. Unfortunately, no one pays attention to the ones being abused and Hollywood, in general, takes the bully's side in many occasions, at the expense of the nerd, or the ones suffering the harassment.My Bodyguard shows some of today's familiar faces as they looked in those years. Some have gone to careers of their own, such as Matt Dillon, Adam Baldwin, Joan Cusack, George Wendt, and the uncredited Jennifer Beals, who has no speaking role.When Clifford Peache, the son of a hotel manager in Chicago, changes schools, he meets his worst nightmare Melvin Moody. Melvin terrorizes kids, especially those young and vulnerable. Clifford is the new target for Melvin to bring down and humiliate if he doesn't agree to do whatever he is told. Rick Linderman, the tall and strange guy in Cliff's class is the perfect candidate to be engaged as a body guard for all the kids being abused. In fact, Rick teaches Clifford a lesson when at the end he has to face the mean Melvin, who proves to be a coward, as all bullies are.My Bodyguard is an entertaining film to watch thanks to the great performance by Chris Makepeace, who makes a great Clifford. Ruth Gordon, who plays Clifford's grandmother, has some comic moments. Martin Mull is seen as Cliff's father and John Houseman appears briefly as the man who is charmed by Grandma Peache.Tony Bill shows he could deliver a movie that seems to be timeless. "},{"Title":"A Lasting Impression","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  In his debut performance, Adam Baldwin does a wonderful job portraying the alienated Ricky Linderman, who is seen as a hulking, violent psychopath by most of his peers.  Baldwin's acting abilities are impressive and he touches the heart of the viewer by showing us Ricky's emotions.Ruth Gordon is a joy to watch as Clifford's Gramma Peache.  Her character adds the touch of humor that is needed to balance the heavy subjects addressed in this piece of work.I am slightly disappointed with the editing; they appear to be going for dramatic pauses that don't work well and slow the pace of the scenes at times.  However, I'm willing to live with that for the opportunity to see this wonderful story, which after 24 years still rings true to the reality of the cutthroat world of high school.  "},{"Title":"Positive, enjoyable film","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I recently saw this movie again and I was surprised at how well it holds up. The story isn't dated, the situations are universal and current and the acting is fine.    The plots are believable, interesting and satisfying. For a sleeper of a film in 1980, it stands out as 1 of the better teen genre pieces that flooded the theaters in the 80's.  The ending is a bit sappy, but it still doesn't detract from a very sweet story with characters you can actually cheer for (except, of course for Moody and Mike, but it was fun booing them as well). "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie lost in time","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My Bodyguard is a wonderful film that has a charming story which doesnt have to have people getting blown up or killed.  The movie also has a nice moral too it.  I remember watching this as a kid and this was one of my favorite films growing up.  It teaches kids about friendship, devotion and loyalty and standing up for what you believe in ... its a classic compared to some of the trash like 8 mile thats out there today.Chris Makepeace is excellent but Matt Dillon is truly fantastic as the school bully.  I highly reccommend this type of movie for your kids.  "},{"Title":"A timeless, compelling and thoughtful movie about facing odds.","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie rings true on so many different levels. I find this a real gem because no matter how many times I watch it I find it compelling and refreshingly straightforward. Chris Makepeace is cast perfectly as a reluctant victim of extortion by Matt Dillon's high school band of thugs. Adam Baldwin relays a sense of pain, anguish, and grief that you can nearly touch. What can you say about Matt Dillon (Moody)? Anyone who has ever been bullied will squirm in their seat after watching him for just ten minutes. This is one of those special movies that will appeal to so many different people. Haven't we all been to high school? been bullied at some point? got caught up in ridiculous rumor and innuendo? if so, then definitely take time to watch this timeless classic. "},{"Title":"This movie gave me warm fuzzie feelings.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is the movie I first spotted the actor Adam Baldwin and I have been a fan of his ever since. This is an extremely well acted movie. It is a family movie that kids and adults alike will enjoy. It is full of great characters and great character actors. I noticed that Dean Devlin had a small part as Boy. Later on Adam Baldwin had a part in Independence Day which Dean Devlin wrote and produced. I wonder if this is where they first met. If you get the chance please watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Welcome To Your Sophomore Year...Or High School Itself.","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Well,when I saw,My Bodyguard,i wasn't a High School sophomore but had actually just entered Jr. High..which isn't much different except for age. It's almost needless to say that,having put up with bullies and tormentors in nearly every grade of school to that point (and into high school) you'd win the bet that I absolutely loved this movie! At the time of release I was 12 and the idea of hiring a great big person like that for protection at school appealed to me.Adam Baldwin does an accurate portrayal of a teen that grows up in less than ideal surroundings. Chris Makepeace brings us easily into feeling sympathetic to his cause. Matt Dillon,in only his 3rd movie,is the perfect chip on his shoulder bully,who gets some sick pleasure out of making others feel terrible by insulting them or beating them up if they dare to talk back at him. As well as he & his friends,basically,extorting other kids' lunch money. The other teens act just the way teens in that generation did. (They actually represent my oldest brother's time in High School '78-'82.)The adults Martin Mull as Clifford's Dad,who manages the hotel where they also live. Ruth Gordon (who always was hilarious) is a treasure and does what she does best,playing the feisty Grandma who never grew up. Look for a less than 90 sec. cameo by a then unknown George Wendt,playing a hotel Engineer/Repairman.My favorite scene besides the climactic fight in the park,is when Clifford goes into the local hangout and squirts mustard/pours drinks over his tormentors! Hilarious! They chase him across the street,followed by the other teens and Cliff introduces them to his Bodyguard. The deeper undertones of the film,that are about Linderman are a way of saying,you think Clifford has problems,look at Linderman. Meaning,there's a lot worse that can happen in the world and things in your own life aren't as bad as they might seem. Especially when you're younger.Overall,the whole movie works,I don't care how it's edited,as long as it makes sense and has a point. Point being,you have to do for yourself in this world because,not everyone will help you all the time. It almost makes you wish today's school problems were this easy to handle. Along with Fast Times At Ridgemont High And The Breakfast Club,I wish all movies about teens in the 1980's had been this good,instead of the more mindless teen-sex films that I found very insulting to my intelligence! (END) "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Whatever happened to Chris Makepeace. This kid could could act. He was my hero growing up. There was nobody I could relate to more. I mean there was the Terminator, Rocky, Rambo, Conan, and other big muscle heroes. They did not speak to me. I felt no connection to them. Don't get me wrong I loved those films...Yes even Rocky 5 (You knocked him down...why don't you try knocking' me down?), but it was the loser weakling portrayed in My Bodyguard, the kid who could not find a friend at camp in Meatballs, and the horny teenager in Vamp I felt instantly akin to.My Bodyguard had me searching the hallways of my High School for someone to protect me. I never found my Adam Baldwin, but this movie taught me to stick up for myself. There were plenty of Matt Dillon's in my high school just waiting to steal my lunch money, and mess up the way I looked.This film had some high drama in it as well. I am not one of those that likes to write spoilers so I will just say that I had an unexpected welling of emotion in one scene. If I ever wrote a script, I would seek out the talents of Chris Makepeace. "},{"Title":"Moving story of friendship and adolescence","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Of all the teen flicks that came out of the 1980s, MY BODYGUARD is one of three that stands out as an intelligent and moving study of American adolescence that doesn't now look like a dated genre piece(THE BREAKFAST CLUB and SAY ANYTHING are the others). Sure, there's shaggy hair and all the other things that date the movie fashion-wise, but the characters shine with humanity and poignancy, and that makes the movie memorable. In fact, some could convincingly argue that the movie is all about the characters, people that movie audiences will care about. Add to that the situation of being the new kid and trying to survive the jungle of high school(something most every American teen can relate to), and you have a great little film. Chris Makepeace is the new kid who tranfers to a urban Chicago highschool from a private school and immediately runs afoul of school bully Matt Dillon. Searching for a solution to his predicament, Makepeace enlists Adam Baldwin, a silent, hulking classmate with a mysterious past, to protect him. What unfolds is a rare friendship between Makepeace and Baldwin, as we learn more about Baldwin's character and some terrible secrets he holds. Whether intentional or not, the film sends a message that the people we encounter everyday are just that, people with feelings and problems and not just the labels or stereotypes we assign them. Makepeace needs Baldwin for protection from Dillon, and Baldwin needs Makepeace's friendship to rescue him from the isolation he has endured as a result of past experiences. One unusual aspect of the movie is that several of the adult characters are sympathetic or even quirky, a rarity in teen films. Ruth Gordon shines as Makepeace's feisty grandmother, and Martin Mull puts in a turn as the bumbling but well-meaning father. And, unlike the nihilistic teens of today's current crop of movies, the teens(with the exception of Dillon and his cronies)are likable, friendly, and positive. They readily accept Makepeace and then Baldwin, after they see that the rumors about him are just that. This gives the movie a positive feel to it.Definitely a winner. If you've ever been a teenager, wondered if you would belong, attended a high school or had to do battle with a bully, you'll find something to like about MY BODYGUARD. "},{"Title":"Still holds up well.","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I liked it when it first came out and still like it now. Matt Dillon plays the perfect jerk in this movie. You are so glad when he gets his in the end. The friendship seemed real between Chris Makepeace and Adam Baldwin. This film also included a very young, braces wearing, Joan Cusack. I highly recommend this one.  "}{"Title":"a low-budget charmer","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a film I'd heard of for years and finally had a chance to view it. It is a low-key, low-budget and witty film about high school survival -- but it is far from being the usual teen film. It takes place in a decidedly urban and challenging setting, and its adult characters are as quirky as its teenaged ones.The characters are well-drawn, the acting is good, and although the plot is insignificant, with a weak conclusion, this film manages to be realistic, present interesting characters (particularly Adam Baldwin's) and make you laugh. In other words, the quality of the writing makes it come to life.It's one of the last of a series of excellent low-key, naturalistic films of the 70's, that specialize in fascinating characterizations. "},{"Title":"Still Holds Up","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Maybe it's just because I saw it in the theater when I was ten when it first came out, but it was one of those movies that affected me in a big way. Those of you actually BORN in 1980 can look at it as some relic, but I say it will stand the test of time like Fast Times at Ridgmont High and Over the Edge. This is a movie from a time when kids attempted to brush their hair, wore terry-cloth OP's and listened to Led Zeppelin. Video games pretty much meant Asteroids and Pong. Oh, the dark ages!!! What would all these new fresh-faced movie-goers do without their Nintendo Play-station Cubes and Matrix kung-fu digital effects? Back then we had Star Wars, and believe me, it was practically enough. I say practically because we begged for and demanded sequels and thats how all this crap got started in the first place. But back to my main point--- this movie rules and were all better off for it. It launched alot of careers (though unfortunately not Mr. Makepeace's) and was crucial to the generation it was tailored for as far as teaching us about life after elementary school. By the way, the fight scene may not be Crouching Tiger, but it's how it really works when you ACTUALLY have to fight. Oh, and bullies DID hang out in bathrooms all day, and a can of soda cost 25 cents. And for the record you will see the last recorded moment when someone flipped someone off by extending ONLY the middle finger. All that and Ruth Gordon, no less. Yeah!!! "},{"Title":"Still holds up","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 16 with my best friend. I loved it from beginning to end. After seeing Fast Times at Ridgemont high again, I forgot how dirty that movie was. Being 16 at the time and being a girl, I was very naive. I didn't talk to anyone about sex (even my best friend) I don't remember people being as crude about sex as they are now. In high school, we thought maybe some long term couples were having sex but no one went on about it. It was refreshing seeing My Bodyguard again. I was a true to life version of the Joan Cusak role. Yes I was naive and trusting but I'm glad I was. The movie was well written without having to make all the girls sleeping with everyone and all looking 25. This it pretty much how I remember people looking and acting in high school. Yes there were bullies (boys and girls) and I'm glad to see that Clifford won out in the end just by standing up for himself. Matt Dillon was great as Moody (BM). I loved seeing Clifford's Steve Martin impression. I remember kids doing that at school. Adam Baldwin brought such depth to Ricky. His eyes showed so much. I recently bought this movie and will have my daughters watch it. It reminds me of a simpler time back then, I don't remember if MTV just started or was about to. It seems like things changed so much after that. All the sex that was glorified in the videos took off. (yes I know I sound like an old Mom, but wait til you have teenage daughters and see how it affects you.) We didn't start high school til 10th grade. Now it seems like you have to grow up so much faster. We stayed kids longer and that's what that movie reminds me of. I loved watching the red headed boy playing with the music ensemble in the gym, or the old gym clothes we used to wear. Anyway, I'm glad that movie is out now. The good old days. (I know I sound old, 43!) "},{"Title":"Excellent teen film","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Those people who have seen Matt Dillon only in more recent films, such as Factotum and Crash, have missed arguably the best work of the first phase of his acting career. That I felt so incensed by Melvin Moody, Dillon's My Bodyguard character, tells me what a talent Dillon had for playing the part of the incorrigible schoolboy who makes physically weaker students dread every school day.Though, of all the cast members Dillon incited me the most -- I wished I could enter the film so that I could shove Melvin Moody down a flight of stairs -- no actor left me feeling unmoved. Several actors, in fact, impressed me as much as did Dillon.Despite the familiar themes of friendship and loyalty and the often-employed plot involving campus hoodlums and their victims, the performances in this movie were thought provoking as well as entertaining, apparently because this film's writers seemed to make a point of avoiding uni-faceted characters.Fun-loving Gramdma Peache (Ruth Gordon), for example, showed that she also had a capacity for compassion and kindness, just as sullen, intimidating Ricky Linderman (Adam Baldwin) became less defensive, even easygoing, given the right setting. Well-adjusted Clifford Peache (Chris Makepeace), who spent much time fleeing Melvin Moody and his rowdy friends, could change, too, turning bold and feisty on a couple of occasions.In contrast, the story doesn't include a scene in which Melvin Moody reveals a part of himself that, let's say, he would prefer to keep hidden, such as his cowering in the presence of a verbally and physically abusive father. Matt Dillon performs so naturally, however, that the story does not suffer by including a prototypical bully. "},{"Title":"One Of Those Movies I Never Tire Of","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" So, I was watching the new Fox series, The Inside the other night and marveling at how handsome and young and talented Adam Baldwin still is and I realized that the film I fell for him in is 25 years old! How time flies! I saw My Bodyguard in the theatre in 1980 with a friend from high school the very first time her parents allowed her to hang out with me. They were very protective and thought I was some kind of hood. I totally was not! I was a good kid who was perceived as nothing by the real bad kids in my school. I was invisible, for the most part. But I was bullied a lot from time to time. And during one really bad year, I did the bullying. You do what you're taught. And there were a couple of years there where I just couldn't get along with anyone. The movie meant a lot to me at a time when I probably really needed it.Adam Baldwin was so completely adorable in this movie that I must've seen it 20 times over the years. I identified with Clifford, of course. But I just loved Linderman. I've seen most of Adam's stuff. Even some of the cheesy direct-to-video crap. Well, I was in the video business for a while, it didn't cost me anything. He's always better than the material he's given. When they cut him loose, he's great. And it's no harm that he's extensively easy on the eyes.I love Tony Bill. He has made some terrific, very underrated movies in his time. Anyone seen Five Corners? God, I love that movie.Having been a Ruth Gordon fan since I first Saw Harold & Maude at an art-house when I was a kid, it was a delight watching her granny-gone-wild act in My Bodyguard. Martin Mull was sweetly droll as he tried to curb her as best he could and be there for his son amid the chaos of them all living inside his career.Had anyone ever before seen a family living in a big-city luxury hotel that the dad's trying to run? What a delicious touch! How boring would this film be without the hijinks at the hotel? In fact, all the locations were exceptionally well-utilized.Would it scare any of you that I can hear the musical score in my head as I write this? It really is one of those films for me. It stuck with me. Even though I never owned the score, I remember the music. The character-driven semi-classical score by Dave Grusin is refreshing. If you've never seen this film, you owe it to yourself to partake. Most especially if you were anywhere near the range of 10-20 years old in 1980. And it's finally on DVD! "},{"Title":"Terrific Little Film With Enormous Heart","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This film is an absolute joy. When it came out 24 years ago my friends and I went to see it about 5-6 times. I've not seen it since and recently purchased it. It was like opening a time capsule everything was still fresh and true with tremendous performances from a terrific ensemble cast. The standout performance belongs to Adam Baldwin. 17 when this was filmed, Baldwin's performance is nothing short of astonishing. His Linderman is classic tough guy on the outside, frightened loner beneath the surface. Properly fearful looking (the whole school is scared of this guy) Baldwin nonetheless makes it impossible for you not to feel for this kid and when, out of his greasy, shapeless clothes and cleaned up and dressed for dinner at the hotel, his smile and demeanor Chris Makepeace shines as the tale's protagonist, Clifford and his persistence in courting friendship with Linderman is a turning point in the film. Ruth Gordon is predictably hilarious as Cliff's grandmother (Bats, bats!) whether getting tipsy and flirting with the married guests or dispensing relationship advice to her grandson (never hit a woman . . . men think they want that . . . they don't! ) One forgets how young Matt Dillon, Joan Cusack were when they started and both are terrific here.A terrific little film with enormous heart. "},{"Title":"High school punks rule the hallways","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  A group of teen-age thugs run a 'protection' agency at their school. After being roughed up, one boy gets his own bodyguard, a boy named Lenderman. Lenderman, an emotionally troubled child, is feared by the bullies because of rumors concerning his violent tendencies. Things look up for a while until the thugs turn the tables and once again spread fear in the school. While not a 'deep' film, it was a pleasant way to spend an hour and a half.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny and touching","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" What with the recent headlines about extreme bullying in school, this film is eerily prescient.Chris Makepeace, as the primary target of a mean bully at his new high school, gives a strong, warm performance that makes one wish he hadn't virtually disappeared from the acting scene. I think he could have had as good a career as his co-star Matt Dillon (who plays the bully). As it is, he makes his character easy to root for. When he enlists the bodyguard services of Adam Baldwin as the sullen school outcast (who is feared as a psychopath because of his size and because he was rumored to have killed his younger brother), the two forge a beautifully written friendship that you rarely see in movies anymore. Makepeace also finds out from a very kind teacher/counselor that Baldwin's younger brother accidentally shot himself, and that trauma is why Baldwin is so withdrawn.Of course, Makepeace can only rely on Baldwin's protection for so long, because Baldwin isn't really a psychopath. Dillon shows up with a bigger, tougher guy as HIS bodyguard, and Makepeace watches helplessly as Baldwin allows himself to be beaten and humiliated. Afterward, he asks Baldwin, Why didn't you fight?, because he's honestly puzzled. Baldwin spits, I never wanted to be anybody's damn bodyguard anyway! Later he reveals the painful truth about his younger brother that he did actually shoot the boy. It was an accident, but he is racked with guilt over it. The scene has heartbreaking acting not just from Baldwin but from Makepeace.Eventually the two reconcile, and Baldwin decides to confront Dillon and his bodyguard. At first Baldwin pretends he's going to back down again, and then in a great moment that always makes me cheer, lets out a primal howl as he bodily flings himself on top of the larger guy and proceeds to pound on him. He wins that battle, but there's still another between Dillon and Makepeace. Baldwin urges Makepeace to fight for himself, and he does, breaking Dillon's nose and revealing what a coward Dillon truly is.The film's ending is great Baldwin trailing after Makepeace and jokingly asking him to be his bodyguard.Wonderful film. It deserves more recognition. "},{"Title":"Buried treasure","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember loving this movie when I saw it as a grade school kid growing up. It remains a classic, and to me, is more satisfying with each viewing. Perhaps it's because this may just be the most realistic movie about kids, friendship, and growing up I've ever seen. It's refreshing to know that they can make movies about young kids without portraying them as sex maniacs, criminals, or drug users.My Bodyguard is about a high school student, oddly named Clifford Peache (Chris Makepeace), who is encountering trouble at school. After unwisely insulting a school bully nicknamed Moody, (played wonderfully by Matt Dillon) he becomes a target. They want him to give them their lunch money, for protection. From who? From themselves, of course, but that's not what they say.. no, indeed. They tell him they're trying to protect him from a big, tough kid named Ricky Linderman (played by Adam Baldwin in his film debut).Clifford is somewhat small, he doesn't know how to fight, and he's not very intimidating, thus, he can't really defend himself. So, what he lacks in size, he more than makes up for in intelligence and cleverness. He decides that he wants to pay Ricky Linderman to be my bodyguard. This is where the movie really begins, and makes an excellent turn.Linderman is somewhat of an outcast and a loner at school, presumably because of his size, and some unkind rumors milling about the school. He has a reputation for being a psychopathic menace, but as it turns out, he's just a normal kid who experienced a tragic event. Clifford decides to get back at Moody with Linderman watching his back. Linderman is at first a little hesitant to accept Clifford's attempt at creating their friendship. Then, one day after Clifford is caught following his bodyguard home, their wonderful, unlikely friendship begins. The bonding sequence between these two unlikely companions is really satisfying to watch.Not only does Linderman help Cliff, Cliff helps Linderman. Linderman begins to open up, alleviate his shyness, and relate better to people. He begins to understand that there are friends out there, and we all need support. This character transition that Baldwin makes is extremely well-acted and very convincing. Clifford, we later learn, isn't the only one with tricks up his sleeve. Some scenes later in the movie, like Linderman getting pushed around by another tough kid, are a little difficult and painful to watch. The scenes about Cliff's grandmother (played by the wonderfully funny Ruth Gordon) and Martin Mull as his father trying to keep her under control in the bar of the hotel he manages, don't really go with the other scenes, and are almost like a film-within-a-film. That's easily forgiven and forgotten, though, because of the brilliance of the other parts, especially a great fight scene where everything comes together at the end. I haven't seen too many movies where I've liked the ending as much as this one.The most gratifying thing about this movie, is perhaps the lessons that can be learned. I loved the scene where Clifford discusses the rumors about Linderman with one of the teachers, who more or less implies that we should judge people and form our own opinions instead of listening to rumors and gossip. Clifford is wise enough not to listen to the rumors. It's nice to know that people can be friends, despite differences in their backgrounds, economic status, or social circles. It reminded me of a line from On Golden Pond spoken by Katherine Hepburn Sometimes you have to look hard at a person, and realize they're doing the best they can. My Bodyguard does exactly that.This is a very suitable film as well as great learning material for any teenager, teacher, or parent. The film is perfectly cast and the performances by the teenagers as well as the adults are fantastic. I liked the performance of Adam Baldwin the best, he starts out looking a little sloppy, scruffy, and primitive, but later goes through a transformation to a well-mannered, polite, affable, approachable young man. He is very convincing playing a kid who is tough, scared, sad, and angry at the same time. To make a treasure and a classic movie like this about teenagers and high school was some kind of miracle, and wonderful. "},{"Title":"true to life","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I was exactly the same age as the main character when this movie came out (sophomore year, 1980) and saw it on cable TV. I knew each one of these characters well and it could have been filmed in my suburban high school. I had nothing but hatred for Matt Dillon's character, as I was one who did not need a bodyguard but learned to fight off the Melvin Moodys in my own life. His performance was fantastic, especially after having found the local brute Mike to beat Linderman up for him; he gets cocky and starts taking advantage of the reversed situation, which only hurts him in the end (you broke my nose!!). Great acting from kids I felt I really knew, and it's not surprising to see who went on to fine acting careers (Dillon and Baldwin). "}{"Title":"One of those movies you remember as a kid","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" 'My bodyguard' is one of those movies--like 'Breaking away'--that you remember long after the credits end. If you saw it as a kid like I did, the movie hit you in the gut. It is just 'real.' The film offers a slice of teen life that you can definitely relate to, whether you've been bullied or not. It includes wonderful performances all around. Chris Makepeace is really great in this movie--and so is Matt Dillon! I don't know why it's been rated so low--it's a great film and I'd highly recommend it. There's that sense of teen angst and finding your place in the world, and it resonates and works on lots of levels. All sorts of crappy movies get higher ratings, go figure! "},{"Title":"movie that keeps you hooked","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is definitely a very good movie. On the surface, a movie about a boy hiring a big kid to be his bodyguard against four bullies seems mundane, but this movie had a lot of twists and characters that keep you riveted. The young boy goes through pains most kids do at some point, if not all points of their childhood. A boys's worth is quite literally summed up in how big, dangerous, and tough he is during these years. The boy's father, who manages a hotel, has his own battle in the meantime, and his relationship with his son is not strained, but not completely open. It smacks of realism. In fact, the movie not only smacks of realism, but of action and drama, too. Even the ending is realistic, and leaves you asking some questions about where the characters go from there. "},{"Title":"Filmed at Lakeview High School in Chicago.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This film was shot in 1979 at Lakeview High School in Chicago. I went to the same school in 1978, when I first saw the movie, I almost cheered in the theater.Seeing the film just brings back so many memories, the library, the funky gym, the school theater. The park is Belmont Harbor, I used ride my bike through there almost every day.Plus the performances are just neat. They seem a little overacted now, but it is still fun to see Ruth Gordon as the sexpot, Martin Mull as the Dad, and Chris Makepeace as the kid.Ruth Gordon's advice is still relevant today, if you cannot defeat your opponent by eye gouging, then a good crotch kicking is the best plan. "},{"Title":"Screenwriter!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I really enjoy this movie every time I see it -- and all the cameos! I won't mention them in case you haven't watched it yet. One thing I noticed, though, was the screenwriter's name -- Alan Ormsby. WOW! It rang a bell from my childhood; an old pal and I in junior high made it a point to watch every creepy movie we could get our hands on; the gorier, the better. Alan Ormsby wrote, directed and starred in a masterpiece (1972) that completely stuck with me called Children Shouldn't Play With Dead Things --- and he later went on to do Cat People (not sure if he directed it too?). Strange, huh? I mean, how do you go from Children... to My Bodyguard, then on to Cat People (which, incidentally, also stuck with me for various scenes which I hate to spoil here).Anyway, no matter how you slice it, Bodyguard is a great movie, and Baldwin and Makepeace are so fun to watch together! I have to wonder if Baldwin is still wearing that same coat in Firefly/Serenity, *g*.... "},{"Title":"True  to adolescent life with a tour de force performance by Baldwin","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Anyone who has ever been subjected to the ethos of might makes right will appreciate the raw truth of this film. The opportunity to trump the bullies with their own high card is one that uncounted thousands of decent, peaceable kids fantasize about. The amazing and regrettable thing is that this breathtaking debut performance by Adam Baldwin was not capitalized on by producers or directors. Instead Baldwin was relegated to roles like the sadistic British officer in The Patriot which takes advantage of his imposing physical presence but gives him no opportunity to display his unexpected, attractive and profound humanity. Perhaps someday a wise filmmaker will recognize Baldwin's potential and make the most of his abilities. "},{"Title":"Outstanding teen movie","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  When My Bodyguard was released in the summer of 1980, the teen movie genre was in its infancy. We would soon be assaulted with countless flicks about horny teens and their libidos. This film stands above that pack. Anyone attending high school during this period (as I was) will feel for Clifford Peache. An outstanding teen movie, it launched the careers of Joan Cusack, Adam Baldwin, and in a tiny and unfortunately uncredited role, Jennifer Beals. The adults also shine in their roles (especially Ruth Gordon, in one of her last screen appearances). The story holds up and is believable. The one small complaint I have is the film somehow feels like one of those ABC Afterschool Specials. Anyway, if you want to see a teen movie before the genre imploded with vulgarity, rent My Bodyguard. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Perhaps Chris Makepeace's best film","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a great film for anyone wanting to get away from the modern Hollywood vision of perfect people under perfect circumstances. Not only does the film have a good solid message behind it but it also shows the human condition in a light that not even low budget films do anymore. This is well worth the rent, but I can't wait for the DVD. "},{"Title":"Good low budget 70s movie","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Like The Warriors which was released a year earlier, My Bodyguard has cool street cinematography, spunky dialogue, and a likeable cast. Of course the story was a bit formulaic (the new kid gets beat up and has to learn to fight and make friends, la la la) but it was fun to watch. If youre wondering where the idea for The Karate Kid (1984) came from, look right here. Only this time Mr. Miyagi is a tough, estranged teen (Adam Baldwin) and the boy Clifford (Chris Makepeace) ends up learning to box during his only fight, no training or wax on wax off, just right to the action. The film's greatest asset is its realism in portraying high school life, and its no nonsense attitude towards showing bullies.  "},{"Title":"an under-appreciated movie for all ages","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  As you can see, adults have gotten plenty out of this little movie. But don't count out its impact on young adults out there. I saw this movie first when I was in sixth grade and I fell in love with it. It was such a feel-good and engaging movie to me. When I watch it these days, I get a mix of the nostalgia of middle-school and the fun time that the movie's versatility still delivers today. Besides, if you're a Matt Dillon fan at all, you'll have a blast. I'd recommend renting this movie with your middle-school age boy, as long as you don't mind a little harmless violence. And who does? "},{"Title":"A well done film for teens that explores extortion in a Chicago high school","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  My Bodyguard is the story of a school kid being teased by a bunch of tough guys in a Chicago high school. You'll find yourself involved with the characters even though you probably won't feel particularly close to them. Nothing deep here folks but teens will really enjoy the constant threats and confrontations by the characters. Matt Dillon does his usual great job as the leader of a bunch of bullies.Ruth Gordon lights up the screen the few times she appears. "}{"Title":"teenager is picked on by school bully,hires outcast as bodyguard","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" my bodyguard is a great family movie,with minimal violence (even then the violence is a necessary part of the movie).there is no foul language that i know of.the fight scenes are done very tastefully.there is bit of humour thrown in as well, mostly in the form of ruth gordon(grandma).the subject matter(bullying)is still very relevant today although the movie takes a lighter approach than any movie made today would.it is also simplistic in its approach,though being a family oriented movie, one would expect it to be.the movie does go abit overboard on the inspirational factor and it paints bullying as something much easier to deal with than the reality.watching this film as an adult,it seemed like it could have had more substance.as a child,i remember enjoying it thoroughly.i like to think of it as a low rent karate kideven though karate kid was still five years away.my bodyguard will be enjoyed by early teens and a bit younger.parents will enjoy the fact that their kids have a kid friendly movie to watch.8 stars for kids,6 stars for adults "},{"Title":"Serious subject given light-handed treatment...likable little film...","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" MY BODYGUARD is a reminder of the bully types we've all known that like to mess with teen-agers during those dangerous years at school and beyond. It takes a serious subject and turns it around by making it all appear to be a light-hearted look at the sport of being a school bully. However, in doing so it manages to be absorbing and pleasant entertainment with touches of humor at unexpected moments.What could be criticized is the over-the-top fight that resolves the problem for our hero and causes the story to lose a sense of reality before it reaches a knockdown climactic fight at the conclusion.Performances are all first rate--especially the comic turn by Ruth Gordon in one of her last film roles. Chris Makepiece does nicely in the central role as the innocent victim of all the taunting and Adam Baldwin (no relation to the Baldwin brothers) is intriguing and enigmatic as the strong guy he hopes will be his bodyguard. A coming of age film that is easy to watch--if not always quite believable. It's guaranteed to bring shudders to those who were unfortunate enough to go through this kind of punishment during their teen years. "},{"Title":"We All Need A Helping Hand, Sometimes","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a unexpectedly deep Highschool Bullying movie that is based around the words I wrote in the Summary.This movie appears to have inspired the less deep and more over the top Three O Clock High.Clifford (Chris Makepeace) moves to a new school and becomes the object of a group of bullies led by Moody (Matt Dillon). Clifford is afraid to fight them so he enlists the help of a mysterious kid Linderman (Adam Baldwin) that all the bullies fear.However, Cliff finds Linderman is not Superman, rather he has a grave psychological problem which contributes to his mysteriousness. This problem causes Linderman to question things about himself, and leaves the ending in doubt. We (the audience) begin to question whether Linderman can really fight or not. The movie has a good story and has well rounded characters, that find out we all need a helping hand sometimes. It is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Serving Up Bullies In Early '80s Teen Comedy","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" One of the earliest and somewhat more atypical of the '80s teen comedies later worked to a fine polish by John Hughes and company, My Bodyguard is a rough gem of a film, anchored by a solid central performance by a here-and-gone favorite of mine, Chris Makepeace.Makepeace plays Clifford Peache, who finds himself in a new school when his father (Martin Mull) is made manager of the Ambassador East Hotel, site of the legendary Pump Room. Clifford lives a life of relative luxury without being rich himself, having no airs even if he is driven to school in a limo. He finds trouble anyway when classmate Melvin Moody (Matt Dillon) singles him out for abuse and demands for protection money. Clifford figures there must be a better way, and finds it in sullen tough guy Ricky Linderman (Adam Baldwin), whom he diligently recruits for real protection services - against Moody.What's great about My Bodyguard outweighs what's not great about it, but it's a surprisingly tight battle right up to the end. You have two films here one of which (Clifford in school, dealing with Moody and Linderman) is a solid tough-nosed teen drama with some light comedic banter; the other a goofy Clifford-at-home piece featuring his father's efforts to stay employed despite the antics of a fun-loving grandma (Ruth Gordon) and a weasely assistant. Believe it or not, more people knew Martin Mull than Matt Dillon in 1980, and the film caters to this reality more than it needs to.The result, as moonspinner55 notes in his review, is lumpy...and occasionally very awkward. But it was a new decade, and new rules were being made. It's not a far distance from kooky Grammy Ruth flirting up a storm at the bar to Long Duk Dong teasing Molly Ringwald in Sixteen Candles. Unlike the rest of the '80s teen comedies that followed, there's no romantic angle here. Also different is the urban setting. Director Tony Bill gets some of his best visuals following Clifford around the city, with big overhead shots that emphasize Clifford's smallness amid the tall buildings.Bill also had the good sense of putting Makepeace at the film's center. With his big blue eyes and wild hair, Makepeace made for a weirdly charismatic underdog in films like this and Meatballs, his other big role. He also nicely underplays his scenes, giving Clifford a believable strength when, for example, he flatly tells Moody I'm not going to give you my lunch money. I've got to eat.Even this small stand has consequences, as word of Clifford's defiance gets out and Moody and his goons work on him harder. School authorities are no help. Don't cry wolf every time someone looks at you crosseyed, says the principal (Richard Cusack, whose daughter Joan plays a student). He tells Clifford things are less sheltered at this high school, a point Bill also gets across with his shots of the school's dank, ugly interior.Baldwin definitely looks the part of Linderman, a giant cloud hanging over his head as he shuffles around the school looking haunted. With his menacing bearing, his moments with Clifford seem less edgy than they should. But the pair also help deliver the best parts of the movie, the showdowns with Moody which lead up to the big finale with Moody's own bodyguard, Mike (Hank Salas), who's one really scary dude.You don't see many honest teen movies, and the honesty of Bodyguard's fight scenes especially really jump out at you. If only the film did more with the one storyline and dispensed with the other. "},{"Title":"A movie that will make you feel there is hope for everyone!!!!!","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My bodyguard brought a flood of wonderful and awful things about being a teenager in the eighties. I don't care about what anyone else says but just watching bullies get it in the end still puts a smile on my face 25 years later. Its nice to see some of the hunks I loved back then like Matt Dillion and Chris Makepeace (Tigerbeat Magazine ). I think many will agree with a plot that involves an underdog and defeating odds that are still a challenge for teenagers now and then is a pleasure to watch. So as you can see I strongly recommend this movie for someone who just wants a basic feel good movie like they use to make. "},{"Title":"an overlooked delight","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This tale of odd friendships is delightful. The film is full of wonderful moments and some fine insight into the minds and hearts of teenagers.  The scene wherein my bodyguard finally locates the used motorcycle part which will put him back on the road, and the ride with Cliff which follows, are a joy to behold. Enjoy small roles by John Houseman, Ruth Gordon, and larger ones by Matt Dillon and Martin Mull,and even a quick appearance by George Wendt. The soundtrack is a great mix of classical plus some hard-to-define music from jazz great Dave Grusin. "},{"Title":"«-*Great Movie Kiddos!*-»","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  *~ Great movie! It's always a charmer! I love the way the story is portrayed...not like a normal teen movie. It had some un-real life values...but it shows the other side of high school *not the these are the best 4 years of your life. side. That's all I have to say! =) I love The Bodyguard! ~*  "},{"Title":"Thank you Matt for a GREAT movie","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Even though in the movie Matt needs to have his head smacked off I still thought it was a great movie.My bodyguard has a great moral to it too.It teaches you to treat other people as you want to be treated and I,ll tell all of you the truth the only reason I really wanted to rent and watch this movie was because it had Matt Dillon in it and I do think he is hot.But I did end up enjoying it. Thanks to all the great actors and actresses who really wanted to do a good job.Even thought it does have some harsh language in it its still a great movie and I think any one who watches it will enjoy it.Exspeally high school kids.Thank all of you for a great movie.Kathrine Elizabeth Steele "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the '80's! A must-see!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  My Bodyguard is one of the great films ever to come out of the 1980's.Actor Tony Bill makes a great debut as director as he tells the story about a young kid who moves to a different high school and gets picked on by a vicious bully(played well-done by Matt Dillon).Later in the film,the young kid hires a brand new classmate to protect him and they also embark on great friendship.Released in the summer of 1980 by 20th Century Fox,My Bodyguard is a very important film in such a artistic and excellent way.It captures the innocence of going to school,getting picked on,and hiring a courageous,tall,and willing friend to make a difference.It also brings out the very best in acting and fine screenwriting.For anyone who gets picked on or getting made fun of a lot in school,this film is definately one you don't want to miss! "},{"Title":"This film rocks!","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Some school movies stink. This is not one of them.  Dealing with peer pressure? New to a neighborhood? Getting picked on? Need friends? Dillon, Baldwin and Makepeace rule this film! Refreshing to see different areas of filming outside. I've said all along that more films need to be made outside of a studio. It gives the film more realism. See some Clint Eastwood flicks. He understands this point and just made ex-Mr. Madonna an Oscar in his new film. Friends hanging out by the lake, outside, subway, school, garage, this film has it all. Linderman is a shy, mysterious character that is worth hanging around to see him for who he is, what happened to him and his late brother. This is a great movie, a little far fetched at times, but still great. The main characters are great, the tough guy is great, the supporting actors are great. Enough said. Rent this NOW! A true 10/10.  Flamio and I'm out! "}{"Title":"My Bodyguard is a very good Movie !","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Hello!I saw My Bodyguard  in English class and i think this movie is a good movie because the movie tells the story of a bully child (Clifford Peache) and its Bodyguard (Ricky Linderman).This movie tells about a bully man (Clifford) .Cliffor is in sophomore year and he as a new stunden in High School in Chicago .He is bullied by Moody .Moody wants him to pay one dollar a day .Clifford refuses to pay and he wants Linderman to protect him but Linderman is not interested ...You have watched the film to see what happens !I think Clifford (Chris Makepeace) is a good actor . He's a very talented actor.The actors are very talented . Moody looks very much like a school bully. The teachers are not realistic because our teachers would never be so lax.This movie is great . This is a drama and funny movie . "},{"Title":"My Bodyguard","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I watch this movie , I found the positive aspects and disadvantages. The positive aspects are there is a true difference size or force the child arrives but all the same it has the appearance defend but downside is that little happens all the same to beat his opponent and it n is not normal for that the film is average. As the film passes himself in a school where there is a lot of joy of happiness, and I love it film also by a passage of the film or the infant will avenge her or his opponents by throwing them in the face or ketchup , that's why I give this film average , that's why I give this film averaged That is why I give this film averaged "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I love where the movie take place (Chicago) , the actor choice is nice , and the soundtrack is well too . There is some funny scene who give a good look of the movie . The movie give a good picture from the bully at school who want money for a work , and the victim instead of tell this to an adult at school or his parents prefer give his lunch money instead of receiving a blow . But unfortunately some scene ( I will not mention them ) are gone bad and give an bad image of the movie , but i'll close my eyes thinking to it was an old movie . For conclusion I will say this is a good old movie with a good story and we can feel he want's to give an message . "},{"Title":"description of my bodyguard","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Hello,When me and my friend saw my bodyguard we were studying the problem of bullying. Clifford Peache, a nice teenager, has difficulty in becoming integrated into his new high school, where a bully terrorizes the pupils and extorting money from them. We found that was very realist, because in the reality exist the same situations at school. The characters that we preferred were Clifford and Linderman. Lidermaan is an impressive man , and he looks every time grumpy but he is a good boy. We give the film a 9 out of 10. We highly recommend this one. My Bodyguard is one of the great films ever to come out of the 1980's. MOOOONNNIIIQQUUUUEEE69 XXXXX "},{"Title":"Review.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Clifford Peache, a nice teenager, has difficulty in becoming integrated into his new high school, where a bully terrorizes the pupils and extorting money from them.But Clifford refuses to be passive and succeeds in acquiring the services of the pupil the most dreaded by the high school.Both boys are going to learn to know each other and, soon, their union against the moths of the high school will give birth to a beautiful friendly story.Chris Makepeace as Clifford Adam Baldwin as Linderman Matt Dillon as Moody Ruth Gordon as Gramma Martin Mull as Mr. Peache John Houseman as Dobbs Paul Quandt as Carson Craig Richard Nelson as Griffith "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Gutsy, but small and scrawny squirt Clifford (an excellent and engaging performance by Chris Makepeace) hires hulking alienated misfit Linderman (Adam Baldwin in his fine debut) to protect him from mean high school bully Moody (well played with perfectly obnoxious swagger by Matt Dillon).Director Tony Bill relates the affecting and engrossing story at a steady pace, makes nice use of gritty inner city urban locations, and offers a neat balance of drama and humor. Alan Ormsby's thoughtful and perceptive script not only explores the themes of loss, friendship, courage, and loyalty in a smart and appealing way, but also draws the adolescent characters with genuinely affecting depth and warmth (the way that Clifford and Linderman wind up mutually helping each other out in particular provides this film with its considerable emotional substance and resonance). Moreover, the sterling acting by the tip-top cast keeps this movie humming Makepeace, Baldwin, and Dillon all do super work in their roles, the always delightful Ruth Gordon has a deliciously daffy ball as Clifford's feisty'n'flaky grandmother, Martin Mull contributes a spot-on turn as Clifford's well-meaning, but bumbling and overworked hotel manager dad, Paul Quandt excels as the brash Carson, Joan Cusack acquits herself ably in a sizable part as the endearingly gawky Shelley, John Houseman has a sharp cameo as stuffy bigwig Dobbs, and Hank Salas cuts an imposing figure as fearsome thug Mike. Kudos are also in order for David Grusin's elegant score and the polished cinematography by Martin D. Margulies. A lovely gem. "},{"Title":"A Little-Seen Gem!","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My Bodyguard is a fantastic small movie and one that seems to have been forgotten over time. It's a typical growing-of-age film, but it has an interesting premise as well as a great cast which breathes life into their characters. I really enjoyed the story and it brought something new to a genre that is worn-out, at least in today's standard.Tony Bill's film is about a boy named Clifford who is the new boy at school. He immediately makes an enemy in the name of Moody when he refuses to pay his lunch money. In order to survive high school, Clifford hires the services of the most-feared kid in the school to act as his bodyguard.I thought the acting was excellent. It's a shame Chris Makepeace did not have a big career, because he showed talent here. Matt Dillon was typically angry and menacing as the school bully. Speaking of menacing, Adam Baldwin was certainly menacing as Clifford's bodyguard. I also thought Ruth Gordon as Clifford's grandmother was quite funny.Overall, My Bodyguard is a forgotten little gem, but it is a great movie and one of those from the 80's that shall not be missed. It's a movie about growing up and facing your fears by overcoming obstacles. The movie may have a predictable ending, but I loved the premise. The film is funny and warm. I rate this movie 9/10. "},{"Title":"fantastic -)","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is truly a gem of a movie-a great drama! It's a story about making friends, fitting in, and people with a past. A kid moves into a new school in Chicago and becomes the new target of the resident bully who makes it a habit of extorting lunch money from kids. The new kid also makes new friends and learns about a mysterious other kid. He enlists that kid's help in guarding against the bully, learns from third parties about a horrible secret that kid harbors, and does his best to make friends despite the other kid's misgivings. Of course complications arise before a terrific ending with a hilarious final scene. I think this features wonderful performances all around (especially by the leads and the kids) and is a terrific film and a must-see for everyone. You will love it if you see it! *** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A Genuinely Good Movie!","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A timeless classic that, like wine, only improves with age.This is one of those movies you could watch over and over again and not get bored of.When you watch this movie for the first time, you become really intrigued by Linderman's character. You can't wait to find out what his 'secret' is. Baldwin was exceptionally good in this movie... as well as the rest of the cast, actually.Matt Dillon is also excellent. He's a very talented actor. Not one to be typecast, he can portray both - the bully (here) and the victim (Saint to Fort Washington) perfectly well.Unlike most teen movies that are produced nowadays, this one is NOT generic, clichéd, predictable, over-the-top, unconvincing or boring. My Bodyguard gets everything just right -- it's a very griping and entertaining piece. The actors are doing such a good job that it really makes you root for them. The script is also very good.Even if you're not fond of this particular genre, you're bound to like this movie.Definitely worth watching. No, it's worth OWNING. "},{"Title":"Minute Movie Review of My Bodyguard","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" At his new school, fifteen-year-old Chris Makepeace is bullied, so he decides to hire the one guy everyone is scared of, Adam Baldwin, as his bodyguard. The business relationship soon develops into a friendship as their limits are severely tested. The film doesn't quite know what to do with the premise. It crams a few too many plot elements into the erratically told story and waivers between serious drama and light-hearted comedy. There is much promise here, but ultimately very little pay-off. Solid performances, especially from Ruth Gordon as Makepeace's grandmother, make for an entertaining film, but it's kind of sad to think what it could have been. "}{"Title":"Interesting high school bullying story, filmed in Chicago, including Lincoln Park.","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I somehow missed this one in the 1980s. I was able to watch it via Netflix streaming movies. It is about a new kid at a Chicago public high school, 10th grade, and right away he encounters the local kid bully, who makes the weaker kids pay him every day for protection. But the new kid refuses, and soon his time at school is made miserable by the bully and his friends.Chris Makepeace, who doesn't seem to have gone anywhere as an actor, was 15-yr-old Clifford. His mom had died, and his dad was the manager of a nice hotel in downtown Chicago. His eccentric grandmother lived with them. A very young and somewhat small Matt Dillon was the pretty boy bully, Moody. He played this role very well. But the one I liked most was Adam Baldwin, making his movie debut as the bigger, taller, but troubled student Linderman. None of the other kids wanted to get near him, and rumors were that he had killed people. But Clifford decided to befriend him, and ask him to be his bodyguard, and in return he would pay him and help him with his homework. (Note, Baldwin, now in his 40s, is currently in a recurring role as a CIA agent in the TV series 'Chuck.') Another interesting young actress was a teenage Joan Cusack as one of the students, Shelley.Anyway the bodyguard thing didn't quite work out, Linderman didn't really want anything to do with that, but he and Clifford became friends anyway, and they went scrap yard hunting together, to find parts for an old motorcycle Linderman was rebuilding. Many of the scenes were shot in Lincoln Park, a place we visited a couple of years ago, it was fun seeing it from 30 years back.Nice movie, a chance to pull for the good guys. SPOILERS The reason Linderman didn't want to get involved, he had accidentally been responsible for his kid brother getting shot and killed when the two of them were playing with a loaded pistol at home. Linderman lied to authorities, said he found the gun in his brother's hand, when in fact it was in his own hand when the shot was fired. So when Moody hired his own, somewhat older bodyguard Mike, in a confrontation in the park Linderman not only did not fight, he let them take his motorcycle, dump it in the pond, then he ran away. However after admitting to Clifford what his real issue was, in a second confrontation in the park, while retrieving his motorcycle, Linderman had to fight, and beat up Mike, while Clifford fought, and broke Moody's nose, with some coaching from Linderman. Thus the two bullies were neutralized and presumably all was going to be well. "},{"Title":"Our review","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When we saw My Bodyguard, we were at school, in year 9 (senior in Junior High School), we were studying the problem of bullying. Our first impressions  the film looked very old (the kids have no mobiles, Clifford has a strange haircut, their clothes are typical eighties !)The actors are very talented  we preferred Clifford and Linderman. Moody looks very much like a school bully. The teachers are not realistic because our teachers would never be so lax.Overall, the film works because we identify with Clifford. We give the film a 9 out of 10.nochairocking57 "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie back in early 1981, when I was 8 years old, and after many years as an adult, I often recall some memories of middle and high school, when dealing with your peers.  When I was little, I was treated the same, like in the movie itself, because I was of a different race/ethnicity.  In the film, social class differences and peer pressure were portrayed, as well as facing a traumatic event (in this case, the Linderman character, where he blamed himself for the death of his brother).  Growing up isn't easy, and in this film, before gangs, drugs, guns, and violence were key issues in public schools, the school bully was the typical stereotype.   This film marks the debut of Adam Baldwin (of Independence Day fame), as well as Joan Cusack.  I would recommend this classic teen flick, since the modern teen flicks portray crime and violence in our public schools.  Watch for a cameo by George Wendt as a janitor, and there are a lot of actors that were unknowns at the time, who became big commodities throughout the 1980s to the present.     "},{"Title":"The sad existence of bullies -- a silent cry for help!","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This sensitive comedy-drama about high-school students depicts adolescent problems with realism and sympathy. Chris Makepeace stars as a frail, middle-class kid who is constantly harassed by bullies at school. He hires a mysterious and strong classmate to protect him, sparking a friendship that adds warmth and intelligence to the story.It becomes clear that a typical bully, as we all have come to know and hate them, is not only a menace to other kids, but is a victim of his or her own insecurity. Often a seemingly hateful child can become someone who plays by the rules if given a chance to belong rather than to simply go on being feared. A bully's acting out is a cover-up for the frightened, unloved child within.The cast, comprised mainly of unknowns, shines in Tony Bill's bright directorial debut. Look for Ruth Gordon, Martin Mull and Matt Dillon in small roles. An enjoyable family movie. "},{"Title":"Some good work but final fight unbelievable","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" 15 year old Clifford Peache (Chris Makepeace) lives in Chicago luxury hotel Ambassador East with his eccentric grandmother (Ruth Gordon) and his father (Martin Mull) who manages the hotel. He's the new kid in high school. Clifford quickly gets into trouble with school bully Melvin Moody (Matt Dillon) and his group of tough guys. Lots of smaller kids pay protection money to Moody. Moody is reported to the school which only gets Clifford picked on secretly. Shelley (Joan Cusack) is desperate to be popular but Moody keeps making fun of her. Clifford befriends and tries to hire sullen giant student Ricky Linderman (Adam Baldwin) who is rumored to have killed somebody.This movie would work a lot better with less screen time for the adults. They are a way out for Clifford and keeps the tension down. The point is to keep his options limited. Also time spent with his family is wasted. It adds very little to the movie. Although Linderman has a good time with the Peaches. I would keep that section with the adults. Chris Makepeace is a pretty good teen actor especially in a role like this. The friendship is pretty good. The final fight is a little awkward. It's pushing believability to have Clifford win in a solo fight against Moody. It's also weird to have Linderman keep sending the poor kid back into the fight. "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHA","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I watched this movie in English because we were studying narratives.  When my teacher turned it on i watched for a few minutes and saw Joan Cusack with poofy hair and huge braces.  I am sorta a fan of Joan, probably because i see a lot of movies that have her in it(I live with two girls!).  I was the only person in the class who recognized her at first.  The movie is really good, I lauged a lot at stuff that wasn't funny, But all in all I really like it. "},{"Title":"My Bodyguard","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Sensitive comedy/drama about a rich kid who is constantly harasssed at school who then enlists a mysterious classmate to help him. Stars Makepeace and Baldwin soar in vivid, poignant characters.  "},{"Title":"Incredible forgotten movie","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I rented this movie the other day because I remember it from my childhood. I was expecting to watch it with my wife (I haven't seen it since I was about 7) and laugh at the funny clothes, language, and general definitions of what was cool in 1980. In other words, I wasn't expecting to see a good movie, just watch some nostalgic mystery science theater 3000 fodder. What I saw totally shocked me...this is a VERY good movie. Incredibly acted by Makepeace, Baldwin, and Dillon, this movie is not the stereotypical goofy 80's teen drama. This is a very well put together film that deserves much more historical acclaim than it is given. Dillon and Makepeace are dead on in their stereotypical roles of bully and nerd, but it's Baldwin as the brooding, misunderstood, mysterious hulk that steals the show. Ricky Linderman is one of the more interesting movie characters you will ever come across. Granted, I did also get my dose of 80's humor (the guys playing basketball in red short-shorts, white knee high socks, and black shoes is worth the price of the rental alone) but I got something else I didn't expect...a great hidden gem of a movie! "},{"Title":"Adam's debut film A classic!","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This classic tale of the highs and lows of surviving big-city highschool launched ADAM BALDWIN, Jennifer Beals,Joan Cusack and others into the world of acting on the big screen. Well paced, carefully directed, thoughtfully photographed, MY BODYGUARD can be enjoyed by all. It makes you laugh, it can make you cry, it can make you cheer! Get to know these characters and they will charm you...especially Adam! "},{"Title":"Nothing original or extraordinary, but more sensitive than it had to be...","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Director Tony Bill's uneven My Bodyguard feels lumpy, half-stewed, and occasionally very awkward...still, it's not a bad little movie and has a good cast and many good ingredients. Chris Makepeace (the moony-eyed kid from Meatballs) is a highly intelligent, thoughtful young actor with a nice grasp of character; though his role here (as the new kid in school who immediately runs afoul of the local bully) isn't at all fresh, Makepeace does well with the over-written lines and gives the picture a nicely grounded base. Matt Dillon glowers convincingly enough as Moody, the punk with slicked-back hair (this was Dillon's third movie after Over the Edge and Little Darlings, and his career was on a roll, with the future-star showing a nice sense of selection picking quirky, unusual teen-oriented films to start off with). Adam Baldwin plays the hulking, scary loner Linderman whom Makepeace pays to be his bodyguard, and their friendship doesn't feel nearly as contrived as the basic set-up, leading to an absorbing second-half. On the other hand, Makepeace's home life (with dad Martin Mull running a swanky Chicago hotel and grandma Ruth Gordon causing her usual mischief) DOES feel contrived; Bill's rhythm is really off in these instances, and if he's trying for laughs here he certainly doesn't get them. Any comedy with Ruth Gordon in the cast should be a partial hoot (at least), but Bill doesn't seem to know what to do with his adult actors and they often look anxious for help. I'm not sure what message the finale is sending out (or attempting to send out), however the kids are rarely a pain and most of them do solid work, particularly Joan Cusack as another joyful oddball. Jennifer Beals, pre-Flashdance, has a non-speaking part as a student yet really stands out from the crowd (and Bill's camera is obviously in love with her angelic face). ** from **** "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was 4  when this movie came out.This movie inspired me to be the bully I am  today. It is great. Of course I am  a very nice loving  person now, but  when I was  in grade school wooooo.  How bad was I!!!! "},{"Title":"Has it's heart in the right place","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of those movies that was all over cable when it first came to town. I was 10, and as a 10 year-old I loved it. Re-watching it at age 30, I was prepared to groan through it. But I was pleasantly surprised at how well it holds up.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Chris Makepeace (Wudy da' Wabitt from Meatballs) stars as the new kid in school. He's rich, has a really bad mushroom-cloud of a hair-do, so naturally...he's a primo target for the school-bully (Matt Dillon).Bullies in my school never wanted protection-money, but these bullies do. Simple math your milk change = I won't whoop your butt.But our fashionably-challenged hero is no dummy, and he figures if you're gonna shell out dough to a psychopath...it may as well be one you like! Enter Ricky Linderman (Adam Baldwin) as the bodyguard. Ricky is universally feared and completely misunderstood. And he looks old enough to have flunked 6 grades.A friendship soon forms, walls are torn down, and a feel-good movie is your end result. If you like buddy-movies where the jerk(s) get theirs in the end, this one's for you. The lead characters are likeable, and you're rooting for them all the way. Ricky's big revelation-scene is total cheese and won't bring nary a tear to your eye. Still, you feel for the big-lug.Things I learned from this movie-bullies spend hours after-school stalking empty bath-rooms-50 cents was a lot to a kid in the 80's.-fight scenes have come a LONG way since the 80's.-Matt Dillon is lucky to still be working after this.The supporting cast is a virtual who's who of 80's talent....Martin Mull, George Wendt, & Joan Cusack.I wouldn't shell out a dollar to rent it (unless I was throwing a cheesy-80's party) but if it comes on cable (and it will, they always do) give it a chance.  "}]