[{"Title":"One of the finest British films ever made. No arguments, no excuses.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"80 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  At the time of writing this, I've just been thoroughly impressed by a rare British TV screening of 'The Long Good Friday', a gripping, bleak and uncompromising study of a supposedly untouchable underworld kingpin whose organization collapses around his ears when a mystery adversary begins murdering his colleagues and blowing up his favourite haunts. Bob Hoskins is just incredible in this film. His performance sears the screen with its burning intensity. His character is undoubtedly a vile individual, but Hoskins employs so much depth and subtlety in his portrayal we actually find ourselves caring for him. The much-remarked-on final sequence is an absolute tour-de-force that takes your breath away. Doubtful whether any current director (let alone any current actor) would have the guts to even attempt something like that. Hoskins makes it all look so easy, the mark of a true professional. Be warned, however, that this is not a film for the faint-hearted, and the squeamish will most certainly wince more than once. The direction, editing, photography, soundtrack and acting are all top-notch, displaying a rare degree of outright quality that the British film industry rarely seems able to muster, for one reason or another. There's also some degree of fun to be had from spotting the familiar faces in the supporting cast - 'Charlie Fairhead' from Casualty, 'Denzil' from Only Fools and Horses, 'Terry' from Fawlty Towers, a couple of the sadistic warders from Alan Clarke's brutal borstal flick 'Scum' and a young Gillian Taylforth of Eastenders fame. I have one final comment to make regarding this movie. Guy Ritchie should be forced to watch this at least fifteen times in a row, in the vain hope that it teaches him something about the genre he idolizes but seems unable to make a decent job of depicting. Watch and learn, all you young 'mockney' pretenders, this film is the work of the masters. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Brit flick that stays with you","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"54 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday was and still is a great piece of British Cinema. After watching the film after a good many years it still holds the power to shock, amuse and thrill.Bob Hoskins pulled off a performance comparable to James Cagney's tour de force in 'White Heat' as the tough London gangster whose empire starts to tumble, as he's trying to seal a massive development deal with the aid of the US Mafia in London's Docklands.Helen Mirren gives an impressive performance as Hoskin's love interest, who basically calls the shots in Hoskin's organisation almost as much as he does. Her cool, tough performance putting her in good stead for the 'Prime Suspect' mini series which followed in the early nineties in the UK, where she played Lynda Le Plante's tough female detective Jane Tennyson.The usual seventies film actors who play crooks turn up in this film, as do some fine character actors, including Dave King who plays a bent copper on Hoskin's pay roll and Bryan Marshall as the crooked councillor. One of the most memorable of the support cast is Derek Thompson, who would later go on to play Charlie Fairhead in BBC's long running 'Casualty' drama, who takes the 'Introducing' credit.Also, look out for the actor who played 'Denzel' in Only fools and Horses, and a mute role for Pierce Brosnan before he went to the States to play Remington Steele.A fine film, thats quick in pace, and excellently directed by John McKenzie, who will probably be always most remembered for this film. "},{"Title":"A long, damn good film.","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When thinking back over the decades of British gangtser films, The Long Good Friday stands out in memory. This is due to the way the story is executed and the way a certain degree of suspense is held throughout.Everything starts off well in this film. We're shown a rather perplexing, confusing but well shot sequence involving several people and a couple of deaths over what seems to be a case of money. We hear nothing of these events until much later in the film, keeping it at the back of our minds and creating a certain shock element when we eventually realise everything that's come together.After the dramatic introduction, everything is toned down slightly as Harold Shand (Hoskins), the man of the film, is introduced to a rather catchy theme tune. His world is also introduced to us through very good use of London iconography as we realise he's rich, got plenty of friends and also has a good looking girl; with his biggest problem seeming to be what nationality to make the chef for his next get-together. With so many faces being introduced and so much pleasurable interaction, the events that follow fuelled by great hate for Harold are rather shocking as they are surprising and that's what really kicks this film off on a good path.What's also good about the film as well as fascinating is that it takes a certain detective route. So many crime and gangster films often use a revenge plot or a hierarchy technique whereas this one, the enemy is unknown and the hierarchy has already been climbed. He's on his own with two or three of his most trusted accomplices attempting to discover what the hell's going on and this is very interesting as we find out what they find out, and at the same time as they do creating a nice, steady, plodding feeling of consistency.As the battles and discoveries occur whilst the film wears on, numerous desperate situations are dragged out in a gritty and entertaining way such as Harold's relationship with his girl that is starting to fall apart amongst the terror and confusion, the personal battle with the American businessmen who foil Harold on several occasions and the question marks that arise over loyalties within his own organisation, as well as disagreements with his crooked policeman colleague and rival gangs. Not only are these scenes and plot points gripping; amusing dialogue and good one-liners from Harold himself help move them along.As the film reaches its final third and Harold gets closer to the truth, the film reminded me of the original 'Get Carter' when Jack realises who's behind it all. Our anti-hero gets more and more angry and each scene gets more and more intense, culminating in pure chaos at a race car track and a monologue of insults at the American's who, up to this point, have had Harold and his outfit rolling over for them.With strong acting performances all round and an impressive, well paced plot; The Long Good Friday has managed to sneak into my personal favourites list and definitely withstands the test of time. "},{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"42 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love movies and this is one of my all time favorites. I think Bob Hoskins is one of the most underrated actors of all time. The movie is incredibly entertaining to watch and interestingly enough it marks the beginning of Pierce Brosnan's career (pool scene). The characters are fascinating especially Harold. It is also very interesting to observe him as his grip upon his gangster empire on brink of creating a partnership across the Atlantic slips through his fingers because of a mistake. In the final scene Bob Hoskins does an awe inspiring job of relaying all the emotion and anguish without saying a single word. Fantastic. I highly recommend that everyone see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Top of the list","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday was given a limited release in the U.S. but fortunately it opened in Los Angeles. Based on a very short synopsis in the L.A. Times, my wife made the 30-mile drive from Pasadena to Santa Monica and were rewarded with the best crime drama I've ever seen. This film is the perfect coming-together of writing, directing and acting to produce a cinematic gem. Nothing overblown and grandiose like The Godfather but a tight story that never bogs down, filled with real characters that stand out from the screen. We were introduced to Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren and both of them have since provided us with some great performances on both large and small screens. I would definitely take this one to the proverbial desert island. "},{"Title":"Excellent gangster film","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A British ganglord (Bob Hoskins) finds his empire crumbling after 10 years of peace...and just as he's about to make a very lucarative deal with the U.S. Mafia.  Bombs go off in his businesses, friends and members of the gang are brutally killed...who is doing it, and why?  Great British film...completely ignored here when it was released in 1980.  The British accents ARE hard to follow at times but I was able to keep up with the plot.  Also this film is not for everybody--there are some pretty frequent bursts of graphic violence--VERY graphic!  I pride myself on being able to sit through a lot but these scenes even had me cringing!  Still, it well worth catching--it has a very intricate script with good dialogue.  And all the acting is great.  Hoskins is just perfect in the lead--you see the confusion, pain, fear and anger in him as his world starts to crumble apart.  Also Helen Mirren is excellent as his mistress.  Calm, sexy, controlled and VERY intelligent--she's just great.  And the final shot of the eyes is chilling.  Great electronic music score too.  And it's fun to see Pierce Brosnan so young (28) and sexy in an early role.  A really great gangster film which deserves to be rediscovered.  My one complaint (and this is minor) is that it goes on a bit too long--it could have been tightened a little.  Still, a great film.  A must see for crime film fans.      "},{"Title":"CLASS!!!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say? 2 hours of class! This is a film which pretty much tells it how it is. The gangster world is not glamour, it's not a world we should dream about being in.This film is gritty and realistic, it's one of the best pictures ever to be released from the U.K. Bob Hoskins is in terrific form here, so damn perfect. Helen Mirren is stunning, great actress and rather eye-catching!!!Pierce Brosnan is hardly in the picture, he was unknown at the time. There are a few faces which you'll recognise, most of them appeared in famous British Television dramas!The film setting is gritty and shows the real London underworld in the early Thatcher years.The direction is confident as is the script, and by the end you'll realise that they had guts! The film score is wonderful, it's always in my head. This film is class! "},{"Title":"Bob Hoskins makes this...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very much in the tradition of the American gangster films of the 30s and 40s, this movie centres around a bravura performance by the central gangster (Edward G Robinson/James Cagney then; Bob Hoskins now).  Bob Hoskins raves and fights against a world that is rapidly moving beyond his control and, although he is an unpleasant, violent and vicious character, you end up caring for him.Interesting also as a historical snapshot of a period in London's history (the redevelopment of the Docklands) now gone. "},{"Title":"Modest British gangster pic with star performance","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A London gangster boss takes a short break abroad and returns to find someone has it in for him.The film that took Bob Hoskins from minor British actor to Hollywood and the rest of the cast back to mainstream British television. Helen Mirren proves she is one of the few actresses that can play tough and sexy at the same time. This modest budget film is quite clever. It wears the clothes of a gangster film but is actually a violent whodunit. The setting of London gives it novelty and like all British pictures it has an array of small parts played with gusto by local actors.The film seems to borrow from real events (at one time the Mafia did want to bring gambling junkets over to London) but is mostly a work of fiction. Also curious is that it seems to give the impression that police corruption is rife which is not true of the late 70's. But this at least helps us understand Hoskins power.This is not to be missed if you are a fan of gangster films and want a change of scenery. Hoskins performance alone is worth the price of admission and look out for Pierce Brosnan at the end in a non-speaking role. "},{"Title":"The ultimate Brit gangster film","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Forget Lock Stock and the rest of Guy Ritchie's overrated rubbish,this is a real British gangster film.Great performances by Hoskins and Mirren and great support from a variety of dodgy looking geezers from TV. Hoskins final speech is electrifying , and deserves to go down in movie history. In conclusion,if you have'nt seen this movie ,get hold of a copy NOW. IT'S THE BUISNESS ********** 10/10 "}{"Title":"The 1980s begins with a bang","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" WARNING - THIS REVIEW DISCUSSES THE ENDING OF THE FILM AT LENGTH.Portraying Britain at the dawn of Thatcherism, The Long Good Friday presents its central character and itself like a spinning coin, looking towards the future but always about to slip back into the past, about to go one way or the other. Harold Shand (Bob Hoskins) tells nostalgic and emotional stories about his National Service (which had been abolished for almost two decades when this film was made) and how he began his career as a street urchin An hour earlier, he had been proclaiming his glorious vision of 1980s Britain while &#150; in a rather unsubtle piece of direction &#150; framed by Tower Bridge. This world of opposites is expressed most clearly in Francis Monkman's zesty score, blending traditional classical instruments with Moroder-style synth-pop. It is ultimately hubris, the kind of overconfidence normally associated with '80s excess, that delivers Shand helplessly into the maw of a truly monstrous enemy that had existed for decades.Not as complex as I've heard it made out (admittedly the DVD age means I can zip straight to the exposition scenes without effort, which helps), The Long Good Friday is still a breathtakingly audacious film and one that at times runs a real risk of alienating its audience while still retaining mass appeal. It blends together elements of various crime subgenres it takes the criminal-turns-detective idea from Get Carter and marries it to the sickly, sleazy decadence that Scarface would portray so unflinchingly three years later, while the outlandish, ostentatious tactics Shand employs to intimidate his enemies come straight from The Godfather. Harold Shand is essentially a Tony Montana-style character someone not very bright who has gone from poor to rich very quickly and doesn't know what to do with his loot, who thinks that money somehow equals invincibility. As his enemies continue to undermine his modern-man fantasy (he refers to himself as a businessman, not a criminal) he becomes steadily more delusional to the point where he eventually expresses an intent to wipe out the entire IRA. This is a self-evidently absurd statement that Shand takes totally seriously, immediately before slashing his most trusted lieutenant's jugular with a broken bottle, as Hoskins's incandescent performance charts the erosion of the character's veneer of sophistication. As the first two members of his gang are assassinated he asks himself who could make him and his associates a target a legitimate question in the circumstances, but the emotional burst with which Hoskins delivers the sentiment suggests less a rational question and more a little child screaming that IT'S NOT FAIR!.Now, the IRA. Before September 11 2001 they were synonymous with terrorism in the UK and their omnipresent threat throughout the 1970s led to London becoming one of the most CCTV-heavy cities in the world. No wonder the film's original backers got cold feet, since while it doesn't in any way romanticise them it does portray them as the very essence of power. Against them Shand &#150; no small fry in his own right &#150; is nothing at all and even his ice-cold mistress (Helen Mirren) cracks under the threat against her despite being able to effortlessly parry the advances of Shand's lecherous thugs. But here's the twist the whole thing's totally pointless.This is what makes the film so daring. Virtually the entire film concerns the quest for Hichcock's MacGuffin, which in this case is defined by its absence it is the answer to the mystery itself. The IRA are fingered fairly quickly, but the question is why. Keeping this question unanswered for so long rather than giving hints occasionally requires a predictably huge scene of exposition, which is totally subverted when it turns out that Shand hasn't actually done anything at all. The IRA mistakenly believe he is responsible for the murder of some of their agents and once fanatics get an idea in their heads that idea stays there. I can't think of another film that has its central premise turn to fairy-dust so spectacularly &#150; not even The Maltese Falcon. This I think is where it risks losing its audience, because everything turns out to be so pointless. Is that dramatically satisfying? In the event yes, because rather than going into hiding (like Michael Corleone in the first Godfather) Shand's feathers get ruffled even more and, the irony apparently lost on him, he kills two IRA agents for real and is tracked down and captured within minutes. As he's driven away, almost certainly to his death, we get an extended close-up of Hoskins's face. Among the despair and panic, there's the occasional flicker of an impression that he's finally got the joke.With complex characters, great writing, scintillating performances and a brave, uncompromising attitude to storytelling conventions, The Long Good Friday is an essential piece of British cinema. "},{"Title":"One of the best British crime dramas ever.","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Note Possible Spoiler.Terrific film with absolutely standout performances from both Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren, along with a fine ensemble of lesser-known castmembers. The much-talked-about climax in this movie is surely one of the most enthralling and riveting in the history of cinema -- and this is no exaggeration! Bob Hoskings virtuoso performance in the final scene transcends mere acting or descriptive superlatives. He is just stunning. In a brief few seconds, Hoskings exudes surprise, fear, realization and acceptance as to....... The accompanying pulsating musical score from composer Francis Monkman gives further power and emotional resonance to this scene. Your heart simply races along with Hoskins' ride.    "},{"Title":"Bob Hoskins creates a terrifying character in this gangster classic","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie yet, you should make it your next rental.  It's a gangster movie, and like all gangster movies it stands or falls on the strengths of the lead actor.  In this case, we have Bob Hoskins, whose performance is so powerful that it will be the only thing you remember, except for a vague picture of Helen Mirren looking exquisite but uncharacteristically bland.  Even as formidable a presence as Mirren's can't stand up to the lunatic intensity of Hoskins' performance.  She actually seems to shrink from him, as who would not in this movie?  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"1970's Gangsters - London style.","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film opens with several disjointed scenes that leaves the viewer a little breathless and confused A chauffeur murdered in his car, two men counting cash in a suitcase who are subsequently murdered, a man being knifed in a swimming club and a car bomb exploding outside of a church. We are able to catch up as the story slowly reveals itself but this one does require some viewer participation. While a very intelligent and well scripted film, the action is intense, the body count high and the violence more graphic than is usual for a British film of its era.The central character in this crime drama is Harold Shand, a highly successful East End gangster who has just returned to London after a business trip to the U.S. Upon his return he finds his mob under attack, several of his employees killed and his organization the target of an unknown foe. Meanwhile he's trying to put together a semi-legit real estate deal, with American Mafia participation. Harold has to keep his American friends from getting nervous with an all out war going on and get to the bottom of whatever has gone wrong while he was away.Harold is aided in all of this by the classiest moll ever Victoria. She's beautiful, educated, well-mannered and high class (she brags that she went to school with Princess Anne). Her cool as ice exterior is quit the contrast to the crude thug, Harold, who fancies himself a businessman and hobnobs with politicians and legitimate entrepreneurs but is really only a tough Cockney hood (or 'ood as they say). Victoria tries to handle the Americans while Harold and his mob round up the usual suspects in an attempt to find out where the heat is coming from. Harold is at once a ruthless brute and a lovable and vulnerable little man and by the end of the movie it's easy to find yourself falling for him. He actually has real affection for his crew and treats them as family. This may leave him exposed as, like most movie gangsters, his arrogance and belief in his own invincibility are what will bring him down.Bob Hoskins, in his first starring role, plays Harold in a performance that conjures up images of other little big men of the silver screen like Edward G. Robinson or James Cagney in some of their great gangster roles. While not as well known as his award winning role in the under appreciated Mona Lisa, it is the one that put Hoskins on the map. Victoria is played by Helen Mirren and it's hard to take your eye off of her in all of her scenes. Helen was a very good looking girl in her day and was already an established star (having survived her role in Caligula). Eddie Constantine, Europe's favorite American, plays the American mafioso and a young Pierce Brosnan, in his first movie, plays an IRA killer. The plot is a bit complex with a lot of characters to keep track of and the almost incomprehensible Cockney accents and slang are hard to follow (subtitles are helpful for non-Brits). But the story moves along smartly, the direction is very good and the lighting and photography excellent. This film is well done from its start to its memorable conclusion and is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Most powerful scene ironic","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From a British perspective, part of the fun of watching this is seeing people who later became famous for other roles. Derek Thompson had had a minor role in Yanks, and this suggested he had a bright career in films, but he ended up playing nurse Charlie Fairhead in Casualty, and has now played that part for 23 years! Gillian Taylforth became better known in EastEnders, and Paul Barber was in Only Fools and Horses, but returned to the big screen in the Full Monty.Some of the violence in The Long Good Friday is very graphic; the scene in which Harold (Bob Hoskins) ends up glassing his sidekick Jeff (Derek Thompson) after the latter had betrayed him is VERY nasty.Helen Mirren is now an international star. Here she is supposedly playing a gangster's moll, but where she doesn't simmer with sexuality (I want to lick every inch of you, says Derek Thompson in an unguarded moment in a lift), she shows that she has as much control over Harold (Bob Hoskins) as he has over everybody else, never more so than in the immediate aftermath of the glassing scene. It is a tour de force in a supposedly supporting role.But this film undoubtedly belongs to Bob Hoskins. Despite the violence, it is the film's climax which is the most memorable and chilling scene. Hoskins is held at gunpoint by a silent and menacing IRA gunman played by a young Pierce Brosnan. This takes place in a car driven by another IRA hit-man. The camera focuses in close up on the face of Bob Hoskins for over a minute, while the very catchy theme music plays, and while Hoskins, without a word of dialogue, goes through a whole raft of emotions, showing a man struggling to accept that he is finished, but is finally resigned to his fate. This is a magnificent performance. "},{"Title":"One of the best gangster films to come from Britain","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Considering how lame the British crime movies of the last ten years have been for the most part, its just surprising how good the country's entries in the genre used to be. They're tough and taut, lacking the operatic excess that characterized the American gangster epics (such as The Godfather), but more than making up for it with brutality. The Long Good Friday isn't a portrait of the history of a certain mob family, but a tight and cohesive story detailing a few days in the life of a head mobster. It works very well because of how basic the initial concept is. It ranks with both Performance and the original Get Carter as the country's best crime film.The Long Good Friday is effective for several reasons. First, the direction by John Mackenzie and the screenplay by Barrie Keeffe both compliment each other very well. The script is full of witty dialog, constantly intriguing and suspenseful situations, and an absolutely memorable lead protagonist. The characters here are all interesting and well developed. Mackenzie's direction knows what to do with this material - keep it moving at a quick pace.However, what makes the film for many viewers is the lead performance by Bob Hoskins. The character was already fascinating enough, but Hoskins' portrayal makes him downright memorable. Sneering, brutal, impulsive, yet fragile, Bob Hoskins infuses the character with swinging histrionics that'd put Edward G. Robinson to shame. The Long Good Friday isn't flawless (the music score is a bit irritating initially until you settle into the groove of the film's style), but is one of the best gangster films ever made. (8/10) "},{"Title":"a classic that invites re-viewing","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are so many things to appreciate in this movie. First and foremost, Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren give outstanding performances as the First Couple of London's underworld. He, with the Cockney-made-good aspirations for status and the class he can never attain, epitomizes the hands-on manager overtaken by larger events. She, the cool-headed savvy- tough-and-sexy moll, is almost on top of things enough to redeem the situation but not quite. The key elements of the underworld ruling coalition-- dirty councilor and policeman, lieutenants of varying backgrounds both tough and educated-- make you believe in how this man has achieved peace through strength.The film's plot is Byzantine whodunit, with gangland-style violence as an accent piece that seems downright tame in the age of Pulp Fiction. The real hidden star, though, is late-70's London-- oh so run-down and yet full of the potential that drives Harold's ambitions. The views from boating on the Thames are unrecognizable to those who have only seen modern London--- the sole landmarks in common are Tower Bridge and the Savoy hotel. The towers of the City and modern Docklands are just a twinkle in dreamers' eyes.Overall TLGF is a modern tragedy in the true land-of-Shakespeare tradition, somewhere between Macbeth and Hamlet and King Lear ambition, betrayal, and the sweep of history interact richly without being heavy-handed in symbolism or over-artiness. This is a satisfying and complex film that invites re-viewing and reflection. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the quintessential British gangster film, without a doubt. Bob Hoskins plays Harold Shand, a ruthless gangland boss whose empire suddenly starts crumbling before his eyes, over one Easter weekend. Shand goes to extraordinary lengths to find out just who's behind the slaughter, and why. Standout performances from all involved, especially Hoskins as Shand.What makes the film so special is that it's played straight &#150; not for laughs; there are no &#145;mockney' accents or wide-boy routines here, just the serious business of bloody revenge. Utterly compelling, I cannot really praise this enough; if you want to see a truly great British gangster film, watch this. Forgot Lock, Stock and the other pretenders, this is still very much the one to watch.  "},{"Title":"The Dialogue Sparkles","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the great British movies and when I say British I mean it's made by a British film company - Handmade films - and not an American studio . Perhaps this is something of an unfortunate thing for an international market ( Read that as an American market ) since being made for a homegrown market the accents and most especially the slang doesn't translate well over seas but the dialog alone makes up for any shortcomings   I knew Colin fancied soldiers but going to Belfast that's a bit much innit ?   That's dignified that is , going out like a raspberry ripple  and the classic line  I've heard of sleeping partners but you two are in a f--ki' coma  Are there any shortcomings ? I've got to be honest and say that first seeing this in 1983 I was shocked by the clever twist of making the IRA as the bad guys but having watched the movie a few more times over the years the radical idea of having the provos muscling in on the London underworld isn't as clever a plot as I first thought and once you know who's been putting the pressure on Harold Shand and his corporation the story becomes a little threadbare after multiple viewings . It's probably also uncharitable to point out that Shand is a bit too old school to be taken seriously as a gangland emperor and it's not helped by umpteen films and TV dramas since then showing the London underworld who don't hurt women or kids and who don't grass .In other words it's all a bit clichéd this gangster lark innit ? And let's not mention this role caused Bob Hoskins to be typecast for the rest of his life But the failings are more and made up for by the pace of the story , by Francis Monkman's very memorable score and by the cast , some of whom went onto become household names and many who became familiar faces in film and television . Admit it , you've watched this movie over the years and thought to yourself  Now where have I seen that actor before ?  The ending gives way to a well told story by Hoskins who is ordered by director McKenzie  I want you to sit back in your seat and think about the things you've done in the story all your success , all your failures  so Bob does what he's told and seeing the final cut exclaims  bleedin' 'ell it's true the camera can read an actor's mind  "},{"Title":"Of Its Type, One of the Best","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is about a London crime boss, Harold Shand (Bob Hoskins), who on the brink of his greatest triumph, runs into a series of hostile actions by unknown enemies which bring down his enterprise and, at the end, seem likely to cost him his life. The story is brilliantly laid out and told with considerable cinematic skill. But its outstanding feature is the acting, both by Hoskins and by Helen Mirren as Victoria, Shand's consort and collaborator. Hoskins has always been able to express suppressed rage, capable of being released into earthshaking violence, better than any other actor of recent times. Shand, on the verge of becoming a respectable businessman, leaving behind his gangster past, is preparing to enter into an agreement with leaders of the New Jersey mafia when things suddenly come apart. One member of his gang, a homosexual, is murdered at a swimming pool when he makes overtures to a beautiful young man (played by an unknown Pierce Brosnan). Another member of his mob dies when the vehicle in which he has driven Shand's mother to church for Good Friday services, blows up. Then an unexploded bomb is found in one of his casinos. And shortly afterwards a luxurious pub he has bought and renovated is destroyed in a ball of flame as Shand himself drives toward with his prospective Mafia partners at his side. Through all of this, as Shand seethes and occasionally explodes, the beautiful Victoria is by his side as a calming and rational influence. I won't spoil the story by telling any more -- only that Shand and Victoria become more like themselves as the plot hurtles towards its conclusion. Viewers have no doubt seen Hoskins in this kind of role before or since The Long Good Friday, but -- as far as I know -- they've never seen Helen Mirren in anything like the role she plays here. And, yes, despite her disclaimers, she really was a young beauty at the time this film was made. "}{"Title":"Breathtaking British Gangland Thriller","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Gangster film is certainly a genre that has brought forth more than a few great films, and John MacKenzie's breathtaking British Gangland Thriller The Long Good Friday (1980) must be one of the grittiest, exciting, most outstandingly acted and greatest specimen of all-time. In one of the most charismatic criminal performances ever, the great Bob Hoskins plays Harold Shand, a rich and powerful London crime boss, who is about to make a lucrative deal with the American mafia, when he and his associates are suddenly victims to brutal attacks by phantom enemies starting on Good Friday. Harold is desperate to find out who is behind the mysterious and bloody attacks and take action, without scaring away his new business partners.The Long Good Friday has everything one might wish for in a Gangland thriller, and more. Bob Hoskins delivers one of the most charismatic performances I have ever seen in the role of gangster Harold Shand. Harold isn't the typical, laid back mob boss à la Don Corleone, but a former poor Cockney kid, who fought his way to the top; an irascible bulldog always ready to explode into uncontrolled violent outbursts. And while he is certainly a very dark protagonist, one can't help but have some sympathy for the tough guy with the mean Cockney accent. Equally great is Helen Mirren, in the role of Harold's smart and efficient wife Victoria. Mirren's Victoria is more than your usual gun moll; ravishing and sexy, cunning and utterly supportive of her husband's businesses, Victoria is both Harold's lover and dearest associate. There is no doubt that Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren are two of Britain's finest actors, and their performances here are utterly brilliant. In spite of the fact that Hoskins' Harold Shand must be one of the most charismatic Gangster characters in motion picture history, the film (unlike many mafia/gangster films) does never glorify gangsterism. On the contrary, it shows gangland life at its ugliest.The film is extremely violent, at times, and the violent outbursts are always unrestrained and ugly, uncompromising and sometimes painful to look at. The entire film is uncompromising from start to finish, an incredibly gritty and (probably) very realistic experience, which simply cannot be missed by a lover of cult cinema. Hoskins and Mirren alone are pure brilliance, and the cast includes many other notable appearances. P.H. Moriarty shines as Harold's scary-looking right-hand man 'Razors', Eddie Constantine plays an American mob boss, and the young Pierce Brosnan appears as a silent Irish hit-man. The film is greatly photographed in London locations, and Francis Monkman's brilliant score is incredibly imposing and unforgettable.The film has been advertised as 'the toughest gangster movie ever made' (quote on the German DVD cover), which I cannot say it is (this title would doubtlessly go to either one of the many Italian 70s gangster flicks, or to one of the countless brutal Japanese Yakuza films). However, The Long Good Friday is a truly gritty and tough-minded one, and one of the best there is. The Long Good Friday is a Gangster film as they should be gritty, violent and uncompromising, incredibly stylish without being glorifying, brutal and sometimes disturbing; a masterpiece. At the moment, they are making an American re-make, which of course is going to be total crap. This original British classic is nothing short of brilliance and has to be seen by everyone interested in gritty cinema. "},{"Title":"Part of the Blue Ribband 3 of GB Gangster Movies! Sheer Artistry at  Its Finest","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If there ever was a case in point to make about Gangster/film art in history, L.G.F. would be one of 3 cases to put forward, the other 2 being,Get Carter & Layer Cake I cant see why other IMDb-ers have commented on futility's such as, water running backwards in the swimming pool, when what you have here is the making of two screen idols, coupled with the teaming of probably the greatest film making talent in our history. The music/film score, Francis Monkmon (Sky) fame Manic orchestral dizzy strings,coupled with the heavy saxophone solo's,puts this film tune theme, up there with the greats of Barry & Roy Budd inclusive Super-stellar performances from Hoskins & Mirren, make this a must see No 3 of the Bulldog switchblade movies, before your soul, starts feeling the heat or touching the sides of your wooden crate Helen Mirren (Probably the greatest British female treader of the boards, in our history). Was truly stupendous. Sexy,cohesive and method, on a very weak and poorly written part for her, demonstrated the ability of sheer acting genius The story is self explanatory and does not require brain surgery to assimilate and nor should it Now to my case in points 1. If it was not for the late great George Harrison(Same birthday as my dad!) and one or two others, this film would not have seen the light of day(Hand made films). 2. The beginning of the highly artistic 70s started with Get Carter the ending of the 70s Long Good Friday was born and subsequently, finished the off the decade! I rest my case in point, regarding the silly 60s. This IMDb was written on a Friday, a long hot sweltering one, wait a minute there's a knock on the door! Oh hello Harold! Long time no see. "},{"Title":"Six degrees of brit-gangster acorn separation...","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Along with Get Carter, perhaps the elder statesman of brit-gangster flicks, The Long Good Friday's offspring have a hard act to follow. Can only echo most of the comments here; peerless Bob Hoskins performance, with Helen Mirren showing a masterclass of understated support. The film is dated in some respects, but it's worn well, a timeless cult classic, with numerous actors - Pierce Brosnan among them - going on to make great careers. Other reviewers have commented on Guy Ritchie's efforts with Lock, Stock/Snatch failing to live up to this benchmark, but I'd take issue. Ritchie must have paid reasonable attention as I'd like to add a 'Trivia corner' To quote Razors (P.H. Moriarty) ...from little acorns (referring to kids who extort car valeting money from Hoskins)...the actor went on to play gangster boss Harry in Lock, Stock...Harry also being the name of Hoskins character. Jack (Alan Ford), one of Hoskins' crew, went on to play boss Brick Top in Snatch Pierce Brosnan's 007 is now played by Daniel Craig, who was xxxx in Layer Cake, the latest brit-gangster flick to attempt to wrestle the title from TLGF... "},{"Title":"A real acting tour-de-force","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Long Good Friday, with Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren introduces us to characters I won't soon forget. Hoskins, as Harold Shand, a London crime boss,  is a standout performer. Having never even heard of this movie until I ran across  it on cable, I was truly impressed with Mr Hoskins' acting chops.  The rest of the  cast is truly excellent also from Helen Mirren's performance as Shand'sbusiness-like wife, to PH Moriarty's role as one hell of an enforcer aptlynicknamed razors, this movie really does send a chill down your spine. Thecasual violence inflicted by the main characters is never gratuitous, asevidenced by the scene where Shand's competitors are hung like sides of beeffor questioning. In this case, less is more. The ending is truly a classic. Im  thinking about it now and I still feel my stomach drop when I imagine myself in  Shand's shoes. An excellent addition to any DVD collection, I'm very happy to  have stumbled across this gem. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"THE Mob Movie","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Forget Goodfellas Forget King Of New York Forget Casino And YES Forget The Godfather The Long Good Friday makes them all look TAME. Without doubt the most convincing and realistic mob movie there has ever been. Bob Hoskins takes total and utter control and the man IS Harold Shand within the first moment you see him. When people ask me what is your favourite movie I have no hesitation when naming The Long Good Friday. Watch it, you'll see what I mean mate. "},{"Title":"Good Friday can be interpreted at many different levels","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is about a gangster named Harold Shand who has eliminated all rivals, hob knobs with a portion of London society, and has big visions about deals that will make London great again. However, just mistaking this as just a gangster film, and not about much more, is a huge mistake. On one level, Shand represents the state of England. Like England, he is tired of the Americans always having the upper hand. He is arrogant, brash, and at the same time tired of being put down and treated as second-class (like the United Kingdom at the time). He knows that there is the lure of an united Europe and the potential profits are tremendous. . On the next level of interpretation, the Irish issue always somehow shoves it's face into the picture. That is the iceberg that Shand has unwittingly hit. His loyal friend (Paul Freeman) from long ago (the Frenchman in Raiders Of The Lost Ark) has accidentally had a deal with some wing of the IRA in Belfast that cost him his life. The audience gasps at the word IRA, because now he has to confront a powerful and well organized rival. As one of Shand's associates says when Shand attempts to confront a group of IRA in London, They are political. These are fanatics!.On another level, the reality of the movie is that Shand's gang is slowly bumped off and his prized pub blown up, Shand slowly starts to find out what really is the cause of the vendetta against him. The movie is also a detective's mystery. Shand becomes Poirot for most of the movie - trying to figure out who really is out to get him. He is as clueless as the audience is. On the next level, this movie is called The Long Good Friday, because it is also a religiously symbolic movie. It takes place on religious holiday. It is about a man who thinks that he is righteous, accidentally kills perhaps his most loyal lieutenant, and then thinks he can cover it up and redeem himself by committing himself to focusing on revenge. But, he can't redeem himself. He has doomed himself by his own sins. It is too late. So,the movie is really about a man who lost his soul in his lust for power, and now deludes himself that he can hold on and justify his power for eternity. However, the unknown is sealing his fate. Isn't the the heart of what Christianity is all about? Lastly, the ending. In the end a young Pierce Brosnan is holding a silencer to him as he gets into a car. The look on Shand's face is the last minute of the film. He says nothing, but you can see every thought and emotion on his face. The only thing that we know about the young assassin played by Brosnan is the credits say he is an Irishman. But that's all we really know. He is probably a member of a rogue element of the IRA that Shand could not possibly account for. However, I think that this is part of the mystery of the movie. All the viewer knows is that some Irish are out to get him. You never really learn their true motives, and who they really are. This movie has a lot of mystery and depth to it. We don't know what it is all about. All we know is that somebody wants to get the most powerful mob boss in London. As I have said, there is a reason the film is entitled Good Friday. It is about a man who confronts his own soul and loses. His bitterness, rage, and ambition cause him to kill lieutenant accidentally with the broken glass of a wine bottle. I don't think that Shand intended to kill his lieutenant named Colin. I think he wanted to teach him a lesson, but he is horrified to see that the bottle he wielded broke and slashed up his lieutenant. You can tell by the look of horror in Shand's face that he is even in disbelief of what rage can do to him. Instead of walking away from his life of crime, Shand is too proud and arrogant. He thinks that he can make up for his brutal accidental murder of Colin by being righteous in revenging himself on his enemies. In this gruesome scene, life's fragility is shown. And even the cold-blooded Shand is horrified by his sin and his lack of control of his anger. And then, like a delusional sinner, he thinks that he can redeem himself by finding out exactly who is out to get him. He thinks that by getting his enemies he will finally find true peace. However, he deludes himself, and in the end he is doomed to die at the hands of the young assassin (Brosnan). In the end, he was undone by his own ambition and foolish pride. And only then does Shand see the full extent of his life of greed and lust. Shand sees that all along he deceived himself into being greater than he really is, and that he could actually escape his own fate in the end. As the film draws to a close you can see that Shand is now resigned to be punished for his sins. "},{"Title":"Classic,if not prophetic British Gangster Thriller","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With the possible exceptions of BRIGHTON ROCK and GET CARTER,The Long Good Friday has a strong case in being the best British gangster film yet produced.It thankfully lacks the jokey,facetious and overtly bloody attitudes that has plagued most UK-based hybrids since the 1990's (as personified by Guy Ritchie and others).It's occasional lapses into nastiness and schematic excesses are easily outweighed by an excellent script (which possesses considerable caustic wit),fine direction,great performances and memorable scenes.Gangland boss Harold Shand (Bob Hoskins) is on the verge of something big in his native London's docklands;replacing the declining port-side areas with vast new modern developments and buildings,even with a view to holding a future Olympic Games there.There is however a considerable fly in the ointment;would-be mafia backers are concerned as Harold's manor and underlings are subjected to a campaign of murder and bombings,later revealed to be the work of the IRA,who think Shand was responsible for the deaths of several of their members (when in fact he wasn't).An enraged Harold plans his revenge,but should he go ahead and do so?The basic plot of The Long Good Friday is perhaps the film's only real weak point.In it's favour,it is certainly unusual but often somewhat over-complicated (several viewings may be needed to properly connect all it's threads) and a little far-fetched;the fact it is set around Easter (Ireland has had some very important events occurring around this holiday period throughout it's long history) may be intended irony.But in the midst of the considerable quality around it,these are modest complaints.John McKenzie's direction (what a shame his subsequent work has been much lower profile) is very well-judged,being either fast,exciting,subtle or reflective when the situation demands it,serving the thoughtful,literate,clever,often droll script by Barrie Keeffe.The characters are not the familiar stereotypes you'd expect in such gangster dramas,and performers like Bryan Marshall,Alan King and Eddie Constantine (in a rare English-speaking part) are given slightly more depth to roles that could have been mere ciphers.Helen Mirren is first class as Harold's mistress,one of the most interesting gangster's molls ever put on screen,but the entire film is dominated by the career defining performance of Bob Hoskins.His searing,commanding presence as Shand is outstanding,carrying conviction in every moment.Hoskins' portrayal is arguably the most anti of anti-heroes in cinematic history.Harold Shand thinks himself as a businessman and no longer a criminal with the 1980's about to loom,with apparent peace with rival gangs for a decade further emphasising this point.But with the uncontrollable mayhem taking place around him threatening his legitimate credentials,Harold is more than prepared to dish out some extremely brutal (if not sado-masochistic) treatment to find those responsible so the lucrative deal can go forward,making cynical,hypocritical remarks about the decline of various neighbourhoods along the way.With the exception of a brief view of Tower Bridge near the beginning,director MacKenzie does not fall into the trap of familiar tourist views but less known London back streets and perhaps the last real view of the UK capital's somewhat neglected docklands in the pre-Thatcherite/Yuppie era in the late 70's/early 80's before it's redevelopment,Canary Wharf and all. This aspect of the plot turned out to be fascinatingly prophetic and accurate (if in a slightly different context),along with hopes for a London-staged Olympic Games.What with his desire for enterprise and virulent hate for Irish Republicans,it is no surprise that the character of Harold Shand could be perceived as a hero with certain right-wing types in Britain! Hoskins in fact often makes this most unpleasant of characters sympathetic (with some witty one-liners part of his repertoire) in the midst of similarly unsavoury individuals.His grotesque arrogance and megalomania however get the better of him when he somehow thinks he can take on the even more ferocious and brutal elements within the IRA.He is warned of the risks by one of his closest associates,fresh-faced Jeff (who is killed by Harold in a savage outburst) but to no avail.The irony of course,is that Harold himself did not instigate this chaos;it the aforementioned Jeff and one of his most trusted friends and associates,Colin,a homosexual,who fell prey to the dual temptations of sex and money while in Belfast (doing an errand without Shand's knowledge or approval),placing Harold's business plans in dire jeopardy.The support cast has many future TV and Film stars who turn up every few minutesGillian Taylforth,Paul Freeman,Dexter Fletcher,Paul Barber,Karl Howman and Derek Thompson among them.The most notable of all is Pierce Brosnan,in a one word role as a IRA hit-man.It is Brosnan who appears with Hoskins in the film final and most memorable scene.The infamous abattoir sequence (with Shand's rival gang members hung upside down on meat hooks) is unforgettably horrifying and darkly funny,along with Harold's apocalyptic rage after finding out of the IRA's campaign against him. But the final drive away,with Brosnan holding Hoskins at gunpoint is now justly famous,holding on Harold's face seemingly endlessly but ingeniously,with all number of expressions telling us so much.This aspect of Hoskins' performance may be it's most impressive,despite being wordless.There has been a problem in some of Bob Hoskins' film roles since;undeniably a very fine actor,Hoskins however has sometimes fallen into the speech patterns and mannerisms of the role that made him a star into some other parts he has played,much to his detriment,though this has mostly been the exception rather than the rule.In retrospect,The Long Good Friday has a lot to answer for;many other British filmmakers have followed it's example for nearly three decades in mostly resistible imitations,but the original has not dated much at all and is still superior to the virtually all of it's prototypes.RATING8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Underworld thriller bordering on espionage","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As Britain enters the Thatcher era, Harold Shand, London's most powerful criminal businessman, is on the verge of turning his underworld-empire into a legitimate corporation. As much as being a metaphor for the era, Harold is a genuinely believable force to be reckoned with, having Scotland Yard Detectives and London Councillors deep in his pockets, as well as influential members of society and his 'firm' of gangland henchmen forming his inner-circle. Played with complete conviction by the wonderful Bob Hoskins as Harold, supported by the great Helen Mirren as his upper-class wife Victoria, The Long Good Friday is a first rate underworld-set movie which edges to the boundary of espionage thriller. It has a narrative which reaches far beyond the excellent Get Carter which preceded it and Mona Lisa which came after it, two powerful bench mark films which focused solely on the underworld. The LGF has two distinct sub-plots running side by side which have dire consequences for Harold, both of which are directly linked to his growing power. Directed seamlessly, it is only a matter of time before the two threads come together (somewhere before the film's middle) and then Harold goes about dealing with the 'problem' the only way he knows how; with unshakable belief in himself and in his abilities. If the movie poses any question for thought, then it must be one which concerns the debate over brute force Vs ideology.Spoiler Alert! As Harold's power-base and organisation grows, two trusted right-hand men (Colin of the old-guard and Jeff of the new generation) begin abusing their privileged positions within the expanding empire, operating with impunity motivated by greed and envy. When an unsanctioned 'job' for an IRA terrorist cell in Northern Ireland goes wrong, Harold's empire comes under violent retribution with premises bombed and henchmen murdered. While this takes place, Harold puts together a multi-million pound deal with American investment partners to re-develop London's rundown docklands; a project that will set an example for England's future, making it, in Harold's words a leading European State. As the escalating destruction of his empire eventually comes to his attention (initially convinced that it must be an old underworld rival attempting to discredit him) Harold reacts with swift brutality. Unravelling the mystery, notching up murders and a terror campaign of his own, while Victoria strives to keep the lid of respectability on his empire, Harold becomes blinded by his wrath in order to reassert his authority regardless of whom against. "},{"Title":"Superb gangster film with a top-of-range acting by  Bob Hoskins and brilliant Helen Mirren as his sexy mistress","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This magnificent picture depicts the struggle of a prosperous English gangster to hold on to his territory . ¨Long good Friday ¨is considered to be one of the best British mobster movies of all time . Entrepreneur Harold (The part of Harold Shand was written specially for Bob Hoskins), an underworld boss , is about to close a lucrative new deal with American mobsters (Eddie Constantine , Anthony Franciosa was originally cast as the Mafia boss Charlie but left after three days filming, claiming to be annoyed with the script alterations) when bombs start showing up in very inconvenient places... Splendid and exciting portrait of hoodlum rivalry in contemporary London of the 80s based on an original screenplay by Barrie Keeffe . It takes its rightful place on a par with ¨The public enemy¨, ¨Little Caesar¨ , ¨White heat¨, ¨The big heat¨, and other classic films in the genre . Occasionally confusing but otherwise excellent film , portraying a peculiar mobster and London underworld . Highlights of the film are the meat-works sequences where rival hoods are hung upside down on meat hangers . Director John McKenzie showed a brilliant ability to draw honest and natural performances from his actors . Breakthrough film role for British actor Bob Hoskins , giving a terrific acting . In fact , Bob Hoskins didn't work for a year after he appeared in this movie . Hoskins is matched by subtly as attractive wife , extraordinarily performed by Helen Mirren ; she claimed that it was at her insistence that her character Victoria was made into a more complex character than just the stereotypical mob moll . Film debut for Dexter Fletcher , Kevin McNally and Derek Thompson receives an introducing credit. Brief and first theatrical film role for Pierce Brosnan as an Irish thug billed as 1st Irishman and his part was supposed to be completely silent . This film is also memorable for its distinctive theme musical score composed by Francis Monkman though composed by means of synthesizer . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Phil Meheux who subsequently would make a prestigious career in Hollywood . The motion picture was compellingly directed by John Mackenzie . At the beginning he worked in TV plays , which inspired him and gave him the best training a television director could dream of ; it also taught him how to work with local people when filming on location and how to work quickly . Mackenzie is one of Britain's finest filmmakers , his interest was more in storytelling than political filmmaking and he began directing himself , with fabulous results . He moved to features decisively with ¨Long Good Friday¨ but a decade spent in Hollywood proved unfulfilling, artistically , filming failures such as ¨The Honorary Consul¨ , ¨The innocents¨ , ¨Blue code¨ and ¨Ruby¨ , his most successful film was ¨The fourth protocol¨ with Pierce Brosnan and of course , this ¨Long Good Friday¨ in which a remake has been announced . Although he has never achieved the recognition he richly deserves he is a good filmmaker , though sadly deceased in 2011 at 72 years old . Rating  Better than average . Well worth watching . "},{"Title":"Darn Near Flawless","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Aces all around. Hoskins is a barrel-chested dynamo and effective successor to Cagney and Robinson. But where 30's gangsters wanted to take over the town, their 80's counterpart wants to go international like any other corporation. Trouble is that going international requires as much political savvy as it does financial&#x97; something Harold (Hoskins) just doesn't understand.That wordlessly disjointed opening sequence is somewhat off-putting. Yet, thanks to a masterfully constructed screenplay. the threads connect up in the end. Still, I was really blind-sided by the narrative's link to the puzzle as to who is sabotaging Harold's big plans and, just as importantly, why. At the same time, I also like the way the lovely Victoria (Mirren) is turned into more than just a silken mistress. She's really the power behind Harold's throne, as the sudden slapping sequence shows.There are so many memorable scenes, starting with the slaughter-house. It's like nothing I've seen; at the same time, I hope the topsy-turvy actors got paid double. And what about that fancy power dinner that Victoria sweats to finesse. It's a subtle masterpiece of suppressed emotion that keeps threatening to disrupt the big plans. Then too, you can't help wondering what the little Napoleon is thinking during those wordless final minutes of run time. That too is like nothing I've seen and was someone's special inspiration. Iin my little book, the movie's staging, writing and acting are darn near flawless. And just as importantly, are never predictable.And here I thought great gangster films were America's exclusive preserve. But Hoskins and the movie belong up there with the best of our own. I guess I have to re-calibrate. "}{"Title":"One of the best British gangster films","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am often a bit wary of British Gangster films I have to admit. Whilst I genuinely think people in this country often undervalue the wealth of film directing and acting talent we have produced I do often feel that in recent years gritty British films have almost hit self parody and are full of mockney clichés. However over the years there have been some truly brilliant British gangster films (this, get carter and sexy beast are my favourites) and as much as I worship Scorsese etc it is sometimes refreshing to watch something closer to home. This film is one of the best portrayals I have ever seen of a mans world falling apart around him. Bob Hoskins plays an old school East End Villain at the point where his long built up empire is collapsing and his stubborn refusal to accept this leads to ever more desperate and violent attempts to stem the inevitable which perfectly portrayed making this a must see for anybody who is a fan of gritty, powerful and sometimes violent gangster films. "},{"Title":"It's not about  safety, it's about honour.","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's the early 1980s, it's Good Friday, and Harold Shand is waiting to entertain some powerful American muscle. He hopes to get them to help fund his dockside development, but someone is murdering his men, and although Harold has a good idea who is responsible, he isn't quite prepared for the events that follow.Plot wise, The Long Good Friday is a lesson in under taxing the audience, simplicity in structure and forgoing thunder in the name of telling a solid story. The Long Good Friday is a British gangster picture that owes more to the Paul Muni and Edward G Robinson pictures from the golden age than something like The Godfather. Where the characters are men of the street, working class villains who literally could be living around the corner from us, their respective antics giving them a reputation as infamous stars to be feared, and grudgingly admired.What many modern day film lovers may not be aware of is that The Long Good Friday had its release delayed, held back a year as Margaret Thatcher and her merry men frothed at the mouth due to the films portrayal of the Irish Rebublican Army. This was at a time when the Irish troubles were reaching new and terrifying heights, and here in this film, the government sensed a fall out that could have sent wrong message shock waves across the British Isles. This is one of the chief reasons that lifts The Long Good Friday high above many of its contemporaries, it may be a simple story, but it's not merely about two gangs striving for power on one manor!.Barrie Keeffe's script positively bristles with a hard bastard edge, some of the set pieces play out as true Brirtish greats, once viewed they are not to be forgotten. Some of the dialogue has an air of timeless bravado about it, delivered with cockney brashness from Bob Hoskins, Harold Shand. Hoskins is on fire, seemingly revelling in the role and fusing menace with a genuine sense of earthiness, one moment Harold is the bloke you want to have a pint of beer with, the next he's one step from rage induced retribution. Helen Mirren is fabulous as Harold's wife, Victoria, loyal and unerringly calm in the face of the madness unfolding, the supporting cast are also highly effective, with a cameo from Pierce Brosnan that is icy cold in making its point.Perhaps now it feels like The Long Good Friday is only of its time, and it may well be that it's only British viewers of a certain age that can readily embrace the all encompassing thread of gangland London at risk from insurgents. But i'll be damned if i ever choose to love this film less with each passing year, because to me it only just stops shy of being a British masterpiece, bristling with realism at a troubled time, and cheesing off Margaret Thatcher in the process, hell it works for me, always. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Little Caesar is puzzled","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece, although there maybe is too much violence and brutality. Harold, the main character, magnificently played by Bob Hoskins, is an 1980 version of Edward G. Robinson's Little Caesar. The resemblance goes far beyond the similar physical shape of Robinson and Hoskins and their love for acting with a cigar in mouth or between fingers. The script elaborates intelligently on the sexual and social insecurities of the gangster who fought his way up to the top and wants to become a serious businessman. You nearly feel sorry for Harold as he sees his empire falling apart without finding out why (he has worked so much for getting this far...). Little Caesar is genuinely puzzled. The script is just beautiful, Harold has many memorable lines which he delivers with much earnestness It's Good Friday &#133; have a Bloody Mary! He wouldn't hurt a fly &#133; when it wasn't necessary. Moreover, there are beautiful shots of the old London Docklands, just before its transformation began.  "},{"Title":"All time great gangster movie!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Long Good Friday will go down, or should, as one of the all time great gangster movies. Bob Hoskins' portrayal of Harold Shands, boss of London, ranks with Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, Edward G. Robinson, Jimmy Cagney, Rober De Niro or Joe Pesci. He epitomizes the screen gangster, with colorful language, an explosive temper, street smarts, but a vulnerability that is not always seen in other gangster roles. His wife, played by Helen Mirren, is tough in her own way, yet never loses her feminine touch. However, we sense they're both haunted by demons, as if they know some day they'll pay the ultimate price for their misdeeds. Razors, or as the youth of the day call him, The Human Spirograph, is one of the most menacing bodyguards I've ever seen.The accents are a bit hard to understand at points to those of us here in the US ('ands across the ocean!), but it adds to the authenticity and helps make this movie stand out from the typical Hollywood gangster film. I do share other criticisms of the dated early 80's music, but it helps to place the movie in the period where it takes place.Harold can't accept that those who seek to remove him play by a different set of rules and are motivated not by criminal aspirations as he is, but by politics and ideology. This is admittedly an oversimplification of a very complex situation, but it helps explain why he's destined to fail in a world that's changing beyond the limits he's been comfortable with for years.I saw this movie on its first run in San Francisco, bought the tape when it became available, and now have it on DVD. It's still my favorite Hoskins role. If you get a chance, watch out for George Harrison's comments on this movie. His company, Handmade Films, produced it, and he stated he wouldn't have accepted the project had he known how violent it would turn out to be. The violence, however, isn't gratuitous. As Harold says, he never hurt no one, well, only when it was necessary. He was always clean about it.It makes a great pair with The Krays, by the way....  "},{"Title":"A very unusual but solid gangster film","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is an excellent gangster film dealing with such subjects as loyalty, violence, gangland order and simply the unpredictable but unavoidable changes that come with time. Bob Hoskins plays the old-fashioned gangster Harold Shad with precision and conviction. Hellen Mirren is a foxy lady, playing Hoskins lady-partner and at the same time advisor and best friend. I found this movie to be unlike any other British gangster film because of its alternate approach to seeing a gangster's empire crumble. Also, the ending is superb and couldn't have been better when thinking about the dark mood and inclination of the picture. I was surprised to see a young Pierce Brosnan in this film and his character as the first irishman really scared the crap out of me, especially his ice-cold, shrewd stare in the end. Forget garbage like Lock Stock or Snatch, this is the real deal. Long Good Friday can be compared to films like The Krays only it is a lot better. "},{"Title":"A couple of days that turned out to be another Saint Valentine's Massacre","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  At date of writing this film has yet to earn 350 votes in the IMDb, meaning it falls short of the top 250 despite it's 7+ score. If you're somehow reading this without having seen the film, then do yourself a large favour rent it, or buy it.It's ironic that the production company of the quiet, peaceful Beatle, George Harrison, should construct such a violent and gritty picture. Bob Hoskins is so perfect as an East-End ganglord that you wonder how he ever got cast out of character as a cod American acting opposite a cartoon rabbit. Is this really the same man who urged the virtues of conversation on behalf of a phone company? Hoskins acts more in the final two minutes of this movie than in the rest of his career put together.What makes The Long Good Friday so special, (apart from stylish, but not ostentatious, direction and a superb theme score) is its variation on the typical crime theme. Instead of guns and bluster stretched out over an hour and forty minutes we get what is essentially a detective story. Who is planting bombs on Harold's patch? Who is trying to undermine his organisation? And will Harold put the pieces together before the noose around his neck gets too tight? Admittedly, Sherlock Holmes never got his clues by stringing up Moriarty from his ankles in a meat factory, but the narrative principle is the same.Is it really already the 20th anniversary of this film? What a timely reminder of how powerful the British Film Industry used to be. A must-see movie and quite excellent. "},{"Title":"Full to bursting point.","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Who said genre films had to be narrow?  THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY is a gangster film, and an excellent one at that, exploring old themes of loyalty, betrayal, expansion etc. with verve and excellently choreographed, imaginatively novel violence (and no law in sight).  But it also reveals how versatile genre is, and so we have the best ever critique of Thatcherism (with Harold Shand an embodiment of entrepeneurial culture, beset by the same problems that would dog the Tories (IRA, Americans, drugs etc), but also a hangover from the Welfare State in his misplaced loyalties - this schizophrenia tears him apart); a great London film, with an insightful sense of change and place, and meanings bound up in different spaces; and an extraordinary character study cum love story, which becomes an existential journey in the Bressonian mould. Final third flags after so much Cagneyesque energy, and older national vices, such as theatricality and stiff upper lip, do briefly intrude, but on the whole, this is a British film of rare ambition. "},{"Title":"The Too Long Good Friday","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This wasn't quite the classic noir gangster film I was hoping it was going to be, but it's certainly worth a view if you're into that sort of thing (I am).For the positives you have a solid cast, led by Hoskins and Mirren. I didn't quite buy Hoskins in a couple of the early scenes (notably the Hands Across the Pond speech and his first big scene with his assembled cronies) but the totality of the performance is very compelling, especially his ill-fated outro. Mirren is great as the only deft and clever (and sexy) member of his entourage.The dialogue--the bits of it I could understand of it anyway--was well-written, and that's always appreciated.The movie also sported some great, lived-in locations that gives the movie a bit of scummy charm that would have been overly glossed if made today.For the negatives you are pretty much stuck with a rather clueless and boorish main character whose redeeming qualities are few and far between. Good person? No. Good gangster? No. Good protagonist? Debatable. I found it really hard to care about Shand and his tribulations or his inevitable downfall. The last scene would have been killer if I gave a crap (I did not) and how that scene works for you is probably the litmus test for the whole movie.Though, to be fair, Harold Shand is a cuddly teddy bear next to twitchy psycho Tony Montana, mad-dog psycho sexy beast Don Logan, and the not-psycho but still a serial murderer from Get Carter (I forget his name).The pacing is also a little slow. The first 2/3 has too many befuddled gangster scenes and not enough tension. The last 1/3 is all wake me when Hoskins buys it. My attention wandered in a couple of scenes and it really could have been trimmed by 10 minutes or so.Still there's enough compelling content for a look, especially if you're a fan of Hoskins, Mirren, gangsters, or shady urban-renewal projects. "},{"Title":"Strangely contemporary","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This classic London-set gangster film may be almost thirty years old but some its themes feel very contemporary the development of the East End, the prospect of a future Olympics, and the shadow of a terrorist threat. Its greatest strength is its carefully selective use of scenes of extreme violence, which make for effectively discomfiting viewing precisely because they do not occupy the whole of the film. But cheeky-chappie Bob Hoskins struggles to convey the impression of a man feared by others, and the sophistication of the portrayal of the criminal underworld seems a bit lacking if you're a fan of 'The Wire', with its hyper-real portrayal of gang-lords in Baltimore, you might find it hard to completely believe in the world shown here. What is interesting is inadvertent the contrast between the Britain of 1979 and that of today. A 21st century remake would be an interesting idea. "},{"Title":"One more point...","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've previously commented on this wonderful movie, but I'd just like to say that the music in this movie is also top-notch. Some say it's a bit dated but I consider it an integral part of the movie. Just listen when we see Harold showering after the murder of Paul. Just outstanding. Also, the final scene is scored perfectly. An oft overlooked aspect of this great peice of cinema.  "}{"Title":"Visceral.","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" British gangster movies can be a little predictable. What keeps them alive is how well the lead is and how interesting the plot unfolds. This film accomplishes both excellently. This is one of the rare movies where you learn what's the major issue along with the main character and this is a good 45 minutes into it at least.The film opens with a lengthy sequence of scenes strung together by Francis Monkman's excellent score. While no one is speaking, you are following things because they are moving quickly. These events are not explained to us though. We simply see them. I won't describe them except to say, it's this sequence that the viewer learns the meaning of along with Bob Hoskins' Harold Shand who is introduced immediately following it.Shand arrives home from an undisclosed location but you can assume it wherever he was, it was a major success for him and his organization. He has plans to expand his organization but he needs further financial assistance by American gangsters who he meets on Good Friday. Without knowing anything about what's happening, people in his employ are being brutally murdered. He launches an investigation and needless to say, things are a surprise to him.What makes this film interesting is Bob Hoskins' portrayal of Harold Shand. You learn all about the type of man he is, the type of character he always had and most importantly, how he got to be as powerful as he became. You learn the value of Helen Mirren's Victoria (Shand's wife). If nothing else, she stabilizes his inner reactionary rage. I imagine Shand fell back on her channeling him more than a few times in order to get to where he is in the story.The story is somewhat dated but it's dated like the movie War Games was. The then news headlines played a heavy role in the events in the story. In War Games it was the panic of an all out nuclear war between the US and USSR many were assuming was inevitable in the early 80's. In The Long Good Friday, it was something else entirely but no less important to what the landscape of London looked like in the late 70's and early 80's A young Pierce Brosnan has a dialog free role but no less important to the story. Paul Freeman also has no spoken word role in the story but he also is vital to how the story unfolds.On the whole, this is a movie that comes off as an experiment that really works well. All of the aspects of a good crime/action movie are here but they are presented in a different way, with a different story and with explosive, at times highly disturbing results. Truly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"great Bob Hoskins","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harold Shand (Bob Hoskins) is a successful London gangster aspiring to be a legitimate owner of the abandoned Docklands for a casino and other developments with American mafia money. Victoria (Helen Mirren) is his smarter better half. While he sips champagne with corrupt cops and American mobster Charlie, IRA hit-man (Pierce Brosnan) is killing his right hand man. His other guy Eric is blown up in a car bomb outside of church on Good Friday. Harold tries to uncover the cause and finds that a minor deal unknown to him connected to IRA had gone terribly wrong. The IRA holds Harold personally responsible.This is a great staring performance from Bob Hoskins. He infuses this movie with great energy. Without him, the movie does struggle a little. The plot doesn't have much tension. It also has a great young Pierce Brosnan prominently as a nameless IRA hit-man. "},{"Title":"Watch and learn, Guy.","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the film Guy Ritchie has been trying to remake his whole career, and he's never come close.Big fish in small pond London gangster manages to upset precisely the wrong band of fanatics, and underestimates the enemy to his great cost. In amongst all the violence, there's true drama and pathos (Helen Mirren, for goodness' sake - is she capable of giving a bad performance?), while the humour never seems forced or tacked on. This isn't a glossy, GQ Magazine, drama schoolboys playing poker with over-the-top wide-boy accents, token one-dimensional crumpet British gangster flick. Oh no. Superb performances from the entire cast, including Pierce Brosnan's finest movie role to date (he doesn't say anything), and Oh! what an ending! Verdict Mockney Gangster Porn? I've sh*t it! NOTE disappointing note on the DVD release - the director's commentary is one of the most dull and un-insightful commentaries since I sat through half of Tim Burton's commentary on Edward Scissorhands. Most disappointing!yetanotherfilmreviewblog.tumblr.com "},{"Title":"Crime 'n' grime on the overcast Thames","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A year on from his way-too-early death, let's revel in Bob Hoskins' magnetic on-screen presence. His ability to switch in an instant from avuncular charm to rabid menace perfectly suits his role as Harold Shand, mob boss on London's unlovely river. The final shot &#x96; surely referenced by George Clooney at the end of Michael Clayton &#x96; is as skillful a piece of wordless acting as you'll ever see.The film opens with a series of violent killings. In a clever bit of framing, we gradually learn that the victims are Harold's goons, so we share the shock and horror he feels. Turns out that the killings couldn't have come at a worse time &#x96; the New Jersey mob is in town to sign a business deal to form a New London. So Harold, along with his bird Vicky (Helen Mirren) and best china plate Jeff (Derek Thompson) must track down and quash the jealous culprits before the Americans turn on their heels without signing on the dotted line.It's a propulsive plot, simple until the twists start piling up. Mostly this is a character-centric play, focusing on the love triangle between Harold, Vicky, and Jeff. Vicky is the intelligent centre around which all the fellas gravitate, while Jeff is the gentle calm who shares the centre of that storm. But Jeff isn't the picture of laid-back submission he first seems. Watch his face as those lift doors slide closed &#x96; is that a glimpse of an evil smile? The Long Good Friday is fascinatingly dated. Francis Monkman's music is a strange concoction of flute-based crime soul and Phaedra-period Tangerine Dream looping electronica. But beyond that, this is a movie locked in time the 1980 London skyline shown at the start is from a grey English era, Thatcher's long shadow looming. When Harold makes his speech to the Americans about Britain being great again, the blank stares he receives speak volumes. His desperation to rekindle his land of hope and glory is impossibly sad.Yet Good Friday is frequently leavened with humour. Whether it's a pub named Fagan's, or Harold exclaiming Diabolical liberty! as he hears of his henchman's murder, there's an ironic vein of deadpan running through the script. There's something very British about The Long Good Friday's resistance to glorifying its blinkered thugs, however much we end up empathising.Which we do. In a genre better acquainted with swagger than sympathy, Good Friday stands above the pack by getting behind the macho posturing and to the heart of the mob. It's not just his business interests that are being damaged &#x96; Harold is emotionally wounded by the attacks. Sure, he responds with machetes, but the point is the script delves into vulnerable places that lesser gangster movies wouldn't dare.It might not have the grim grit of the likes of Get Carter (although one particular death is genuinely shocking), but for me Good Friday's more self-deprecating tone gives it the edge, and a timelessness that elevates this made-for-TV-for-under-a-million movie to classic status. It's the anti-operatic alternative to the glossy Godfathers and Goodfellas of this world, and an unshowy landmark in British crime cinema. "},{"Title":"The iconic British gangster film!","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is an amazing blend of story and action, and pulls off the amazing feat of having a gangster movie with some real heart and some classic charm that was missing from many similar movies of this period and most movies since. The characters are unforgettable and at the very least relatable, you see them and know their plight as they go through this dark period of time.So what's the bacon? Bob Hoskins plays Harold Shand, a London Gangster who's brought about peace in the Capital's gangster scene. However, on the day he plans to sign a giant East End development project with American investors, his organisation is rocked by the murder of his childhood friend and a bomb blowing up his Rolls Royce. Shand now has the ordeal of tracking down the people attempting to destroy his organisation whilst at the same time keeping it a secret from the Americans.So, the good stuff? All of it if I'm honest. It's got heart, with all the characters being at the very least human, not invincible husks with no personality and no real human traits. Shand isn't invincible, he's simply a man who's built himself up from the gutters of the London slums to become the kingpin of the city, and you can really feel for his emotions and really want him to find a way out all the way through the movie.The story is an absolute cracker, strong, coherent, chocked full of twists and really good fun to sit through. At the same time the film, unlike many of the same period, is surprisingly subtle. There aren't an onslaught of nauseating gun battles, nor is it just continual fist fights with no connection to the plot other than to cram in a load of action. It is a fantastic blend of story and style, which I love to bits!To top it all off as well, the soundtrack, although very simple, is fantastic and absolutely catchy. Bet your bottom dollar that you'll be humming the theme tune to this movie for a week after viewing!What else can I say? The story's great, the characters are great, the music's great, it's grounded, down-to-earth and overall a fantastic movie. One of my all time faves and definitely my favourite gangster flick! "},{"Title":"Going out like a raspberry ripple....","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harold Shand, is a study in contradictions - violent, feared but also self-conscious and insecure. As Harold is about to close a major deal, a spate of bombing attacks bring negotiations to an abrupt halt. He must find out who would dare attack criminal London 's most powerful man. Or has somebody already taken his place?It's the study of someone who is facing ruin in a short time, from being one of the most fearsome, powerful 'mob' bosses in London, to being one of the most powerless, fearful person at once.But it's also a big finger to the government at the time of the films release, and the greed here could be a reflection of the greed of politicians, and other powerful influences at the time......anybody will do anything to line their pockets......Hoskins makes a star turn here as Shand, powerful, happy, and confident when we are first introduced, but as the film and the narrative progresses, we learn it's not him who has the power or the influence, it's his wife, the one who is the foundation and the brains of the outfit.But Harold has the final say, or so he thinks, as his wife does influence him on occasion, and keeps everything smooth. And it's to the film makers and Mirrens credit for not making Mrs Shand a one dimensional moll, she is the most fleshed out character in the film.As Harold realises that he is losing the battle,the film becomes more quickly paced, as if the editing is becoming more frequent, the more Harold becomes vulnerable.It's a tent pole in British cinema, showing a grittier, seedier side to us Brits, and we love it. "},{"Title":"Excellent one from the archives","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love it when I choose a film at random - no expectations, no preconceived notions (except that I like Bob Hoskins) and it startles me and finds a way into my system. I found it very hard to shake, haunting even, and I think about it still years after watching it. In the tradition of many great gangster films, it tells a complex story with all of the crucial ingredients including betrayal and corruption, murder, lust and an abattoir. It is epic in scope, and brutal in its narrative - following the rise and inevitable fall of a gangster, Harold, played with some kind of fury by Bob Hoskins in one of his most unforgettable roles. Hoskins has a brilliant way about him, and in many of his films he excels at showing both a vulnerability and a murderous disposition. He can make you laugh, then rattle the ground with curdling anger, often within the same scene. He is such a specific actor that it's often hard to imagine anybody else inhabiting the roles he chooses. An intense and intelligent thriller that will get under your skin and stay there. "},{"Title":"Better Than Good","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is a fantastic film. I've seen it three times now. At first, I thought it was a bit heavy, a bit overly dramatic, but it has really grown on me. The film is riveting and highly watchable. The acting is top-class, especially Hoskins and Mirren, the direction is ace and the music is electric. It's a real quality piece of filmmaking.And like all great films it's full of interesting, thought provoking, relevant ideas, most notably about the state of Britain, and while at first it would seem that the film simply champions the nation upon closer inspection it appears that it is actually trying to raise a question about whether Britain really is the empire it used to be or whether it has fallen by the wayside. "},{"Title":"The Long Good Friday (1980)","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is Hoskins' break out performance and it's no surprise as to why. He inhabits the role of Harold Shand with such passion that we are completely swept along with him. Harold Shand is a gangster and businessman. As he approaches making a lucrative deal with some Americans, a number of his crew are taken out via stabbings and bombs. He and his gang must find the culprits before the Americans are scared off. It's a race against time but with no real heroes. We feel for the character of Shand but at no point are asked to excuse or support him. The score is beautiful, in an old electronic kind of way, it does set the scene and builds up exciting moments. The sound design is also often exaggerated but in a way that it brings added and important emphasis to certain scenes. Director Mackenzie also likes to get experimental at times, but only when it really serves the plot, such as the upside down meat truck scene. It's a great film that warns against greed and corruption, but is also littered with memorable dialogue. "},{"Title":"459th Review Even 30 years on this is one of the best British crime movie of all time","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" TLGF is more than just a great film with great performances - it wins with a double whammy - firstly it captures perfectly the zeitgeist of Britain gearing itself up to shake off the stupor and oil deprivation of the 70s and go all out of glam, glitz, and the loadsamoney of the 80s, and secondly, it redefines how British films were made in the Eighties.The plot all happens over 24 hours of a Good Friday in the East India Docks at Tillbury. The British crime lord (Bob Hoskins) with his smarter half (Helen Mirren) are playing to make billions in redevelopment projects by going in with the Americans. What should be a successful meet and greet turns into chaos, as a third party starts blowing-up and killing Hoskins' organisation.It is Bob Hoskins' central performance that more than carries this he is a cockney Napoleon commanding his troops, the man who has fought his way to the top and has no intention of giving that position up. What we get is an absolute riveting, mezmerising, and compelling film - not only does this have everything - directing, acting, filming, setting, music, the lot - going for it, it all melds in such a way as few films do to produce that rarest of thing - real magic.I've seen it six or seven times - it never gets old, it always lives up to my expectations, and it is powerful film-making indeed. "}{"Title":"Great British Gangster Film","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is an excellent British entry in the gangster genre, with great performances by Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren. It follows the travails of smooth gangster Harold as his empire comes under attack from bombs and assassinations. It is both a riveting thriller and a great character study.On one hand, the film knows how to keep the action going, with plenty of explosions, shootings, and stabbings. There is plenty here for every action hound. However, at the same time, the film creates a compelling / disturbing portrait of Harold. At the beginning of the film, he comes across as affable, little different from a legitimate businessman. However, as the violence escalates, the darker side comes across. One scene in particular, shot from the point of view of mobsters hanging upside down from meat hooks, shows the true brutality of his character.The film can also be interpreted as a social satire. In particular, Harold, with his talk of a New London and Britain's role in a globalized world, seems to represent the neocapitalist vision that overtook Britain with the rise of Margaret Thatcher. The film was produced at the same time as Thatcher's rise to power.At times, the English working class accents are difficult to understand. This should not dissuade you from seeing a great film. "},{"Title":"A Barmy Gander at One 'Ard Bloke","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Stunted, butters with his thinning hair delineating a rotund Chevy and teeth that invariably look to be gnashing, Harold has a monk on he hasn't had to lose for quite awhile. Ten years, it's implied here and there. We eventually have the privilege of seeing why things go better when he keeps it in check. He runs the London harbor and aims to arrange the most ambitious real estate deal in Europe with Mafia funds from the States and the unspoken support of the London underworld society. He cannot Adam-and-Eve that in one weekend his entire existence can go to cock. Harold's a babbling brook, except he lives in a penthouse, fixes a 'spiffing' yacht in the Thames, has the devotion of a bright and diplomatic bird, and expounds zealously on the decade of harmony he's helped parley in the London crime world. Then a bomb 'stonks' his Rolls Royce and chauffeur. Another flattens his favorite battle cruiser. A third turns up in his casino, yet falls short of igniting. Who's after him? And why have they chosen this worst of all feasible occasions to do so, the Easter weekend when an American spiv's in town to deliberate investing millions in his real estate development? This rather dated but nonetheless 'spiffing' mint sooner or later does meet these questions, just enough to satisfy a reply, no more, no less. Nevertheless the purpose of the film isn't to explore Harold's right two-and-eight. It's to take a gander at this sod, this heap of paradoxes. He's such a character, such a cheesed-off bloke, responsive to the least slight, capable of smacking panic in the hearts of hard cases, yet a Jessie when his utterly contrasting 'swimbo' Victoria---scrubbed-up, 'nobby' and a dab hand where Harold is 'goppin',' daft and in a pig's arse---spits a few tacks. He's played by solid, beefy performer Bob Hoskins, who in this 1980 well 'ard has the agro and all mod cons of a younger Michael Caine. There's a scene where he hangs his mates upturned from meat hooks and grills them about the terror campaign, and other scenes where he soberly has a laugh with the local 'juves' and looks to arse-lick the Yank out of his millions.He's strong-armed his way to top banana by being acquainted with precisely how things work and what switches to flip, and now here he is, signing his trousers about this unknown Bobby Dylan. That the filmmakers may be signifying that there's not much variation between legitimate corporate activities and the mob is perhaps the film's foremost thematic pleasure, while this modern-day Macbeth 'jackanory' moves along in a somewhat oblique manner, opening, if not at some batty midpoint, with a montage of apparently disparate events, held together by a spellbindingly rhythmic music theme, early enough in the introductory stage that we really haven't a Scooby-Do what occurs until particulars are unraveled at times quite far down the frog and toad. We grasp intuitively that Harold's no 'berk' from the instant we initially see him 'swanning' through Heathrow, though we don't know what. Shortly, at a cocktail soirée he hosts for the Yanks, we see an hopping pot of blokes whose backgrounds are unspecified to us nattering about the considerable expansion project Harold's designed, though its particulars are merely inferred. As the film proceeds, we swiftly gather that Harold's a mobster and the geezers are the city officials in his sky rocket, and we soon ascertain his big proposal. All the film's exposition abides by this pattern, in which we've no framework for names or locations and use the loaf to sort out the skinny until some in-passing line offers an anchor for whole plot strands. It's a simplistic yet challenging style of exposition, the style I tend to prefer.What's more, Mackenzie, with a minimum of stylization and a pinch of dour pragmatism, calculatingly eschews establishing shots for the majority of the film, and we're continually plunged into places that have ostensibly no association with one another. The first shot is of an house in a pick 'n mix at sunrise. We never learn where this is, nor are we ever 'deffo' acquainted with what occurs inside. While this is a radical instance, it's characteristic of the film's movement, in which action frequently happens in indeterminate places that simply appear to materialize as required. This is a confidently restrained manner of constructing a film that's basically the account of a geezer who needs information and keeps ending up with the square root of sod-all. We're normally in on a little more information than Harold, however the swap, to guarantee that we're in due course equally without a Scooby, is that we have to assemble the film's culture through intermittently dispersed snippets.Mirren's the dog's as Victoria, so classy and money that eck as like does one break concentration and question just how a bit of aw-right like this wound up with a chap like that. She wound up where she has as in Mirren's performance, that's unerringly where she's needed. Nevertheless it's thoroughly Hoskins' bag. This was his first film lead, and he possesses it like he'd been acting straight out of the womb. And the movie's closing shot is as brassy and lemon-tart as anything before it, a gutsy and magnetic two-minute close-up of Hoskins' contorting Chevy Chase as his mince pies avert back and forth, and his mouth fractures into a petrified roof tile. This full-on Monty is a right blinding time, not just for the Hoskins performance but also for the understated vim of Mackenzie's direction, the full-of-beans music, and, despite what you'd Adam-and-Eve, for the charming delicacy of when it occasionally decides to take the mickey bliss out of you. "},{"Title":"Never been beaten","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" On Top Gear a few weeks ago Dame Helen said They cant remember The Long Good Friday, 75% of them are too young How wrong you are! Dame Helen, you really underestimate just how brilliant, ground breaking, dark, gritty, captivating and unbeatable The Long God Friday was. The very pinnacle of British gangster films, never been beaten and never been equalled. It is as watchable today, for people who were not even born in 1980, as it was for those of us fortunate enough to have been watching and enjoying it since its release ( and I was only 15 then ! ). Dame Helen you were superb, the performance that made you a mega star in the eyes of so many people, both then and when seeing the film today. The film worked mostly due to the chemistry between Dame Helen and Bob Hoskins, a film I will never tire of watching no matter how long I live. If you haven't seen this film, you should ! "},{"Title":"The best London gangster movie ever","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watching it for the first time I had no doubt why it was listed as number six on the top 50 best British films of all time. This was Bob Hoskins most dynamic and biggest role as Harold Shand. Helen Mirren does a fine job as his second wife and Eddie Constantine is strong as well as the American Don. This film has a complicated and shrouded plot that makes it deeply engrossing to watch and shocking as it gradually unfolds. I had to run out and buy this one pronto. Thank God they did not dub Hoskin's voice and completely ruin the movie. A extremely successful hit in the U.S. and a monument to good film making. And what an ending! "},{"Title":"Great Brit Flick","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This has to be one of the best Brit gangster films to come out of the UK and is lead by a towering performance from Bob Hoskins.Ya don't go blowing people up outside a church...not on Good Friday! There are some funny realistic lines in this sometimes violent film and it also shows the death of the old London society. The influx of different cultures through immigration and harold shands disgust - and a changing of the guard on who runs the manor.The music is also a great source of mood setting - from harold arriving on Concorde to the great ending scene... The director told Bob in this scene to just think of that his character has gone through to that point.A classic piece of work.K "},{"Title":"a classic that invites re-viewing","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are so many things to appreciate in this movie. First and foremost, Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren give outstanding performances as the First Couple of London's underworld. He, with the Cockney-made-good aspirations for status and the class he can never attain, epitomizes the hands-on manager overtaken by larger events. She, the cool-headed savvy- tough-and-sexy moll, is almost on top of things enough to redeem the situation but not quite. The key elements of the underworld ruling coalition-- dirty councilor and policeman, lieutenants of varying backgrounds both tough and educated-- make you believe in how this man has achieved peace through strength.The film's plot is Byzantine whodunit, with gangland-style violence as an accent piece that seems downright tame in the age of Pulp Fiction. The real hidden star, though, is late-70's London-- oh so run-down and yet full of the potential that drives Harold's ambitions. The views from boating on the Thames are unrecognizable to those who have only seen modern London--- the sole landmarks in common are Tower Bridge and the Savoy hotel. The towers of the City and modern Docklands are just a twinkle in dreamers' eyes.Overall TLGF is a modern tragedy in the true land-of-Shakespeare tradition, somewhere between Macbeth and Hamlet and King Lear ambition, betrayal, and the sweep of history interact richly without being heavy-handed in symbolism or over-artiness. This is a satisfying and complex film that invites re-viewing and reflection. "},{"Title":"Best Gangster Film Ever","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is probably one of the most slept on films ever not just in the gangster genre as it is a true classic The story is about Harold Shand(Bob Hoskins)in what is considered his breakthrough role as king of the underworld & gangland empire in London. He is sitting on top of the world with not a care as he has taken out all threats through the years.Now he is concentrating on trying to form partnership with the U.S Mob through some of his business opportunities that are more legit that he has acquired.So after returning from a trip from the U.S. where he has set up for the American Mafia to visit London & finalized their partnership as London is picked for the upcoming Olympics where there will be tons of money to made. So the guys for the U.S. mafia arrive in London but to the surprise of Harold & his crew there are a series of tragic events that are taking place that really start effecting Harold's life but also so his future business deals he wants to pursue with the U.S. Mob. There is just one problem no matter how much Harold tries to pin point who might be challenging his power he and the rest of the crew just can't make heads or tales. It is really hard to go into detail without spoilers which I won't do because this is way to great of a movie you really need to watch, as unlike most movies you have to watch beginning to end to figure out who,why,& how is trying to ruin Harold plans & his position of crime lord of London. The answer to that question is hidden in this excellent written & acted movie.This movie in my opinion really set the standards for other British movies like Lock Stock& Two Smoking Barrels,Snatch,& Gangster#1. Just check it out the new special edition DVD that was released in Apil of this year(2006). "},{"Title":"The Best British Gangster Film ......Ever!","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I initially viewed TLGF shortly after its release on video some 20 years ago and still recall the sense awe I felt at the time at its conclusion. Whilst it was enthusiastically received in certain quarters, and is by most reviewers on IMDb it is no coincidence that the majority of negative and derogatory reviews emanate from the US and its citizens of whom the script and movie is at times less than complementary about.This should in no way, however, detract from the fact that the script, movie plot, direction, music soundtrack and acting are all of the highest quality, only topped by a powerhouse of a role from Bob Hoskyns who produces the performance of lifetime. That his screen presence and performance completely dominates and overshadows the cream of the British acting fraternity such as Helen Mirren and Derek Thompson puts into perspective his screen presence and impact in this movie.In my opinion it is simply the greatest British Gangster movie ever made which in no way diminishes or belittles the quality of such films as Get Carter, Mona Lisa, Lock Stock or assorted others. It can also proudly stand alongside other such top-drawer international movie greats as The Godfather or Goodfellas. It's simply that good.The only disappointment is that the ending perfectly leaves open the possibility of a sequel but the quality of the original leaves the follow-up all but impossible to live up to. In reaching perfection it's sometimes better, therefore to leave well alone. "},{"Title":"Triumphant British Gangster Film","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this film on release some 26 years ago,and have revisited it on several occasions.But a TV showing last night prompted me to test its' quality once again - I was not disappointed.Class oozes out of every frame. Helen Mirren cuts a dazzling sexy,swathe throughout as Bob Hoskins' gangsters moll. Hoskins himself gives a tour de force performance as Harold Shand, the London villain who suddenly, and inexplicably, finds his fiefdom spiralling out of control.The action races along at a pace of knots, but it is the superlative Barrie Keeffe screenplay that continues to delight with Harolds' monologues at the heart of things. Upon the death of one of his henchmen he reflects Poor Colin, who could do this to him? He would never hurt a fly - well mot unless it was necessary.... Despite Shands' thoroughly ruthless character Keeffee imbues a Shakespearean strand of Tragedy both to the story, and Shand.This is magnificently demonstrated with Shands murder of one of his right hand men I smell treachery and his child like collapse into the arms of Mirrens' Victoria as events spiral out of control.The classy dialogue makes the profanities and violence, when they come, even more powerful, and make no mistake this is a powerful tale of corrupt power, deceit, loyalty and disloyalty. No British Gangster film has come close to this in the last quarter of a century which is as much a testament to its. stature as it is a condemnation of its' poor imitators. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and more subtle than it seems","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I rewatched this for the first time in 15 years last night (on Film 4) intending to watch just a few minutes to stir my memory (I had an early start today) and couldn't tear myself away for the whole film.It probably helps to have grown up in the UK in the 80s because as well as being a very straight gangster film it has a great deal of period context that others will miss (cf the obvious comparison Get Carter which has lots of seedy-1970s-provincial-corruption context). Certainly people like some of the commentators here who watch gangster movies for gratuitous violence and topless molls will be disappointed.As for it's dated and has a cheesy 80s soundtrack. Eh? It's a film about 1980s London gangsters, for heck's sake! Should they all be wearing Armani and accompanied by hip hop beats? This isn't Miami Vice.Anyway, apart from the excellent script and acting and very British understated camera work and directing (it makes Get Carter almost look flashy) it has hidden depths if you know the period and context.My favourite being that as the mystery unfolds, people keep warning Shand that he shouldn't take on his unexpected opposition because they aren't interested in money, Harry, they're political!. Ummm, quite unlike Harry - a walking embodiment of Thatcherite Britain, who already has quite enough money to be going on with - of course... "}{"Title":"Just Excellent.","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" OK first thing's first. I love this film, but I also like 'Lock, Stock and 2'. See - it is possible to just be a fan of good films and like both. You don't have to set them up against each other and choose which is the good one and then say the other is therefore bad. They're both great films. Live with it! OK. now that's said why is Good Friday such a great film? Well, as all other reviewers are saying, it starts with the central performance. I am actually not usually a fan of Bob Hoskins. I've seen him in some bad films. But here? Wow!!! He just throws a net around you, and you're his for the whole movie.He's not the only reason to watch the film though. Far from it. There are some great turns from the rest of the cast as well. Helen Mirren and Derek Thompson deserve special mention - but actually it's one of those films in which everyone is good. The script too is very clever. Funny as well as scary, without ever being patronising or predictable. Lastly, the direction keeps the film moving along at a cracking pace. When the end comes, you will be hoping the credits don't run just yet - I promise you.Important warning though if you're squeamish, then this one is probably not for you. But if you can stand the sight of a bit of violence and blood, then don't deny yourself the 'Long Good Friday' experience any longer. "},{"Title":"Great movie but DVD Release is dubbed","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie many years ago and thought it was the best of its kind since Get Carter. The Video release contained the sub heading of Full Uncut Edition. Indeed it was the same version as i had seen on TV. I had looked forward so much to the DVD release and all the extras that were promised. In the Criterion Edition, Hoskins talks in an interview with some passion that he fought the owners in the courts about being dubbed without his prior approval. He eventually persuaded Hand Made Films to buy the movie and have it released uncut and undubbed. On viewing the film itself not only is Hoskins dubbed in certain places but the character of the councilor is dubbed all the way through the movie. This in my opinion is unacceptable. I am curious to know if Hoskins is aware of this. All further DVD releases have had the same treatment. This has evidently been done to suit the American market who have trouble understanding the slang London accent. Why then are we on the other side of the pond not aided in understanding the range of incoherent tones coming out of American mouths with a glossary of explanation?! Please release the version the makers originally intended. And let Bob know he's been duped again by the Yanks. "},{"Title":"One of the best British Gangster Films","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Though a completely different film the plot has elements reminiscent to me of Coppola's Godfather with the move to different methods of obtaining proceeds from crime (proposal of drugs in The Godfather but not in this case..). Also the popping off of your boys by the opposition is a familiar scene.In this film it looks like someone bigger than both our gang boss Bob Hoskins (our Godfather here) and his local rivals has arrived in town!-London town that is...It has everything and like all great films captures a certain mood throughout. This is crucial to holding the film and its audience together throughout. It is unlike many British films not too wordy and as one other reviewer i've read in past mentions is a gold standard set 16 or so years previous for Guy Rithcie (with his dubious Lock stock, etc.) et al.. to look back in wonder and emulate but never achieve....yet...Afterthought Please note there are some other Brit greats since though with the likes of sexy beast and Gansgter NO1 providing extremely entertaining viewing! TRIVIA If you are British it is great fun to spot the Brit soap stars and other more for TV actors such as the wonderful (Prime Suspect fame) Helen Mirren.Of course wherever you are from a young Pierce Brosnan appears in the closing sequence - what a shock to behold the silent killer! Turn the lights right down pour your preferred poison and watch it all unfold and explode at the end! Bon viewing! "},{"Title":"The Long Good Friday","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the best British films of the 80s. It's also one of the great gangster films from any country. Bob Hoskins delivers a fantastic performance. If anyone doubts he's a truly great actor, here's the proof. Harold Shand is one of the most brutal, vicious characters in film history. Hoskins totally becomes Shand, and it's often scary to watch.The supporting cast list reads like a who's who of up and coming British talent. 3/4 of the faces here will be recognisable to anyone in the UK with a TV set, and they all do fine work.The plot is twisty, but easy to follow. Harold has two American organised crime delegates visit him in London to talk business - a highly lucrative Thames riverside property development. Harold's eager to impress and pulls out all the stops. There's just one problem. An unseen enemy keeps blowing up his manor. This is not good for business, so Harold embarks on a revenge mission to discover who's responsible and re-assert his dominance over London.A savage film, The Long Good Friday has some cracking set-pieces, the standout being the abattoir sequence. Some hapless London faces are hung on meat hooks and interrogated, the pig carcasses in the background an ominous reminder of what's to come if they don't co-operate. Also the brutal murder of a trusted lieutenant is fantastic, and very well directed with a nearly POV shot from the victim. Also Harold's Thames speech, with the Tower Bridge behind him, and especially his berating of his American friends. He refers to the bombings as a bit of bother, and says not to worry. The deadpan Eddie Constantine replies It's like a bad day in Vietnam! His speech about the mafia compared to London gangsters is classic British bravado - a touch of the old Dunkirk spirit! - thrown in the faces of some very dangerous (but outwardly more respectable) men.Equal parts gangster/mystery, The Long Good Friday has a great, chilling ending too. "},{"Title":"One of my top favorite movies","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday deserves a more prominent role in the canon of great films. It draws some comparisons to classic and contemporary gangster movies, especially Get Carter with Michael Caine, but Bob Hoskins' performance takes it beyond others in its genre. He plays Harold Shand, a London mob boss on the brink of completing a huge waterfront development deal which will bring him into the legitimate business world. But a series of attacks on his organization by an unknown enemy puts his plans in danger, and we see the man and his empire collapsing over the course of a few days. Hoskins brilliantly portrays a man clinging desperately to his crumbling power. Meeting this new threat with old methods, Shand manages to be both despairing and defiant. John Mackenzie's direction is at times confusing, but otherwise excellent. Enhanced by a catchy if dated soundtrack and a strong supporting cast led by a young Helen Mirren, the direction gives Hoskins ample support for his incredible performance. The final scene is deservedly famous, but the boat scene with Jeff and its aftermath come close to the tension and brilliance of the ending. The film is gritty and brutal, but immensely absorbing. "},{"Title":"The Long Good Friday.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is probably one of the best British movies ever made. I watched it recently and was blown away.Harold Shand has made it, just when he is about to make the deal of a lifetime, bombs go of in his buildings and his friends get killed, someone is out to stop him. He needs to find out Who Lit The Fuse That Tore His World Apart and fast, before it will cost him his life.The movie start of a bit slow, but when Hoskins first appears it kicks into the next gear. Bob Hoskins is simply amazing in his role as Harold Shand. He plays angry, emotional, terrifying and many more things. He does all of this flawless. The movie has a lot of very memorable scenes and the dialogue is very well written.The ending is just brilliant, I won't spoil it because it is better if you don't know it. But it is right up there with the best movie endings of all-time.The music is very good and the supporting cast (PH Moriarity, Helen Mirren) is outstanding to.I highly recommend this movie.9,5 so with the voting system of IMDb 10/10 "},{"Title":"A must-see for any film fan","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" TLGF is one of those rare films that grips from start to finish and is, in my opinion, one of the very finest films to emerge from these shores. Bob Hoskins' career-best portrayal of Harold Shand displays both the utter ruthlessness of the character as well as his vulnerability engendered by the chaos that descends around him. It also shows Harold as being an ethical villain, one who has principles in the way he conducts his empire. Helen Mirren is also superb as Victoria and this must rate as one of her best performances. The rest of the cast is top-notch and, while Hoskins is clearly the star character, the whole film comes across as more of an ensemble performance. The film also makes superb use of the Docklands locations and the period in which it is set many Londoners of my age get very nostalgic when watching this film as shows the East End of London at a time when the glory of the docks had faded almost into memory and before the regeneration that has transformed the landscape today. As such, it serves as a fascinating visual record of how the area looked before development.Others have commented on Hoskins' magnificent and moving performance at the very end of the film when he is being driven away from the Savoy but, for me, his speech to the two Mafia hoods embodies and illustrates the very nature of what it is to be British. One can almost hear Churchill in his voice as he berates them no red-blooded Englishman can fail to feel a certain sense of pride and agreement with his sentiments.Phil Meheux's cinematography is especially deserving of praise in particular, the shot where Harold emerges from his boat after killing Jeff is stunning. A lesser person would have cut away to Victoria as Harold descends the gangplank and then cut back to Harold. Instead, Meheux starts to follow Harold then reverses and tracks back to the top of the gangplank turning to follow Harold and thus capturing Victoria's reaction and then comes back down to ground level and tracks them to the car. The effect is subtle but one which brings a tension to the scene which would have otherwise been lost by inter-cutting.Anyone with an interest in British cinema will not be disappointed by this truly excellent example of the oeuvre. "},{"Title":"British Film At Its Best","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With the current spate of British gangster films around I decided to watch this to see how it comparesSimply put this film is neigh on perfect. Brilliant direction from John Mackenzie from a good script by Barrie Keeffe, It captures early eighties Britain and Thatcherism at a time when money and power where wanted by everyoneOne of Bob Hoskins best performances with great support from Dererk Thompson and Helen Mirren. But for me the star of the show is the score, a Scar Face style synthfest5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"The Ending...","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS... I saw this film for the first time last night and agree with what other users have said about the ending staying with you. The Bob Hoskins character becomes more and more grotesque as the film progresses, yet for some reason the powerful ending makes you feel something close to sympathy. This is thanks to the wonderful final five minutes or so - the rant in the hotel and the silent emotional finale. Obviously, the power of the ending is dependent on what comes before it, which is all very watchable. A very enjoyable - and bleak - film.  "},{"Title":"The Guvnor","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Forget Guy Ritchies slap stick gangster movies as this is the real business.  This terrific film both reflected its time(when IRA activity was rife on the mainland) and predicted the future business boom in the East End's docklands. Raw, tough and edgy it is filled with great performances - especially by Hoskins and Mirren as very believable gangsters.  Like Performance, Get Carter, Brighton Rock and even The Krays this is a great piece of film making about gangland Britain.  The film isn't played for cheap laughs but for powerful drama. It kicks recent competition like Lock Stock and its pale imitators into touch. Mind you even comparing them is like sending the Krays in to sort out a girl guides meeting. The Business  "}{"Title":"Cannot Believe It!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A brilliant film from start to finish. Bob Hoskins performance in the last minute alone was worthy of an outstanding acting award without him uttering a word!!! Biggest moan is WHY the best British gangster film ever made is STILL not available on PAL VHS or region 2 DVD, I cannot believe you can only get it from the USA. "},{"Title":"Gritty British Gangster Classic","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hoskins is outstanding as crime boss Harold, in this violent representation of the British underworld. The language is brilliant with a real sense of the cocky, cockney attitude. Easily the best British gangster movie ever made! The Krays... who are they?  "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hoskins, Helen Mirren, 80's London !. What more do we want, along with Get Carter, this is one of the finest Gangster movies ever made. His gritty performance as his empire crumbles shows what a great actor Bob Hoskins is. With other great supporting acts this is a film to watch again and again. One scene among all shows his power in the movie  All his enemies hooked up like trussed chickens ! A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Fantastic ending will stay with you...","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The second best ever Brit gangster movie is a brilliant energy-filled piece.  Lock, Stock, Barrels is fine if you want a jokey gangster film bailed out by lucky coincidences, but this is the real thing, believable and intelligent.  The film reminds me a bit of the gritty Glasgow-based TV detective series Taggart, which presumably owes this film a considerable debt, having more than its share of overt violence, explosions and generally hard men. What really raises this movie into the stratosphere is the bravura performance by Bob 'Oskins.  The much-praised ending is so fine.  Surely it's the most dazzling display of an actor's craft to hold in close facial shot for a prolonged time showing a variety of emotions cross the features?  Hoskins does this to perfection, showing (at least) disbelief, anger, realization, fear, grim amusement and acceptance over a 90 second period, all the while set to pounding soundtrack and flickering lighting from passing streetlamps.  Not many movies include such prolonged close facial scenes.  Jack Nicholson is another actor who can do them, for example in a long scene in One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest.  If you haven't seen this, do yourself a favor. "},{"Title":"British gangster film","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best British gangster films made. Bob Hoskins was excellent for this film. Shame a follow up was never made, like they did for many other films. Film was released in 1979. "},{"Title":"Classic gangster movie.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great shots of east London circa 1980, fine acting and a slightly convoluted plot all combine to produce a ground breaking movie. The final scene with Hoskins in the back seat of a car is a great performance.If I counted correctly Pierce Brosnan gets one word in which hardly deserves co-star billing (C4 Nov 2001).I wonder of 'The Old Rose' is still standing. "},{"Title":"Excellent entertainment -still explosive after 21 years!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film on its first release and have viewed it several times over the years. I watched it again on Channel 4 last night after a gap of about seven or eight years and the two hours whizzed by in a flash. The action moves along at a cracking pace and not for a moment does it flag. Top notch performances and an ending I guarantee that will stay in your memory forever make this one first class entertainment package. OK, it might look a bit dated now, but so what - this one is a classic that can be enjoyed over and over. "},{"Title":"One of the All Time Classics - A Must See!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Mackenzie does a masterful directorial job in this movie as does cinematography by Phil Meheux and brilliant script by Barrie Keeffe. Now with that said the movie revolves around Bob Hoskins who in this movie plays one of the toughest movie characters you've ever seen up on the big screen. Bob Hoskins just rocks in this movie! And you might be like Bob Hoskins... Eddie Valiant from Roger Rabbit plays a tough character????... and yes after you see Hoskins in this role you will be like Bob is the man! This is one of those awesome rare performances in a movie where an actor just *is* that character (in the same vain as say a Al Pacino as Tony Montana) and makes it into someone we can enjoy and really really be blown away with movie coolness by... all at the same time just completely liking the character they have created.Helen Mirren is very sexy in this movie and she plays her role perfectly... you never quite can tell where her alliance truly is... and you kind of get the sense she is beautiful girl who got caught in a world she long had dreamed about but once there wished for a way out.It was cool seeing Razor being played by actor P.H. Moriarty who was Hatchet Harry in the recent great movie Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. Alan Ford who plays Brick Top in Guy Ritchies latest movie stars here as Jack.Now be prepared the first 30 minutes of this movie sort of takes you through a maze... a long elaborate set up that sets everything in motion that happens in the movie... which at first is confusing but on repeat viewings you will see how perfect it works for the movie.Once the movie kicks into gear you as the movie audience become like a right hand man to Bob Hoskins... you are right there with him at every turn as he tries to figure out what is going on. You become so engrossed and involved with the movie you aren't merely watching it your a part of it... your his right hand man... I don't mean this in a literal take it right off the page kinda way... but in that way of explaining in just how involved this movie gets you into it and Bob Hoskins.Now the ending of the movie just gets my blood pumping. I spent an entire day just thinking about the end of this movie. The more and more I thought about it the more I liked the ending but not in the usual way one would like the ending to a movie. Without ruining the movie lets just say it doesn't have a *Hollywood ending*. I wonder how most people react to the ending especially back when the movie first came out... and what the sorta mood was as people got up out of their seats and left the theater. This is a gangster movie where the bad guys are really really bad and not just sorta or half way bad... but I mean they are gonna do whatever they gotta do to take care of business... they aren't sprinkled with badness they are walking and breathing badness.I don't think I'll ever forget the ending though. The ending will be carved into my mind for quite some time. It's great to see that Criterion has added this movie to it's collection so if you have a DVD player and some extra money... go out and get this movie to watch (of course the Criterion version is gonna be the best way to see and experience it unless you happen to have your own 35mm print of the movie and a private movie theater in your home). Though if you had a private movie theater in your shower I'd say this isn't a shower kinda movie but a movie that you must watch from beginning to end without any interruptions where for one part of a day or night, you unplug all your phones, computer, turn off your cel phone/pager... and hit play and let the movie magic of this movie unfold. "},{"Title":"Excellent.......","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I dont know how anyone can not like this movie..The acting is great,The location gritty and the music by Francis Monkman is perfect,The final scene uses the music excellently....I also loved the refrencess to the bible and the crucifixion scene baring in mind that it was set over the Easter weekend..Overall a great movie,And a must see for anyone who loves British films....This is one of the best "},{"Title":"Best English gangster movie ever made!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great plot, great music score, great cast, and great english gangster slang. The story is about a english London gangster king who is planning to go straight, when his own people start turning up dead. Himself and his henchmen, start to do some inquires on who's trying to muscle in his manor, is it the other London gangs?  Who could it be, turns out the IRA are moving in to Harolds manor and settling an old score! 8/10 points Violent, dark and bloody! "}{"Title":"Showcase for Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Helen Mirren has been getting a lot of press recently for her work in the new film Teaching Mrs. Tingle.  I first noticed her in The Long Good Friday. Cool, classy and vulnerable, she is the perfect counterpoint to Hoskins' Harold Shand.  The film also is notable for the screen debut of Pierce Brosnan.The Long Good Friday, not only a whodunnit, but also a whydunnit, is a fine illustration of the law of unintended consequences.One of my watch-every-year films.  Most highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A truly frightening movie....","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hoskins has been terribly miscast and misused in too many movies, but here all the elements coalesce to make a truly great movie.  The tension throughout is palpable, and, if you're not a teetotaller, have a couple of drinks on hand... you may need them.  And Bob Hoskin's body language at the end is just too realistic!  Wonderful actor, wonderful film "},{"Title":"Best Gangstermovie","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one is better then the Godfather. When Bob Hoskins tries to make a deal with the mob, The IRA comes to spoil it. Great. "},{"Title":"Lovely Jubley","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  People hail Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels as the best British gangster movie, but this is my choice. A strong plot, with no unbelievable twists that relies on coincidence. Bob Hoskins gives a topnotch performance. Only Get Carter rivals it. A classic, and worth it just to spot a young 'Cathy Mitchell'. "},{"Title":"Disappointing and overpraised","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So... this is the amazing, brilliant, stunning masterpiece, this is the 'cornerstone' of the British gangster genre, this is what is supposedly the British equivalent of The Godfather? The script is strikingly well-written at times, particularly when it comes to the dialogue. Bob Hoskins' outstanding performance makes Marlon Brando's Godfather look like something out of a high school play, and the direction by John Mackenzie is suitably gritty and focused on grim realism, and nearly completely lacking in flash. Stylish without being stylized, if you will.So, with all those positives how can this film end up being as generally mediocre as it is? It's simple- the story is largely lacking in imagination, it's just not involving, and you could have replaced any of the supporting actors half-way through the film and I wouldn't have noticed or cared (that includes the usually excellent Helen Mirren). Oh, and there's the unbearable score, which is apparently well-liked for some reason. This film fails to live up to its reputation simply because it's a character study focused on Bob Hoskins' character Harold, who sees his basically perfect world crumbling around him, but when a film is a character study the characters better be interesting. Note that I said 'interesting' and not 'sympathetic', because I couldn't give less of a damn if Harold is sympathetic (he's not), especially as he's just not interesting.The Long Good Friday boasts an interesting premise but dull execution script-wise (outside of a few scenes here and there), and in spite of all the things to recommend about it- Bob Hoskins' superb lead performance, the dark humor, the tour-de-force final scene, it's all a bit flat and uninteresting in the end. I'll stick with Get Carter, thank you. If you're looking for a good John Mackenzie film, see the immensely powerful A Sense of Freedom, which completely achieves the sort of grit and excellence in character examination which The Long Good Friday is going for. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Hoskins the original Sexy Beast","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A tour-de-force from Bob Hoskins playing a tough crime boss in London's East End. Living high on success while fancying himself a political entrepreneur, he's about to close a lucrative partnership deal with the Yanks when the Irish Republican Army, bent on revenge, begins eliminating operatives from his organization, undermining his reputation. Whether prudishly turning up his nose at the unsavory aspects of London's poor neighborhoods or shamefacedly trying to cover up this embarrassing attack on his solid standing within the community, Hoskins never misses a beat and is wonderful to watch. His character, caught unawares when the violence starts, can't figure out who would do this to him (it isn't so much the 'why?' that has him riled up, it's the 'who?'). Unquestionably the finest movie produced by Britain's Handmade Films, with some arty pretensions that aren't too distracting and a brisk pace supplied by director John Mackenzie. Intriguing supporting characters, fine location shooting and electronic scoring (by Francis Monkman, whose repetitive themes are initially off-putting). Funny, scary, gripping and haunting. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best British gangster films, no doubt. Not quite reaching the epic heights of 'The Godfather' but you can see its influence on what came after. 'Lock Stock and Two Smoking etc.' for example. The mix of violence with witty one-liners, the colourful characters, the slang, the music. 'Lock, Stock etc.' is more of a violent lark, 'The Long Good Friday' is a much deeper film.It is hard to fault the acting. Bob Hoskin's performance is justly celebrated. He falls apart at the seams as his 'manor' is assaulted on all sides. He is a gangster and as seen in the film not averse to using dreadful violence but he manages also to be sympathetic in a way that Al Pacino in 'The Godfather' does not. The last scene in the car is excellent. The camera is kept mainly on Hoskins and you can see his life flashing through his mind. I don't know how many takes were done but it is a great bit of acting.Helen Mirren hold her own besides Hoskins more showy role. She is more than a gangster's moll. The iconic Eddie Constantine was a splendid choice as the Mafia man. His sheer presence spoke volumes. Looking now at a film from 1980 you can spot familiar British actors. Isn't that Derek Thompson from 'Casualty' and Gillian Taylforth from 'EastEnders' and would you believe it, there's Pierce Brosnan looking a mere wisp of a boy.One interesting aspect is the political and business background. Harold declares he is a new European and discards the USA. The state of change is crystallised by the new building developments in London's docklands, seen in the film as mere steel frameworks but which is part of Harold's attempt to go legitimate. It was a crucial time in London's history and the film reflects that. Similar to the Newcastle in 'Get Carter'.'The Long Good Friday' is perfectly paced, splendidly acted and has many resonances beyond the story of the decline and fall of a gangster.  "},{"Title":"Not that long...","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One indicator of a good film is that the viewer feels it was much shorter than it actually was.  TLGF is such a reel.  It is so tight and well edited you'll feel it's over in no time.  Through no fault of theirs, movies of British gangsterism rarely make it to the US (though Mr. Ritchie is currently experiencing some success).  TLGF is a film that should have been a much bigger deal in the US than it was.  Mr. Hoskins was superb, too. One quibble, though--whoever wrote the screenplay did not seem to know too much about the workings of La Cosa Nostra.   "},{"Title":"Probably the best British gangster movie ever made.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bob Hoskins electric and Helen Mirren demure and loyal as the Gangter's moll.  The Long Good Friday reflects the tone of the 80's just as we were entering them in the same way Get Carter did with the 70's.  Gripping from start to finish, this is one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"A Grand Slam of a British Gangster Film","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Think back to 1980; (If you can; I weren't conceived for another 4 years). A small film has just been released that has upset the whole of Margaret Thatcher's Converstaive Party. It's also the height of the IRA bombings around Britain at that time.Starring Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren (most of the rest of the cast have fallen away on the side lines and joined the ranks of the ITV's police series 'The Bill'); although it is surprising to see a young Pearce Brosnan appear as (in many ways) a mute Irish terrorist/assainian. Hoskins ability to leap from quiet man to outraged loon who attacks with a smashed up bottle of whiskey (you'll know the scene when you watch it) is great and is one of the main powerhouse's of the film. Helen Mirren is also wonderful in this also, trying to keep sane while her mother in law is nearly blown up, a pub blown up and a casino nearly blown up tries keep these situasions under raps to an American businessman (and 1 lawyer).The only down point to this film is two things. The electronic and aged soundtrack although sounds very cool at the beginning, just becomes annoying by the time the 30 minute digit is highlighted on your video/dvd player. The other problem is the directing. If the script and narrative hadn't been as good (Thankgod it wasn't) then this film would have just disappeared by the time I was born (1984). At times it almost feels like your watching an repeated episode of 'The Bill'; (British readers will understand what I'm talking about).But the one thing that places 'the icing on the cake' is the final scene in which Hoskins' wordless and astounding performannce concludes the film. Every emotion is visible from shock to final ambivalent expression that might be rueful acceptance. It's a wonderful performance in a wonderful story based film.  "}{"Title":"Looking Back At The Long Good Friday","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday (dir. John Mackenzie, 1980) is a vivid, intense, and gritty film, set at a pivotal time in British history. It is also remarkably prescient in that it sets a sort of blueprint for England through the eighties. It is the story of the last 3 days of Harold Shand (played by a fiery Bob Hoskins), a hard-nosed, volatile gangster who takes such pride in his tightly controlled system of payoffs and underground dealings that he refers to it as The Corporation; often bragging that his leadership has created a climate of peace and stability in the areas of London under his control for at least a decade. Unfortunately, his crime syndicate comes crashing down around him, suddenly and chaotically, when IRA assassins and bombs start running amok, killing his war-buddy best friend and blowing up his mother, all because of a fatal misjudgement of one of Harold's underlings&#x85; who has been skimming money off payoffs destined for Belfast.His tempestuous and impulsive nature is counterbalanced by his wife, the regal Victoria (Helen Mirren). She is Harold's opposite, yet his equal -- a graceful, level-headed and diplomatic woman who is the only person who can control Harold when he flies off the handle. She actually puts Harold in a headlock and stares him down when he is so overcome with rage that he was about to run headlong into a vengeful suicide mission. Her charm and quick thinking keeps Harold's deal afloat for much longer than it would have lasted without her negotiations. Together, they make quite the 'head of state.'The film coincides with English Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's first year in office. Intriguingly, the film is quite prophetic; Harold's vision of renewing the docks on the Thames, converting abandoned, rusting warehouses into a new development (perhaps even one day hosting the Olympics) is a reaction to the preceding decade, one which had been plagued by sky-high inflation and unemployment rates as well as strikes which paralysed the country and halted progress.Thatcher was a revolutionary figure, whose leadership through the eighties is widely thought to have pulled Britain back from the brink of social collapse and lifted it into the globalized jewel in the crown of world commerce. Her uncompromising stance vis-à-vis her vision for the country earned her the nickname The Iron Lady, and in many ways the Harold/Victoria team is a composite caricature of her political ideology. The pair have been running their Corporation (the most potent equation of mob and capitalism in the film) with a well-oiled benevolence for 10 years, his henchmen and lackeys are making money, and violence seems virtually absent. Harold's demeanour at the outset of the film is more 'capitalist visionary' than Godfather, particularly on his yacht as he makes a quasi- political speech to American gangsters he's invited to invest is his dock development project. The iconic Tower Bridge reaches overhead majestically as Harold extends his hands across the ocean to ensure that London become the capital of Europe. Thatcher pursued this goal throughout the eighties, developing very close ties with US President Ronald Reagan and modifying financial regulations to propel Britain to the front lines of world capitalism by unencumbering its financial sector. In fact, the docks that Harold wants to reanimate would actually undergo that transformation under Thatcher's government.Thatcher also was defiant in the face of any encroachment on her power &#x96; when Argentina invaded the Falklands Islands in 1982 she launched a war to reassert British imperial rule which incurred hundreds of casualties on both sides; and when she narrowly escaped assassination herself after an IRA bombing at the Brighton Hotel, her government responded with force and vigour &#x96; and although the historical record doesn't show any indication that anyone was hung from meat hooks in a slaughterhouse &#x96; it is certain that her reaction was swift, forceful, and methodical against the perpetrators.Ultimately, the film ends with Harold's carefully constructed criminal corporation being destroyed by the same Irish terrorists &#x96; and his life and reign being cut short in the war between capitalist greed run amok and political extremism. This is a theme that continues to resonate, as same variety of passionate personalities and social forces that shaped Britain in the 1980s are the same ones that are at the core of the conflict between capitalism and religious and political extremism that our society is faced with today. "},{"Title":"The End Of An Empire","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is a terrific gangster film, a fascinating character study and the movie that propelled Bob Hoskins into the big time. Its story about the downfall of a crime boss and the collapse of his empire is fast-moving, violent and tense and presents a sequence of events that seem totally unstoppable. The crime boss' inability to understand what's going on or to produce any kind of effective answer to the forces that threaten him, illustrate that he's a man whose time has passed and the solutions that he's always relied on simply don't work anymore.In the late 1970s, Harold Shand (Bob Hoskins) is the top gangster who's proud that his ability to negotiate with other criminals in London has brought an unprecedented 10 years of peace to the capital. During this period, he's become wealthy and enjoys living in a posh penthouse and spending time on his luxurious yacht. With corrupt police officers and council officials on his payroll, he feels his position is unassailable but is still ambitious to achieve more. He wants to assume the appearance of being a legitimate businessman and with the help of money supplied by the American mafia, plans a major redevelopment of London's docklands. This exciting project has the potential to make him even richer but he also says that his motivation is to elevate the status of London within Europe.Harold and his mistress, Victoria (Helen Mirren), welcome a mafia boss called Charlie (Eddie Constantine) and a mob lawyer called Tony (Stephen Davies) to a reception on their yacht in the hope that they can persuade them to invest heavily in the proposed docklands project but during their visit, a series of killings and bombings result in the deaths of Harold's chauffeur and his right-hand-man, Colin (Paul Freeman). His Rolls Royce is destroyed by a bomb during an attempt on his mother's life, a pub he owns is extensively damaged by another bomb and a third undetonated bomb is discovered in his casino.Harold mobilises all the resources at his disposal and uses extreme violence and torture to try to find whoever's responsible for the attacks but is spectacularly unsuccessful in his search and also in concealing the seriousness of what's happening from his mafia guests. By the time he eventually understands who his enemies are and the reasons for their attacks, it's too late to save his empire.Bob Hoskins is astonishingly good at portraying his character's range of emotions and behaviours as he's convincingly vicious, cruel and sadistic on some occasions and then vulnerable, confused and pathetic on others. Harold is a deluded man who believes that he can achieve respectability and remain a violent thug at the same time and his poor judgement also leads him to underestimate both his enemies and his mafia guests. Hoskins achieves something significant by making Harold's actions seem understandable and in the final sequence of the movie, the range of thoughts and feelings he shows in a short period of reflection are also extremely powerful. Helen Mirren is classy as Victoria and a strong supporting cast add considerable colour and realism to this tough and very memorable crime drama. "},{"Title":"Another fine British crime film and Hoskins is the bonus","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What with continuous development in filming technology, equipment and techniques, a film made almost 34 years ago is almost bound to suffer from comparison with modern productions, so it has to rely on it narrative strengths and its acting. Certainly, modern filmgoers might complain that the direction in The Long Good Friday is a little static, and what camera movement there is doesn't necessarily impress in itself. So that the film still stands as an intriguing, quite gripping and in parts quite funny piece is surely evidence of its quality.In the Fifties, Sixties and Seventies British films were all too often small-scale imitations of Hollywood's work - not always, certainly, but all too often. For one thing British producers and directors simply didn't command the budgets available to their U.S. counterparts.They were thus, rather like indy filmmakers today, obliged to rely more on their imagination and scriptwriting than simply to resort to some kind of manic car chase or violent shoot-out to achieve some kind of distinction, but with The Long Good Friday, they were beginning to hit their stride and gain ever more confidence. Certainly, the film does, in parts, look rather more threadbare than contemporary U.S. productions, but it doesn't matter anymore the Brits had finally evolved their own style.Central to the film in every way is (the now late) Bob Hoskins whose character, gang leader with ambitions Harold Shand, finds his well-ordered world and criminal empire unravel in just 48 hours. And in keeping with Shand's dry and ironic humour its all based on a horrible, though very tragic, misunderstanding. It's tragic because nine or ten people are murdered, sometimes quite horribly, yet the misunderstanding which sparks off the chain of events is in a macabre way almost comic. Shand himself, a man accustomed to calling all the shots and having his very whim acted on at a moment's notice, finds himself utterly helpless when he tries to find out who is trying to destroy him.Hoskins, a true Londoner, carved a niche for himself playing this kind of London gangster, but then went on to play other, very different parts, to show what a truly versatile actor he was. And the role of Shand fits him like a glove, and his subtle performance makes this extremely violent and ruthless gang boss even oddly likable, and we catch glimpses of a quite vulnerable man underneath the hard as nails exterior.He is aided by good performances throughout, from Helen Mirren as his upmarket squeeze who is bright enough to advise him well, to his various lieutenants, including the one who's fateful decision sets of the events which lead to Shand's downfall.So, you won't be getting some slick piece of filmmaking with all the latest bells and whistles, but you will get a thoroughly entertaining account of one man's swift decline and fall from all-powerful gang boss to soon to be murdered gang boss, and in all if it he had not put a foot wrong. That's just one of the many delightful ironies. "},{"Title":"Stupid Awesome!","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'The Long Good Friday' is a perfectly dated late 70's/early 80's British Gangster flick staring Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren. Completed in 1979, but not released until 1980 (by George Harrison's company, no less), the film acts as a sort of bridge between the established violent grit cinema of the '70's and the coming slick synth aesthetic of the 80's.The movie is, mostly, perfectly balanced between classy, character driven, and wonderfully exploitive. When that balance does tip too far towards filmic excess it can sometimes take a good thing right up to the edge of self-parody. But ultimately this only serves to solidify the film's courage and amp up its spirit. Somehow the movie manages to become cooler in its few missteps than it would've been had it achieved perfection.A huge part of its elevation from mildly inspiring to stupid awesome are the performances at the heart of it. Bob Hoskins is virile, dangerous and genuinely alive. Helen Mirren is smart, collected and stunning. Their scenes together soar with such intense realism that they pull the more mundane thriller aspects of the piece up along with it. The two great actors are a rising tide for the whole endeavor.And to top it all off, the film now comes off as pretty prophetic regarding the gentrification of London and the arrival of the UK's role in New Europe, even as the UK struggled with their own militant troubles at home. This theme is perfectly capped when Hoskin's delivers a Network- style visionary speech about England emerging from the post-war dregs into the heightened capitalistic fervor of a new era at the end of the film. Along with the very last shot, it's a legendary piece of cinema.If the camera-work is sometimes pedestrian (it is) it's certainly saved by Francis Monkman's ridiculously cool, driving electronic jazz/funk score. The music screams - sometimes too loud - over the images, often drowning out all other sound until you're left with just the gleam of pure, stylish cinema, the kind that Michael Mann would soon after turn into the very look and feel of the '80's with 'Thief'.And if that's not enough to sell you on this great, great flick, it also features a baby-faced Pierce Brosnan in his first film role as a virtually mute hit-man.Such a good time. "},{"Title":"Good British Crime Film...","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is one of the better British crime films that are not that terrible Guy Ritchie/Layer Cake garbage that pollutes the current day British cinema. Crime films that focuses on gangsters should be rough, gritty and nasty films that shows us the darker side of our society, not glamorizing and making it it look cool.This films has fantastic cast of British actors and character actors. Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren is leading the charge with some fantastic performances. It's overall a well acted film with impressive amount of recognizable faces. Watch out for young Pierce Brosnan!The direction and script are rock solid in The Long Good Friday. It looks and feels gritty, raw and doesn't shy off from violence and nudity. The life of criminals is never glamorized and the ending perfectly fits the tone the films was going for. The only problem with it is very simple - it's pretty damn slow and can drag at times. Because of it, some people can lose interest and be bored. It's not as entertaining and cinematic as Goodfellas or the depth and complexity of Godfather or the brutality of Get Carter but it's still very good none the less.The Long Good Friday is a must see for anyone who likes British crime films. It's easily the stronger and more memorable ones that came out from the 80's and features some brilliant performances by Bob Hoskins and Hellen Mirren. If you like Guy Ritchie/Mathew Vaughn films like Snatch or Layer Cake, you are going to be disappointed because of the lack of flashy direction and Tarantino style dialog. It's for smart people who can enjoy something that's actually clever without reminding it every five seconds. "},{"Title":"Great British Gangster Film","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are some excellent British Gangster Films out there such as Get Carter and Sexy Beast but this is the best of the lot in my view and one of my favourite films ever. It has a great atmosphere throughout and some excellent performances from the entire cast. Hoskins is the star however and gives as good a performance as you will see anywhere. There are so many memorable scenes from that in the Abattoir, to the scene between Shand and Geoff in the boat to the brilliant ending scene, as good as you will see without a word of dialogue. Just a pity that the follow up film that was always promised never materialised, but perhaps that would have taken some gloss off the original. Certainly I would be amazed if the new re-make is a patch on the original "},{"Title":"British Gangsters Never The Same Again","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" People have been telling me to watch this for years and I've only now gotten around to it. Marvellous film. I'm glad I've been watching a lot of 80s horror films lately, because this film utilizes an electronic score also so it made me appreciate the score in this movie a lot more. Incredible performances from both Helen Mirren and the sensational Bob Hoskins &#x96; the level of emotion he displays is really brilliant, I've always loved his work and this is definitely my favourite performance from him. So many brilliant scenes, I can't write this up without mentioning the gang bringing in a bunch of guys to their hideout and then hanging them upside down in a meat factory. The camera is actually strapped to one of them as they are brought through the factory &#x96; really great technique and it works extremely well. The ending is also spectacular, even though I saw a few things coming I think the inevitability of those events were probably intended. Masterpiece of British cinema and one of my favourite gangster films.http//destroyallcinema.wordpress.com/ "},{"Title":"a true British gangster classic","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So I just saw the classic British gangster flick the long good Friday from 1980, starring Bob Hoskins and a very cute Helen Mirren. So was it good, I think it was bloody terrific. I have always been a fan of British gangster flicks, I don't know if it is the accents or the propensity for violence mixed with smart dialog, but everything from sexy beast to one of my favorite films of all time lock stock and two smoking barrels I find just wonderful. So speaking of lock the actor who played one of my favorite characters from that film hatchet Harry (P.H. Moriarty) plays a great thug named razors in this film. This is one of those films where you are better off not knowing the plot at all, this film is a roller coaster ride and a mystery wrapped up in one violent package. All I can say is outside of the very 80's theme song (which wasn't completely horrible) I loved this film. It is stylish, has a very simple but original story line, has great acting, and has a very very satisfying ending. Any movie that I can watch where I can't predict what's coming next is generally pretty good in my opinion. In addition to all this movie has going for it look for a very young Pierce Brosnan in one of his first roles ever. He plays a critical part in this film, but does not even speak one line, which is ironic for a man known as much for his voice as he is for his looks. There is one other thing, being a bit of an anglophile, I can understand both accents and obscure references related to the British, but there were times I wish there were subtitles in this film. Look if you love gangster flicks or violent crime dramas in general, I don't see why you won't like or even love this film. Outside of no one being on cell phones and that very very 80's theme song (which actually I kind of enjoyed though I am not proud to admit this) I think this is a gangster classic that has stood the test of time. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Dated , but in a good way.","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Considering the fact that i love gangster movies , its a bit surprising that i had never got around to seeing one of Britain's most famous gangster films in The Long Good Friday.The first thing i noticed about this movie is the vast amount of well know British actors who were big in the 70's & 80's , who pop up in it. Apart from the obvious Bob Hoskins , there is the likes of Helen Mirren , Pierce Brosnan and Kevin McNally , to name but a few.The second thing is , is that this film looks extremely dated but not in a bad way. In fact , its because it looks so 1980 , that i liked it so much. It reminded me of when i was 12 living in London (story aside).The film itself was not nearly as good as i was hoping but i would imagine , 30 years ago , there had been nothing like this on the British Cinema scene since maybe the like likes of  Get Carter.Bob Hoskins was really good and pretty much steals the show and the violent scenes are quite extreme even for a film if it was released today.I can totally see why people look back at this film with such affection , i just wish i had seen this back in the day. "},{"Title":"Definite ten-out-of-ten! SPOILERS!","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Professional cockney' Bob Hoskins, was made for this role, as gangster Harold Shand. A London villain arrives back on Concorde from the USA (Those were the days) after negotiating with the mafia for help/funding to develop parts of London. He 'respectably' claims of the cultural vision in his home city on the arrival of his mafia chum, Charlie (Eddie Constantine) on board his flash yacht on the Thames to loads of faces. Jeff (Derek Thompson), Shand's minion is spat at in the face by a woman who gets out of a car. An underlying plot that will surface horribly, is that of his other (wayward) minion, homosexual gangster, Colin, briefly but well-played by Paul Freeman. He is stabbed to death in the film on his return to London from doing something in Belfast. That's after his 'driver' and a friend he picked up were murdered IN Belfast.Next, 'Eric' Shand's driver is blown up in the car outside a church waiting for Harold's mum. And when Shand's about to entertain his mafia chum Charlie at his pub, that rather inconveniently blows up in their faces too! Naturally, Shand's spitting and wants to know who's out to get him and why. Whilst Shand's terrorising some gangster rivals being help upside-down in a slaughterhouse freezer(!), it's here that Razors, his henchman/driver (played by P.H. Moriarty)mentions 'some bird got out of a car and gobbed in Jeff's face'. Before Shand can make sense of that,Parky the 'bent' copper (Dave King) informs Shand that the explosive in the bombs is of Irish leaning! Of course that purports, especially in the '70's to the IRA use. And as Parky says Those boyos don't play by the rules! In the meantime, the mafia sees the trouble brewing We don't deal with gangsters - period! Shand's deal looks like it's off with them. Helen Mirren plays Shand's 'moll' Victoria, and she says that the other 'bent' official, Harris mentioned that 'Jeff was the real bastard'.'Councillor' Harris (Dodgy planning permission anyone?), who's obviously a Shand devotee, has a lot of Irish builders on his payroll some who subsequently support the IRA.Jeff's deceit is found out after Shand visits the widow of the driver who accompanied Colin -the same 'bird who gobbed in Jeff's face'. She informs him Jeff 'loaned' Colin out with a driver - her dead husband of course, to Belfast, with a 'payment' (Harris' Irish builders' 'funds'!).Colin as it happens, helped himself to £5,000 of the £60,000 and ended up being murdered, for stealing the IRA's money. On confronting Jeff, Shand knows it's considered down to him because of Colin. So that's what all the aggro is about - five poxy grand, by a bunch of red-faced 'micks'. I'll wipe them out! But Jeff reminds Shand to work with the 'other' gangsters the IRA. Shand insists not! Jeff says though that'll never happen as the IRA are political, not a run-of-the-mill gangster organisation. In a rage, Shand violently lashes out at Jeff, jabbing his neck/jugular with a broken spirit bottle leaving him bleeding to death in Shand's arms. Screaming mad, he goes out to go for Harris, for using Colin. Victoria grabs him, calms down his hysterical persona and sets him up to use the 'dodgy' Harris to confront the IRA - which Jeff has warned him about.Shand goes to 'meet' the IRA (At a stock car rally, where they're based!) apparently to ask to end all the aggravation, offering them the £60,000 back (As the rest of the money was also lost to a raid on the IRA by the RUC/Army the night Colin stole from them). It looks like it may go ahead - when Shand's men open up with guns on the IRA men.After this carnage, Shand casually goes to the hotel to find Charlie, who's packing his clothes with his lawyer, to go back to the 'states. On saying to them everything's okay, done and dusted, as it were they're not impressed and let him know it. 'Bon voyage then' says Shand sarcastically, before giving them a load of verbal abuse as to how scared they are and how he'll get someone else to help him. The mafia - oh s*** 'em! At this point, the disgruntled Shand calls for his car outside the hotel. He sits in the back, and the music nicely takes over the suspense and drama, as his car drives off violently and he falls back in his seat. Ere...'old up, where's Victo... he says,cutting himself off, realising there's a different driver, and accomplice, aiming a gun at him, seeing Victoria being driven away clamouring for help in another car, kidnapped! The music plays out with a close-up of Shand's face contemplating the end - the look on his face and actions show Hoskin's talent as the IRA hit men drive him off to his doom (An early appearance from a young Pierce Brosnan). This was a superb film about a gangster who went that step too far, in taking on someone/thing he thought HE was bigger than but would never be. It had fine performances from Dave King, Helen Mirren, P.H. Moriarty, Derek Thompson and in fact a lot of other smaller British stalwarts. This has not been bettered. A lot of American gangster classics are always to be seen, we Britons don't have as much so, this was a real gem, along with the likes of Villain, Get Carter and Performance. (Sorry - 'The Krays' was an awful film, just a vehicle for 'pop' stars who want to become actors! Ironic, because that was meant to be a true story!). "}{"Title":"Essential British gangster film","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday is about an English crime mogul on the cusp of sealing a deal with the American Mafia whose organization becomes the target of assassins and bombs. The film is distinctly British not only with its London setting, but in that it features strong accents and British slang which viewers outside the U.K. may grapple with. It features an excellent and addictive synthesizer and jazz score from Francis Monkman.Bob Hoskins leads the cast with an energetic and gripping performance as crime mogul Harold Shand. Hoskins' Shand is relentless and ruthless, but shows genuine lament at the loss of friends. Helen Mirren also deserves note as the classy but tough companion of Harold's, Victoria, and the supporting performances are all solid. Look for Paul Freeman, who would later play French archaeologist Rene Belloq in Raiders of the Lost Ark and a young Pierce Brosnan in brief appearances. Brosnan has little time in the film and no lines, but still makes a strong impression.The film's story has Harold desperately trying to discover the source of the attacks against his organization. There is an effective mystery with a number of twists that keeps the story strong throughout the film. Harold and his associates use strongarm and violent tactics while trying to solve the mystery. Sometimes the violence is very graphic, especially during two scenes, but it doesn't seem out of place. The film's ending is semi-ambiguous yet a perfect way to end this great film. "},{"Title":"such a great film","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this is the best Brit gangster film closely followed by Get Carter. The ending i found so sad but quite moving...poor Harold he was really having a bad day! isn't it funny how at the beginning the credits read introducing Derek Thompson, and then flash forward 20 odd years and he is Charlie in Casualty!! who thinks he had a lot of potential? and Harold's speech t other Yanks warms my heart, it kinda made me think of the old Dunkirk spirit. And Harold certainly was a vision of the business greed is good and success is better philosophy that was the 80's. I also love the romantic view of London in this film, and Bob Hoskins was so great in his role. "},{"Title":"The uncle of the British gangster film","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tough London gangster movie in which Bob Hoskins is an underworld boss undertaking an elaborate doublecross With the London gangster genre revived during the 1990s thanks to the effort of middle class mockney extraordinaire Guy Ritchie, it's interesting to see how well one of his main informants has fared over the years.Hoskins made his name as Harold Shand, the bulldog boss of a criminal empire trying to go legit with a huge real-estate deal. But on the day of a meeting with potential US Mafia investors his dream is jeopardized by a series of mysterious bomb attacks on his businesses. While he goes in search of the culprits, his old lady (Mirren) tries to placate the anxious Americans who give Harold 24 hours to put his house in order. Director MacKenzie's tough debut may lack visual punch, but it still thrills with plot, character and cockney vernacular. Hoskins's charismatic performance carries the film. He is at once brutal, devious, affectionate and terrified, happily switching from meat-hook torturer to scolded pup in the face of Mirren's languid moll.Verdict Alongside Get Carter, The Long Good Friday is the mother lode of all British crime movies. Dated by its synth score and wide ties and trousers perhaps, but this is still a hard-hitting tale and a potent comment on nascent 80s values.   "},{"Title":"Wildly overrated","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Life is full of mysteries but one of the more perplexing is the stellar reputation of this film, which regularly finds its way onto any list of best British movies. In doing so, it finds itself in the company of every Powell Pressburger film ever made, a couple of Nic Roeg's efforts and The Third Man to name only a few. This is company in which The Long Good Friday does not belong. At its heart, it's a TV movie, elevated by a good idea for a story and a couple of decent performances from two very fine actors. Visually, the film is flat and uninspired and the characters are not much better developed. It's a tribute to Hoskins and Mirren that neither was tempted to try to add value to their roles as written. The story's potentially good and the structure, a single, long day, has potential but neither is handled adroitly. The story unfolds clumsily and never builds real tension and the director sabotages the structure with an opening sequence that lacks the production values of an early seventies Saint episode. I'd guess that The Long Good Friday's reputation rests in part at least on its financial success, particularly here on the other side of the pond. "},{"Title":"You don't crucify people! Not on Good Friday!","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" His first feature film. He is listed as 1st Irishman; doesn't even have a name. But, it's Pierce Brosnan (Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies, Die Another Day). Always a joy to see someone's early work.The real stars are Bob Hoskins in his breakthrough role, and Helen Mirren. The film almost didn't get released. It sat on the shelf for a year, and the owners wanted to cut it and put it on television. It's a great little British gangster movie, and, fortunately, it was picked up by ex- Beatle George Harrison's company. Critics said they hadn't seen a performance as good since Edward G. Robinson. And it was true. Bob Hoskins was fabulous. "},{"Title":"Not one pretentious scene in the entire film","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's rare that you watch a film from start to finish several times and can't think of one scene you would have edited, shortened or changed, in fact I can't think of another film that I feel that way about.But if you don't mind a movie where essentially every character is a criminal or associated with one, than you have found such a film.The plot is never sacrificed for character or vice-versa. I am truly mesmerized when I watch this film and could never say enough about it. It is so rare that characters say their dialogue as they would in real life, without even a hint of being cynical or pretentious.The writing, acting and music all suit each other so well. It's not a feel-good movie, it has an ending that will pull the rug that was covering a pit to hell out from under you and you won't crack too many smiles during it, except in appreciation at how well the story is told. But you will come away thinking you have been afforded a glimpse into a different world, almost like watching a documentary as it was being made or being a fly on the wall for a world very few people see.You will likely feel dismayed at Harold's unwavering beliefs because of how inexorably they seal his fate, but at the same time you will likely respect the fact, that for better or worse, he is his own man, and unfortunately, over the short period of time in this film, it is mostly for the worse.I have a list of top 100 films, where this is ranked number 17, only because I can't watch tragedies over and over again, no matter how well made they are, and in this case, I would have to say perfectly. "},{"Title":"A Throwback rather than a Great","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Welcome to 80s London; a city on the brink of massive international investments, a working class being displaced and a community plagued with the fear of domestic terror bombings. Harold Shand (Bob Hoskins) is an old school gangster trying to get the biggest piece of the pie in this new environment, and just when he is on the cusp of closing off that market is when his empire comes under significant threat from an unknown power.John Mackenzie has created a film that feels cathartic in tone and action. The themes and symbolism are all visceral and violent, even the name is taken from the day in which Jesus Christ was tortured to death. Mackenzie definitely captures a slice of a generation in destruction, but I found it difficult to empathise with it. The scene where Shand has to pay kids to clear away from his car embodies the insincerity of this outlook. Shand in two scenes previously spoke about the moral collapse of Brixton but this scene praises the moral decrepitude of the children. I could only conclude two things from these scenes; Shand had tortured or assaulted two black people in the other 2 scenes in Brixton, and these kids were all white, therefore it was just some excusable racism. Or it was a script oversight.I also found it difficult to maintain what exactly was going on. The script introduces every secondary character in a barrage of names and casual greetings at the start of the film, so when the film was concluding I had to spend 5-10 seconds remembering who was who. This was a momentarily loss of concentration when all the action was fast paced, and I was a little bit removed from all of it.Visually the film feels grimy, with some interesting camera angles to boot. One camera effect that will stick with me in terms of immersion was in the abattoir, where Mackenzie switches to a first person shot. Also the lightening creates a natural effect, and some of the more violent elements of the film feel tangible.Bob Hoskins was spectacular as well. Hoskins at the start comes across as a harmless geezer, but as the pressure builds he becomes violently and unpredictable, even menacing in some scenes. Helen Miriam as his partner, also complements his great performance, and the exchanges between the two feel genuine. The supporting cast on the other hand is a bit of a mess, the casting director picked too many people who look like each other. If I described someone in the film as the early 40-ish, tall, sunken faced, rough blonde gangster, that would fit three characters and this also added to my confusion in parts.This film feels dated and budget constricted. And I aware that this is one of these must see British films, however something's only remain relevant because of nostalgia, and this feels more like a throwback than an all time great. "},{"Title":"British gangster flick","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Bob Hoskins is a tough as nails gangster in The Long Good Friday, a British gangster movie set in 1970's London. Its funny reading that the studio tried to dub over Hoskins dialogue because they feared American audiences wouldn't understand it. I had a problem understanding that strong Cockney accent. He talked very fast and had a really strong accent - but that added to his persona as the tough gangster.Hoskins is Harold Shand, top gangster of London who is trying to secure a big deal with the mafia. Unfortunately, on the day they visit, his top lieutenants are killed and his casino bombed. It looks like the mafia may back out of the deal, so he goes on the warpath to find out who is targeting his organization.The movie has a gritty feel to it and the genuine Brit gangster look is helped by copious amounts of violence and Hoskins build, voice and manner. The dialogue is quite funny (especially the last scene with the mafia guys). Helen Mirren is quite sexy in her supporting role and their is a young assassin in this movie who would go on to much greater success as James Bond. "},{"Title":"The Mafia, I S**t 'Em!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Excellent British gangland drama. Great performances by the main cast members Bob Hoskins and Helen Mirren. The cast is an example of British cinema/TV in the 70s/80s!P.H. Moriarty - warder of Scum, another UK film of the late 70s period. Derek Thompson - Charlie of UK tv show Casualty. Very young, good hairstyle and fashion sense! Gillian Taylforth - Kathy of UK tv show Eastenders. Very young. Alan Ford - In a traditional Cockney gangster role. Ive seen him in Alan Partridge's Knowing Me, Knowing You a UK tv show. "},{"Title":"BOB HAS A BAD DAY","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This stands alongside Get Carter and Brighton Rock as one of the great British gangster films. Hoskins totally dominates the film from straight to finish.It's a film that seems more relevant today, than in 1979. Yuppie expansion, our role in Europe and Northern Ireland are all covered. It's funny, well written and British.  "}{"Title":"An important movie to see - but it does not live up to the hype","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Long Good Friday, considered one of the best British gangster flicks, takes the classic story of hubristic downfall and sets it in late-seventies London. Bob Hoskins plays Harold Shand, a gangland kingpin trying to go legit by investing in some shorefront property which will one day host the Olympics. After a trip across the Atlantic to meet with his American gangster counterparts, he brings them back to East London where he hopes to convince them to invest with him in the shorefront property.That's when things go wrong his henchmen start dying and his local haunts get blown up, raising doubt in the Americans about the security of their potential investment. Harold Shand, in an interesting twist, turns from gangster to detective, and ruthlessly investigates all his known associates. Some unforgettable ultra-violence ensues, as he hangs his suspects on meat hooks, stabs his right-hand man in the throat with a broken Scotch bottle, and eventually discovers that it's all been a misunderstanding. But it's too late, and he's in over his head, against the law and against none other than the IRA. Drunk on power and a thirst for revenge, Harold Shand's arrogance finally proves to be his Achilles heel.What's not to like about a gangster flick with a plot like this? It's also got a classic moll played by Helen Mirren, and a host of other actors who would later go on to become stars in their own right, most notably Pierce Brosnan in a non-speaking role as an IRA hit-man. But the problem with The Long Good Friday is that it completely lacks style.You can fault modern gangster movies for gratuitous stylized flourishes &#150; most notably Ritchie's overwrought attempts &#150; but here you have a movie that is completely lacking in any style at all. The lighting, the camera-work, and most annoyingly, an atrocious eighties synthesizer soundtrack, seem like they came straight out of an uninspired television movie. What saves The Long Good Friday are two things Bob Hoskins' excellent incarnation of a pugnacious and racist gangster boss, saving every scene he is in, no matter how blandly directed. The other thing that saves this movie has to do with a fortuitous premonition.This was made at the very beginning of the eighties when Margaret Thatcher came into power, ushering in, along with Reagan, the philosophy of unfettered free market liberalism. Harold Shand repeatedly refers to his gang as The Corporation, and it's easy to see him as one step removed from a ruthless CEO in a legitimate corporation. Add to this the specter of terrorism, and you have a movie which resonates with anybody witnessing the 21st century. This universal quality, and some stand-out scenes make this a must-see gangster movie; but, in terms of quality film-making, it is nowhere near the best of the genre.Any gangster movie will inevitably be compared to classics like Mean Streets and The Godfather, two classics from early 70s American cinema. Or perhaps British contenders from around the same time like Get Carter (which has a great soundtrack, by the way). The Long Good Friday can't hold a blowtorch to any of these. Even in terms of trashy appeal, DePalma's Scarface trounces The Long Good Friday. I could go on for days trying to pinpoint the exact point at which trashiness becomes aesthetically appealing, but I wouldn't be able to prove anything. It's just an intuition I have, which doesn't really have any logic to back it up. I can just say that close to 30 years after this movie was made, it looks and feels dated &#151; but it's still worth a watch, if not for Bob Hoskins' performance, than for what it portends. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Having just seen The Long Good Friday for the first time in its new cinema release (2015) I am at a loss to understand the praise it gets. The script is feeble and the characters completely absurd, especially the two mafia guys and Helen Mirren as the gangster's moll! The actors are very competent, but the film has no atmosphere, no pace, no rhythm; it's just a sequence of set pieces, almost of tableaux. A gangster film should at least have a sense of danger about it, but this one doesn't because the confrontations are so contrived and implausible. For me the best and only enjoyable part is the swimming baths sequence near the beginning, with Paul Freeman (Colin) and Pierce Brosnan (1st Irishman) giving superb performances, brimming with tension. Significantly here they are not hampered by dialogue. Brosnan makes a second chilling appearance at the end of the film, again without dialogue. You can well see from this why he would be offered the Bond role. "},{"Title":"Irritating Music","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't know what was in the Director's mind when he approved the score for the film, but it is the worst movie music I have ever endured. Only Bob Hoskins kept me in my seat--I would have walked out if it weren't for Hoskins. A relatively young Helen Mirrin does a decent job with a peripheral role, but Hoskins is the quintessence of gangster boss;Hoskins suits were perfect. Every Boss will need to study the film so that they can understand how they should behave. A very original opening sequence, peaks the imagination; it's hard to understand what is happening, and why-- And a dramatic spit in the face at the beginning of the movie is finally explained towards the end. I shaved several stars off my review because of the jarring, twanging music. "},{"Title":"Overrated by its fans","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An okay late-70s gangster movie, but not the great one its biggest fans claim it to be. Mostly they seem to lurv Bob Hoskins' performance here. I'm a Hoskins fan, but he's just not very good in this early film. His performance, until the very last five minutes or so, is a one-note cartoon Cockney Cagney with the volume on 11. Fans find it raw and I found it tedious. Given that the plot is a messy attempt to update a standard Cagney flick for late-70s London, I'm not sure this qualifies as genius acting. As he matured he learned to tone it down and round it out more. As with all cheesy 70s gangster films there's a lot of fun, tacky vintage fashions, hair, music, decor, but not enough to make up for the murky, lumpy script, which wastes a lot of time, characters and side-plots trying to distract us (and Hoskins) from who his real enemies are. Very clumsily executed, and when we finally do get to the Scarface final battle, it's both cornball and deflating. SPOILER I think it would have been a lot more interesting if his nemesis turned out not to be the shadowy IRA -- a boring and out-of-left-field plot resolution -- but the cool and regal Helen Mirren, in cahoots with the American and Hoskins' flirty young second banana. They could have decided that Hoskins was too downscale to pull off the big deal, and shuffle him out of the way. This possibility is set up mid-film, only to be tossed away. Too bad. "},{"Title":"Good - but a bit overrated","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  London gangster Harold returns to London to conclude a multi-million dollar development deal. However a new force is moving in and is targeting his crew.This is a British gangster film that was made before Guy Ritchie discovered the British gangster film. The plot is a lot straighter than Ritchie's films, but it is still interesting and has several nice twists towards the end. However for the majority of the film it makes the same mistakes as Ritchie - holding the gangsters in high esteem and treating them like modern day Robin Hoods. Harold looks down on drugs and on the blacks in his old neighbourhood, like he's better than them or what he peddles is better than drugs, however the film doesn't condemn him but lets he get away with it.The performances from Hoskins and Mirrem are both good. The supporting cast is made up of plenty of famous faces from British TV - Derek Thompson, Brian Hall, The Full Monty's Paul Barber - and a young Pierce Brosnan as 1st Irishman. Happily the cast don't overdo the cockney stuff like Ritchie's characters do. Sure there's the opening subtitles that explain underground terms, but the film doesn't wear it on it's sleeve.The whole IRA stuff is OK but you couldn't call it a sensitive handling of a complex issue. Overall the film is better than the current run of London gangster film, but it's status as a masterpiece is overrated. However it's still a good film in an overdone genre. "},{"Title":"Disappointing !!!","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is very highly rated by many critics and also by audiences. But unfortunately, the film failed to meet the hype and my expectations from it. Along with being a gangster film, it also has some political aspects related to the IRA. It started out well in a mysterious sort of way and the plot did not get revealed at once. The director chose to gradually unfurl the story step by step. Up to the midway point of the film I was engaged, but since that point, I really lost interest due to the standard and predictable nature in which the plot continued and the ultimate denouement was not a shock at all. Bob Hoskins is one of the few bright spots of the film. He really gives a powerhouse performance portraying raw masculinity and a viscous anger which were essential traits to his character.I wanted to like this and I did like the initial part of the film. But sadly I would have to say that this was a disappointing experience for me overall. "},{"Title":"smarter than it looks (or sounds)","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A pugnacious London crime lord, trying to close a lucrative trans-Atlantic real estate deal with his mafia counterparts, watches helplessly while his empire comes under assault by an invisible, ruthless adversary. After a confusing introduction (clarified in retrospect) the story settles down into a compelling, intelligent thriller, directed (unfortunately) like cheap exploitation, with routine displays of gratuitous violence and a bombastic, irritating electronic music score by ex-Curved Air keyboard wizard Francis Monkman. The film could have been the British equivalent of 'The Godfather', showing one man's (admittedly crooked) private enterprise corrupted by an inadvertent brush with politics, adding a fascinating subtext equating the dwindling fortune of Cockney boss Bob Hoskins with the crumbling British Empire at large. The obvious anti-American bias shouldn't come as much of a surprise; British self-esteem has never been the same since losing the colonies. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Quite Live Up to the Hype","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was prepared to love this movie, as an Anglophile with a taste for gangster pictures. I kept waiting for things to improve, but I found it incredibly dated and a little threadbare. The American Mafia characters were poorly written and cast. Hoskins is very good, mind. "},{"Title":"The Long Good Friday","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a great example of a British gangster film, particularly based in the East End. Basically the IRA are ruthlessly killing off members of a gang, run by aggressive criminal Harold (BAFTA nominated Bob Hoskins). But he also has to deal with bombs going off in very inconvenient places. Harold is adamant to question all people in a variety of gangs to find out who is behind these bombs. He finds out the truth eventually, and it turns into a bloody (metaphorically and literally) mess. Also starring Dame Helen Mirren as Victoria, Eddie Constantine as Charlie, Dave King as Parky, Bryan Marshall as Harris, George Coulouris as Gus, Derek Thompson as Jeff, Bruce Alexander as Mac, The Full Monty's Paul Barber as Errol, Raiders of the Lost Arks' Paul Freeman as Colin; Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels' Dexter Fletcher as Kid, and look out for young Pierce Brosnan as First Irishman. Filled with great bad language and violence, it is the great big break role for Hoskins. Bob Hoskins was number 37 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, Dame Helen Mirren was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, she was also number 5 on Britain's Finest Actresses, and the film was number 36 on The 50 Greatest British FilmsVery good! "},{"Title":"A miscast Bob Hoskins and effeminate minions ruins the promising screenplay","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The premise of the film is good - gangster kingpin under attack by forces unseen. I also loved the score, but I'm a sucker for that late 70s early 80s analog synthesizer sound. So why only a 5? It boils down to the cast Bob Hoskins is supposed to be this dark, tough character controlling London's underworld, but instead he comes across as an inept figure with hardly a hint of menace about him. His underlings, presumably the top thugs of the streets of London, look like they'd have a hard time keeping a toddler's birthday party under control.We should be feeling that the scenes are happening at a nexus of power in the criminal world, but the overall impression is that we are following a gang of ineffectual, somewhat inconsequential characters. It's hard then to care much about what happens in the plot (which is often too drawn out). Good performance by Helen Mirren though. "}{"Title":"Inept","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Direction=from self-indulgent to nothing special. Camera work=obnoxiously arty. Lighting=terrible. Half the time you cannot see what's going on. Editing=terrible. Half the time, you cannot tell what's going on. Script=typical gangster. Nothing special. Performances=Serviceable. Nothing special. Music=nothing special. Pacing obnoxiously slow most of the time. It seems that those most of those who gave this a rave either have not seen many movies or their standards are awfully low. I had all I could do to get through this. I would rather watch Key Largo, Little Caesar, Public Enemy, White Heat or even Never Say Die. "},{"Title":"Hard To Be Sympathetic For Abrasive Hopkins Character","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I didn't find much appealing in this 1980 British crime film. Maybe it would look or sound better on DVD. When I saw it on VHS, I couldn't understand half of the sentences because of the strong Cockney accents. None of the characters were appealing, including the two leads, and there was too much usage of the Lord's name in vain. Bob Hoskins has been guilty of that in many of his films. He seems to play a lot of very loud, obnoxious and profane thug- type characters, for almost three decades since this film. In fact, the last movie I saw him in - 2005's Unleashed (a.k.a. Danny The Dog) - he hadn't changed a bit. As for this film's story Hoskins, as Harold Shand, is ably cast the boss of the docks in London. One day is bragging about how things have settled down since he's run the show, and the next minute his favorite pub and his Rolls Royce are blown up. Whoops, things aren't so peaceful. Things get worse.However, the film, as twisted filmmakers like to do, almost make Harold a sympathetic character even though the guy obviously is a obnoxious, sadistic con man.For those who like rough characters and high-energy films, this is your ticket. For those turned off by boorish, irritating characters like Hoskins usually plays, skip it and save yourself some aggravation. "},{"Title":"A Bloody Bore","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As his gang members start getting knocked off, a London mob boss investigates who's behind it. Although somewhat convoluted, there isn't much to the plot, meaning the success of the film is mostly dependent on the atmosphere and characters. Unfortunately, it fails on both fronts. While the acting is not bad, none of the characters are really interesting. The direction is lackluster and the violence is graphic and gratuitous. Hoskins is appropriately vicious as the mobster while Mirren looks great as his moll. This is inexplicably regarded as one of the best gangster films. The thick Cockney accent (especially Hoskins') makes much of the dialog unintelligible, and there are no subtitles. "},{"Title":"pretty good film","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a very uneven film. It has three or four great scenes, but the dialog is just so so. But one feature that I have never bought about this movie is the ending, not the last ten minutes or so, but when we find out whom is really behind all the mayhem, it just does not make sense they try hard to convince you, but Harold Shand and twenty more like him would not go up against the IRA. The final scene however IS unforgettable. And Hoskins performance likewise. But the entire premise of the film is just too ludicrous. However the film should be seen for its few great scenes. Also it brooks no quarter with the American ear. You have to keep them wide open to catch all the Brit colloquialisms, which I found rather challenging. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I read all the reviews and decided to try this movie. I am very disappointed in it, though I've only seen it once (I have no desire to see it again). I own nearly all the gangster films, and this one is one of the worst. I don't care if people claim its realistic, or if it has beautiful editing and great acting, its an extremely boring movie. Mean Streets doesn't have a lot of plot, but every scene has this magical quality to it, a realness that's hard to describe. Maybe some viewers have seen this type of quality in TLGF movie, but for me its not there. I could summarize the entire plot in three sentences. I sat and waited for it to get good and it never did. It drug on and on and on until the ending, where I was even more disappointed. Where is the action? Where is the suspense? This movie doesn't have it. Some have said this is better than Snatch and Lock Stock. Snatch and Lock Stock have interesting characters, humor, and an excellent story, this film has none of these aspects. Others have said its better than the Godfather. I wonder what they are smoking. Save your money on this one. I can appreciate good films that others find boring, but I guess I want my gangster films to be a little more exciting. I'll recommend The Sting and Mean Streets in place of this one, for those of you who like Mob/Ganster movies and want to see a slightly different one that you might have missed.FWIW, these are my favorite MOB/Ganster Films in no particular order Mean Streets (What's a mook?), Godfather 1 and 2, Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs, The Sting, Scarface, Casino, Goodfella's, Donnie Brasco, snatch, Lock Stock, bronx tale, Usual suspects "},{"Title":"A diversion, despite the heavy hand.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Except for the indulgently too long first and last shots of the film, and a sprinkling of the same sin here and there during its course, this caper held my interest.  Heart-throb Pierce Brosnan shows up in a small role at the beginning of his career in this flick, which was an unexpected treat. (He's even sexier now--and especially so when he's himself on Inside the Actor's Studio.)  Definitely diverting, despite the heavy hand here and there. "},{"Title":"Passable","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Looks like I'm in the minority here - I didn't enjoy this film.To be honest, my worst criticism of it was it didn't keep me interested. In a gangster film, you expect graphic violence and we're not disappointed. You expect seductive women - and Helen Mirren is excellent as a moll who doesn't get her kit off.However, I found it hard to fathom who was at the heart of the campaign of terror. Leads all pointed to the Irish, but (perhaps intentionally) we're all left wondering whether it was betrayal from one of Shand's own corporation. If this was intentional, I think it was a weak plot.However, if we accept that this is a gangster film, it's quite a good one. How good a film was it if we compare it to any other genre - not good.Personally, I recommend Villain (1971) or Get Carter (also 1971) as better gangster flicks. "},{"Title":"Way Overrated","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Punishing 80's synth score, contrived plot, and lukewarm performances. I was crushed by how bad this movie was since the reviewers on the BBC film site gave it 4 stars, as did Roger Ebert. Bob Hoskins as a not-so-bright gangster who inexplicably has a hold on the entire London underworld bumbling from explosion to explosion scratching his head over who's out to get him. Way to go. great film-making. I can't imagine why anyone would say this is a good movie, much less a great one. The plot, such as it is, serves to get us from one boring set piece to another, and the whole idea of a London gangster taking on the IRA is ridiculous. Two meh's out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dreadful disappointment ... as bad as Godfather III","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I vaguely remembered this movie from nearly twenty years ago, probably from Saturday afternoon TV. Watching it again demonstrated how poor one's memory can be, or how much one's critical judgement and artistic appreciation can develop in two decades.I really like both Hoskins and Mirren in other works. And I like good gangster films. This movie is not one of them.Underdeveloped, one-dimensional characters with a needlessly opaque and contrived plot, in an unbelievably short time frame, with bad music, worse acting, and horrid editing, make this a movie I could never watch again. A real 70's-ish overblown sequence of bad scenes, tied together in a 114 minute waste of time. Anybody want to buy a DVD?I won't go so far as to say that it's worse than Coppola's Godfather III, but it comes close! "},{"Title":"Is this film really worth writing about?","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The greatest asset this film has recommending it is a wonderfully dated synth score that seems to distill into one bubbling drink all the Casio-bred silliness of the 1980s. Thank you, Francis Monkman. The hair and clothes of all characters are nearly as deserving of praise. Beyond that, this film is replete with ludicrous editing and directorial choices. The script itself isn't so objectionable. On the other hand, the director John McKenzie and/or the editor Mike Taylor shaped the film with enough clumsiness or plain nincompooperie to make it all, well, rather entertaining. But a film I was laughing at more than anything else won't garner many points with me. "}{"Title":"Crikey, what a disappointment","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Reading the other comments anyone would think the film was worth buying, god forbid.I got it free and I still want a refund. Huge disappointment.The only saving grace in this junk was spotting all the upcoming actors, it's like a who's who for casualty or sitcom faces.The start was crap (went on for far too long and failed to make the plot connection sufficiently) and the end was also crap (it wasn't an ending).Nostalgia must count for a lot in the IMDb scoring for this movie as it is vastly over rated.  "}]