[{"Title":"Goldie as the world's most unlikely soldier...","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Thanks mainly to a clever script and the presence of GOLDIE HAWN and EILEEN BRENNAN, this is the kind of service comedy that brings back reminders of how this sort of thing was done back in the '40s with comedies like SEE HERE, PRIVATE HARGROVE or YOU'RE IN THE ARMY NOW or BUCK PRIVATES.But this time, it's a woman enlistee who has to go through the rigors of boot camp (arguably, the best segments in the whole film and the funniest). Goldie is a spoiled rich girl who thinks the Army is going to be a respite from her problems as a woman who lost her husband on her wedding night. She's in for quite a learning experience and the gags come fast and furious for the first half-hour or so.Then, when romance enters the story, it becomes rather uneven as she has an affair with a Frenchman, ARMAND ASSANTE, who turns out to be a first-class heel. By the end of the film, she decides to re-enlist rather than return to the civilian life she found so empty.It's a decidedly uneven comedy, but Goldie's perfect comic timing and ability to switch gears when romance is called for, shows she had more dimension as an actress than anyone suspected. She was nominated for an Oscar for her Private Benjamin--and Eileen Brennan, hilarious as Capt. Doreen Lewis won a supporting role nomination.Goldie's fans should love this one; and after all, it's not supposed to be taken seriously, it's all done tongue-in-cheek style. "},{"Title":"A woman searching for her identity","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  What I've always enjoyed about this film is that, once you get past all the slapstick and Jewish American Princess jokes, you find the story of a sheltered young woman seeking her identity and independence. Judy Benjamin has been raised in a very coddled existence, believing she can do nothing, and that her only value is to be someone's wife, or attached to a person in some way. When her husband dies on her wedding night, she foolishly joins the army, where her inability is played for laughs. But this is not what the film is really about, in the long run. When her parents come to retrieve her, Barbara Barrie as Judy's mom is literally holding the pen, showing Judy where to sign. To me, this scene is very believable. It's as if Judy finally realizes that she has set herself up to fail. She decides to stay and proves that she can do a good job, she just believed she couldn't.Perhaps my perspective is different because I saw this film first in 1980 when I was 18 years old, but I still enjoy it to this day. I can overlook the portions that are not very PC by today's standards. It was, after all, a different world then. I find Goldie Hawn's performance to have great comic timing and believability. Eileen Brennan is memorable in her role, even though it is a bit stereotypical by today's standards. Barbara Barrie and Sam Wanamaker are hilarious as Judy's parents, and Robert Webber is unforgettable as Col. Clay Thornbush. I will always enjoy this film, perhaps always from a different viewpoint.  "},{"Title":"Enlist with Judy.  You could use a good laugh.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Hawn's string of successes in the 1980's, Swing Shift, Overboard, Protocol, Seems Like Old Times, and Private Benjamin, are among my favorite comedies of all time. She has timing, presence, and character galore, and this one may just be at the top of my Goldie Hawn list.The cast is extraordinary. Eileen Brennan is a showstopper as the, shall we say, less than feminine company commander and Benjamin's nemesis, but that's not the start of it. There's an embarrassment of talent here. Craig T. Nelson as the amorous Capt. Woodbridge, Armand Assante as the even more amorous Henri Tremont who sexes Benjamin up, and the still more amorous Albert Brooks, the husband who dies sexing her up, are all stellar. But Sam Wanamaker (see The Competition) and Robert Webber (both sadly deceased) are male role models who may not exactly set the bar very high as father figures, but add a delightful pseudo-machismo as counterpoint to all the talented women.Mary Kay Place seems so young as a fellow recruit, even more so than in Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman, which is a nice segue to the fact that this, like many Hawn movies, draws from a distinguished television pedigree to deliver its surprising success.This is one of those perfect little movies that I pull out of the DVD closet several times a year like visiting with an old friend, and it just occurred to me why. It's not nihilistic or deconstructionist or multi-plotted or any of the other crap that has supplanted story and dialog in too many movies since. It's sad that the only available version of the DVD is in pan and scan, as with some other great movies of this era, but I keep hoping for a widescreen release.Favorite Line There are mine fields out there. Most of them are inert. However, some are ert. My recommendation Enlist with Judy. You could use a good laugh. "},{"Title":"A very cute and enjoyable comedy","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Gosh, I don't know how many times I passed this movie up in my mom's collection. But I never really had an interest in this film, but my mom told me what a great comedy it was and that I should give it a chance. So, finally, today I got some time and watched it and I'm glad I did. Private Benjamin is a great comedy staring then new comer Goldie Hawn. I didn't realize how much she was meant for comedy, I've seen some of her work like Overboard and Death Becomes her, but usually she has the supporting cast helping her in the comedy, this time she was on her own and did great.She plays Judy Benjamin, a 29 year old whose been married twice, her last husband died on her, literally, had a heart attack while he was making love to her. So, since she has always been taken care of, a stranger helps her out and recruits her in the army showing her the AFTERMATH of what she could have in the future, but she thinks that she's getting all the good stuff immediately. Therefore, she becomes the princess of the boot camp, but after a harsh talk with her folks, she realizes she needs the army and to become strong. She ends up meeting a suave French man and gets transferred to Paris after graduation, but she soon realizes who she needs most in life herself.Private Benjamin is a great comedy that I think anyone could get a little kick out of. It has great jokes and fun moments that I had a good time watching. Not to mention, Goldie Hawn is just so adorable and you definitely want to keep rooting for her during the film, she's just great.7/10 "},{"Title":"All  present  and  correct","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The service comedy is a genre almost as old as cinema itself and, whether it's Charlie Chaplin or Victor McLaglen and Edmund Lowe in the trenches, Andy Griffith befuddling his sergeants, the Carry On team on the assault course or Steve Guttenberg and co at the Police Academy, has an almost immutable formula that is never, ever departed from through mildly comic misadventure misfit(s) find themselves in the army/navy/air force/police force, are hopelessly unprepared for the harsh realities of basic training, fumble every task yet somehow come out of it all as the perfect soldier/sailor/airman/cop and prove themselves in a mildly comic baptism of fire. Private Benjamin does absolutely nothing to fix what ain't broke, contenting itself to offer the odd slight tweak and flavoring with a mild dose of Jewish humor as Goldie Hawn's sheltered princess finds herself talked into joining the 'new' army by Harry Dean Stanton's smooth-talking recruiting sergeant after husband Albert Brooks dies in the throes of passion before the honeymoon even starts (Do you remember what the last thing he said was? asks his distraught mother, eliciting the reply I'm coming.).While it's a given that there are no surprises whatsoever, it's one of those comedies that manages to be pretty consistently funny throughout even if there aren't many really big laughs out of sheer likability. Hawn's character is not too bright but not too Hilton with it &#150; her character arc is not just from dependence to self-reliance but more importantly from not being able to understand why Jill Clayburgh walked out on Alan Bates in An Unmarried Woman to being able to make the same choice herself, in the process tackling sexism rather more effectively than G.I. Jane did 17 years later. Eileen Brennan is clearly having a ball as the obligatory sadistic training officer out to make her life hell and there's a quietly impressive supporting cast filling out the ranks as well as a memorable Bill Conti score. It only really misses its step slightly in the scenes where her Monsieur Right (Armand Assante) rather clumsily turns out to be Monsieur Wrong at the end, as if afraid of losing the audience's sympathy long after she's won them over, but not enough to squander the goodwill it's earned by then. "},{"Title":"Judy, Judy, Judy!","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Many reviewers here have compared this movie to Stripes, which came out the following year. Beyond the fact of the Army setting, and the participation of P.J. Soles, I see nothing in common between this thoughtful and well-acted production, and Stripes, an unfunny, undisciplined farcial bore. On its own merits, Private Benjamin develops characters you can care about (or hate), shows significant metamorphosis of the title character, and plays out countless funny scenes and situations.The war-games scenario has been done and done endlessly (ref. The Dirty Dozen, etc), but is played for humor here with great success. Eileen Brennan is the CO everyone loves to hate, and gets her comeuppance more than once in PB, to the audience's delight.Support is solidified with performances by P.J. Soles, Albert Brooks, Harry Dean Stanton, Robert Webber, Craig T. Nelson, and, perhaps best of all, Sam Wanamaker as Judy Benjamin's doting yet controlling father.The final portion of the movie involves our heroine conceiving matrimony with a slick and caddish French gynecologist, played to perfection by Armand Assante. This culminates in our being treated to an ending that leaves the world wide open to Judy, thanks to her Army experience of maturing and self-discovery.A good choice for viewing any time. "},{"Title":"A funny comedy","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This film is about a unfortunate young lady whose husband dies on their wedding night. She copes with her sorrow by mistakenly enlisting in the United States army.Private Benjamin is very funny! Even the film is already thirty years old, the jokes are timeless. The scene that Goldie Hawn explaining that she is sent to the wrong army is hilarious. Well, actually the whole section about her adjusting to the fact that Army life is not a holiday is hilarious. Even though I have seen similar story lines before, it is still hilarious. If only all the comedies stood the test of time like Private Benjamin! "},{"Title":"Salute!","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" When it comes to comedy,there are many every day situations that are good fodder to build on.The military is one of them.You can take an endless list of comedic performers and,when examined,the whole idea of any of them being in the military is hysterical.Goldie Hawn is definitely on that list.Now,you need to surround her with the right people to make the idea work.MissionAccomplished.Hawn's talents were complimented well in this film and we have ourselves a gem of a military comedy.While not the best ever made,it certainly is among the best.It has moments about midway where it drags just a little,but not enough to damage the overall viewing experience. "},{"Title":"A near-great comedienne ups the ante on this one","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" There are millions of comedies like Private Benjamin. They are like TV shows that turn out the same joke week after week, (and Private Benjamin itself turned into a TV show). The best ones work and stay in the memory, not because the jokes are great, (though sometimes they are), but because the players are good and can develop the characters beyond the mere limitations of the gag. (Frasier and The Golden Girls fall into this category).The jokes in Private Benjamin are not particularly original but they are funny, and they are funny because there is a near-great comedienne at the heart of Howard Zieff's film. With the right director Goldie Hawn's kookie, goof-ball wooziness was just about perfect and Zieff brings it out. Her character is the kind of woman who needs a good shaking, (Bette Davis would have made mincemeat out of her), but you love her all the same. At least until she starts making a fool of herself with Armand Assante's French sleaze-ball and the film loses it's comic momentum.There is at least one other grand-standing comic turn from Eileen Brennan as Hawn's drill sergeant. Brennan's like a slightly butcher Mae West, (I think we're meant to assume she's a lesbian), and she gives her lines the kind of inflection that West did. Between them they raise the ante on this one. "},{"Title":"Fun first half","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Judy Benjamin (Goldie Hawn) is a picky superficial newlywed who loses her husband (Albert Brooks) during wedding night sex on the bathroom floor. She's 28, married twice, and trained for nothing. Lying recruiter Jim Ballard (Harry Dean Stanton) tricks her to join the army. She's in for a rude awakening and wants to go home. Captain Lewis (Eileen Brennan) is her tough trainer. After being belittled by her father, she decides to stay rather than go home getting taken care of. She becomes a great private and rout the opposition in a war game. While on leave in New Orleans, she meets french doctor Henri Tremont (Armand Assante). Later, he would propose but he isn't prince charming.Goldie Hawn is fun and Eileen Brennan is terrific. They are both great and the movie is actually uplifting. The movie should probably stay with basic training. The second half isn't quite as compelling and the comedy dries up. The movie is better off expanding on the first half and cut out the second half. "}{"Title":"If Patton were alive, he would slap her face!","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Goldie Hawn is absolutely adorable in this, perhaps her signature role. Goldie plays Judy Benjamin, a spoiled young Jewish woman who we first see at her second wedding. Judy is in her late twenties, and has done seemingly nothing of importance in her life. Her father is only interested in her finding the right guy so he doesn't have to support her anymore. It seems she has found at least a successful husband in a man named Yale. (Albert Brooks) Yale seems like kind of a sleaze, but at least he has a good job as a divorce attorney, and Judy will at least be able to live off him for the rest of her life... it would originally appear. Those plans are shattered 15 minutes into the film when Yale dies while the two are having sex on their bathroom floor. Having nowhere else to turn, after an eight day bought of self-pity, Judy lets a charming army recruiter talk her into enlisting. Quite simply put, things are never the same for Judy Benjamin ever again.The middle of this movie deals with the now Pvt. Benjamin stumbling through basic training. The concept of a misfit having trouble in this situation has been done many, many times throughout the history of films. There are indeed some laughs, but nothing like you find with Bill Murray in Stripes, for example. Eileen Brennan is outstanding as Capt. Doreen Lewis who is out for Benjamin's scalp from day one. She gets some of the best lines, and the more we find out about her, the stranger her character appears to us. We also see Benjamin have to deal with a Colonel who tries to rape her at 13,000 ft. during a skydiving exercise. Through it all, Hawn shines like.... well... gold, I suppose. She is beautiful, funny, and she adds a new layer of dignity to her character with every scene.The final half hour deals with Judy Benjamin going back to life as a private citizen after having to quit the army. She is first transferred to a base in France, then moves in with a Gynecologist whom she had a one night stand with during a weekend leave earlier in the film. It seems this doctor had previously joined the Communist Party to impress a former lover, and the Army makes Benjamin choose between him or them. This gynecologist, wonderfully played by Armand Assante, is pretty much a paper scarecrow. He obviously is not faithful, he wants her to sign a pre-nup before they get married, and basically tries to run her life. Considering how much she has changed since the film's outset, you can see the conclusion coming from a mile away.Overall, this is a pretty good film. Not as funny as others dealing with misfits in the Army, but still funny enough. Hawn is good enough to make us care about her not only as a soldier, but also as a person before and after her stint in the military. Great supporting cast members also add to the film's charm.The final shot is memorable, but a little puzzling. After removing her veil and tossing it to the wind, Judy Benjamin walks off into the distance in her wedding dress. Just where in the heck was she headed? The airport? 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie - A keeper to re-watch regularly","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This movie deserved a sequel. Maybe I missed it? In any event, I came to IMDb to see if there were opinions on what Judy does next at the end of the movie. To my surprise, in the IMDb description, it says that Judy reenlists. I don't think that point was made; rather, it is left to the audience to decide.Anyway, I started reading reviews, and my neck tensed up. Why? Because so many people write that Captain Doreen Lewis is a lesbian. First - who on earth cares? And, why then, was she drooling, and more, over Captain William Woodbridge. Good grief! If Captain Lewis' sexual preference were remotely connected to the story line, that would be a different story, but it's absolutely not. What's the problem? That Captain Lewis is a Captain?I hate it that we've become a world of sexual-preference-obsessed. It didn't used to be like that. It's not as though this heightened awareness is keeping kids and adults from getting their heads bashed in. I'd bet it happens more often. My daughter and I were almost attacked because we were holding hands and some idiots decided we were lesbians. What's wrong with them/you? This is a fine movie with great comedy, great performances, important messages... can't you ever detach from sexual preference obsession, and leave it at that? Good grief... "},{"Title":"A fun story 2/3 of the way with sparkling performances from the leads","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Goldie Hawn had one of her biggest hits with the 1980 comedy Private Benjamin, an entertaining comedy that provides more than its shares of laughs, even if they don't sustain the length of the entire film.Hawn received a Best Actress nomination for her enchanting performance as Judy Benjamin, a bubbly, Jewish-American Princess whose sheltered existence is completely shattered when her new husband (Albert Brooks) dies of a heart attack during sex on their wedding night. Aimless and clueless about what to do with her life now, Judy enlists in the US army on a whim after being duped by a slick recruiter (Harry Dean Stanton) about what the army could offer her.The strongest part of the film focuses on Judy's complete ignorance about the military and what it involves, including her disappointment at learning that green is the only color the uniforms come in. Judy's struggle with army life is further complicated by her battle of wits with her hard-nosed commanding officer, Captain Doreen Lewis (supporting actress nominee Eileen Brennan). The hate/hate relationship between Judy and Lewis is the strongest part of this comedy and just as it reaches a fever pitch, Judy's parents arrive at the base to take their baby home because they had no idea what she had done and, in a moment that induces cheers, Judy grows up and tells her parents she is going to stay.Surprisingly, this is where the film begins to lose steam as Judy is drafted as part of an elite military squad and becomes involved with a European playboy (Armand Assante), who wants to turn Judy back into the spoiled princess she was, completely dependent on a man that she used to be, but the film is still worth watching.Howard Zeiff's spirited direction is a plus as is the solid support provided by Barbara Barrie and Sam Wanamaker as Judy's parents, Mary Kay Place as one of Judy's fellow soldiers and Robert Webber as the squad leader who recruits the new Judy for his team and though the film does peter out, it is a pleasure most of the way, thanks primarily to Hawn and Brennan, who makes their roles sizzle. "},{"Title":"As Uneven As The Times","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" THE POST Vietnam War years were a sort of mixed bag of conflicting attitudes, changing social mores and an unsure future. Every one of these elements are reflected in the films of that era and the elements that comprise the uneven mood and mission of PRIVATE BENJAMIN are typical.ALTHOUGH THE CONFLICT in Southeast Asia is not a player in the film, the now (1980) vilified Military is at the center of the story. One could gather that the writer and production team inferred that one's choosing to join or to make a career of the Armed Forces was below the dignity of anyone who wishes to make anything of himself. PROMOTED AS A COMEDY starring vehicle for Miss Goldie Hawn, the movie proves to be much more complex. We concede that, yes it is a comedy in the Classic, Shakespearean sense and there were many a moment of high readings on the old laugh-meter. But there is always an underlying feeling of tension, uncertainty and indecision.THE PERFORMANCES BY the cast were better than average; with star Goldie Hawn and Eileen Brennan's lively interpretations of the women of the U.S. Army being the most interesting aspect of this uneven and preachy comedy-drama.THE FOLLOWING YEAR (1981) Warner Brothers launched a PRIVATE BENJAMIN TV Series; which ran on CBS. In the series, Eileen Brenan reprised her role from the feature film. She was the only hold over./ "},{"Title":"Private Benjamin","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I had heard different versions of what this was about, the most common mistake about the plot was that it was a true story about a lesbian female soldier LOL, so I'm glad I watched it and putt all that straight, from director Howard Zieff (The Dream Team, My Girl). Basically Jewish-American woman Judy Goodman (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Goldie Hawn) marries Teddy Benjamin (Sam Wanamaker, Zoë's father), and it looks like she will be happy, but she is shocked when her new husband dies on their wedding night during sex. She one day after meets 1st Sgt. Jim Ballard (Harry Dean Stanton) who convinces her that life in the army is actually quite glamorous, and with no sense of worth anymore she decides to enrol herself. Of course when new Pvt. Judy Benjamin gets a rude awakening, and is forced into doing vigorous boot camp training, and also getting into trouble a lot she really wishes to get out of it, but as she gets to know the fellow recruits and the lifestyle she is determined to stick it out. During her time in service she does find another love interest with dashing French doctor Henri Alan Tremont (Armand Assante), but this is short lived as he has to return to Paris, and her promotion gives her more duties she must stick to. However they are brought back together again when she is sent Belgium, and Henri proposes marriage to Judy, which she accepts, but her boot camp officer Capt. Doreen Lewis (Oscar nominated Eileen Brennan) finds out he is a communist, and she is forced into deciding whether to stay with him or in the army. She does choose her new romance over her duty, and it is only later she discovers her love interest's controlling side, he tells her for example to sign a prenuptial agreement, and then worse she finds out he is still in love with his ex, and he has cheated on her with a maid. Judy realises on the day of the wedding that she can do anything she wants, and with Henri having been unfaithful in two instances she leaves him in the altar, and walks off into the distance to go and live a new life. Also starring Poltergeist's Craig T. Nelson as Capt. William Woodbridge, 12 Angry Men's Robert Webber as Col. Clay Thornbush, Barbara Barrie as Harriet Benjamin, Girl, Interrupted's Mary Kay Place as Pvt. Mary Lou Glass, Finding Nemo's Albert Brooks as Yale Goodman and Halloween's P.J. Soles as Pvt. Wanda Winter. I can agree with the critics, it is a bit of a one joke film, the joke obviously being that the army is full of female soldiers (which of course isn't completely real life) and that the leading character is wimpy and scatterbrained, but as that character Hawn does give a nice performance, and so does Brennan as her commanding officer, overall it is not a bad comedy. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Under Rated Comedy","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This must be the most under rated, under appreciated, overlooked comedy ever. It was never even released in Wide-screen on DVD. Goldie Hawn shines as the main Character Judy Benjamin as well as Eileen Brennen as the tough sergeant. Oh, and did I mention how funny it is.It is the Story of Judy Benjamin, a newly married Jewish Princess with over protective Parents. To them, Judy is the typical be pretty and stay quiet kind of a girl. They marry her off to a doctor as every nice Jewish girl must do. This begins a journey of self discovery for Judy and we are taken along for the ride. As the title insinuates, she joins the Army and begins to develop into the woman that deep down she knew she could be.I never understood why this movie has been cast aside. Maybe the audience does not want to see a mature, thoughtful Goldie Hawn. It's one of my favorites, and I hope one day it gets the treatment that it deserves on Blu-Ray. "},{"Title":"A comedy with heart","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Many of the reviewers have complained that this movie isn't funny enough. I'm not sure what that means. While there are certainly funny moments in this film, it's not intended to be pure slap-stick or laugh-riot farce. Rather, it's a poignant tale of a woman asserting her independence, as told through a comic vehicle. Another complaint is that too much is going on and that the film doesn't know what it wants to be. Again, I'm not sure what this means. I think the narrative is very straight- forward and all aspects of the story serve to illuminate the central theme that women no longer need to define their lives according to traditional roles dictated by men.Goldie Hawn's performance is subtle and charming. She's a delight to watch, and her comic timing can border on genius. Perhaps the best example of this is when she and her army friends are sitting around the campfire smoking pot and she tells them the story of how her second husband died on their wedding night. One of the friends, played by Mary Kay Place, says gravely, I don't get it. What does a person do after something like that? After a beat, Goldie Hawn responds, Join the army, and they all burst out laughing.I believe that this movie has withstood the test of time, but maybe that's because I'm pushing 50. "},{"Title":"A golden giggle...but a frenchman?","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" I first watched Private Benjamin as a teen, thought it mildly amusing.I have since watched it as an adult, and think it is good,but could have been funnier. The film opens with the main character,Judy, marrying Yale.Unfortunately this is not happy ever after, Judy finds herself a widow, and is coerced into joining the army.the fun really begins then.After a few hiccups,Judy finds herself accepted by most of the others, although not by Sgt Lewis(a superb performance by Eileen Brennan).She does get revenge though,all i can say is blue rinse! I personally think the film loses its way in the second half after Judy meets Armand Assante.In some aspects it shows Judy nearly lose the backbone she got in the army,but it doesn't quite fit.The ending is quite apt,but also peculiar. I still watch it,but I prefer Stripes. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Private Banjamin is an uneven film, but it is also an entertaining one. The first half is very focused, but the second half does get rather scatter-shot and dull. While most of it is funny, some of the laughs have a tendency to become sporadic, while the romance felt forced for my tastes. On the other hand, the film is at least nice to look at with good cinematography, editing and scenery, the story is decently paced and maintains interest and at its best the script is smart and snappy. Goldie Hawn is a very likable lead, and there is a sterling support cast including Eileen Brennan and Harry Dean Stanton. Overall, a very decent and entertaining film. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Avoid Part 2","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" In Private Benjamin Goldie Hawn demonstrates what made her a star blond hair, child's eyes, and an astounding ability to laugh at herself. Here she sends herself up as both a dumb blond AND a Jewish princess, and the formula would serve as the prototype for every film she made afterward. If this is Goldie at her best, why isn't the film considered a classic? You ask a good question, friend...The first hour of the movie is delightful. Fish-out-of-water Judy Benjamin joins the Army. Judy aggravates the tough-as-nails drill instructor (Eileen Brennan), develops as a soldier and a person, triumphs at war games and inevitably dances to Sister Sledge's We Are Family with her fellow cadets in the ultimate display of female bonding. (Sync cycles, anyone?) Hmmmm... that's odd. The movie's over. But according to the box there's still an hour left. What could possibly come next? A bizarre adventure in which Officer Judy gets stationed overseas, falls in love with a Frenchman, and has to decide whether to marry him or re-enlist in the army. I found my mind wandering during the second-half... I started making mental grocery lists, naming state capitals... it was very difficult to stay focused on a movie that had so clearly lost its focus. The scattershot second-half of the movie only serves to undo the good of the first half. Maybe this is why the movie fails to endure as a classic.Still, there's a lot of laughs here, with Goldie Hawn at her best.GRADE B- "}{"Title":"Doesn't Hold Up","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Sigh. The innocent 80's and what used to pass for a movie way back when. I remember first seeing this movie in the theater 30 years ago and being mildly amused by Judy and Company. I should have left it at that.While camped-out at a friend's horse ranch, I found the movie on VHS and decided for a trip down memory lane. Big mistake. How this over-rated comedy ever became nominated for THREE Oscars baffles me to no end. Guess it was a SLOW year for comedy in 1980.The screenplay and acting is on the same level as a bad sit-com. The acting is cardboard and sophomoric. The plot? Beyond simplistic. The entire package presented couldn't suspend the disbelief of present-day 12 year old.Just a pile of disorganized fluff that never should have made the big screen but should have been adequate for a made-for-TV-movie now long forgotten and mercifully so. "},{"Title":"Didn't Bill Murray Remake This Movie?","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" A harmless, cute movie that rests nearly entirely on the talents of two women Goldie Hawn and Eileen Brennan.Hawn is an expert comedienne and her string of late 70s/early 80s comedies are nearly all perfectly watchable now. Brennan is a total hoot as a drill sergeant who you love to hate. The movie is basically an all-female version of Police Academy or Stripes (which would come out a year later).I don't have anything else to say about this movie but I have to have ten lines of text to get my comment approved.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Not As Good As it Could Have Been","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" One would believe, with the talents of Goldie Hawn, that Private Benjamin would be a comedy smash hit. While it has its moments, it falls short of the mark needed for a great movie.The first half is good. Goldie Hawn's Judy Benjamin lives a ritzy social life. Judy is the spoiled pampered princes who faces uncertainty and confusion about her future when her husband (in an all too brief occurrence by Albert Brooks) Yale dies on their wedding night.Depressed, downtrodden, and seeking self-fulfillment. Judy decides to join the Army after visiting her local recruiting office. She is told about how wonderful the Army is, and decides to try it. Judy is convinced that the Army is like it's advertised on TV, with yachts and exciting adventures.Predictably, Judy struggles through basic training with a mean drill sergeant. The other women in her platoon squad at first resent her, but gradually warm up to her, pulling pranks on the drill sergeant and laughing at Judy's jokes and campfire stories about her life. Goldie does a fine job with the material here. However, the script IS predictable, and strained. The last good part of the movie is the Thornbird's parachute training sequence to the song, The Battle Hymn of The Republic. Than the movie falls apart in the second half. After basic training, Judy's squad is recruited to France where she reunites with family and friends at a bar. She quickly falls for a French man and the movie becomes a mess. It's never really explained why Judy would have feelings for such a man. At this point, the story almost becomes a totally different movie where the viewer no longer cares and just wants the movie to end. A rapid wedding is planned, but before the ceremony, Judy comes to the realization that the Frenchmen was just using her. He insults her, she responds by decking him, than says, don't call me stupid and walks out of the church, a liberated woman.It is as if the writers ran out of the good Army material in the first half of the movie. Than they sloppily tacked on Judy's relationship to the Frenchmen, because they needed to stretch the movie for another half hour. The lesson here is you can't just take what would have been a good movie had it focused on Goldie Hawn in the Army exclusively, and tack on a subplot that makes no sense and offers no explanation for why it's there, other than to add time to the picture.What could have been a 7/10 movie gets downgraded to a 5/10 because of this. There is not enough good story plot in Private Benjamin for it to succeed as a full-length movie. "},{"Title":"As Comedies Go, This Is Pretty Bleak","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" She is, of course, quite beautiful, but I can't say that Goldie Hawn has really blown me away with her acting or her style of comedy. Having said that, Private Benjamin seemed like a movie and a role that was right up her alley, so to speak, and I looked forward to watching it. I was disappointed. What I thought would be an amusing comedy failed completely. It turns out to be little more than a woman's journey to find herself. The first twenty minutes or so are really quite heavy. It's sad to watch Judy Benjamin being controlled and manipulated by everyone around her - her parents, her fiancé/husband and then even the army recruiter who lies to her after she's devastated by her husband's death on their wedding night to convince her to join up by telling her what a cushy life she'll lead as a soldier. I certainly didn't start out laughing. The basic training portion of the movie started out well. It had a few laughs in it, although I thought at times that it came across as little more than a female version of MASH. Maybe if the focus had stayed more on Judy as a misfit in the army trying to fit in, this would have worked, but then after an unfortunately limited amount of time in basic training, the rest of the movie turns into a soap opera about her relationship with Henri and whether she's going to end up marrying him. Again, there were few laughs in this part of the movie, yet more feelings of heaviness as Judy finds herself getting sucked in by yet another manipulative guy and just a general lack of fun in a movie that's supposed to be a comedy.I suppose in the end this fits into one of the themes of the late 70's (although technically this is a 1980 movie) the idea of the woman who finds herself when she realizes that she doesn't need a man in her life. For goodness sake, this even referenced 1978's An Unmarried Woman and my reaction to this was about the same as my reaction to that one bleak and not really that interesting to watch. I'm glad Judy finally found herself at the end. Frankly, though, I'm a little sorry I watched the process of self-discovery! "},{"Title":"Just A Step Above Mediocrity...","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Private Benjamin is a decent movie, maybe just a step or two above mediocrity. There are some amusing moments and even a laugh-out-loud moment or two, but the film does fall flat at its feet more times than not. The premise is good, but I felt the film faltered towards the latter half of the movie. The romance she strikes with the French guy seems so forced and unbelievable. I did like the scenes when she was in basic training though. This film is about a fragile woman named Judy Benjamin who joins the Army after her husband died on their wedding day. She quickly finds out that the Army is different from which she was told it would be. One of the redeeming points of the movie is the acting. Goldie Hawn had good comedic timing and her character was a good satire. I really liked Eileen Brennan's performance as Captain Doreen Lewis, who tries to make Judy's life hell. Robert Webber's performance as Colonel Clay Thornbush was also quite memorable. Overall, I really wanted to enjoy Private Benjamin a whole lot more than I did, but I really couldn't. The movie isn't terrible, but it just isn't great either. The performances are fine enough, but the story needs tweaking and the romance towards the end was just unnecessary. There were some funny moments, but that is when Judy was in training. I rate this film 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Good, though it's not sure what it is","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Goldie Hawn is Private Benjamin in this 1980 comedy/drama also starring Eileen Brennan, Sam Wanamaker, Barbara Barrie, Mary Kay Place, and Armand Assante. Hawn is Judy Benjamin, whose second husband dies on her wedding night. Inconsolable, she calls into a radio show, where another caller says he can help her. When they meet, he turns out to be an Army recruiter who promises her a condo on the water and says she can quit if she doesn't like it. Adrift, Judy joins. She doesn't get the condo, and the only water is when it rains or she falls in the mud during training.In spite of having no interest or commitment and incurring the wrath of her superior (Brennan), when Judy tries to go AWOL, the army gives up and sends for her parents. It's then that Judy decides to become a soldier and refuses to leave. She does well, and after sexual harassment from an officer (Robert Webber), she gets to be transferred anywhere she wants. She chooses France, so that she can take up with a one-night stand with a French doctor (Armand Assante) who visited America.The problem with this film is that it's Goldie Hawn, and audiences expected a comedy and instead got more of a comedy-drama. It's almost two films, the second beginning when Judy becomes re-involved with the Assante character.On the plus side, the acting is terrific, and the film holds interest. If the writers hadn't tried to do too many things at once, or been clearer with their intentions from the beginning, the movie could have been a lot better. As it is, it's good, and a great vehicle for two wonderful talents, Hawn and Brennan. "},{"Title":"Predictable 80's Fluff, but enjoyable all the same *** out of *****","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" 'Private Benjamin' is probably Goldie Hawn's best movie, or at least most well known. Her role as a rich bitch in a fish out of water tale is one she has milked over the years, but here it was quite original and she is at her least annoying, The script by Meyers,Shyer and Miller is one they could do in their sleep and is quite Funny even if it does get incredibly mushy and slushy as the Movie goes on as her character falls for French smoothie Armand Assante. This was a big hit in it's day and deservedly so, but this story has been done to death in the years since and is quite similar to Bill Murray's Movie Stripes which came out barely a year later.Premiere Magazine voted this one of the 50 greatest comedies of all time, while I wouldn't go that far as it's not much better or worse than most of her repertoire.*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Hawn does comedy well, but this should have been better.","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Ah, the good old forces comedy gets a female make over with entertaining enough results.When Judy Benjamin's second husband dies whilst making love to her, she is sold on joining the army by cunning recruitment officer Sgt. Jim Ballard Harry Dean Stanton, trouble for Judy is that training camp in Biloxi is a far cry from the exotic base she had envisaged for her stay in the service. Pulled from pillar to post by ruthless Capt. Doreen Lewis a delightful Eileen Brennan, and shunned by her fellow recruits for being a whining posh lass, Judy finally gets the picture and pulls herself up from the brink of misery.The script from Nancy Meyers, Charles Shyler and Harvey Miller stands up well enough, it's laced with genuine humour, and at its core, the triumph of the will theme gladdens the spirit all told. Yet strip away the comic ability of Goldie Hawn and you would be left with a very unmemorable picture, and come the films final snug piece of jigsaw filling, you can't help thinking that the films shift away from the army to France for Judy's final romantic awakening has left us short of more comic glee, and thus an empty feeling replaces where once was fulfilment. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Adorable, Classic and Flat Out Funny","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Private Benjamin is a classic film comedy of the early 1980s. Filled with wonderfully funny moments, Goldie Hawn's best performance at the height of her film career, surprising twists and turns in the story line that keeps the audience guessing every moment how Judy Benjamin's lifelong journey will end up, and one of the finest casts of any comedy film ever made. The richly drawn characters of each member of the supporting cast is what helps make this film so memorable and even unique. Eileen Brennan's Captain Lewis is beyond inspired. She is a joy to watch every second she is on the screen. And each member of Judy's army unit - the poor overweight nebbish, the tough girl criminal, the Southern Belle is so perfectly cast and written, that one feels like they know their whole life's story. Then there's Judy's family - upper class Jewish stereotypes made famous by the Borscht Belt comedians - but SO funny! And the eccentric Euro-trash - uh-oh, more stereotypes. But again SO funny. Even though fun is poked at these characters endlessly, they somehow become real people, that the audience cares about - laughs at - but cares about. This is a real credit to the writers of the screenplay and again the great casting. With so much going on, so many characters, so many situations, be it a wedding, a funeral, boot camp, Paris in the Springtime, this film could so easily have become an unwieldy three ring circus. BUT, holding it all together is the magnificent Goldie Hawn, with her unflappable good spirits, her million dollar smile, her Laugh-In Go-Go girl good looks, and her disarming charm. This was a role in a lifetime for Goldie Hawn, and she more than rose to the occasion. She helped create a classic American Film. And oh the priceless moments in the film Captain Lewis' Blue Shower (no one in the audience ever saw that coming); the stoned Campfire chat of the soldiers - notice how it goes from absolute hilarity to that wonderful look of wistfulness on Judy's face; Judy's Turkish Boss' accent; Judy's friends joyful dance to We Are Family; and the intriguing unresolved ending. Haven't we all wondered whatever happened to our beloved Judy Benjamin after she walked down that long forest pathway at the end of the film? But her independence and growing strength, and all those wonderful characters she fought with and embraced in her life journey at a turning point in her life keep dancing and struggling and crying and laughing in our minds long after the film has ended. "},{"Title":"One word-good!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Yet another movie where there seems to be many mixed opinions. My personal opinion is that this was an unbelievably funny, involving wacky comedy with Goldie at her finest. Private Benjamen is one that I haven't seen in awhile but I enjoyed it tremendously at the time, as I enjoy most of Goldie's work.To be honest, the movie might not have worked so well if it had included a lesser talented actress in the main role. Goldie Horn's sense of comedic timing is right on the money and she rarely misses. In this movie she is funny as usual and that's good because honestly the movie's plot while good, is so impossible to swallow in some places, it might have been miserable with another, less funny actress.I think this is a movie not to be taken to seriously. I didn't really take anything majorly serious away from the movie, it's pure entertainment, your classic outrageous situations. If one doesn't look to deep into this one can have a good time with it. It is REALLY funny and keeps you laughing. I'd rate this a solid 8 of 10. (which for me is a b or bplus.) This is solid funny stuff. "}{"Title":"Blonde to Green","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Private Benjamin is one of those films you can come back to it years after watching it and still be cheered up by its cheer brilliance and Hawns excellent portray of a middle class 'blonde'. The film really displays excellent sense of friendship and discovery of ones self, which Hawn discovers after her husbands unexpected death and joins the an army camp in Boloxi unaware of what she has got herself into. During her inintital training we see great comical acting from Eileen Brennan who plays Capt, Doreen Lewis. Judy goes on to discover love in Paris with Henri, who is communist and must decide whether she is going to continue with her career or go back to the nothing life she had before. It must be said that Goldie Hawn is the Reese Witherspoon of the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Twenty-Nine Years Old, And Trained To Do Nothing","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Oh dear.  This is a difficult film to say generous things about.  It has funny moments, but they are few and far between.  It holds itself out as a satire on Jewish life, especially the materialism and the limitations of the complacent middle-class Jewish American lifestyle ... but when Judy Benjamin (who claims to have rejected her parents' values) is resisting Henri's amorous advances, she learns that he is Jewish and wealthy, and immediately succumbs.The early scene in which Jewish princess Benjamin complains to Captain Lewis (Eileen Brennan) is funny, but thereafter the military training is a long, long extension of one joke - namely, that Benjamin isn't very good at drill.  However, as is always the way with these boot camp movies, the rookies bond and overcome their tribulations, and all goes well.  That Benjamin should be sent to a cushy Paris posting is, even allowing for the plot point that brings it about, hard to believe.The 'Thorn Birds' segment is weak.  Benjamin is in and out before the situation is properly established.  Jewish weddings are frequent occurrences in American films, and accordingly rather tedious - but this movie manages to give us two fairly protracted ones.  Other hackneyed conventions include Paris with accordion music (Henri's office happens to be in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower) and shots of Goldie and Henri walking across the Pont Alexandre III.Judy's second husband jabbered repeatedly about 'pre-nups', and this returns to haunt her when her prospective third husband insists on her signing a document which she doesn't understand.  For all its celebration of marriage, the film's underlying attitude is cynical and materialistic.Private Benjamin was made in 1980, and it hasn't aged well.  Sexual harrassment is treated as a joke, as is a Turk's inability to pronounce English clearly.  Everybody smokes cigarettes openly onscreen, and 'reds' are considered as the enemy.Verdict - A Weak Goldie Hawn Vehicle  "},{"Title":"A military feminist comedy with (unwelcomed) serious overtones","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Private Benjamin reignited Goldie Hawn's status in movies, but it doesn't leave behind good feelings, and occasionally the self-serious overtones are mean-spirited. After a strenuous opening, pampered Jewish princess Judy Benjamin (Hawn, looking great) asserts herself for the first time by joining the U.S. Army; her recruiter has convinced her it's like Club Med... Is anyone this naive? Probably not, but that's what gives the first-half of the movie a silly kick. The boot-camp stuff has all been done before, but seldom with a woman at the center, and most of Goldie's lines get big laughs (After scrubbing the latrine with her electric toothbrush she tells the guard, You could eat off that floor--why don't you?). Unfortunately, the screenplay aspires to higher things other than military slapstick. Judy falls for a mumbling Frenchman (Armand Assante) who is the stereotypical Euro-cad completely out-of-place in these sitcom surroundings; his scenes deaden the rest of the film, which has a curious, but unfunny 'sanity restored' ending. The streak of late-'70s pro-feminism red carpets the movie practically in advance as if Hawn (one of the producers) really wanted to say something; naturally, almost every male in the film is a jerk, a liar, a weakling, a rapist, or a cheat. The portrayal of Judy's parents is torturous, and Eileen Brennan is stuck in the one-note role as cruel Captain Lewis, whose character is eventually brought down to size by turning lesbian! Hawn does manage to carry the movie for much of the way, and yet she bears some of the blame for the film's sour tone. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Too many films in one ** Warning Spoilers **","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Judy Banjamin (Hawn) is a spoiled Jewish-American Princess whose honeymoon and life-plans-for-happily-ever-after are spoiled when her husband dies on her wedding night. You see, she never had an identity of her own -- nor had she ever had to understand what it means to work hard to make yourself a better person. The next 75 minutes has Eileen Brennan playing Segreant Carter to Benjamin's Gomer Pyle, but with Corporal Hal Williams along to add perspective, Hawn eventually earns some respect from outside and inside after giving us a few memorable zany gags and two or three pratfalls in the process. So far, so good. But somehow, some decision-makers in this film thought it was necessary for Judy to learn separately and show us separately that as a self-respecting woman, she now has what it takes to walk away from a demeaning and suffocating man, flatly and unconvincingly played by Armand Assante. That subplot makes the movie 20 minutes longer than it needs to be, and shifts the emphasis away from the film's best characters. Still OK, but half as good as it could have been. "},{"Title":"GOLDIE'S GOT IT!","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I'll tell you one thing about Goldie Hawn SHE'S NO DUMB BLONDE!! She is definitly been at her busiest since Laugh-In. And she past the test with flying colors. Being a bubbleheaded Jewish princess who feels lost, after her wedding one night ends up in a funeral the very next day. What a way to go. She's a Gomer Pyle with heels, and she claims to have things going her way. Judy Benjamin learns that there's more to life than material things. She wanted to break free. Eileen Brennan was a hit in both the movie and the TV version along with Hal Williams. I enjoyed when everyone got down to We Are Family. Her family were the instruments of indecision for Judy, at the end, she really made her point. If Judy have joined the Marines, she would be Automatically Discharged, but who's to say? IT'S GOOD! A 10+! "},{"Title":"Too Much Story for One Movie","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Please note that due to the scope of this movie, spoilers may be inevitable.  I will try to keep them to a minimumI was only six when this movie came out--much too young to see an R rated movie.  But I do remember watching the TV spin-off.  Based on those memories, I expected this movie to be about a spoiled, rich, young woman who joins the army only to find that it is much tougher than she imagined; but through a predictable character change she would become a well rounded cadet, winning the respect of the base commander by proving herself in competition.  And that's exactly what this movie is about--for the first hour.After that, Private Benjamin actually becomes its own sequel.  It goes on to explore her post(s) after basic training and her plunge back into a love affair after her second husband died while having sex with her.  If you think that's a lot of territory for a movie--a comedy, no less--to cover, you're right.  Many conflicts in the story are never resolved.  Some are never even explored.  Some are resolved but revisited and then left unresolved.  The last half hour of the movie seems strangely detached from the rest, and there simply aren't enough laughs for a comedy with so much potential.Private Benjamin should have been two movies.  They would have been two very different movies, but they both could have been great.  Crammed together, both stories (basic training, and the army/social life) suffer.  Neither is what it could have been.  And that's a shame.  We could have had two Goldie Hawn classics.  Instead we have one passable movie. "},{"Title":"Goldie in a funny performance.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  This was a good movie, Goldie creates the laugh for the movie.  The movie starts off very slow, then laughs occur, then it slows down.  Not Goldie's best work, but it is worth seeing. Private Benjamin is good movie to watch on a rainy boring day. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Inferior to Stripes, but still fun...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Goldie Hawn joins the United States Army in this sporadically funny, overall amusing comedy that stars a groaning but likable character who proves that women are tough like men, too! (Fake excitement there, by the way.) Inferior to Ivan Reitman's comedy Stripes, released a year later with Bill Murray, Harold Ramis and John Candy in pretty much the same situations. Only Stripes was funny 3/4 of the time. Private Benjamin was just sporadically funny.I give it a three star rating out of a possible five. Enjoy it but don't expect much. Perfect if nothing else worth watching is on TV.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"From a child of the eighties","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Growing up on HBO, I saw the flick several times.  It is a cute show, but don't expect it to be anything more advanced than for its time.  I was thinking of this movie the other day, and I thought it would be neat for Goldie Hawn's daughter Kate Hudson to do a remake or a sequel. "},{"Title":"Goldie-lox","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I saw this when it originally came out and had fond memories of it as a comedy.  I was surprised seeing it now how little it made me laugh. Thats not to say I didn't like it, if you take it as drama with the occasional funny moment it works better. Goldie Hawn is mostly quite charming and Eileen Brennan gives a memorable performance. Most of the men are very unlikeable, which gives the film a slightly unbalanced and uneasy feel. It's only by the end of the film you realise quite how feminist in tone it is, which you can't help but admire.   (Nancy Myers, one of its writers recently wrote and directed What Women Want.)  (6/10) "}{"Title":"As far as I'm concerned the movie ends the moment the training does","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  It's a real shame because Private Benjamin had good potential, and everyone involved meant well but...Well, I did laugh- the scenes where Goldie is in basic training in the military are funny, amusing and fun but the moment basic training ends and Goldie goes to France, it becomes long and boring with not a single laugh to offer. The last half an hour or so were completely pointless. The writers should have crossed out this awful romance plot and just continued with the fun humor- the movie should have been about Goldie in the military and that would have been fun- what this movie should have been- pure fun. The ending just leaves a bad impression, which is a shame since Goldie (who also took the part of executive producer) meant very well. It seems this is only the first draft. At fault are the writers, who produced many fun moments and then just lost all ideas. "},{"Title":"A Quarter Century Later","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Now having been tested by time, 'Private Benjamin' appears 25 years later as little more than an extended-play of a late 70's sitcom (which is exactly what it became). Only Eileen Brennan's subtle touches in her Cpt. Lewis character make the film worth watching. It seems the writers are mostly responsible as the film moves over so many different plot and setting changes that it seems like a television pilot with three or four consecutive episodes tacked on until our heroine reaches a seemingly meaningful end. Beginning with this film, Goldie made a career feeding in to the 'men suck' crowd, again recently with 'The Banger Sisters.' Little wonder why it was passed up by 'Ordinary People' as Best Picture. "},{"Title":"I think Goldie Hawn is hilarious in this movie!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  For a comedy with a message to helpless women, this movie is great.  It depicts a rich, spoiled woman who is able to find self worth and confidence in the military.  Casting for Private Benjamin was perfect.  I loved this movie.   "},{"Title":"Private Benjamin","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Goldie plays a pampered young snot who gets away from it all by joining the Army, where she wages comic  warfare everywhere she turns. She's wonderful, but it's Eileen Brennan who steals the show as her  superior officer. Both ladies were Oscar nominated and Brennan had the honor of repeating her role in the short lived television series version of the film, where she won an Emmy.   "},{"Title":"Gomer Pyle goes Jewish Princess","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  We've seen it all before for christian poor men, now a new twist--Judy is a rich Jewish girl.  The military loves to chew up and spit and polish out all those who deviate too much from what they expect of the perfect soldier.  The result is almost invariably hilarious, especially when the army wins the battle, but loses the war.Goldie Hawn was almost perfect as the opposite of Jim Nabors, being highly educated and physically inept.  This movie was obviously both a response to the success of Stars and Stripes and threat growing unease of having female combat soldiers.It does not hold up well over time, but is still worth a look. "},{"Title":"Booooooo.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I can't understand why so many people hated this film, it's always been one of my favorite comedies.  I will admit some valid points have been raised here regarding it's weak points.  Private Benjamin is almost condescendingly feminist at times, particularly in the last half, and I say that in regards to the gross caricatures that the script gives us of stereotypical men who are out to control and manipulate women, as well as the women who are content to simply rely on men and marriage to give them an identity.However, I think many people forget that this is a comedy and a satire.  Like all good comedy, Private Benjamin gives us the chance to laugh at ourselves as well as its likeable protagonist.  I think Goldie Hawn was great in this film, she really gives Judy a certain depth that goes beyond simply following the direction of the script.  Her facial expressions are priceless and evoke some real laughs in the comedy segments, while the more thoughtful parts of the film give her a chance to reveal a vulnerability too.  When Judy finally asserts herself as an individual in the film's conclusion, it really rings true thanks to Hawn.Eileen Brennan is also classic here.  She may be playing a one-note type of character, but she plays it to the hilt.  Again, I don't think it's a crime that Brennan (and the military in general) are depicted as unpleasant, because it's also these same things that help Judy to find herself, and the film definitely shows the audience that, too.The sudden shift from slapstick-type humor to a more subtle type of satire may seem jarring for some viewers, but for me I thought it was fine, since watching poor Judy go through hell in basic training would have been boring for an hour and a half anyway.I get a real kick out of this movie even to this day.  Henri, look....there's Claire! "},{"Title":"Conventional and not very funny.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Pleasant but utterly conventional and predictable army comedy. The first half is a collection of obvious, all-too-expected gags about basic training; the second is stretched out in the direction of a farce. Overall, the film doesn't have a single laugh-out-loud moment to be proud of, but it's a painless view. Goldie Hawn whines too much for my taste, but still comes across as rather likable.     (**) "},{"Title":"First half great, falls apart during second.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I like this movie, but I don't LOVE this movie. Goldie is fine, but after basic training, the movie falls apart, as far as I am concerned. Too many plot lines.The first time I saw this movie was when I was in basic training in the U.S. Army in Ft. Dix, NJ in September of 1980. I was amazed they even LET us watch the movie, much less required it (it was watch the movie or march on the parade ground, seriously, and this was during the movie's first run). We had to sit at attention while watching it. (meaning I couldn't sleep, which is what I really wanted to do - I was exhausted, most of the time)This is what sticks in my mind about this movie - a pretty strong association, wouldn't you say? "},{"Title":"She was supposed to fail, but doesn't.","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" This is supposed to be a comedy, but actually it's a drama about a spoiled young woman who blossoms into a truly beautiful person. It's a movie about a person dealing with adversity and, finding out that her neurotic and maladaptive coping skills no longer work, sinks to rock bottom and then finds the strength to work her way back up and prove to the world that she is in fact someone who should be taken seriously and be treated with respect - because she has earned that respect. At first Goldie Hawn's character is little more than a whining, spoiled female buffoon who is an embarrassment to everyone who knows her, but after she joins the army, surprises everyone by actually growing up and becoming an entirely different person. The movie would have been better without the attempts at comedy, because Private Benjamin is not a funny character. Nevertheless, this is a good movie about a person who succeeds when everybody else expected her to fail, and for this reason should be watched. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but uneven.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Just like filmed stage-plays, you can spot a badly adapted novel a mile off. While each separate episode of this movie may be quite enjoyable on its own, they make a strange mix when strung together. They develop too many portions of Benjamin's life, and spend too much time on each of them. And there really is very little connecting material. The viewer has no idea where to expect the story to end. Exactly what should be resolved by the ending? Watching it, you don't know what to root for, or how Benjamin deserves to end up. The novel clearly is a first-person narrative which tells the story of Benjamin's patchy love-life. To make this the focus of the movie, the filmmakers decided to start it off with her failed marriage. To make this stay the focus the whole way through the army segment, however, which is what everyone remembers about this movie and what the title and poster signal as its focus, a complete voiceover from Benjamin may have done the trick.   "}{"Title":"otherwise funny movie fails","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Private Benjamin, the movie, has two sides to it. On the one hand, it is a 'serious' drama about a young woman who has had men dominate her all here life, and is trying to break free from that pattern. And on the other hand, it is a goofball army comedy, with a feel-good ending.It is not, however, an army goofball dramedy about a young woman trying to break from her role pattern. That would have actually worked.So in this movie, the happy end appears about two-thirds into the movie, when the last goofball bit has ended and the rest of the serious movie has to be played out.Don't get me wrong, it's a competent movie, and if they had released the two parts separately, you would probably have had two good movies, but as it is now, the film is too piecemeal to be enjoyed for the whole run. I usually switch off after the boot camp scenes.  "},{"Title":"Very Much A Lightweight Chick Flick","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Judy Benjamin gets married . Her husband dies on their wedding night . Judy joins the army . The end So there you go that`s the plot of this movie summed up or rather that`s the premise summed up because other things do happen like Judy falls in love ( This is a chick flick after all ) but PRIVATE BENJAMIN is to all intents a one trick pony of a sheltered spoilt rich girl finding herself in the US army because it seemed like a good idea at the time .It`s a comedy but the problem is it`s all rather overplayed which is the worst thing you can do with comedy since everything ends up being rather silly and unconvincing in parts ( A bit like a female HEARTBREAK RIDGE ) not to mention rather unfunny and it`s painfully obvious that the movie is one large ( non military ) excersise in box office appeal when perhaps a more cynical and darkly humerous approach might have made for a better movie . Didn`t anyone think of having a subplot of the new girl platoon being discharged from the army because they all got pregnant ? One can`t help thinking how this movie had ended up if Col David Hackworth had some in put into it .  Still as it stands Eileen Brennan did win an Oscar nomination as Doreen Lewis well deserved since she gives by far the best performance in the movie . As for the rest of the cast they`re pretty lightweight but that`s probably down to the lightweight feel of the movie . I wonder if we`ll see a sequel where Judy and co. get sent to Iraq to work in an Iraqi prison ? You see the point I`m making about PRIVATE BENJAMIN being lightweight don`t you ?  One point I seem to have missed though is there any reason to the plot that the title character has to be Jewish ? I`m fairly certain that not all Jewish women are spoilt little princesses hanging onto their parents coat tails and purse strings . Take my cyber friend Michele who has spent many years working hard building up her indie record label and who still lives in a not very nice part of New York below scumbags . Below scumbags who like to play hardcore techno music at all hours of the night . Below scumbags who like to play hardcore techno music at all hours of the night and who like to leave taps on flooding Michele out of her flat . Scumbags   "},{"Title":"Gilding the Lily","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I always liked this old-fashioned expression that reflects how excessive artifice destroys natural beauty.  By that I do not intend to say Goldie Hawn is an example of trying too hard to be funny, only that this movie is excruciatingly overdone and imitative in almost every way.I concur with the majority of opinions given here that there are essentially two stories involved women training for combat and women frustrated by the men in their lives.  Both are fit subjects for comedic treatment, but to attempt both at the same time -- successfully -- is the stuff of better writers and better actors than Meyers and Miller et al. or Goldie Hawn.Silliness and seriousness collide badly in this film.  As a result, the whole thing is out of focus.  The main role calls for an actress who can display a broad range of character.  That is definitely not Goldie Hawn territory.  I would sum it up by calling it Laugh In Meets Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore.  "},{"Title":"Which 'Private Benjamin' is the Real Movie?","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I've loved Goldie Hawn since her 'Laugh-In' days, and never miss anything she does, but this one was confusing to me.  Were the producers trying to make a comedy?  They did, up to a point. The movie is crude comedy typical of other Hollywood 'misfit in military training' slapsticks (see 'Stripes'), up to the scene in Colonel Thornbush's office in which Judy accuses the Colonel of attempted rape.  From that point on, there is not a single laugh, and the plot shifts to cold war politics, a potentially abusive relationship and revenge.  Even the Eileen Brennan character, a comic foil for Hawn in the first half, becomes a mean-spirited superior, out to destroy Benjamin's career. The lead user comment on this site refers to Judy Benjamin as a woman seeking her identity. I would say the same for the movie, and regret that it never discovered exactly what it was trying to be. 5/10. "},{"Title":"It died before it ended","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" The movie started out funny with a good plot and some good gags and laughs, but about the time she goes to France the movie seems to take on a different tone and try to become serious. Outside of the knock out punch in the last scene there is nothing to laugh about. Yes, it became a good movie for women to feel good about themselves, which is fine with me. I think the movie would have been better if it would have ended about thirty minutes before it did. Goldie is always good in her role and played the part well, she was very believable, but again her role was somewhat predictable. The big surprise was just a few minutes after saying she wanted out of the army she decided to stay. The movie also makes recruiters and officers in our military seem like a bunch of liars. Since I have never been in, I don't know if this is the right impression or not. "},{"Title":"No laughs to be had in this 'comedy'","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  I heard nothing but glowing comments on this film for years, but when I finally saw it there was no laughter from me. I sat straight faced all the way through waiting impatiently for the fun to start. All I saw was a poorly made movie with a silly plot and uninspired performances. Bypass this turkey. "},{"Title":"Comic Gem!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  We watched this film again on cable over the weekend.  I've seen it at least twice before (including initial release).  Rich saw it when originally released.  We both enjoyed it very much this time, laughing with great gusto again & again.  Goldie Hawn is just adorable & the supporting cast shows her off to great advantage in every scene.  We both think it's a comic gem & we heartily recommend it. "},{"Title":"Loses Its Way.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":"  Goldie Hawn (Oscar-nominated) joins the U.S. Army after being suckered in by a crude recruiter in this nice little comedy that loses its way late due to unnecessary twists and plot resolutions. Hawn is searching for herself after her new husband (Albert Brooks) dies during their honeymoon. Next she gets thrown in with crazed drill instructor Eileen Brennan (Oscar-nominated) and a group of rowdy fellow-recruits. A hilarious first half struggles to keep up its intensity as the movie progresses and that, more than anything else, hurts Private Benjamin. Still a good film though. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Worst Screenplay Ever","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, War","Review":" Actually, I'm wrong. The worst was a disaster called God's Gun, but on the other hand, that particular movie is, mercifully, never shown anymore, whereas Private Benjamin springs up on cable movies with seasonal regularity, like the flu.Movies and stage are about suspension of disbelief, and I'm all for that, but there are limits. Private Benjamin passes those limits so effortlessly that my breath is taken away. Look, I can watch a sci-fi flick and pass over the bad science; I can watch a cop show and (usually) ignore the improbability of a cop or bad guy hitting a target at fifty feet with one shot, and I can even believe that a woman can walk out of a building in Manhattan at 430 PM and hail a taxi with one expressive flick of her hand. But what happens in Private Benjamin ranks with Nixon's I'm not a crook speech on the scale of believability.Item An infantry captain is playing cuddlebunny with a shapely enlisted person inside a vehicle during a war game. In bursts a female soldier, pointing her M-16 at him and saying something memorable, like I got you, suckah! The captain stands up with his arms raised, his face registering abject consternation. Excuse me? These are war games. Those are BLANKS in the rifle.Item Ms Benjamin, now safely out of the Army, decides, on some pretext or other, to nail her fiancé with a right hook. Goldie Hawn weighs about 95 pounds. The man she hits in the jaw is close to six feet and about 180 pounds. Of course, she sends him flying. I've got an open invitation to all 95 pound women (or men, for that matter) take your best shot to my jaw with your fist. I'll guarantee you I won't fall, much less fly back about five or six feet with my feet off the ground. It's physically impossible for someone that small to knock down a person twice her weight. Or his weight That's why welterweights don't fight heavyweights in the ring.Item Oh, the heck with it. This is a bad movie, with bad writing and a bad story and bad acting. Hollywood simply can't get it through its collective head that a good screen name, like Hawn, will never overcome terrible scripts.Goldie, you should have stuck to Laugh In. "}]