[{"Title":"The Adventure Continues...or so we thought!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"122 out of 165 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film can be summed up in two words. Superman Trouble. That is the case. There are two versions of the film Superman II. One is the vision of acclaimed director Richard Donner, full of color flourishes, and camera work by the late Geoffrey Unsworth. The second, is the vision put on director Richard Lester, by choice of the film's producers, Alexander and Ilya Salkind. Both the films contain the same story and characters, but each was shot with a different tone, different dialogue and footage, which clash with intention. So in the end, footage from each are woven into one movie which film buffs all over the world will notice is somewhat difficult to grasp. Due to the different directing styles of each director, the final cut of Superman II ends up being a cliche work of special effects, mismatched character analysis, and central themes. The film deals with Superman and Lois falling in love, and the three super villains from the prologue of the first film landing on earth and ultimately trying to take over. Very intense stuff. But this is where we as an audience need to know all the facts, and here they are The first version of Superman II, known as Superman II The Adventure Continues was directed by Richard Donner and supposed to be straight forward with serious tones and action packed sequences. This version was shot simultaneously with the original Superman in 1977-78. Originally to be released back to back with the original, Superman II was filmed with vigorous explosions, dangerous situations, and tense, irrefutable drama. In the opening, a female liberation symbol, Lois Lane, tries to prove that Clark Kent is Superman by throwing herself out a window, knowing that Clark(Superman) will fly out and save her. In another scene, Superman gives up his powers and nearly kills himself, only to get them back later on, nearly killing himself again. This nailbittingly tense script brought back old characters and was to bring the original Superman to a full closure. All actors are fully concentrated and the print is a paragon. 80& of this film was finished when the producers fired director Donner due to some arguments that are still unknown to this day, and replaced him with director Richard Lester, and thusly, Superman II The Adventure Continues was culminated. This is where the Richard Lester vision of the film comes into place. Simply titles Superman II, the Richard Lester version is full of clumsy comedy, amateur plotting, and is nowhere near as affective as the Donner version. Lester is a comic director, whom had worked on the previous Beatles films, Help and Hard Days Night and had no experience directing any international blockbusters. To give him more credit than Richard Donner, the producers rewrote most of the footage that Donner shot and went in with the actors for re-shoots...even though Donner had already taken care of this! The villains are portrayed here as careless and comic, whereas in Donner's version they were cold as steel, and not to be messed with. In one re-shot scene, we see three villains who are Superman's foes land on earth and take interest in a snake. The snake bites the female villain and instead of showing her wrath on nature, as was seen in Donner's moon scene which she kills an innocent astronaut in cold blood, she sets the reptile on fire and giggles about it! Central themes of love and home were lost because of this as well. Because of budget problems and deadline, the producers could not finish the re-shoot and Superman II, and had to fill the gaps with Donner footage from the vault, making Superman II confusing and abstruce, and that is what made Superman II an atavistic failure. 70% of the film is clumsy, contrived comedy and useless violence, while 30% of the film is straight forward, full of munificent morals and such. The final cut has one scene showing the villains breaking into the white house and consequently taking over the world, with sheer John Williams music, the next scene you see them bored and incoherently complaining about being on a world where mankind doesn't even resist. The first film Superman had morals of justice, and the American way, while the second film was supposed to show morals of love and home, and earthly pleasures that remind people of the good in the world-in a sense, taking along with the truth, justice, and the American way. This message was lost between the footage by raconteur Donner and comic Lester. Nonetheless, the film was a box office success, and many critics, including the late Pauline Kael and Roger Ebert praised the film for it's portrayal of good versus evil in the modern day society. Some of the footage shot by Donner that was not put into the final cut of the film has since been seen on network television showings and bootlegs, but not all of it. The original opening which gave the film a better sense of dangerous excitement, scenes involving Kal-El and his father were scrapped(Due to the Marlon Brando court case) and the full original ending have all been locked away in London vaults and never before seen by anyone. So on the all in all level, Superman II fails because it is nothing more than two films put together, one a comedy, one an action drama, and this keeps Superman II' from being anything close to what the original has become.  "},{"Title":"Best Of The Superman Series","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"64 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the best of the Superman movies because of the three villains, played by Terrence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran.Those three are so good, particularly Stamp, that they make this easily the most memorable of the four films. The scenes with them on the moon, their first encounter on earth and their climactic fight against Superman in the skies above Metropolis are all outstanding.Once again, Superman goes a little overboard in his romance to Lois Lane (do you believe some reviewers are upset there weren't explicit sex scenes in the film?) Hey, folks, it's just a comic book and it's supposed to be innocent, clean fun. Sorry that turns you off. For the rest of us, this is generally very enjoyable film from start to finish, with no real lulls. "},{"Title":"The Adventure Continues...or so we thought!","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"69 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the rushing into pre-production of Superman, Superman II footage remained in vaults in Pinewood Studios for the time being. This was where the cast and crew were supposed to pick up filming of Superman II in early February of 1979. However a new order was called in by producer Ilya Salkind. A new director to be exact, and that was the dellima of Superman II. In 1977-78, Richard Donner shot a near estimate of 80 % of Superman II simultaneously with Superman, but that is not the point. The point is that his version was a much more subtle version, which followed the characters emotions from the blockbuster first film, and had an exciting plot of Lois and Superman falling in love, villains killing earth beings, and Superman almost having to risk it all for the world...or the woman he loves! But when director Richard Lester came in to do reshoots and shoot all new scenes, he had a different vision in mind. His version was simple. Make the villains look like dumb butts, while Lois and Superman enjoy an unequal relationship where Lois is given the back seat treatment to mediocre looks and a Superman that would rather make the metropolis people laugh than save the world! As that is what so wrongly happens, we shall go over the facts. Superman and Lois are supposed to have the kind of love that EVERY American dreams of having. Donner insured this in never seen love scenes which would have garnered the film an R-rating. Lester's love scenes are cheap and tacky with hilarious dialogue and no wit to back it up. The villains scenes in the Donner version are cruel, ruthless, and downright evil. In Lester's scenes, the villains pronounce names wrong, look at eachother in stupidity, and act like imbeciles. The film had a good premise going for it Superman has just saved the world from nuclear destruction and then the villains arrive and start destruction. Meanwhile, Lois and Superman fall in love. That was still the plot, but the myth and mystique which made the original film such a classic are nowhere to be seen here. Instead we get NASA jerks talking about a curl in space! Lester was really trashing the mythology with this peice of junk. America had thought that the second Superman film would be a film that they would remember. No such luck as one would have guessed. The film is basically two unfinished films sloppily put together in this turkey! Superman II is NOT without interest. In fact, alot of the scenes are fun to watch because of the action sequences. But it is true what others say, that it seems like Lester was trying at a Beatles/Superman film. Clumsy comedy and stupid chaos ensues as the villains blow through metropolis. Another thing that gets on this writer's nerves is when the townspeople are rooting for Superman in the battle sequence! This villains are trying to kill these people and what do they do? They don't run in fear as they should, but root for Superman when he beats the villains up, calling out rediculous dialogue such as C'mon! Get 'em Superman! as if they are present at a high school football match! Too much stupid writing and directing. I will always have respect for Superman II because the whole Superman series has been a part of my better memories in life for a long time. We have yet to see if the true version of Superman will ever be released on DVD, in the form of the Richard Donner cut, as so many fans like to call it. IT is really Ilya Salkinds cut, as he has the contract to the rights of ALL the films(including Supergirl) and their footage. All in all, Superman II fails on a lot of top levels but has the interest for lower levels. Only if Richard Donner's version gets released, will we as an audience and appreciative film viewers get the true experience of Superman II The Adventure Continues! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Superhero Movie Ever Made","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"51 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have a confession to make. I love Superman II. Such innocent, almost niave, filmmaking, it personifies the term family entertainment and is, simply, great fun to watch.Other superheroes have floundered at the box office, and maybe this is to do with lack of affinity between the makers and the source material. Certainly, the Superman films are tongue-in-cheek but never so that they're disrespectful to their content or their audience. The Crow was a good example of the graphic novel set, and the Batman series did well under the underrated Michael Keaton, but floundered under the flat Val Kilmer and increasingly childish set-pieces. The less said about Batman and Robin the better.Of course, Superman had his own Batman and Robin in the guise of Superman VI The Quest For Peace, a movie made four years after the third and with seemingly a fraction of the budget. But Superman II was the series at its' peak. The theme music, a startling Star Wars sound-a-like by John Williams, fades to edited recaps of the previous film. These involve Superman as a baby being sent from the destruction of his home planet and are cleverly spliced together so as to avoid having to pay Marlon Brando any more royalties. (Yet we do see Brando's hand. Surely that's worth half a million?). 20% of this movie was shot alongside the 1978 vehicle and so we get reminded in this sequence of the three Kryptonian villains, about to be accidentally released by Superman in a h-bomb explosion.This was still in the days when films were properly constructed to allow for a genuine build-up, a fully-formed middle and a proper end. Even minor players, such as Perry White (Jackie Cooper) have great lines and characterisation thrusted upon them. This may be just a fun movie, but it is lovingly put together, not thrown together as many films are. All the actors are wonderful, Christopher Reeve is just right as Superman, Margot Kidder is the definitive Lois Lane (despite almost drowning in soft focus for her close-ups) and Gene Hackman is, of course, absolutely hilarious as Lex Luthor. But my favourite player in this sequel is Terence Camp as General Zod. Terence plays Zod exactly the same as he plays Bernadette in The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert and makes great work of the lead villain that must be, in Hollywood circles, always English. Why do you say these things when you know I will kill you for it? he minces to Hackman with great effect.Of course, now twenty years old, this film is less You'll believe a man can fly than You'll believe a man can swing on wires in front of an unconvincing backdrop but this is still wonderful entertainment. Maybe the middle section, with Clark getting cut to ribbons after being thrown through a plate glass window is a little violent, as is the confrontation between Superman and the trio of villains. There's also the nagging feeling that this section is the biggest single example of product placement ever seen on film. Or is it coincidence that a Superman who featured in a comicbook anti-smoking campaign (against Nick O'Teen, no less) is continually thrown into a Malboro van? Even Zod gets to know things look better with Coca-Cola as he is unceremoniously hurled into a neon sign for the corporation.But these are minor gripes, and how anyone can hold them against such a harmless film is beyond me. Superman II isn't Citizen Kane by any means, but I defy you to sit through this movie and not love it. "},{"Title":"Superman's only worthy sequel","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those who are into the comic book movie craze today, this one is one of the best comic-y movies from the beginning of the summer blockbuster heyday. The original Superman is really an excellent film with solid, honest direction by Richard Donner. Donner shot around half of this sequel and his scenes are all excellent (Note Every Gene Hackman scene was shot by Donner - Hackman refused to return to production after Donner was fired).There is still much hope that Donner's footage will re-surface. Most importantly of all there are vital scenes with Marlon Brando returning as Superman's father, Jor-El and giving his life to save his son and save the planet from the evil villains he vanquished from Krypton. It would also be interesting for audiences to see the difference between Donner's scenes and the ones re-shot by Lester.The characters are great. Superman, played by Christopher Reeve, is in solid form and he and Lois are given the opportunity to enhance their relationship from the original story. Jackie Cooper is once again great as Perry White, the chief editor of the Daily Planet.What makes this movie move is the villains. Gene Hackman is funnier and still up to no good and the villains from Krypton are menacing. His dialogue is truly witty and Hackman's timing is perfect. Terence Stamp is the power hungry General Zod, out for revenge against the son of Jor-El. Stamp plays it straight and his scenes directed by Donner show a true megalomaniac. Jack O'Halloran is solid as the hulking Non.Best of all is Sarah Douglas as the cold and evil Ursa in a truly underrated performance. She is the most curious and most interesting of the bunch. She collects badges as trophies for her conquering of earth, wearing them to mock human hierarchy. Ursa seems to be a forerunner of all of the sexy female superwoman today, but her role is not overstated and stale. She is not given gratuitous cleavage shots or anything of the sort. Ursa is a beautiful vamp and a tease, and if anything we wish she would have more screen time. Sarah Douglas constantly gives us hints as to Ursa's wishes, and we can only try to surmise what evil plans she is up to.The music is John Williams' score from the first film, but used differently. Not sure if much of the music is original. Ken Thorne does a good job here of accenting cuts with Williams' original score (Williams too refused to return after Donner was fired.) Some great cues are Superman returning to fight the villains, which is wonderfully heroic; Ursa's shocking appearance to both the astronauts on the moon (a violent scene that uses the darkest motifs from Krypton in the first film); and the whole Metropolis battle in the end, which is well supported by the music.The effects are very good for 1980. I keep reading how people are unhappy and always apologize for the FX in any movie more than a couple of years old. This one is solid and for the film it serves, does well. The only major goof is when Superman delivers the American Flag at the end - The water fountain in front of the White House is clearly a model with frozen bursting water! The scene in the de-powering chamber is not well-handled either.Overall, this is a very entertaining film, and really amazingly considering it is obviously the work of two directors. Of all the comic book movies made from the 60s thru the 90s, this one definitely rates in the top five along with the first Superman, the first two Batmans. Supermans 3 and 4 were really poor. It is too bad that Christopher Reeve did not make more good Superman films. This one has some camp, but it's way too entertaining and it's the only sequel to still have the flavor of the original. And please, let's see a special edition DVD with all of the missing Richard Donner footage!!!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent film from the days when a good story was essential!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"38 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not many films from the 70's have stood the test of time but those that have had one basic fact in common a good story. The fact that this film has a great story as well as some of the best special effects available in the 1970s is perhaps the reason for it's success. If you are reading this thread and have not seen this film you must certainly be from another planet. I will not spoil this film by telling you the plot or anything that happens in the film as others more worthy of my name (filmspoiler) have done. I will only say that this film joins the very few (Terminator 2, Back to the future 2, Final Destination 2) sequels that are as good as, if not better than, there prequels. I only hope that the 2006 remake Superman Returns is 30 years ahead of it's time!!(PS Above comments written by someone old enough to remember the much older Rocket Man TV series) "},{"Title":"Explosively entertaining.*****","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II opens up with a spectacular opening shot of Superman(Christopher Reeve)saving Lois Lane(Margot Kidder)from danger at the Eiffel Tower in Paris and goes on to deliver exciting events at every turn that gives this film plenty of firepower and the viewer alot of heart racing excitement.Superman II continues te events of the man of steel in which he must battle three supervillains(Terence Stamp,Jack O'Halloran and Sarah Douglas)with the same powers he has.These villains take over the world which results in plenty of nonstop excitement that I thought was spectacular in every way.I enjoy fast paced action films and Superman II is one of them.The romance between Superman and Lois Lane is given first class treatment and the score by Ken Thorne is grand and really great.The battle scenes in Metropolis is a perfect example of great special effects. Superman II is a film that entertains to the fullest. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Simply put, Superman II is one of the best action/comic-oriented films of all time. I'd rank it second only to the original Superman The Movie and only X-Men is right up there.The thing about this movie that bugs me is that I grew up watching the ABC expanded version. That's the version my dad taped for me, so for years I thought the expanded version was the only version. It wasn't until the mid-80s when I saw SII on HBO that I realized what the theatrical cut was and how much of the expanded version added to the film.So if you ask me about Superman II expanded edition, I'd definitely rank that as the best comic oriented film all time. Hopefully, Warner Bros. will put together an interesting DVD on the film with all the supplemental footage, including the never-before-seen Marlon Brando segment that was completely removed from the picture. The making of this film was a big time headache. All of Gene Hackman's scenes were filmed by Superman I director Richard Donner, and then he was fired, and Richard Lester was brought in. So it would be really cool and really insightful if a future DVD came out on the making of the film. But I digress.The (theatrical version) film, while a bit aged, is still tremendous fun. Christopher Reeve remains the embodiment of the Man of Steel and remains a case for one example of perfect casting. He makes the whole Clark Kent/Superman thing plausible by making Kent an insecure, bumbling reporter. Terrence Stamp is also wonderfully cast as arch-villain General Zod.The climax in Times Square is still exciting and funny. And the whole relationship between Lois and Clark/Superman is brought to the fore-front.I'd definitely put this film as a supreme candidate for the full DVD red carpet treatment complete because the current DVD lacks big time.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Adventure in the Superman Series","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This Superman movie has got to be the bench mark for future producers of Superman movies. They must be sat down with this film, because it is an absolute classic, and as far as Superman films go it will be hard to top.  Richard Lester, is not very popular with some Superman fans, because he took over on a movie that they feel would have been better had Richard Donner been allowed to complete. But Lester has his admirers, and iam one of them. The first Superman movie tended to go along with boring philosophising, or over sentimental dramatics, these are mainly absent in Superman II,. They are replaced with cut to the action dramatics by Richard Lester who in my opinion saved the movie, or at least made it all the more exciting. I enjoy his sense of comic book adventure, and the final Times Square battle between Superman vs Zod,Non and Ursa is straight out of a comic book and is all Lesters.  The main thing that complements the movie is the towering performance by Christopher Reeve as Clark Kent/Superman. Reeve is hillarious in his Cary Grant-a-like interpretation of Kent and wonderfull as a humanistic Superman. Margot Kidder is fabulous to and it is the acting of theese two that makes the Superman//Lois love triangle work. Terance Stamp as Zod is very creepy, and Sarah Douglas as Ursa very sexy, but the man who very nearly steels the show is Gene Hackman hilarious as Lex Luther.  The special effects are brilliant, because they look glossy, and the Ken Thorne variation of John Williams Superman theme is at its best here. The best aspects though is the action, the aforementioned Times Square battle, and the interaction between the actors.  Well done Richard Lester. A True classic of Superhero cinema. "},{"Title":"If there was a greater sequel...","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" (I just couldn't wait for the director's cut, so anything I say here might soon be outdated.)Superman II, directed in 1980 by Richard Lester, is probably the best sequel of the first wave of superhero movies. Superman II is big, goofy fun, with a sense of action, romance, and humor that wouldn't quite be seen again in the genre until last year's Fantastic Four. Superman II is one of the great sequels, despite its sloppy editing and a controversial back-story worthy of a movie of its own.We know that Superman (1978) director, Richard Donner, was originally supposed to direct the sequel but was fired under highly suspicious and (to this day) unknown circumstances following a dispute with that film's producers, the Salkinds. Supposedly, it began with issues over creative direction. Compounding that, Donner had gone over the originally planned budget for Superman, and the Salkinds had been rushing the poor man to complete the film. Conversely, Marlon Brando (Jor-El in Superman), didn't want to be in the second movie and filed suit over his percentage of that film's earnings. Simultaneously, Donner had also been shooting footage for Superman II and had completed somewhere around 75% of it between 1976-1978 before he was fired. But of course, the lore is well-known to those who pay attention to this film's history, and what I just described were probably the biggest reasons for Donner's removal.Lester was brought in after Donner, scrapped most of Donner's footage, and replaced it with his own material that was filmed between '79-'80 (to the untrained eye, the different footage appears seamless but to those aware of Superman II's history, it'll be a lot like a shooting gallery for continuity errors). Only about 25% of the original scenes Donner filmed are in the movie we know today, with jarring transitions between scenes since nearly three years had passed between the two directors' filming of scenes. This all caused a near-mutinous insurrection on the set, and many of the actors (Gene Hackman, Christopher Reeve - R.I.P., Margot Kidder, and Terence Stamp) were quite vocal about this; Hackman refused to appear in any of Lester's new scenes and it's easy to tell when a body double is being used.Original composer John Williams also walked away from the project following Donner's removal, and was replaced by Ken Thorne, who takes material from Williams's score and merely covers it with his own in much the same way Lester did with Donner. Lastly, cinematographer Robert Paynter gave a comic book look to the film that conflicted with the sparkling, epic cinematography of the late Geoffrey Unsworth. What we get, to paraphrase another viewer, is sloppy seconds, but still an enjoyable and moving experience in its right. Superman II still made a box office killing in 1981, so it couldn't have been that bad (?). (Hopefully, this will all be cured by the new Richard Donner cut that's due out on Nov. 28 later this year, which should include more of Donner's original material, more Hackman footage, Marlon Brando, more violence and story dealing with the three Krypton villains' task on Earth, more scenes with Reeve and Kidder, completed special effects, a new opening and ending - ?, and Lester footage to fill in the gaps.)In Superman II, the Man of Steel, as Clark Kent (Reeve), is getting serious with Lois Lane (Kidder), and considers giving up being Superman. If he were to do this, however, he will become a normal human being, with no way to restore his powers, and no way to stand up to a diner's bullying customer. This romantic infatuation probably could not have come at a worse time because a nuclear explosion in outer space shatters the Phantom Zone, the eternal prison of three outcasts from Superman's home planet Krypton. The blast frees the traitorous head of Krypton's military forces, General Zod (Stamp), the man-hating Ursa (Sarah Douglas) and the brutish Non (Jack O'Halloran), who then make a bee-line for Earth in a bid for world domination. Once on Earth, they discover they have all of Superman's powers, and then some. Meanwhile, Lex Luthor (Hackman) manages to escape from prison (with help from Miss Teschmacher, played by Valerie Perrine), leaving a hapless Otis (Ned Beatty) behind, and sets out on a quest to the North Pole to find the Fortress of Solitude using a device he constructed while incarcerated.What this all climaxes in, is an action-packed (if not somewhat slapstick) special effects bonanza that takes place in the skies over Metropolis, with Superman and the three Krypton villains going head to head. It's really exciting stuff to see Superman grappling with the new experience of fighting three adversaries of his power level.Is Superman II a failure? Yes, because it betrays what was originally laid out by a great director and is probably one of the great, early examples of Hollywood chopping & screwing. Superman II is still highly regarded as a cult classic, and director Sam Raimi makes a few nods with Spider-Man 2 (2004). I can see that DC Comics is making a comeback; if original Superman co-creators Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster could see these films, I bet they'd be proud.P.S. R.I.P. - Marlon Brando10/10 "}{"Title":"A perfect companion piece to the first film.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1978, Richard Donner's Superman made us believe a man could fly. in 1980 the sequel, partly directed by Donner (he was sacked and replaced by Richard Lester, who received the sole directing credit) managed to do it again, and better.Fans of Sam Raimi's Spider-Man movies may find similarities between Superman II and the second Spidey flick this new installment sees our hero (Christopher Reeve) give up his powers (sound familiar?) so that he can spend the rest of his life with the beloved Lois Lane (Margot Kidder), who has accidentally discovered his identity. Unfortunately, his happiness won't last, as the world faces new danger Kryptonian criminal General Zod (Terence Stamp) and his sidekicks (Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran), who were imprisoned in the Phantom Zone at the beginning of the first movie, are suddenly free and decide to conquer Earth. On top of that, they find an ally in Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman), recently escaped from jail. Looks like Supes picked the wrong week to quit his job...Like its predecessor, Superman II works because the filmmakers focus on the contrast between his body and his heart one's indestructible, the other is not, and that's why he's a believable, likable character (no wonder Bryan Singer based his Superman Returns on the first two S-movies). The contrast is made even stronger by the fact that this time he must choose between a normal life and what he vowed to do with his abilities.Those looking for jaw-dropping action shouldn't worry either the scenes where Superman fights his three opponents (with the same powers as he) in the middle of Metropolis are still as awesome as they were 26 years ago, a true joy for the eye.And as usual, the acting is top notch Reeve gives Superman that special mix of strength and vulnerability that make him unique, while the ruthless yet calculating Stamp and the hilarious Hackman form a perfect villain duo.So, wanna see a superhero film with something special? Superman I and II have it all. "},{"Title":"My Favorite '80's Big Budget Blockbuster!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN II is, IMO, one of the best films ever made, and one of the most underrated. I put it in the same category as the STAR WARS or INDIANA JONES films. It had all of the makings of those films - big budget, movie brat director, and based on what was traditionally considered a low genre, in this case, comic books. But SUPERMAN II takes those basic concepts and really runs with them, and as a child, I found it unforgettable.We have ALL asked, what if Lois Lane knew that he was really Superman? In SUPERMAN II, we find out. Whenever we see a superhero movie, we want to see a knock-down, drag out fight, and we get it in the scene when Superman fights all three villains in Metropolis, a scene that runs a good half hour. And it even continues the thematic elements of God in human form as introduced in the first film, when Superman needs his powers back and calls for his Father, practically asking, why hast thou foresaken me? I based every adventure fight / story / whatever I wrote for the rest of my life on the general patterns / pacing / scope of this film, and to an sci-fi / action fan, it's an absolute winner. One of my favorite movies of all time.  "},{"Title":"A spectacular movie","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN II is one of the most exiting movies of all time. The original, as good as it was, didn't exactly heap on the thrills. This sequel makes up for it - and then some. It gets down to business immediately, with supervillains coming to Earth, and builds to unbearably tense climax in Metropolis. Some of the scenes are absolute classics; the  three villains descending silently through space towards Earth is chillingly ominous; the bad guys storming the White House and confrounting the President himself; the brilliant double-bluff ending which will have you pleading, Oh No!! and then cheering Oh Yes!!; the bit when it looks like it's all over, and then newspapers in the street get blown about, the farmiliar theme strikes up and we know who's back; and the best scene of all with a beaten up Clark watching the President on TV. Incredible stuff. Forget the million bullets+ finale of Face/Off, the climactic confrontation in the night time streets of Metropolis is surely the most spectacular showdown in film history, with Superman and the bad guys in a incredible battle of the titans. The action is truly astonishing - they punch each other through ENTIRE skyscrapers, and throw BUSES at each other! Almost everything in their way gets demolished - cars fly through the air and smash into each other, people get blown down the street, it's an amazing, almost orgasmically destructive scene. This film is far better than any of the other films in the series, and easily better than the legion of multi-million dollar blockbusters laden with CGI and non-existent characters. The only thing wrong with it is the poor version of the incredible theme tune, and the Clark and Lois bits are a dull. Apart from that, an absolute classic, and so damn exciting. "},{"Title":"Superman Returns","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's really a shame that those jerks the Salkinds fired Richard Donner after he made the first Superman movie into a smash hit. For one thing, the 2nd one could have and would have been better with Donner still at the helm and, quite possibly, Superman III and Supergirl may not have sucked. The only thing in the movie that Richard Lester really deserves any credit for is directing the 12 minute fight in Metropolis between Superman, General Zod, Non and Ursa. That scene is still fun to watch, even with today's overblown CGI.Well, #2 is the love story entry in the series as Lois Lane discovers that Superman and Clark Kent are the same guy and she lets him know about her infatuation with him. They go steady in his Fortress of Solitude, he gives up his powers so he can live a normal life with her (which the comic book Superman WOULD NEVER DO) then he has to get them restored after he finds out that the villains General Zod, Ursa and Non are raising hell and taking over the planet. Lex Luther is also back for the 2nd go around.People keep complaining that the film doesn't explain how Superman got his powers restored. Well, I have an old copy of an ABC Sunday night showing of Superman II and, mind you I still haven't bought the DVD, the TV showing implied that Superman used the green crystal - the same one that started off his awakening in the first movie and built the Fortress of Solitude - to restore his powers. And according to an interview I read with Richard Donner, the whole idea was that Superman restored his powers by draining all the crystals in his Fortress of Solitude and lost the ability to contact the ghosts of his parents in the process. Another plot hole I can't get over is how Superman ever fell for the Margot Kidder version of Lois Lane - she's an illiterate, chain smoking scatter brain! Gene Hackman still gives the worst performance of his career as Lex Luther, but hey, it's Gene!Legend has it that Hackman refused to do Superman III because he was outraged over the way the Salkinds had treated Richard Donner.Christopher Reeve is still a good Superman though, and here he actually has a real threat in the form of cold blooded Terence Stamp as General Zod, who is helped by Jack O'Halloran's mute hulk Non and Sarah Douglas's misanthropic Ursa (she later played the evil queen in Conan the Destroyer). And as mentioned above, the fight between Superman and Zod's trio is a knock out. Don't miss Christopher Reeve/Superman throwing Terence Stamp/Zod into the giant neon Coke sign! "},{"Title":"The Richard Donner cut is not as good as the original.","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" SUPERMAN IIThis is another classic from my childhood... as it is still good, but for some reason I didn't think it was as good as I remember.I did watch the Richard Donner cut... there are a few scenes that were replaced. If you remember the scene where Lois jumped into the Niagra Falls and Clark had to save her without revealing his identity... that was not in the film. It is a shame because I love that scene. Instead, Lois shoots Clark to prove he is Superman. There are also a few more scenes cut out and replaced with other scenes. It is very interesting to see a different version of the film. But I have great memories of watching this film when I was a kid so I prefer the original version.The action is great, the acting is great and the story is great. I love this film... but it is not as good as the original. But then it is very very rare for a sequel to be better than the original.All of the original cast returned in this film from the first movie. You even see more performance from Marlon Brando. Also, the Richard Donner cut is dedicated to the memory of Christopher Reeve.I love the villains from this film too... you saw them briefly at the beginning of the original movie. General Zod and his sidekicks... 3 people with the same super powers as Superman... and they just happen to arrive to take over the planet when Superman gives up his super powers and becomes human. I will give this film 7 out of 10... but I will give the original version 8 out of 10.Very good and enjoyable, but not as good as the original.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"The Best Superhero Movie of All Time!","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II remains my favorite superhero movie of all time. I was 13 when 1978's Superman The Movie was released and I loved it passionately. As much as I loved the original movie, I loved Superman II even more. I still remember that hot June day in 1981 when I saw a double feature of two brand new movies, Raiders of the Lost Ark and Superman II. That was the best movie day of my young life.Superman II picks up exactly where part one left off. It kicks into maximum overdrive in the opening scenes and never lets up. The film is full of awesome action, great humor, great villains and a sense of fun that so many modern superhero movies are missing. I absolutely love The Dark Knight, Marvel's The Avengers, Iron Man, the X-Men movies, etc., but they lack the fun factor and the heart of Superman II.Christopher Reeve WAS Superman. He proved that after his tragic accident. He kept fighting to the end and never gave up the battle. I truly admired that man. On screen, no one will ever top him. Cavill is very good, Routh was okay, but Reeve WAS Superman.Gene Hackman was terrific as Lex Luthor and Margot Kidder was absolutely believable as Lois Lane. Terence Stamp was amazing as the evil Zod. This movie (along with Superman The Movie, Star Trek The Motion Picture, and Alien) was a constant on my parents' VCR in the early '80s. I'm sure I drove them bonkers by playing it over and over again. I have since seen the Richard Donner cut and I loved that alternate version as well. I prefer the theatrical release because the Lester version seems to be a more complete film. I have seen Superman II hundreds of times and it always makes me feel good. It will remain one of my favorite films for the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"You'll Believe a Man Can Fly-Again! (May Contain Spoilers)","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*Poor`Because most of the work that I try to do has a fairly firm grounding in some form of social reality from which I can take off and go in the other direction. I remember saying, `I don't know how much Lois Lane would pay for her apartment. Or how much a pair of shoes costs in Metropolis. ` That's where I normally write my gags and do my little bits, and I felt I was wrong for it. I've never had a feeling for comic books or comic strips at all.'When Richard Lester took over as director that is what he added to Superman II. There are many scenes in the film that feature social humor like the crowd witnessing the battle between Superman and the three villains as a spectator sport. And then attack the villains when they think they've murdered Superman. Another good example is the ending when Superman returns to the diner and gets revenge for the beating he received when he had lost his powers.What differs Superman II from the original is the love story. That's where Lester was strongest. The love scenes between Lois and Clark were some of the most memorable parts in this film and the performances by Christopher Reeves and Margot Kidder were once again extraordinary. And the extreme close-up of Lois Lane gives her a real beauty and makes you understand why Superman loves her. `We had a scene where Jor-El basically commits suicide, ` says Mankiewicz. `Jor-El touches his son and rejuvenates him and `kills` himself by expelling the last of his energy. That scene was as chilling as anything you'll ever see on the screen. It was shot with Brando and was wonderful, but because they the Salkinds would have had to pay him money, Superman says, `Mother, mother` as opposed to `Father, father, ` which is what he should have done and did do in the script. Brando appeared and said, `Even though this will extinguish what is left of my life_I warned you, I told you....` And he reached out through the void. Clark is unconscious on the ground, and it's essentially God touching the hand of Adam. It's a motif I had done at the beginning when Brando sent Chris to Earth and said, `I send them my only son. ` It was God sending Christ to Earth. Brando was just wonderful.'The first film is legendary because of it's behind the scenes battle between director Richard Donner and the producers. Both films were originally shot simultaneously but because of special effects problems Donner was forced to focus on the first film. Once it was complete go on and finish the second. However, after the dispute Donner was fired and Lester was brought in to finish the project. As a result the film lost a lot of it's epic and fantasy aspect that the first film was full of. This film had the chance to surpass the original but as a result of a lose it didn't. Regardless, the film is still full of excitement and imagination. Still one of the greatest comic book adaptations of all-times.RATING 4 STARSQuotes available from Cinescape.     "},{"Title":"Best Superhero Movie Ever Hands Down","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh how I love thee Superman let me count the ways! This film hands down is the big daddy superhero film of them all. It is the last great Superman film featuring the late great Chris Reeve and the battle in Metropolis in the third act between Superman and the three villains is the kind of movie magic we go to see movies for. You get your moneys worth in terms of fun, a good story, and special effects not overdone but blend well with the action of the story. The script has plenty of great liners especially coming from the three supervillains their leader, Zod, in particular. Terence Stamp truly shines as one bad ass superpowered bad guy. Kneel before Zod! "},{"Title":"A strange and uneven mix of a film that is entertaining if you can forgive the fact that it is a bit messy and shoddy at times","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" His close relationship with Lois Lane as both Clark Kent and Superman is putting strain on our hero; she has feelings for him and he has feelings for her although she only likes one half of his personality (although she doesn't realise this). However one thing Lois can rely on is the Superman is always there to help her. So when she is looking into terrorists with a hydrogen bomb Superman comes to the rescue and throws it into space where it safely explodes. Unknown to him though, the nuclear blast frees the prisoners imprisoned in Krypton and blasted into space for eternity. So while Superman and Lois are making cooing noises at one another, General Zod and his colleagues arrive on Earth with crime on their mind to find that have super powers thanks to the power of the Sun.I'm not sure why this film is such an uneven affair but I assume that the change of directors far into the film's production is the cause of the majority of this film's problems. By this I am referring to the messy delivery the whole film has. On a narrative level we seem to jump around between threads and themes &#150; an effect not helped by the poor continuity across the whole (caused by bits being shot much later than other bits). More than the narrative jumps is the problem with the tone of the film. It veers wildly throughout; one moment being a tragic bit about Superman becoming human, the next a load of funny lines in a comic scene. It has a weird effect on the film as a whole because it did make me feel like I was watching two different movies rammed together into one (which in essence I suppose I was). Despite the mix not really working, individual moments are generally good. The comedy, drama, humanity and action are mostly fun and enjoyable even it is hard to overlook the mess of them all being rammed together.The cast deal with it quite well because most of them are put into boxes for each scene. Reeve has the hardest job because he must cope with comedy, drama and action. Despite me never being a big fan of his, he does well with his individual scenes even if he cannot hold them together into one flow. I've never liked Kidder that much and she isn't that good here even if she does do the job. Stamp is marvellously camp and OTT throughout the film and his performance is enjoyable (albeit maybe not for the reasons he meant it to be). He is support by Willoughby (sexy when I was a child) and O'Halloran (fun and contributes with a good presence and comic touch). Hackman exists in the comedy part of the film and he loves it &#150; producing a performance that genuinely uplifts the film with only a few scenes and effortlessly produces a feeling of fun that such a film needs.Overall then this is not a great film but it is a generally entertaining one. The mishmash of tones and material is jarring but individually they sort of work. The cast helps because the serious bits are carried by the performances but it is hard not to wiggle with pleasure when Stamp and Hackman come onto the screen to liven things up with some silly fun. "},{"Title":"Superman II, A Great Film","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is really one of the best Superhero Sequels of all time. It fits perfectly into place with the original, the opening scenes act as reminders from the first film, showing how the 3 villains were sent away just as Superman had been by his father, and also shows how Superman had gotten a reputation in the first film. The film gives its impact because Lois Lane discovers what is true about Clark Kent. And Clark becomes vulnerable against 3 who are just like him. Christopher Reeve did great in the movie, and Gene Hackman brought back his substantial role also. A good movie for Superman or Superhero movie fans. If you've seen Superman Returns, watch the first 2! It will be put all together, 2 really great movies! "}{"Title":"The Best Of Christopher Reeve's Superman Films","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Cast Christopher Reeves, Margot Kidder, Gene Hackman, Ned Beatty, Jackie Cooper, Sarah Douglas, Jack O'Halloran, Valerie Perrine, E.G. Marshall, Terence Stamp, Music by John Williams, 1980 This, for me, is the most engaging of the Superman films which starred the late Christopher Reeves (died October 10th, 2004). Recently his wife also lost her battle with cancer and died. Reeves is the spitting image of the classic comic book legend Superman, and he lives the role, taking it as seriously as any role he took. He was physically fit, in his prime and able to perform stunts and fights. The story picks up where Superman Part One (1978) left off. Superman is distracted by his love for journalist Loise Lane (Margot Kidder) who eventually discovers that her co-worker in the Daily Sun paper reporter Clark Kent is actually Superman since mysteriously he is never around when Superman saves the day. Archenemy Lex Luthor and a gang of alien terrorists with super powers threaten to dominate the earth and it's up to Superman to save the world. But there is more. He has lost his powers, giving them up for his love of Louise Lane, as he wishes to live as a mortal with her. Can Superman rise to the ocassion and defeat the baddies ? With music by John Williams, who was at his most productive as a film composer in the 70's (Jaws, Star Wars, etc), this film is gorgeous to look at and is thrilling and full of magic and danger. But it really only appeals to the young at heart, fans of Superman or fans of science fiction adventure. This story is moving to me, even more so than Superman I. There is lots to admire in the special effects which were new at the time, in the fine acting (including Gene Hackman as the villainous Luther, Ned Beatty and Jack O'Halloran). Interesting note Chris Reeves was also filming Somewhere In Time with Jane Seymour, a love story, and took the cast to see the premiere of Superman II as it is explained in the DVD bonus features. He was being considered a romantic icon since in both films he falls deeply in love. Check it out, rent it, own it, experience Superman II. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Ever Comic Book Movies of All Time","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" still one of the best comic book movies ever made. only rivaled by the two spiderman movies so far.......as of jan..2006 i like this movie because they decided to have fun with the characters and made the movie like you were reading a comic book out of the silver age....the crowd actually cheered a few times at the movie theater which tells you something.... just watched it again tonite and liked it as much as the first time. so i rate this better than any of the other superman movies, any of the batman ,x-men, hulk daredevil or fantastic four...the next fantastic four might rival this , we will soon see.... the batman 2 movie was pretty good, but this is better.... looking forward to the new superman movie out later this year.....i sure hope supey fights braniac one day "},{"Title":"Review of Superman II","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN showed us the Man of Steel's amazing powers; now audiences wanted to see someone who could challenge him physically. Superman II delivers, but not just one superpowered bad guy, not two, but three. Add to that an escaped Lex Luthor, and the potential enslavement of the planet by the the three Kryptonian criminals from the beginning of the original, and it's DEFINITELY a job for Superman...unfortunately, he's sacrificed his powers to live with Lois Lane.So goes the storyline of this superbly exciting sequel to the 1978 blockbuster, providing all the tension and drama that movie, for all its spectacle, lacked.There's some classic scenes here. The short sequence with the three sinister supervillains silently flying through space towards Earth is incredibly ominous. The scene of a beaten up and powerless Clark Kent watching the President scream for Superman's help when he doesn't even exist anymore is incredibly dramatic and powerful....the ending scene with the double bluff finale is superb  - overall, a fantastic movie, and the best Superhero movie ever. "},{"Title":"Sloppy seconds","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"28 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The story behind SUPERMAN 2 is well known. SUPERMAN THE MOVIE director, Richard Donner, was fired from SUPERMAN 2 after shooting something like 75% of the film. The producers hired Richard Lester and shot many new scenes that were to be combined with some of the scenes Donner directed. The end result is that the film looks like a terrible patchwork of many things and SUPERMAN 2 just feels like a HUGE sloppy production.As an aficionado of movie mistakes and continuity errors, the only thing I can say about SUPERMAN 2 is that it's a feast for my eyes. It's really fascinating to watch. In the Richard Donner scenes, Margot Kidder looks healthy and beautiful. In the Lester scenes, Margot looks positively gaunt and anorexic. The effect of seeing Margot change from unhealthy to healthy and back to unhealthy throughout the movie is jarring. Then there's the slight alterations that were made to the villains costumes from the Donner shots and the new Lester shots. Notice Ursa's costume is more revealing in the Donner scenes than in the Lester directed ones. Also, Terence Stamp looks much thinner in the Lester shots. And the villains also have less white makeup in the Lester directed shots.But even if the jarring effect of watching the Donner and Lester scenes coexist together is enough to make one's head spin, the individually directed scenes of SUPERMAN 2, mainly the Lester ones, can only be described as all round sloppy. For instance, the whole Paris scene. In Metropolis, Perry White tells Clark that Lois Lane is in Paris covering the story of terrorists with a hydrogen bomb, but the scene after that one we see Lois in Paris, talking to the police officer and she's told by the police officer that there's a hydrogen bomb in the Eiffel Tower and Lois acts surprised, like she was just told about it for the first time. I'm sure the scene with Lois in Paris was supposed to appear first and then followed by Perry telling Clark about Lois in Paris. But as it is in the film, the order of the scenes doesn't make any sense.When Superman and Non chase each other over the water, we actually see the wake of the boat filming the footage of the river and cityscape. This shot shouldn't have made it in the final cut. Why did Lester leave it in? It's really bad. There there's the whole battle at the end, which is played strictly for camp. People losing their wigs. Ice cream flying into people's faces. Phone booths falling with people inside. A-ha...not. Note to Richard Lester this is not a Beatles movie.For a film that cost $50 million, everything about SUPERMAN 2 feels cheap.Cheap production values, like the moon set or the NY city street set, the village set, etc. The village set is probably the least convincing movie set ever built for a major movie. Cheap use of stock footage, from the first SUPERMAN movie, such as when Clark and Lois return from the north pole and the car driving through the Rockies is actually the car that's flipped over in SUPERMAN THE MOVIE. Or the use of fly over footage taken from the first movie which was used for the rockets is now used for the villains when they fly towards the village.Cheap special effects, like the dreadful animation when the phantom zone thingy goes through shockwave from the nuclear blast. Zod walking on water and you can clearly see the plank underneath the surface of the water. The helicopter being tossed around by Ursa's kiss. The use of little dolls for Superman or the villains flying all over NY city scape. There are some good FX here and there (my favorite is when Non goes through the buildings) but most of the special effects are *really* bad, even for that time.Sloppy writing. The inconsistent use of superpowers. In SUPERMAN THE MOVIE, Superman could fly super fast and affect time itself. But in SUPERMAN 2, it takes Superman forever to arrive in Paris. The villains (and Superman) have bizarre powers like levitating objects with their eyes or by just pointing their fingers. When Ursa is bitten by the snake, it hurts her. The snake must have fangs made out of steel. Zod easily destroys cars with his laser eyes but it takes him forever to blow up a tanker truck. Non and Ursa throw a bus at Superman, which crushes him like a ton of bricks. But didn't Superman change the direction of the rotation of the earth in SUPERMAN THE MOVIE? What's a bus compared to the gravitational force of a whole planet?Then there's the whole stupid moment in Niagara. Who came up with this stupid script?!?! And some of the dialogue is just painful. And to make things even worse, there are tons of product placement throughout the movie.By reading this, you might think I hate the movie. And to a certain extent, there's something about SUPERMAN 2 I just don't like but I admit that the spirit of the film is goofy. The awe and majesty of SUPERMAN THE MOVIE is replaced by schlocky, stupid fun. Like the producers just didn't care about anything and decided, What the hell. Who cares about all of this. Let's make fun of it all.The one thing I really like in SUPERMAN 2 is URSA. Sarah Douglas is the best thing in the movie. Ursa ROCKS!!!!!!! The highlight of the film is when Ursa flips a manhole cover and throws it mercilessly at Superman. Cool.Anyway, my main problem with SUPERMAN 2, aside from the really stupid script, is that's it's just cheap looking. It's the cheapest looking big budget movie of all time. It cost $50 million back then. That's $200 million today? Where did the money go?!?! "},{"Title":"The sequel doesn't disappoint","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Terrorists have planted an atomic bomb on the Eiffel Tower. Superman arrives in the nick of time and flings it into orbit, where it explodes. The detonation, however, sets free three Kryptonian criminals who have been languishing in the Phantom Zone, these renegades having been put there years ago by Jor-El, the father of Superman. Landing on Earth, the Kryptonians discover that the earth's sun grants them super powers. Immediately, they begin to enslave the planet. To make things worse, mastermind Lex Luthor escapes from prison and vows vengeance on Supes and joins the supervillains. Meanwhile, Daily Planet reporters Lois Lane & Clark Kent are on assignment on Niagara Falls, where Lois comes to suspect Clark of being the Man of Steel. Through a freak accident, Lois finds out she is right. Now, face to face, Lois & Clark own up to their feelings for each other. To be with Lois, Clark decides to relinquish his powers. It's not until afterwards that he becomes aware of the three supervillains from his home planet, but it's too late...With no Superman to protect our planet, it looks grim for Earthkind.This is one of those rare instances where the sequel actually is as good as the first movie. What's even more amazing is that they got it right despite all the behind-the-scenes wrangling and in-fighting that went on between producers Alexander and Ilya Salkind, director Richard Donner and actor Marlon Brando. The Salkinds had early on decided to have Superman I & II shot simultaneously. However, the filming of Superman I proved to be troublesome. Things got worse when Marlon Brando filed suit against the producers for failure to pay up on his profits from Superman I. Then, with about two thirds of Superman II having been filmed, Donner, who had issues with the Salkinds, was fired and replaced with Richard Lester. Yet, somehow, Superman II rises above its makers and succeeds as a worthy sequel and a great movie in its own right.This time, there isn't an opening half hour of foreplay with the overbearing Marlon Brando and scenes of sterile Krypton; we get right into the pertinent storyline the release of General Zod & co. and a powerless Clark Kent in love with Lois Lane. Not as episodic as the first one, II is more consistently plot driven. Reeve and Kidder are again SUPERB in their iconic roles. The scene where Lois finds out Supe's real identity is still one of my favourite cinematic denouements. The supporting cast, with Terence Stamp (Zod), Sarah Douglas (Ursa) and Gene Hackman (Luthor) as standouts, plays it real. The only downside with the acting for me is Jack O'Halloran's Non, who is played too much for laughs.The special effects are even better than in the first Superman. While certainly not up to the standards of today's technology, they still hold up well. Remember, these effects are a quarter of a century old! Special mention goes out to the fantastic and devastating battle royale of super powers between Superman and the Phantom Zone fugitives. Also satisfying is Clark Kent's revenge on a mortal bully at the finale. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel with a couple slip-ups","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Superman (1978) arrived in theaters Christopher Reeve had become one of the biggest names around. With his portrayal of the iconic American hero and all around good guy Clark Kent / Superman, Reeve had solidified that he was in fact the original Superman (even though there were portrayals before him). Two years later fans received a delightful second entry in the life of the man of steel. For this particular installment, there are a number of additions to the original story that was told in 1978. Much of it greatly increases the depth of the main leads but there are also a couple of errors that weren't addressed.Viewers begin the story with the reintroduction of General Zod (Terence Stamp) and his cronies being banished to the phantom zone. Then skip ahead to current time where Superman is doing his usual business of saving people and accidentally releases Zod and his buddies from the phantom zone. However, Kent doesn't know this. Instead, as the Zod crew begin wreaking havoc on Earth, Kent is too busy being caught up on Lois Lane (Margot Kidder). Among all this though, Kent as an individual goes through quite a character arc thanks to the three writers behind the screenplay. One of which worked on two of the Godfather films and the other wrote for Bonnie and Clyde (1967).The best subplot to the writing is the relationship between Clark Kent and Lois Lane. Over time Lois begins realizing the patterns at which Superman appears, making her suspicious of coworker Clark. This happens gradually and finally when it hits, it's very sudden. Perhaps too quickly, but by that point viewers will be too invested into what is going on, that it won't matter. This is a pivotal point because it tests Clark to see how well he can be as himself. Unfortunately, with this rich character development comes flimsy loophole endings that are not expanded upon. There are certain things in movies that shouldn't go assumed. Not every audience member may understand, which would have them looking other places for answers. If something is going to be done for a reason, there should be an explanation behind it. Other than this particular issue, there really isn't much to see that's wrong. Even though the director had changed due to friction, the playout feels very much like the last film. The tone did not change and neither did the characters. Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Jackie Cooper, Gene Hackman all play their roles like they had never left the set. Terence Stamp as Zod and his followers also give likable performances, even for villains. What Stamp does that makes Zod so interesting is how he speaks; it sounds so pompous. Zod's henchman are cool too. Ursa being quite a powerful woman and Non just for being brute muscle every time and any time he's on screen.The practical effects are consistent and continue to be effective. Along with that are the action sequences that increase in damage and uniqueness. Surprisingly even the style of cinematography was changed. Robert Paynter took over. Although it was executed differently, the shots and overall image still look grand and beautiful. Perhaps the most astonishing is that John Williams did not return to compose. Yet, Ken Thorne (who just past away this year) the replacement composer, did a respectable job filling in. Thorne maintained the Superman theme and continued the upbeat feel of the tracks. Well done.The development in its characters is done exceptionally. Sadly the buildup is so good that its justification for various actions feel flimsy, like that of its predecessor's finale. Other than that, it is worthy of a superman sequel from its production design, music special effects and cast. "},{"Title":"Imperfect, but overall solid first sequel","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a film is a blockbuster hit, the makers of the sequel sure have a tough act to follow. Rarely does a sequel equal, let alone surpass it's predecessor, but it's nice if it's at least a good film in it's own right. What makes a sequel's chances of being any good even less likely is when there are major problems during production. This has sometimes resulted in a mess that left fans of the original feeling letdown. The first 'Superman' film was both a major financial and critical success and that added to the popularity of the comics and other previous incarnations of the series, a sequel was inevitable. The problems behind the scenes is the stuff of Hollywood legend, but the big question is Did it ruin what could have been not only a great film, but also a worthy sequel? The answer is up to the individual, but this one feels the result is really very good. It's just not as good as the first.Pros Again the performances are excellent. A good score. Some of the effects have held up well. Much of the humor really works. Lots of beautiful scenery. Moves at a good pace, especially after the first half hour. Some very exciting and well staged set pieces. Zod and his gang make for some really memorable villains. Very sweet romantic subplot. Though not as strong this time, the script is still quite good.Cons Uneven in tone, mainly in the first third. Unfortunately many of the effects have aged horribly. Some inconsistencies. It's great to see Gene Hackman, but his character ends up serving little purpose here.Final thoughts As of this writing, this was my first time watching 'Superman II' in it's entirety and I must say I wish I had seen it sooner. Sure it's not quite on par with it's predecessor, but none the less it is both a strong sequel and film in it's own right. It's a good thing too because too often production problems make a film unwatchable, but not this time. Still, I'd be interested in viewing 'The Richard Donner Cut' sometime.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Superwhipped","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as sequels go, Superman II is very good. Some people say it is even better than the original. I don't know if I would go so far as to say that, but it is definitely slaphappier. It features the three Kryptonian villains who had been convicted of evildoing in the beginning of the first installment and imprisoned in the Phantom Zone, which is interpreted in this translation as a mirror-like trapezoid that indefinitely hurls itself through space. Apparently though, there were some design flaws. For one thing, prisoners do not age while doing time in the Phantom Zone. And the engineers obviously did not anticipate that after floating around for thirty-five years or so the portal would pass by the Earth. And they further did not anticipate that Superman would hurl an elevator rigged with a hydrogen bomb into space at precisely the right moment, shattering the portal. The ensuing storyline reflects a perfect combination of Reagan era and Freudian sensibilities. It's all about the deleterious effects of domineering women on traditional masculinity. For instance, the evil Ursa has no respect for established, successful, virile men. She destroys soldiers, cops, and astronauts and then rips off their badges and medals (a metaphor for penis envy&#151;she steals their status symbols which stand in for their respective manhoods). Also, Lois and Superman hook up. But it renders him completely useless because he is forced to forfeit all his powers in order to put up with her unyielding gender-rebellion. Lois is a successful professional with no intention of settling into feminine domesticity. And she's not the softest looking woman ever to grace the silver screen either. Superman can't embody the traditional male role without a traditional wife. So by being in love with her, he is emasculated. Literally. I especially enjoy the scene when he gets beat up by a redneck in a roadside diner and Lois joins the brawl in a humiliating attempt to rescue him. And in addition to its gender politics, it is hilarious when remembering all that grief his Kryptonian mother expressed in the original Superman about sending her son off to a strange world where he would always feel like an alien outsider. If they could rob him of his socially ostracizing super powers, why didn't they do it to begin with? Why take them away from him in adulthood after his identity is fully formed and he is fully dependent on them? Silly Kryptonians. Anyway, the movie is quite a lot of fun. It straddles a fine line between being a graceful interpretation of an unprecedented comic icon like the first Superman film, and being a Theater of the Absurd-like interpretation as captured by Superman III. Not to be confused with the Theater of the Inane interpretation, which is so masterfully executed in Superman IV. "},{"Title":"A little better than the original.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Better than the original. I loved the original SupermanThe Movie and this sequel. They are really good, but this sequel is a bit more fast-paced than its predecessor. Christopher Reeve is in top shape reprising his role. Margot Kidder adds laughs and romance to our famous hero once again. Richard Lester is an excellent director, putting in a lot of memorable moments in Superman II. From epic battles with three evil Kryptonian prisoners, to tongue-in-cheek laughs and perfect romance between Superman/Clark Kent and Lois Lane. This sequel even has more special-effects than the original, which, although not quite as astounding to today's standards, is still colorful to watch. The kids and adults will definitely love watching this. A bit better than the original. It's imperfect, but then again that's not what we have come to expect. Buy any cut you want. Either Richard Lester's or Richard Donner's (haven't watched this yet). This film is still excellent.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERS!Great follow up to first Superman film, which follows closely to the first movie which has the 3 Krytonian criminals General Zod, Ursa and Non from the first film being accidently freed from the Phantom Zone by a Hydrogen bomb explosion in space.the film has some great fight scene's and the added humor of Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor, excellent acting as always by Christopher Reeve, Terrance Stamp is awesome as Zod and some great quotes such as Luthor to ZodThe next time, the next time? What am I going to do with you people huh? I hold up my end, delivered you the Blue Boy - and what do I hear from my triple threat? Bow, yield, kneel - that kind of stuff closes out of town.Why do you say this to me when you know I will kill you for it?and She lives for now, kill the rest starting with him *looks over towards Luthor*like I said great follow up to the first movie, It wasn't as long as the first movie nor did it have Marlon Brando as Jor-el in it unfortunately but still a great movie none the less.  "}{"Title":"The best Superman ever.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sequel beats them all. It's funny as well as exciting. Superman(Christopher Reeve) falls in love with Lois Lane(Margot Kidder) and trys to defeat three super villians( Terence Stamp ,Jack O'Halloran and Sara Douglas). Gene Hackman is also good as Lex luthor. The special effects are terrific. Not Superman 3 and 4 couldn't be the hit movie this movie was. Christopher Reeve seems to be the best actor to play Superman. "},{"Title":"I Love this Movie!!!","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is just great fun!! The 3 evil villains are so good and funny. I especially like the woman villain and her comments on how superman's weakness is the human's and he cares for these human's, like pets This movie is cheesy I admit but it's great cheese!! And I mean the ending where superman puts the American Flag on top of the White House is so Classic!! After all superman fights for Life, Liberty and the American Way! I recommend this movie to all! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT MOVIE","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How can you not like this film? The movie is one massive entertaining rollercoaster ride from the opening credits to the compelling and sophisticated ending. Reeve is excellent as the dopey-cool superman. The characters are believable, and the three villains are scary as they are meant to be. Only bad thing about this movie is Margot Kidder, she is terrible as Lois Lane. This was the greatest movie i saw as a child, Superman 1 doesnt compare to this film, there is actually a story to get engrossed into. Enjoy this film  "},{"Title":"Everything Good About the Original Is Carried Over and Improved","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II (1980) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Very good sequel has Superman (Christpher Reeve) giving up his powers so that he can be with Lois (Margot Kidder) but once he does this the planet comes under attack by three Kryptonian bad guys. I might be the only person in the world to think so but to me this sequel actually surpasses the original film and I think by a rather large margin. Everything that was good in the original is pretty much carried over to this film where it's done even better. I think the big benefit here over the original is that this sequel doesn't run too long and instead it has a much better pacing to it. However, what really makes the film tick are some incredibly action sequences, which includes a hilarious one at Niagra Falls where Lois plans to test Clark to try and see whether he's really Superman or not. The way this entire scene plays out is incredibly funny but also contains some great action. Humor is something that is also much better this time around and especially during the scene where the three aliens wreck havoc on a small redneck town. This here is a pretty long sequence but the laughs really don't stop at any point. I think another major plus with this sequel is that we're given not only a great villain in Luthor (Gene Hackman) but the aliens are also a lot of fun. The three of them make for a great group to root against but at the same time you really love to hate them. As with the previous film, the performance are all extremely good with Reeve once again leading the way in his dual role as both the superhero and the nerd with glasses. I think it's safe to say that the actor really just had something special in him that allowed him to perfectly fit into both roles. Both Kidder and Hackman are good in their parts as is Jackie Cooper, E.G. Marshall and Ned Beatty in his one but funny scene. The action scenes are all extremely good and the special effects this time out are even better. SUPERMAN II is a rare case where the sequel is actually better than the original. "},{"Title":"Despite The Flaws It Has The Right Mix Of Humour And Action","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's somewhat surprising that this has a relatively low average rating of 6.7 at the IMDb . I say surprising because everyone I know who watched this on home video or caught it on its network television broadcast absolutely loved it . It's a film that mixes action , humour , romance and spectacle very well . It's also a sequel that I believe is better than the original which was overblown with the star cast overwhelming a threadbare story One point that I will concede is that the three plot threads of Lois and Kent , General Zod and his minions coming to Earth ,and Lex Luthor are somewhat jarring and for much of the running time you feel you're channel hopping between three different films . Much of this can be blamed for the production problems that plagued the film . Is it actually true that Hackman left of the production very early and most of his scenes are actually composed of stock footage , body doubles and sound alikes ? Congratulations to the production team if this is true The most important plot thread is of course General Zod and his colleagues taking over Earth and these scenes are the best part of the film . Some of the action scenes may seem a bit dated in comparison to super hero movies nowadays but this shouldn't be seen as much of a criticism . What makes these scenes work is the contrast between the drama and humour which makes for a watchable juxtaposition . Stamp and Hackman know they're starring in a international blockbuster and accordingly let their hair down . Compare this to the recent super hero movies where everything is po faced . Much of the humour here is consciously tongue in cheek and works all the better for it Overall this is a totally unpretentious crowd pleaser that doesn't take itself seriously . It was a production plagued by problems but with the exception of story structure this doesn't really come across on screen and even in 2012 this still remains the best superhero movie for people of a certain age "},{"Title":"A lesson to be learned","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the early 1980s, comic book adaptations were the big thing, chiefly because special effects technology had finally caught up to what was required. The 1978 film's tagline said it all, we did believe Superman could really fly, even if the quality of the footage took a noticeable dive when he did so. And thus, a battle broke out in terms of how to treat the story. In one corner, we had writers and directors who took the mythos of their subjects seriously, exploring the characters in dramatic ways. Then in the other corner, we had the writers and directors who assumed these films were exclusively for children, and therefore did not need to be treated with respect. It is a testament to the stupidity of the human creature that this debate continues to rage in Hollywood after monumental disappointments such as Superman III, Batman & Robin, or the recent pile of droppings they attempted to pass off as a third X-Men film. Put simply, whereas directors like Richard Donner or Bryan Singer will be revered for decades to come for their adaptations, Richard Lester's name is mud among Superman fans.It all began with arguments over creative direction. Warner Brothers and the Salkind estate made bucketloads of money out of the original Superman adaptation, which took the box office by storm. Exactly how they got the idea that they would make even more money by emulating the 1960s Batman television show where possible is beyond me, but get the idea they did. Arguments ensued over how the characters should speak, how the powers of Superman should be represented, and even how the film should be financed. The end result was that Donner was ousted as director and replaced by Richard Lester, who as I have already explained, came from the opposite camp with regard to respect for the source material. Lester's penchant for physical comedy presents a noticeable conflict between various scenes in the film, although it is fortunately not up to the sheer level of annoyance exhibited in the third film. The result is somewhat like putting two films in a bowl, blending, and presenting what comes out.Fortunately, the principal strength of the Superman films to that point had been in the storytelling and casting. Christopher Reeve was a miraculous find in the titular role, presenting a strong and forceful Superman without overwhelming his support cast. I cannot say I appreciate the Clark Kent alter ego to the same extent, but that's a minor aside. An action film's hero is only as good as his antagonist, and we get three great antagonists here. Jack O'Halloran has the toughest assignment as Non, who menaces almost all around him without speaking a singular word. O'Halloran plays the part entirely with body language and gestures, and gives one of the best performances in the film. Sarah Douglas holds up the side brilliantly as Ursa, a ridiculously cruel woman who seems either be totally unaware of the extreme pain she puts her prey through, or totally unmoved by it. Half the time, it is even money as to whether Ursa or Non make the more intimidating support villain.But it is Terence Stamp as General Zod who walks away with the acting prize here. In a contrast to stereotypical comic book villains of the time, he plays Zod as a quiet, reflective man. Not only does it make for a great contrast to the psychopathic woman and caveman-throwback he is seen with at all times, it lets the viewer know that he has more than one dimension. In many a review of a bad film in which one character is made out to be more evil than evil, the proposition that the actor went to the director and tried to make the case that the character does not see themselves as evil has been put forth. Zod takes it a bit further. He knows he is quite evil, and makes no bones about it. He is evil because his contempt for creatures around him that he sees as weak or cowardly removes all limits to his actions. In many ways, he reflects a more clandestine evil in our present world that would probably attempt to cure Superman of his superpowers. Stamp is a true actor's actor, and nowhere is this clearer than in Superman II.The problem is that Lester shows great contempt for his audience. The slapstick gags would have been fine had they been kept in context and given some limits. The real problem is that Lester does not seem to care about preserving the continuity of the film series, or even the laws of the world that Superman inhabits. Nor does he seem to care about the little micro-laws that dictate Superman's reactions to situations. Things like the amnesia kiss (a power from the comic books so rarely used that it was pretty much retired) were not so much the problem as the seeming inability to make the film without plot convenience. Many directors before and since, Peter Jackson and Brett Ratner being good recent examples, have demonstrated that they would jump out of the window before waiting for the paint that has them trapped in the corner to dry. His second personal quote in his IMDb biography is especially hypocritical in light of what he did here. Fortunately, as the likes of Bryan Singer serve to remind us of why we go to see these films in the first place, Lester's is a dying breed.For all these reasons, I gave Richard Lester's version of Superman II a five out of ten. Richard Donner has said that all the good parts of Superman II are his, and it is these parts one should watch it for. "},{"Title":"Surpasses the Original","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" While 1978's Superman launched the superhero movies genre and proved that good movies could be made out of (to be blunt) childish comic book characters, it was it's sequel that set the standard for just how great superhero movies could be. Sam Raimi's wonderful first two Spider-Man films (in particular his second one, a masterpiece) can both be traced back to this, as it focuses on the man behind the blue costume. The film focuses on Superman ultimately being forced to reveal his secret identity to love interest Lois Lane after a series of clues causes her to catch on. As they fall deeper in love, he ultimately decides he wants to be with her, and gives up all of his powers to do, although after an ugly encounter with a man named Rocky at a cafe that makes him uncomfortable with how vulnerable he now is, and the arrival of escaped Kryptonion criminal, the ruthless General Zod, who conquers Earth with the help of his equally dangerous associates Ursa and Non, he is forced reconsider. The plot ultimately resolves itself after Zod's defeat, with Lois becoming depressed at the thought of never being able to be with him or or move on from him, so Clark does the noble thing of wiping her memory of his true identity to spare her the pain. This aspect is very well written and one of the few romance story lines in the superhero genre they've managed to get right.Acting wise, I can't even express how good Reeve is as Clark/Superman. He absolutely nails Clark's awkward facade to a tee, and strikes the perfect line between corny and badass as Superman. I'm still not sure how he manages to pull off this character so well. It's uncanny. Kidder also impresses as Lois, being given a much wider range of scenes and emotions in this, and thus more to do. Gene Hackman also returns as chief antagonist Lex Luthor in a supporting role, and even he is much better in this than the previous one, finally free of his annoying associates and awful dialogue that dragged his character down in the first movie. It's Terrance Stamp who owns the entire thing though, with his scene stealing performance as the diabolical General Zod, completely nailing every line, facial expression and movement for his character. He's so good that he managed to turn a forgettable character from the comics into a cultural icon.This movie had a troubled production, with director Richard Donner being replaced after completing half of the movie due to conflicts with the producers, with credited director Richard Lester finishing the product. Donner's full vision for the film would be released as The Richard Donner cut in 2006, and is also brilliant, but the theatrical version remains just as good and just as well made despite the behind-the-scenes nightmare. In fact, Lester's more comedic version seems to work well here, blending in with the drama seamlessly (with the exception of the terrible slapstick used during the Metropolis battle scene) to to create a highly enjoyable film filled with romance, humour, action and drama and ultimately the best Superman movie of then all. Just a shame Lester then ruined it all with the...Uh....next installment. "},{"Title":"Superman 2 is a great sequel","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unwittingly released from the phantom zone imprisonment, three super- powered Krypton criminals plan to enslave Earth-Just when Clark Kent/Superman decides to show a more romantic side to Lois Lane. Lex Luthor Superman's nemesis also decides to take the side of the 3 villains who all have the same powers as Superman promise nothing but demolition to Earth. Starring Christopher Reeve,Margot Kidder & Gene Hackman in this action packed sequel Superman 2 is a film I recommend if you have read my review for the first film you will see that I rated the first film 9/10 and this one 9/10 if I had to choose between them I would probably pick the firs one but this is a film to see.****/***** Like the first film very good "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel in nearly every department","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II doesn't do a whole lot different from its predecessor, and to be honest, that's what I think I like the most about it. Often we see how far sequels can stray from their original material, sometimes getting cramped by ambition, strangled by not enough, or simply flounder because they just pail in comparison. Richard Donner's 1978 classic Superman was a fine film, nicely acted, very well shot, with great special effects to boot, and felt like it did justice to its title character. What more could you really ask for? Superman II brings much of the same material in terms of dialog, tone, pacing, and action, but has a different approach with its wit and focus. Director Richard Lester and the trio of writers - Mario Puzo, David Newman, and Leslie Newman - choose to make the film funnier, with more humor infused to the script. Just the first scene of the film, set in the offices of the Daily Planet newspaper with the boss talking to Clark Kent (whose role is reprised by the charming and drop-dead gorgeous Christopher Reeve) about how Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) is off in Paris, France covering a hostage situation. The scene is breezy, carefree fun, and evokes everything the Superman franchise has been about thus far.The villains this time around are General Zod (Terence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas), and Non (Jack O'Halloran), all of whom are hellbent on enslaving the earth for personal good and so-on. There plan of action comes right in the same time Clark wants to spend time with Lois, taking their relationship on a more romantic, personal level. Lois still doesn't know Clark is Superman, the notorious caped-figure that flies around and rescues people all over Metropolis, but she has a good idea. She is so certain that she throws herself in the rushing currents of Niagara Falls to see if she'll drown first or will Superman come get her.Humor like this keeps the film afloat. Lester and the writers are sure never to let the plot go too far off in the cynical world of cinematic drudgery, but it also is cautious of how much humor it uses to the point where it doesn't become a laugh riot. If anything, the filmmakers' approach lightens the mood a little bit, while recognizing there needs to be a certain functionality of humor and seriousness to the material to make it effective on a grand-scale.If there's one thing to nit-pick, it's that the plastic qualities of the original film still remain in place. I mentioned in my review of the first film that even though Reeve seems to be clearly trying here, he still comes off as stiff and kind of bland. This could be because the scrupulous character of Superman is inherently pretty bland, and his moralistic nature makes for seldom conflict on the internal level. However, the conflict we get between Clark Kent's lifeless ordinariness and his larger-than-life persona begins to kick in to great effect here. The agony illustrated at least remains interesting and quite believable.Superman II is a fun sequel, to say the least. The change of directors is pleasant and most everything that made the first film a worthy triumph is back here with full force. Even as current superhero films flood the box office almost monthly, with their dark and somewhat brooding nature, it's nice to see a good, wholesome affair that isn't bogged down by dreary repetition because of tone.NOTE I've been researching the production history of Superman II and have discovered there exists a version of the film titled Superman II The Richard Donner Cut, which is Richard Donner's version of the film reconstructed from the ground up. Donner was the original director of the 1978 sequel, until Lester came in and effectively took over the project. I will review the Donner cut in due time.Starring Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Gene Hackman, Terrence Stamp, Sarah Douglas, and Jack O'Halloran. Directed by Richard Lester (and Richard Donner, although uncredited). "},{"Title":"Sturdy sequel which lumps in enough of the crash and bang stuff on top of more substantial content.","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I knew Terrance Stamp was too big an actor to be merely cast off into deep space like that. This is, of course, in reference to the conclusion of the opening segments of Richard Donner's first Superman film from 1978; the first of this franchise which launched the tale of a young boy attaining an anonymous God-like status on a planet many moons away upon being cast off from his own. But recall that it was Stamp's precarious scenario which began that film, a clad-in-black villain named General Zod who was on trial with two others and faced his own expulsion from a planet which exploded shortly thereafter anyway. Judging from the trio's pained reaction having been catapulted off and away, it may very well have been a fate worse than merely hanging around and experiencing the end of the world anyway.The sequence was, in a sense, one giant tease as creatures so evil and seemingly so powerful were introduced so dramatically and then exorcised from the film completely. None of the three from that opening featured again in the film, nor did this shining beacon of elderly wisdom whom seemed the only one matching them, in the Brando character, convicting them &#x96; but Superman II gives them their chance and boy does it have fun in doing it. It's with this, then, that Richard Lester's Superman II strikes us as a release - for the film's visual drama later revolves around what happens when these unsavoury characters garner control of their surroundings and are permitted to wreak havoc. The good and the bad come at once in equal measure in Superman II; a rare sequel which doesn't end up terrible and indeed comes off fairly well in its balancing of what made the first film work as well as trying to venture off upon fresh avenues. II doesn't have the inherent buzz of the first, where there was a freshness to people's introductions, problems and relationships. Nor does it have the dynamism of the first, where an alien outsider that's completely ill-at-ease with another planet's way of life tries to integrate; where the enemy was weaker than the hero, but had an intellectual 'jump' on them and were very funny on top of this anyway.Like Donner's first, Lester's film is too about extra-terrestrials arriving on Earth - but to attack and invade more-so integrate in what is a show of polar opposition to before. To this extent, the film rather crudely plays its hand when, nearer the end, a cry of this 'oughta be good! from that of a pedestrian tees up the several minutes of bashing and fighting as three unstoppable forces face off against an immovable object thus revealing its excitement at event getting these people in the same locale as one another. But the film's inherent imbalance (and therefore charm) arrives when we notice it is often B-movies that feed from this destructive premise involving aliens, and that Superman II is too good to be labelled a B-movie. British born director Lester is no stranger to making films about cultural icons; his films of fifteen years earlier in A Hard Day's Night and Help! brought to the cinema screens the exploits and music of The Beatles. Here, he does well to maintain a lot of the good work Donner teed up in providing spectacle and entertainment on top of involving us in the core romance of the text and generally ticking off the range of different emotions audiences seem to want to feel when they fly through one of these comic book movies joy, fear, hopelessness, laughter, sadness and catharsis.Set in the fictitious city of Metropolis, which Lester makes no attempt to fool you into thinking as he merrily shoots New York iconography, the film begins with Christopher Reeve's Clarke Kent returning to work at The Daily Planet newspaper following a holiday spent by himself reading poetry. Bumping into people and generally struggling with communication on top of coming across as a bit goofy, the only person with whom it appears he can truly bond is Lois Lane (Kidder), who just about finds the time to talk to him. Clarke loves Lois, but she herself states how they will only ever be friends. Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor is back, and we witness him engage in what might be the easiest prison break ever conducted by a person serving life; on the subject of breaking free from one's prison, the aforementioned Terrance Stamp and his three equally powerful, equally vicious cohorts have been released from their intergalactic traversing jail as they happen to pass by our solar system. Later on, the two parties will come to conspire as a unified threat during some genuinely amusing scenes of negotiation.In spite of the promise of action and spectacle, at its core is a romance between Kent and Lane; something which begins as lies and falsities during a Niagara Falls-set job as they work as investigators, before branching out into a procession of epiphanies feeding off exactly that deception and alter-egos coming to the forefront. The romance is the best part of the film &#x96; the entry's peak a strand with a subtle sex-before-marriage ethic that's peppered with ideas and messages about responsibility and sacrifice. In true James Cameron style, where action and spectacle take over once an on/off friendship/relationship has reached its crescendo via a sex scene or a striptease, the banished Kryptonians take over as the chief reason for anybody to do anything at all. This is not a bad film by any means; there is a genuine charm in the way it decides to mutate Kent and Lane's relationship while its scenes involving the invaders are suitably black as they are amusing. Its runtime goes quickly, its backed up by a pumping soundtrack dominated by a rousing theme tune and the whole thing generally comes off as something worthwhile. "}{"Title":"Superman II is such a fun action adventure movie!","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't praise enough how much I love this movie. I wasn't a huge fan of the 1978 Superman movie. So this review, I will have to compare these two films.'Superman II' focuses once more around Clark Kent whose love affair with Louis Lane isn't going too well until she eventually finds out that Clark is Superman and is willing to marry him. In order to marry a mortal, Clark must give up his power and become a mortal. All the while, Clark is unaware that three Kryptonian criminals that were locked up by Jor-El have escaped following an event at the very beginning of the play and plan to make chaos across Earth whilst finding Jor-El's son, Ka'El, Superman! The acting in this movie is better than it was in the original. Christopher Reve was fantastic in the movie and provided some truly hilarious moments. His constant transition between a socially awkward newspaper reporter and the Man of Steel was hilarious and truly drove the film along. The woman playing Lois, I thought did a better job in this one than the first. Terence Stamp was great as Zod.The way Superman II starts with Clark realizing that some terrorists have taken over Paris and are planning to blow up is priceless, where he quotes That's terrible! only for his boss to casually reply, That's why they're called terrorists. From that moment on, I was glued to my seat.Everything to me is superior here than in the original, except one thing. The acting was better, the visuals had slightly improved, the story was far better, the villain was better and the action sequences here actually were quite entertaining, despite being made in 1980. I loved how this movie managed to bring villains from Ka-El's home planet instead of having some criminal mastermind who barely did anything that truly excited or truly gave any suspense. In the first film, Lex Luthor is so lightly focused on and when his plans really come, they are so rushed. Here, the three criminals are given plenty more screen time and are funny, they are dangerous and more like superhero villains.There is so much that happens in this movie over 2 hours, that when it was over, I was disappointed that it wasn't a little longer. Everything in this film was entertaining and more importantly, done well from Lois trying to expose Clark's truly identity, to the criminals taking over Houston, to Clark giving up his power for Lois. There was so much good in this movie. The action was good, much better than any in Superman (1978). The only thing I truly found better in the original was how they did Superman's origin story and how he came to Earth....That, and of course the ever so legendary Marlon Brando's performance of Jor-El.At the time of its release, it was the greatest superhero movie and until Nolan's Batman trilogy came, I think that it truly deserves to be the greatest superhero film. 'Superman II' is truly adventurous, hilarious, exciting and engaging. "},{"Title":"Fun packed and humanistic sequel is worthy alright.","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II stars Gene Hackman, Christopher Reeve, Terence Stamp, Ned Beatty, Sarah Douglas, Margot Kidder, and Jack O'Halloran. It was to be a troubled shoot that saw two directors involved with the project. Richard Donner had completed about three quarters of the film before being taken off the project, where Richard Lester came in to finish the film. Because of the back stage problems there are a host of writers credited on the film and both Robert Paynter & Geoffrey Unsworth were involved with the cinematography. Filmed using the Megasound system the score is a reworking of John Williams original score by Ken Thorne.Something of a miracle in itself that Superman II, in spite of all the behind the scenes shenanigans, is a terrific sequel to the massively successful Superman from 78. Sure there's some minor tonal shifts if you want to focus deeply, but really it comes together nicely to give comic book fans a movie to treasure. This time round sees Superman pitted against three villains who have been released from their prison due to Superman himself detonating a hydrogen bomb in space. The kicker being that the three convicts-General Zod, Ursa, Non-are from his home planet of Krypton and had been imprisoned by Jor-El. And now they are free and hell bent on revenge against the son of Jor-El and the planet that worships him. If that was not enough for Superman to contend with, he also has affairs of the heart to deal with as his love for Lois Lane grows stronger by the day. While a certain Lex Luthor is plotting his escape from prison...Nicely fusing a humanistic heart with exciting set pieces, Superman II is a worthy sequel to the wonderful first film. Enjoy it for it was to go down hill from here. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Sequel","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's certainly campy - even the Donner version has the camp laid on pretty thickly, but Superman II was entertaining at the time it was made and has held up pretty well today. Chris Reeve was a great Superman, and here he has his hands full after being pitched up against three Kryptonian super-villains who have the same powers he has, a Lois Lane growing increasingly suspicious of Clark Kent's sudden disappearances whenever the Man Of Steel shows up and an escaped Lex Luthor out to get even.Having now seen the Donner version twice I think I like parts of both versions - the Eiffel Tower atom bomb sequence never worked for me, though Donners film also has more strained humour between Lex and his cohorts. The ending of the Donner film is also a complete fudge, though the tone is more even and the scenes between Reeve and Marlon Brando are fascinating to watch after all this time. Terence Stamp is a hoot as General Zod, and Sarah Douglas is a great vampy Ursa. When I compare the chemistry between Reeve and Kidder, and the zero interest Brandon Routh-Kate Bosworth relationship in Superman Returns, there's no contest, really. Gene Hackman gets better and funnier dialogue this time out as Luthor - I also much prefer his showing to Kevin Spacey's.The highlight of the film is the action duel between Superman and The Kryptonian renegades. It's exciting, splendid stuff, and it's worthwhile to remember there was no template out there at the time for superhero battles. It also manages to develop the story rather than being just all out action, as Zod comes to realise that Superman cares for the human race and can use this compassion as a weapon.Superman II may not have the epic feel of the first movie but it certainly is a fun entertaining ride, and who can resist Clark Kent's unexpected return to the diner? Certainly not me! "},{"Title":"Reeve stands proudly next to Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2, and Spider-Man 3's Tobey Maguire!","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, I love Christopher Reeve! Superman 2 was far better than Superman The Movie! Acting was top notch! I thought that Terence Stamp as General Zod was amazing! He does the voice of Jor-El on Smallville starring one of my other favorite actor's and a good friend to Christopher Reeve himself, Tom Welling, who plays Clark on Smallville. I liked the new rendition of the Superman March during the opening credits. Margot was all the more hysterical! Chris is the one and only Clark Kent and Superman for me when it comes to movies! Brandon Routh (Superman Returns,) GO AWAY! Tom Welling is wonderful as Clark (and Superman in my book) on T.V. Better than Dean Cain from Lois and ClarkThe New Adventures of Superman. YUCK! Go stand next to Brandon Routh and vomit on his shoes for all I care. Christopher and Gene Hackman (Lex Luthor) are wonderful working together on the sequel. Gene is the funniest Lex Luthor and my first and foremost favorite Lex Luthor. Michael Rosenbaum from Smallville being my second. Where as Superman Returns Kevin Spacey, after he said not to watch Gene Hackman, Dude! Go beat yourself up and leave Gene alone! overall it's a great movie! After you see this, look for Superman 3 and 4. 3 was great, especially since Annette O'Toole who plays Martha Kent on Smallville with Tom Welling, is Lana Lang in Superman 3. Gene Hackman comes back as Lex Luthor in Superman 4The Quest For Peace. He isn't in the third film, sadly. I really didn't care for the fourth film because of the villain, (and I don't mean Lex.) Rock on Reeve, Kidder, and Hackman! "},{"Title":"Loved it as a teenager","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequel to Superman is a rarity--it's better than the first film.Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) finally discovers that Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) is Superman. He loves her but to have sex with her (not said but implied) he must renounce all his powers. He loses them just as three villains from Krypton--General Zod (Terence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas) and Nod (Jack O'Halloran)--escape from their prison and invade Earth...and Superman is powerless to stop them.I loved this in 1981--I must have seen it three times in the theatre. The special effects were (back then) state of the art and I found the action just terrific. Seeing it now over 20 years later I'm seeing difficulties I didn't see before.The special effects are really bad now but kind of amusing; the story ceases to make sense in several spots (it's established in the first film that Superman can't lie--but he has no problem doing it here and what DID happen to the three villains at the end?); the comic book level script and dialogue just got annoying (I was practically gagging at the love scenes between Supes and Lois) and what the hell was Luthor doing in this (not much)? Still I'm recommending it.Reeve is just perfect as Superman--he WAS the hero. He plays Clark Kent a little too whiny but as the Man of Steel he's totally believable. He was able to show off the innocence and kindness of Superman without making it seem silly. Kidder is just great as Lane--she now regrets doing the movie but she's very good here. Hackman (having a whale of a time) spices up his few scenes he has as Lex Luthor. And I really liked Douglas as Ursa--incredibly sexy and evil. Stamp got on my nerves--his overacting was overbearing and O'Halloran (who has NO lines) is just there. Also the sex angle was handled very tastefully--basically Superman can't have sex with Lois--he'd kill her. That's why he has to give away his powers. It's not addressed at all explicitly and the bedroom scene is actually very romantic.Some people complained about the violence in this film. Well. has anybody read a comic book lately? Comic books are violent too and all the violence here is non-bloody and VERY cartoonish. The only misstep is when they kill the three astronauts on the moon--why? And the rousing score pushes the movie right along.I recommend this very much--just turn off your mind, kick back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Reeve delivers more high-flying entertainment","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman is back and in a new comic-book-like adventure, that is enjoyable for both Adults and Children. The effects are a bit dated, but that doesn't make the movie less enjoyable in any way, because, in my opinion, the story makes the movie not the effects.Available on DVD**** out of ***** Stars  "},{"Title":"Those Terrible Terrorist","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" How the mighty have fallen. The original 'Superman II' (an unfortunate title, such as Coke Classic, we're forced to distinguish between the theatrical version and Donner's, uh, vision) was such a downgrade to the 1978 classic. If it weren't for the wonderful performances of Stamp and Douglas, the movie would've been made a mess. I didn't mention in my review of part I, you really have to suspend your disbelief and have a total lack of reality or physics in both movies. Here, any laws are out the window. In fact, they simply give new, never before seen/heard of, powers to both Superman and his three villains. And what took Clark a lifetime to achieve, these three criminals learn in a heartbeat. Sure there's some comedic moments and it's neat (from a kid's POV) to see three bad guys with the same powers as Superman fight the Man of Steel. But the story simply sucks and it shows even more of a human side of the Last Son of Krypton to the point of absolute selfishness. I'm guessing the story picks up immediately after part I's finale, where Superman rescues Lois & all of Paris from a bomb, inadvertently releasing 3 baddies from The Phantom Zone and they quickly get bored with the easy conquer of Planet Houston (I love their (ha-alien) British accent Hoooston) until the meet with Luthor who had easily broke out of prison and found Superman's fortress. All the while, Lois finally wakes up, realizing who Superman really is, and he decides to give up his flying duties for her. We all know she fell in love with the idea of Superman, and not the man. Too many holes, like where did the super-car came from & why so easy to return to the suit. "},{"Title":"Best of the sequels!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the events of Superman The Movie, the man of steel (Christopher Reeves)just saved Lois (Margot Kidder)from terrorists in Paris as he throws out their thermonuclear device that accidentally breaks the three evil Kryptonian criminals named Zod, Ursa and Non (Terrence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Holloren) out of their space prison to enslave the Earth with the help of Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) as only Superman must stop them. But unfortunately for Clark Kent, he wants to give up his super powers so he can be with Lois for she has found out what Clark's secret really is and is now mortal with no power. However, the country is in chaos especially the world which is in mortal danger from the fearsome four but can Clark change back to Superman? Excellent second part of the franchise and proves a second part of a franchise can work like The Godfather 2, Evil Dead 2, Dawn of the Dead (1978), Empire Strikes Back, Spider-Man 2, X2, etc. The acting is top notch, the villains are believable especially the sexy Sarah Douglas as Ursa! Good special effects and E.G Marshall does an appearance as the President.This sequel has everything to please fans of the first movie especially more action then ever! a highly recommended sequel and can't wait for the Richard Donner director's cut version coming out this fall. "},{"Title":"Kneel before Zod!","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The villains make the difference here, and succeed in making this one of the very rare times I can think of when I prefer part 2 over the first film. Terence Stamp clearly relishes his role as the ruthless, yet (mostly) calm and collected General Zod, who, with his two cohorts, were banished from Krypton shortly before its destruction in the early stages of the first film. Freed by shock waves from a blast in deep space, the trio head to Earth to wreak havoc, and gain control of the entire planet. Meanwhile, a love story between Superman and Lois Lane is playing out. A few scenes require a suspension of disbelief, but it's a comic book superhero adventure, and a great one at that, and can be forgiven. "},{"Title":"Kneel Before Perfection","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Due to the complex and troubled production behind Superman II, it seems more likely for it to have been a disaster of a film, yet despite of this I consider Superman II to be the perfect Superman film. While I enjoy the first film, I find Superman II improves on it in so many ways, delivering a more emotionally satisfying film. A rare instance of the perfect combination of cast and crew coming together to create something wonderful. I feel on the whole Richard Lester is a better director than Richard Donner. After seeing Superman II The Richard Donner Cut I thought to myself, thank God Donner was fired from this production. The romance between Lois and Clark is very forced and underdeveloped; there is a lack of humor, and no exaggeration, one of the absolute worst endings I've ever seen.The actors of all the Christopher Reeve era Superman films have such a great dynamic together that even in a movie as poor as Superman IV I can still enjoy their interactions. Especially the scenes in the Daily Planet offices are have such energy to them, and even having a bit of that His Girl Friday feeling to them, with Christopher Reeve having a bit of that Cary Grant to him; plus you know an actor is perfect for a role when I find myself accidentally referring to the actor as Clark Kent and not Christopher Reeve. But if there's anyone who steals the show its Terrance Stamp as General Zod. One of those performances which bring me eternal levels of respect to an actor. Every one of his beautiful, hammed up, menacing lines I could listen to all day. The wonderfully kitsch special effects just get better with age; give me these charmingly fake effects over eye sore CGI any day (ok I'll try and avoid a CGI rant). While the 3rd Rock From the Sun type humor such as Zod and his minions mistaking Earth's name as planet Houston to the visual comedy (Zod walking on water) has some big laughs (as well as that humorous use of product placement during a fight scene for Marlboro Cigarettes and then Coca Cola only a few seconds later amuses me).Many people will say Superman is a boring superhero, what tosh! A guy who makes the world a better place for others who can't enjoy his own life and has to work with the woman he's madly in love with, but can't profess it to her. If that's that tragic then I don't know what is. Speaking of romance, that is perhaps my favourite aspect of Superman II; the romance between Lois and Clark is perfect. I so badly wanted to see these two get together, two down to earth souls who are too perfect for each other. Margot Kidder's voice is so emotive and she has that Margaret Sullavan like quality to her. At the film's most intense romantic, her tearful pleas kill me. "}{"Title":"An Inferior but More Than Worthy Sequel","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Superman was revolutionary and set the bar pretty high. This sequel is nowhere near as good, but it's still great on it's own right and a worthy continuation of the Superman story.The film isn't nearly as well-paced as the first film and the special effects are even more dated. Also, the humor, while not as over-the-top as in the 3rd and 4th films, can occasionally be too cheesy. However, there isn't much else to complain about.Christopher Reeve is still magical in the role of Superman, and Margot Kidder is also great as Lois Lane. I love that this film further explored their relationship.Zod, Ursa, and Non are really fun villains, and their battles with Superman are very exciting and epic. We also get the return of Gene Hackman's spot-on portrayal of Lex Luthor.The legendary music score by John Williams is as invigorating as ever, and the sets are once again great.It doesn't hold a candle to the first film, but it's still a more than worthy follow-up. It's a shame that this was the last Superman film that was any good.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Super Followup!","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman 2 (1980) Dir Richard Lester / Cast Christopher Reeves, Margot Kidder, Gene Hackman, Terrence Stamp, Sarah Douglas Every bit as exciting as the first film. Clark Kent faces even greater challenges with his relationship with reporter Lois Lane and his battle against the scheming Lex Luthor and three super villains. However Kent may not be able to stop them thus leaving him torn between his love for Lane and his being a super hero. Directed by Richard Lester who previously helmed the Beatles masterpiece A Hard Day's Night. Christopher Reeves returns as Superman who questions his destiny. Margot Kidder plays the ever testing Lane who knows that something isn't quite right with Clark. Gene Hackman is superb as Luthor who breaks out of prison and recruits three super villains in belief that Superman has met his match. Terrence Stamp is compelling as the leader of the three super villains who are encased in glass sheet prisons hurled aimlessly through space but upon their escape they wreck havoc upon the earth. They embark upon a grueling battle with Superman in the city streets until Superman realizes that their downfall will not be through brawn. Sarah Douglas plays the sly and feisty female super villain. Electrifying special effects highlight as Clark must decide what is more important, being in love or being the man of steel. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"A sequel that actually improves upon the original.","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the very rare examples of a sequel surpassing the original was the 1980 epic Superman II.Director Richard Lester has mounted an edge-of-your-seat adventure that pretty much begins where the 1978 film left off. The opening credits appear over clips from the first film for anyone who might have missed it or needed a reminder of what happened.The intricate screenplay effortlessly weaves together two basic stories. The first involves three super criminals with super powers from the planet Krypton, who were imprisoned for life at the beginning of the first film by Jo-rel, Superman's father, who escape from their interplanetary prison and vow revenge on Jo-rel by going after his son. The other story, which is the one we had been wishing for at the end of the first film, revolved around Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) FINALLY learning that Superman and Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) are the same person and his reveal that the only way he can actually be with Lois is to give up his Superman identity and his powers, which is exactly what he does, the timing of which is unfortunate as the three super criminals from Krypton are methodically destroying planet earth in their quest to find Superman.This film is so effectively constructed because it captures the spirit of the original film without rehashing or altering what happened in the first film. The story introduces new characters who bring a variety of comedic and dramatic layers to the story, from a redneck sheriff, hilariously portrayed by Clifton James, to Krypton's, General Zod, played with bone-chilling intensity by Terrence Stamp, who actually ends up teaming up with Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) in his quest to find Superman.And despite the expensive production values that are clearly present throughout this film, it is still the endearing and endlessly charming work by Christopher Reeve as Superman and especially the powerless but in love Clark Kent, that makes this film even more fun to watch than the original. "},{"Title":"Super Sequel","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not a patch on the first movie, and I think that it's mainly down to Richard Lester replacing Richard Donner as director. Donner had completed (by his estimation) roughly 75% of the movie in 1977 before being fired and replaced with Richard Lester, who had been an uncredited producer on the first film. However, in order to receive full director's credit, Lester had to shoot up to 51% of the film, which included refilming several sequences originally filmed by Donner. According to statements made by Donner, roughly 25% of the theatrical cut of Superman II contains footage he shot, including all of Gene Hackman's scenes.Lester's approach was totally different to Donner's and he inserted a lot of slap stick humour, which is out of place and we get an awful lot of product placement with Marlboro cigarettes, Coca Cola and KFC all getting a lot of attention.Plot In A Paragraph When she discovers who he is, Superman agrees to give up his powers so that he can be with Lois, unaware that three Kryptonian criminals he inadvertently released are taking over the Earth. Once again the acting is great all round, Terrance Stamp will always be the definitive General Zod, just as Christopher Reeve (again brilliant here) will always be the definitive Clark Kent/Superman. Gene Hackman is again a lot of fun as Lex Luthor. I really enjoyed Jackie Cooper as Perry White here, his first scene with Clark Kent was great.There are some great scenes with the battle in Metropolis and Supermans discussion with his mother about him giving up his powers being stand out scenes.I will end this review by saying this movie also contains the silliest line ever said in a movie They killed Superman!! Let's go get em!! "},{"Title":"part 2 is better then part 1","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great movie. Better the first Superman movie. Superman III is a little better. Superman IV a quest for piece is also better. Superman returns is also better. Man of steel is also better. But still all the Superman movies are good. This is a great movie. See it see it see it see it. Great acting. Great story line. Great special effects. Great movie. See it. It is one of the best action movies. See it see it see it see. Great movie great movie great movie great movie great movie. A lot of action. See all the Superman movies. They are all great movies. More fun the watching a hockey game is spite of what most people in my home country of Canada would say. "},{"Title":"A super sequel!","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christopher Reeve returns in his iconic role as Superman, where this time, he battles three Krypton criminals, General Zod (Terence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas) and Non (Jack O'Halloran), who were inadvertently released from prison on the superhero's planet, and tries to stop them from conquering the world.The characters were memorable and I thought the acting was pretty spot-on. I remembered watching this movie when I was a kid and was in awe to see the mighty Superman fighting three bad guys who also possesses superpowers. I sort of felt intimidated for Superman since he was battling people who matched his stature and strength, and remembered rooting for the superhero left and right. Like the first Superman movie, the special effects were sophisticated and fun to watch. Despite the movie being in 1980, the cinematography and effects look realistic and believable, nothing like some of the wash-out CGI effects we see in the more recent sci-fi/superhero movies. With plenty of action and a solid, dramatic story to boot, this is probably the best of the sequels in the original Superman series.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"As good as you could possibly hope for in a sequel","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman inadvertently lets one of Jor-El's major rivals go, Zardoz when Superman has to save Lois from a life threatening situation. A nuclear explosion commences, and Zardoz is subsequently free from his imprisonment. Meanwhile, not only does Lex Luthor escape from prison, Lois Lane finds out that Clark Kent's other alias is Superman. Superman agrees to give up his powers, so he can marry Lois, but with Lex Luthor joining forces with Zardoz and his cronies, Superman is powerlessThis is almost as good as the original. The story isn't quite as strong as the first one is, but it is a bigger spectacle with bigger action scenes, potent drama, and a poignant love story. The setup to let Zardoz loose is somewhat lazy, but effective nonetheless. I won't carp too much, because it worked, but I would have liked to see a more imaginative scenario play out. It also does what many superhero films tend to do after the first one. it stacks on the insurmountable odds for the superhero to overcome. It works in this movie, since it is done very proficiently. The visuals are a tad dated, and the middle section does become a tad tedious, with too many comedic sequences with Terrance Stamp (Zardoz) watching him abuse his power by destroying things, and causing chaos, became a tad redundant for me. What makes up for that is the riveting love story between Superman & Lois. What could have been a superficial love story is done with panache, and creativity. They take advantage of Superman's abilities, and do a lot of creative stuff with the love storyline. Subsequently, I thought making Superman powerless was a great idea. It made for some excellent drama. Christopher Reeves has more to play with this time around. He had a couple of good emotional scenes. This guy is Superman, and nobody else could have given the part justice like he could. Margot Kidder is even better than she was in the first movie. She had a couple of awkward moments in the first movie, but not in this one. She's much more comfortable, and it shows. Her chemistry with Reeves was on target. Gene Hackman is solid as Lex Luthor. He's not as big of a focus as he was in the first movie, but he still has a substantial role. Terrance Stamp is good for the most part in his stoic role as Zardoz. His act got a bit old in the middle section as I explained, but he played his part well. The annoying Clifton James (Aka, Pepper from a couple of James Bond films) is equally as annoying in this movie. His part was otiose. The finale is one of the most exciting things you'll ever see. The action scenes are often breathtaking, and it never lets up. After a bit of an inconsistent middle section, it ends things with a bang, including an emotional ending. Final Thoughts If it wasn't for the middle section, this would be as good as the original was. That being said, I don't see how you could want anything more out of a sequel. It has almost everything. It is a must see. I loved it. 8.8/10 "},{"Title":"Looks Old, But Still Entertaining!","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" If there is one movie that hasn't aged well, that would be Superman 2. Not to say that it isn't a good movie, the special effects are rather bad especially for an 80's film. In today's day and age, this film has not aged well at all. But that being said, this is still a good superhero flick as well as a good, entertaining sequel. While it's inferior to 1978's Superman, this still provides a good time thanks to a good script, crafty direction, and very good acting.This film, set up after the events of the original film, has Superman losing his powers so he can live as a human with his love, Lois Lane. Meanwhile, the ever-scheming Lex Luthor joins forces with General Zod and his criminal pals to take over Earth and destroy Superman once and for all.The acting is definitely one of the highlights of the film. Christopher Reeve is very good in the lead role and has the right persona to play the alter ego. Gene Hackman is excellent and really funny. Margot Kidder plays a better Lois Lane than in the original film. Terence Stamp plays Zod with his freakish calm but overly powerful demeanor.Overall, this is a really entertaining sequel that actually brings back great memories of the original film. It's strange that a majority of the film was filmed for the original. Also, I noticed that this film is one of the most noticeable product placement films I have seen thanks to the huge ads of Coca-Cola and Marlboro. Despite some outdated special effects and a rather weakish look, this film is still a really good superhero film. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"It works.","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As Superman man movies go, Superman II is a worthy sequel, and definitely at the top of the list. But there's a silliness to this film that's always kept it just a step below the first (for me). The background players (those who aren't Supes, Lois, Luthor, White, or the Kryptonians) are all cartoons, played for comedy the podunk sheriff, the people in the streets of Metropolis, etc. Thank god this never gets nearly as bad as Superman III. Also, how does the red sun chamber work at erasing Superman's powers if he's just going to walk outside in the sunshine again?But the good outweighs the bad, and the movie kicks into high gear halfway in. There's a depth added when Lois discovers Clark's identity, and this is where things get interesting, what with the three bad guys taking over. Also, Terrence Stamp makes for a kickass ruling figure, and he's far and away the best villain in this movie (although Hackman's pretty funny when Luthor's sucking up to the higher authority). Mostly, this is a movie where the action is the best aspect. It's thrilling to see Clark revisit the diner for some righteous justice. And the Would you care to step outside is a badass Reeve moment and terrific way to kick off a rollicking good super fight. Nobody can play this role like Christopher Reeve.7/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first but still pretty fun","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two years after the smash hit Superman revitalized the superhero film industry a sequel was released that brings back almost all of the cast and continues where Superman left off. At the beginning of Superman Jor-El exiles three villainous criminals from Krypton. They are cast out into the Phantom Zone and we don't hear from them again for the rest of the film. Then comes Superman II when the three Kryptonian criminals manage to escape the Phantom Zone and they head for Earth so as to conquer it. Obviously, Superman is the only thing standing in their way, and he is also the only thing that can protect Earth from total domination.After the release of Superman there was incredible fallout between the director and the producers. Once all the debris had settled we were left with the same producers but a new director. Richard Lester had come on board to replace Richard Donner and he branded the Superman franchise with a slightly different style. One that appeals more to a comic book aesthetic more than the grand scale David Lean-esque epic style that Donner created with the first film. Thus, Superman II is a little campier and less magnificent than it's predecessor. There are certain things about it that I liked more than the first film, and some things I like less.Superman had a streak of light hearted humor and playful campiness to it, but Superman II accelerates that to a whole new level. The humor in the sequel almost seems to mock the superhero at times. It's fun and it makes the film entertaining, but it doesn't feel quite right, and it detracts from the overall impact of the film much more than Superman did.My biggest issue with Superman II, however, has to be the continuity and the plot holes that run rampant throughout the film. The film is full of logical fallacies which get on my nerves, and a lot of these you just have to look past because, at the end of the day, it is a Superman film. But what really got me was the logic in the plot at times. One of the major events of the plot is Superman having to give up his powers to be with Lois Lane. His mother tells him he will never be able to get his powers back after he gives them up, yet about twenty minutes after he gives them up and General Zod and company are attacking Metropolis, Superman returns all suited up and ready to fight. It never explains how he got his powers back and I'm just left wondering how something like that slipped through the cracks. It's pretty aggravating, and it made Superman II a slightly less enjoyable experience.But, looking past the gaps in the plot, as a simple superhero action flick Superman II really does succeed. There are some great fights throughout the film and some very excitingly well shot action sequences. The fight between the three Kryptonian villains and Superman in downtown Metropolis has all the Superman action we could ever ask for, and the final showdown in Superman's crystal fortress is awesome as well. Superman II has it's issues that keep it from being as good as it's predecessor, and I also didn't like it as much just out of personal taste. But it's definitely a pretty good film and as a Superman film it most certainly delivers. If you enjoyed the first film at all you shouldn't miss out on Superman II. "}{"Title":"Best of the Superhero Movies","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a review for the original theatrical release of Superman 2, as opposed to the recent Richard Donner cut. I vividly recall leaving the theatre in an adrenaline rush after seeing this film when I was about 16. The tag line for this franchise was You'll believe a man can fly, and I wished more than any other time in my life that I was a superhero. Richard Donner was probably the basis of Jackie Cooper's character of the cranky editor (stolen with no shame in the recent Spiderman series), a fatherly figure with a great sense of humour. It is sad that he was fired from the film, but his fingerprints are all over the finished product, and he still should be proud of his work.This is one of my favourite superhero movies of all time. For my tastes, this film delivers a perfect blend of action, wonder, humour, and romance. There is nothing wrong with Superman 1, and it is perfect as an origin movie. But Superman 2 is driven by the terrific Terrance Stamp as General Zod, already setup in the first film, along with the engaging Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor. The film leaps into a memorable set piece, placing our damsel in distress beneath a hydrogen bomb sitting atop the Eiffel tower. This cleverly ties into our trio of villains as they knock around some astronauts on the moon. Before you know it, you are already 30 minutes into the film as the chemistry between Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder keeps a smile on your face during their visit to Niagra Falls.The script gives Reeve great one-liners, who seems to be a natural at playing a super geek. Although we re-visit the fortress of solitude from the first film, the meaning and the impact of this powerful place are explored to a fascinating degree in this film. Marlon Brando originally was the face seen when a crystal of knowledge was played back, but it is only a minor concession to see the teaching given by Susannah York instead. "},{"Title":"don't watch Richard Donner cut allegedly of superman 2","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" OMG! sup2 joins sup the movie on my all time faves list. Christopher reeve was the perfect mythic hero and everything about the as-released version of this movie was spot on. but the abomination known as the Richard Donner cut is NOT the movie i've loved all these years.Richard lester managed to pretty much destroy the series with sup3ff, but he did a bang up job of finishing this movie.in just about every case where the real release diverges from this one, the changes were significant improvements.i did sort of like the additional Marlon Brando work - but that by itself doesn't reward me sufficiently for the hours invested in watching this heresy.grrr. i'm off to order the REAL superman 2 from netflix. this thing was a massive disappointment. sorry mr. Donner, the salkinds were right about the material. "},{"Title":"A Sequel Better Than The Original","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its Not Just A Sequel Better Than The Original...Its The Best Movie Out Of The Whole Series. Granted I Have Never Seen Superman 3 But To Be Honest I Don't Want To Because I Heared Its Only A Bit Better Than Superman IV.Picking up where Superman The Movie left off, three criminals from the planet Krypton are released from the Phantom Zone by a nuclear explosion in space. They descend upon Earth where they could finally rule. Superman, meanwhile, is in love with Lois Lane, who finds out who he really is. Lex Luthor escapes from prison and is determined to destroy Superman by joining forces with the three criminals.This Had No Huge Plot holes. Obviously The Movie Has Plot holes But None As Big As Turning Back Time. Overall Yes This Movie Is A Kids Movie & I Usually Don't Like Them But This One Is Different. This Film Is Better Than The Other 4 To Me Purely For One Reason...He Has A Goddamn Challenge Lined Up. I Give It 7. "},{"Title":"A film that improves on the original","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This surely remains one of the best superhero movies. Following on from the original film, this sequel is in my opinion an improvement. While the first instalment is certainly a good film, what it ultimately lacked was a good adversary for the Man of Steel to deal with. This situation was rectified here with the introduction of the trio of villains from Superman's home planet. They do appear to present a proper threat to the world and, therefore, give our hero a lot more to sink his teeth into. Not only this but in Superman II the character of Clark Kent is fleshed out a lot more and his relationship with Lois Lane developed considerably. This all adds yet another good dimension to the overall film.The story in a nutshell has three powerful super-villains from the Planet Krypton happen upon the Earth and seek to control it. Meanwhile Superman has relinquished his super-powers in order to become a mortal; such is his love for Lois Lane. He has to wrestle with this once the three villains begin wrecking havoc on North America&#x85;While the first film set the scene, the follow up just seems to have a lot more action and drama. Superman is challenged by interesting foes and gets to do a lot more. Not only does he get to battle the three central villains but there is a good scene earlier in the film where he deals with a terrorist assault on the Eiffel Tower and another good set-piece at Niagara Falls. Christopher Reeve is really perfect in the central role, with excellent support from Margot Kidder, Terence Stamp and Gene Hackman. Superman II is the best film in this series and remains one of the most enjoyable comic-book influenced films. "},{"Title":"Corny but entertaining","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Special Effects have dated but as with Superman, its sequel Superman II remains very entertaining. The fight scenes (specially those on the moon) are corny and unbelievable. Still, its all in good fun. Hackman makes a welcome appearance, his role being strictly limited to comic relief, thanks to the presence of three super villains. Terence Stamp is suitably hammy as General Zod. There's also a very believable romance between Reeves and Kidder. The climactic fight remains involving and is a genuine crowd pleaser, with an added liberal dose of American patriotism.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"A great comic book adventure.","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is an outstanding comic book film that manages to harness all the fun of SupermanThe Movie while keeping the serious undertone started by the first film.The Kryptonian villains are back and the film is much more exciting than the first film for having them around.The production of the film was troubled by the dismissal of Richard Donner but in fairness his replacement Richard Lester managed to finish the film well under the circumstances.Christopher Reeve is once again in great form in the title role and is complemented superbly by Terrence Stamp in the role of the main villain.Gene Hackman provides some laughs while Margot Kidder and Sarah Douglas give feisty watchable performances that lift this film up as a great example of how a comic book movie should look and feel.The music is awesome too thanks to Ken Thornes recreation of John Williams timeless score. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Superman of the Trilogy!!!","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been a die-hard Christopher Reeve & Superman fan since I was 4 yrs. old. I grew up on Super Friends, & the Lex Luthor who when you'd put his custom ring up to Superman's chest, he'd fall over and you'd say in your little childish mind oh no! don't die superman! come back! thar's a pretty good guesstimate. ) This is my favorite of the complete trilogy, because it shows all sides of Superman, both as semi-human (his emotions, how he carries himself, his mannerism,his loyalty to take care of the people of Earth,etc.) I love the main evil Character Zod, and the clutsy mute beast of a Kryptonian. After I did some research of the trilogy and movies Christopher Reeve has been in, I came across Somewhere in Time. This by FAR is my FAVORITE movie next to Superman II to date. If you compare the two films together, it really & truly shows the humble & gentle nature of Chris Reeve, as both a person & actor. For all who've not seen this Installment, GO BUY IT, don't dare rent it. It's a classic treasure-trove to be kept. "},{"Title":"Best of the Original Superman Films","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have never seen the Richard Donner cut of Superman 2. I have only ever seen the Richard Lester version of the film and I will admit there are some things wrong with it, but it is an all around good film. I just wonder how better this movie would have been with Richard Donner's version.Superman 2, along with the original Superman, has a superb line of actors who play in the film. Christopher Reeves is a very good Clark Kent and Superman. He portrays the character beautifully. Margot Kidder still amazes me with how well she handles Lois Lane. She plays the stubborn and devoted journalist perfectly. Gene Hackman is a terrific Lex Luthor. He brings almost a comedic approach to the character while also keeping him a dangerous threat. He sticks true to his villainous and stylish character while adding his own personal traits to the character. Terrence Stamp, in my opinion, steals the show as the villainous General Zod! He is one of three alien life-forms who come to earth to defeat Superman and claim the planet for themselves. Stamp is an extremely serious and evil villain who captivates. He plays the character with an absolute seriousness that seems unrivaled by any other Super-villain portrayed in a film!The story is good! The three villains are wonderful! I absolutely love them! I think the entire love sequences with Lois Lane and Clark Kent are pushed along to fast! Although the story does a good job of introducing the concept of testing Supermans moral beliefs. A story focusing on the decisions of Superman and his responsibilities as a hero! Moments where Clark and Lois are talking seem just stupid though! Like when they are in the hotel, I feel almost sick to my stomach! I do not feel a good connection between them happening in this film. It happens just to fast. The action sequences are great! I absolutely love watching the three alien villains attacking the small town and the fight scenes in Metropolis! Superman 2 is a very good movie! The three alien villains is what make the movie great. Hackman, Kidder, and Reeves shine as well, but I love the villains. Their serious attitudes just establish them as very dangerous threats right from the start of the film. A great super-hero film. "},{"Title":"Spectacular sequel","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Superman saga continues in grand style as The Man of Steel battles three Kryptonian villains who accidentally get freed from The Phantom Zone and plan to rule the earth. They get a good head start as Superman is temporarily out of business as he's romancing Lois Lane.Grand spectacles and plenty of action is the order of the day here in this spectacular sequel that manages to be more entertaining than the first one. That's not to say it's better, the original still has that claim as it's more of an epic film with more story. The romantic angle gets plenty of screen time and is wonderfully handled, giving added weight to Superman as a vulnerable being. Margot Kidder and especially Christopher Reeve excel in their roles. But the action is never far behind and the villain showdown is legendary and for good reason. Great action scenes abound as the battle nearly ruins the city of Metropolis. Considering the production difficulties of this film in the wake of Richard Donner's departure it's amazing how well it flows. There are some annoying plot holes and things left unexplained but that doesn't diminish the film's dynamic entertainment value. Superman II is the only worthy sequel as III and IV were mostly disappointments. Director Richard Lester wisely kept the tone of the film mostly intact after he took over, only sporadically succumbing to slapstick humor. He did a great job at the helm and probably doesn't get enough credit for it. "},{"Title":"So far ,so close to the comic-books!! The best of the 5 parts!!","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After all,it's writing an old fan of the only real Golden Age of the Man of Steel(71-86)the Swan-Anderson-Oskner combination!,some moments reminded this pretty epoque(a french word),and the movie really started in a same french way,Lois Lane(Kidder) climbing up the Eiffel Tower in Paris even the tower of steel was taken by terrorists holding hostages menacing to burst the Light-City(remember LA is the City of Light)but Clark (Reeve)notices when the boss Perry White(a correct Cooper) informed him about the Lois' obsession The PULITZER,taking care about the hard situation Clark in an unforgettable sequence in a dessert alley changes his suit to be Superman flying down to Paris,meanwhile the subversives get loose the hostages,but a bad maneuver puts Lois Lane going down under the elevator of the tower,but Superman rescues her and in a careless action sends the elevator with the nuclear bomb into the sidereal space,setting free the 3 worst enemies of his fatherGeneral Zod,a fascist military,Ursa a reckless woman killer of men and kids in the vanished Kripton,Non-el a muted hulk with no brain only brutal force;Superman blinded and unwarned of the imminent jeopardy goes to the earth without noticing about his lethal mistake.A succession of events in Canada will reveal to Lois Lane the real identity of Superman/Clark Kent,but in the moon the 3 doomed villains slay in a merciless way 3 astronauts(2 American and 1 soviet)discovering their powers leading up to the earth with thirst of domination and to overwhelm innocent people,but Lex Luthor escaping from the jail,goes to the Fortress of Solitude obtaining explanation about the gamma waves of his gadget3 wicked beings will come to the earth,with the same powers of Superman but the same despise of Luthor to the human race,Luthor will run to make contact,Superman romancing with Lois doesn't care about the disaster,and searching his happiness,he exposes to the Chamber of the Red Sun placed in the Fortress to get marry Lois, but the villains arriving to the Earth(Zod challenges Christ walking on the water like the Messiah did it before!)wiped out a small town and even the US Army surrendered to the diabolical threesome.And the 3 zone-rs destroy the White House after to massacre the National Guard,then the alien General face to face with the president proclaims the so known wordsKNEEL BEFORE ZOD!,the President saidOh,God!but the mean alien repliedZOD!(now challenging God!),in a dark highway Lois and a defenseless Clark go to a bar trying to take a break after a lovely night(?) in the Fortress,but one spoiled truck driver tries to hook Lois,and Clark was knocked out tiring to save the honor of his mistreated honey,when the bad trucker left,the bleeding face of Clark and his pain will put him in doubt about his troubled decision, the TV on the shelf of the bar will display the Terms of Submission for the General Zod,the President of the USA,after to read the document sends a messing S.O.SSuperman where are you now?,and Zod exclaims the challenge Come to me Superman,Kneel before Zod,ZOD!!.A repented Clark comes back to the Fortress,and at the White House Lex Luthor pacts with Zod to trap the Son of Jor-El,and a nervous Lois waits in The Planet a miracle,the zone-rs and Luthor come to the building, and when the 3 aliens were to untie a savage slaughter with the journalists,Superman just arrives on time to save the lives of the poor humans,and inviting to the zone-rs to fight in the heights,Zod saysCome to me Son of Jor-El,kneel before Zod!,and the brief battle was won by the zone-rs because they discovered the tender but weak heart of the caped one to care the mankind,and watching the great danger of death exposing the people to the unchained aggression from the zone-rs,Superman felt to cannot stop his foes,and he fled to his fortress,and a disappointed people insulted the hero,Zod decides to take Lois like Superman's handicap,and Luthor guiding them to the Fortress will try to get advantage of the affair,after to menace to kill Lois,Zod decides to make Superman to be his slave,only in 'reward' to not annihilate the human race,but Luthor menaced to be killed by the evil aliens,betrays Superman to put him before the red sun's beams in a big deal with Australia like his bounty. But Superman changed in reverse the effects of the Chamber and the zone-rs were defeated,and Luthor jailed again,this time Clark takes revenge of the 'trucker' and paying to the elder owners the damages,after the patriot act in the White House.I write this on 25th August of 2006,and even all the mistakes and deleted scenes made by Donner;Richard Lester did the best of all the Superman's movies,it could better,maybe with more zone-rs(Jax-Ur,Varox,Kru-el and the real dangerFaora Hul-Ul an expert WOMAN in Klurkor the Kripton's deadliest martial art capable to kill Superman in an easy way,according to the patterns of the comic-books of those times)and maybe not so much humor and fancy romancing as cheesy scenes,but Terence Stamp as the General Zod and Sarah Douglas as Ursa robbed the movie from the same Superman,hard to find so giant performance in another comic-book adaptation,but certain licenses made by the screenwriters and Lester twisted a little bit the fidelity to the hero;nevertheless after to watch the infamous Superman Returns the result isTHIS OLD MOVIE IS SUPERIOR WITH A LOWER BUDGET AND INFERIOR TECHNICAL RESOURCES THAN THE ILL-FATED SEQUEL WRECKED BY BRYAN SINGER AND HIS SMARTLESS TEAM!!! "}{"Title":"One of the best Sequels Ever Made......sadly with some flaws","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II was made back to back with the first film during the years 1977 to 1980. In that time the director Richard Donner was fired by the producers for creative differences and Richard Lester was brought in to mop up. Its a bit unfair then to review this sequel coming from such a troubled production.To be fair, its just as enjoyable as the first film, with the added bonus of the three Kryptonians now escaped from the 'phantom zone' and enslaving Earth with a determination to destroy Superman forever.Terence Stamp and Sarah Douglas are particularly good as General Zod and Ursa, their scenes attacking the astronauts on the moon are quite haunting and nasty. Jack o Halloran is good as the vicious bear like Non who smashes anything in his way. Their intro at the start is different from the beginning of the first film. There is no Brando present sentencing them to their fate, just a sound alike voice-over. This was one snag because Brando wanted more money for footage of himself as Jore-el, and the Salkinds refused to play ball so this hurts the opening of Superman II right away.John William's soundtrack is composed by Ken Thorne. Thorne's composure of the main theme is rather blunt for an epic blockbuster but hes spot on when the villains attack and kill the astronauts on the moon. The music is good when Lois Lane attempts to run up The Eiffel Tower to get a press scoop. The music is really good throughout the film the only flaw is that Williams should have done it himself.But then, money is what Hollywood is all about. It is why the Salkinds even bothered making the first film. Richard Donner is a great director, first and foremost he wanted to make the first and second instalment into two classic films. He succeeded with one and partially did fine with the second. If only he had completed Superman II, if only.Action packed, funny, good characters and some wonderful memorable scenes, Superman II has some flaws but it is the best sequel by far Super Again! 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Superman II delivers the goods","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Supeman II is that rare breed a sequel that, mostly, matches it's predecessor in terms of quality. Some even believe that Superman II is actually superior to Superman, but I tend to disagree, I think Superman has the edge. Nonetheless, Superman II is an excellent sequel to Superman and a great entertainment on it's own terms.Superman II picks up almost immediately after the close of Superman. Terrorists have taken hostages on the Eiffel Tower and Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) is, unsurprisingly, in the thick of it. Enter Superman (Christopher Reeve) to save her and send a bomb the terrorists planted in an elevator into the depths of space. When it detonates, it shatters the Kryptonian prison the Phantom Zone, which contains three criminals from Krypton, General Zod (Terrence Stamp), Nod (Jack O'Halloran) and Ursa (Sarah Douglas). As they are now in range of Earth, they have the same powers as Superman, but not his moral code they are interested not in helping the citizens of Earth, but conquering them.Meanwhile, Clark Kent, Superman's alter ego, is sent with Lois to Niagra Falls to write an expose for the Daily Planet, and after a series of mishaps, Clark finds himself revealing to Lois his secret identity, and the two begin a love affair. Superman consults the image of his mother, Lara (Susanna York) in the Fortress of Solitude's records and uses her counsel to make a decision to give up his powers and live as human so he can love a human. After he makes this fateful decision, the Kryptonian villains begin their rampage of Earth, eventually capturing the White House. With the assistance of Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) who has escaped from prison, they begin seeking out Superman. When Superman learns of this, he returns to the Fortress with the hope of regaining his powers and saving Earth, but he may be too late.Superman II takes many of the developments of Superman to the next level. The principal element that is expanded upon is the romance between Superman and Lois which is a central element of Superman II. The relationship is strong and there is a definite chemistry between Reeve and Kidder as they discover that each loves the other and how much they are willing to give up for the other. The scene where Superman renounces his powers for Lois is powerful and moving. There is genuine depth to this element of the story. There is also a strong sense of drama to Superman's decision to give up his abilities for the woman he loves what is more important, his duty to the world, or the feelings of his heart? Superman II also benefits from the strength of the new villainous trio of Zod, Nod and Ursa. As good as Gene Hackman was in Superman as Lex Luthor, he was just human and therefore not a complete match for the Man of Steel. Here, it is difficult for Superman to face off against his adversaries and know if he is going to come out on top or not. The villains add a greater sense of danger to Superman II.Even with all the good stuff on display, Superman II does have some weaker elements. Superman was directed by Richard Donner who was also contracted to shoot Superman II. The two films were designed to be made back to back, and Donner had shot a lion's share of Superman II's material, but had a falling out with producers and was not asked to complete Superman II. Richard Lester stepped in and finished the film, and it is the documented different material that makes up the disparity of quality in the film. Superman II dips occasionally into some sillier and campier moments, more brazen comedy, not the chuckle inducing self-reference of the first film. There is nothing detrimental here, but a few hints of what would cripple the future sequels.Once again, the actor deliver the film. Without strong performances from Reeve or Kidder, this film would fall flat on it's face, but they deliver magnificently. They make you believe in the relationship and so you believe in the film. Hackman is back in a smaller capacity as Luthor, but he still delivers the goods. Stamp, O'Halloran and Douglas are effective as the new villains, and manage to provide an appropriate amount of menace to the film.On the whole, Superman II is a superior sequel when most of the time filmmakers going for round two manage to completely fumble the ball. Superman II is well worth your time and still stands as a great comic book adaptation. "},{"Title":"Superman II The Lester Edition","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great movie. Yes Richard Donner some of it and Brando was cut from it. However from the piece together footage Richard Lester did a great job. Yes Ken Thorne replaced John Williams too however this movie holds up better than any other superhero movie (except Superman I). This movie has its fans. When the Richard Donner version comes I hope this edition doesn't disappear. Yes there are major loop holes in this movie however Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Jackie Cooper all do a great job! This movie is still lots of fun and holds up on repeated viewing. Can you say the same thing about Batman, Batman Returns, and so on? I like the Paris Footage. I like the Niagra Falls footage. I love this movie. Not a perfect movie but it is an enjoyable movie. I am looking forward to the Richard Donner/Michael Thau re-edit however the 14 year old kid in me this will always be the official edition. "},{"Title":"The best Superman movie!","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is by far one of the best sequels ever.It is an amazing movie with great action,special effects,and a killer story.Christopher Reeves,once again,is amazing as Superman/Clark Kent and it is hard seeing anyone else in this part.Terence Stamp sends shivers down your spine and is awesome as General Zod.The other actors are also amazing as well.The story advances the love story between Lois and Clark/Superman and this helps lead to an interesting problem for Superman,but I wont spoil the story for anyone who hasn't seen it.The action is loads better than that in the first and they bring back the great special effects from the original.Although Richard Donner was let go it didn't effect this one as it did those later in the series.This is the greatest movie in this series and is definitely well worth your time.With better action and more heart than the first,this film is a winner.This is one of Superman's greatest moments!An excellent 10/10!!!! "},{"Title":"Son of Jor-El, Kneel Before Zod!","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film picks up where Superman part one left off. Lex Luthor escapes prison, Lois finds Superman's true identity (whcih she should have known right away), Lois also continues to be ugly and has a frog voice, and best of all - the three Kryptonians break out of the Phantom Zone.Say what you want about the plot, or the acting, or music, or how Richard Donner got shafted by Warner Brothers. None of this matters because this film has General Zod. His quotes and mannerisms are so quotable and awe-inspiring that even the worst film ever made would get an Oscar with his presence. Even Gigli would have gotten the Oscar with Zod, in his best role besides The Limey.Don't ask why he speaks English or how he knows 4 stars means a soldier is a general. We don't ask these questions. We just watch him walk on the water, command people to kneel, and comment about our worship of things that fly. General Zod does not take orders; he gives them! I mean, really, is there a better scene than Zod walking into a diner playing disco music full of hicks with Coors t-shirts on? Nope. Once you've seen this, you'll never reach this level of Superman fetishism again! For the love of Zod, recommended! "},{"Title":"Even better than the original!!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another box office smash hit by Salkind! Reeve is the shining star as Superman in this above-average sequel. Although great in the first installment, his performance far outshines that of the original Superman production. I remember seeing this movie in the theaters with my mom. She was the avid movie- and sci/fi lover in my family and thankfully passed her passions on to me. Before seeing this production, we found a theater which played nothing but retro movies and took in a shared viewing of the original Superman. Black and white and hokey as all get-out. Superman was some bald guy with bad teeth and a beer-gut hanging over his tights. Being forced to view that movie did one sure thing; it made me view Christopher Reeve and the wonderful effects, story and sets in these newer productions with a far greater appreciation.This time, the three who are banished from Krypton in the original, are loose and terrorizing the city of Metropolis while Superman has shelved his cape in exchange for a love interest with Lois Lane. Of course, he has no idea what is happening to his beloved city, and the Daily Planet and when he does get wind of it, he does what a hero has to do.All in all, a very entertaining, enjoyable, lovable (if sometimes unevenly alternating between melancholy and campy) movie.It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Far superior to the original","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Superman II' is a really fun film.  It's better than the original film, or any of the sequels that followed.  It has the most defined storyline.  The three baddies who were banished to space in the first film come to earth to seek revenge on Jor-El's (is that Brando's character's name) son - Superman.  The three actors playing the bad guys are superb. Their performances, mixed with the superior special effects (for its time), make them a frightening bunch.  They're the stars of this film, with Superman merely dealing with the havoc they wreak. "},{"Title":"Better than Original","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this film is much better than SUPERMAN, even though SUPERMAN is not a bad movie. I know the special effects seem a bit hokie now, but I don't care. What I care about is that, for the first time, we see Superman without the protection of his super-human powers. He spent the entire first film doing the right thing, because that's what good guys do. In this film, he gave up all that hero stuff so he could be selfish and have a life for himself. And the result almost enslaved humanity. This film shows Superman in a much more sympathetic light because we can see him struggle for the first time. He got his ass kicked in that diner, and he actually bled. He had to walk back to his Fortress of Solitude, which is in a crappy location if you have to walk. And that's what makes this film better than the original. It's no BATMAN, but that's another story. "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN THE FIRST","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, I must say. This one is better than the first. We actually know the whole story now so it makes the occuring events a whole lot more exciting. One of my favorite films as a kid a well. Especially the prison scenes and the Niagara Falls scenes! Oh, the diner scene is interesting as well. worth your time, though the DVD extras are not good. "},{"Title":"One of the only good sequels to a superhero movie","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember, that as a kid, the first Superman movie, especially the earthquake really bothered me.  Plus it was slow moving in parts, and I was happy to watch the second one, which concentrates on what makes comic books popular.Good guy versus Bad Guy.  Lots of flying around and using super powers.  OKAY, so I have to snicker when Superman pulls syran wrap out of his chest and throws it at the enemy.  But even now at an older age, this is a very enjoyable movie, and one of the few good superhero films.Helped along by what I believe to be a perfect and hilarious portrayal of Lex Luthor by Gene Hackman, and the last five minutes of the fight is the best part.  How could forget Supes holding Zod over his head, with a little smirk. . . Good movie. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece Sequel","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II is an incredible sequel with a twist! The cast from the first film is terrific, and the special effects are brilliant as they were in the first film.Christopher Reeve returns as the Man of Steel/Clark Kent and this time, he stops a terrorist attack in Paris by taking the hydrogen bomb that they were going to use to blow up Paris, and he throws it in space. What Superman is unaware of is that the phantom zone containing the three criminals from Krypton, has broken from the radiation of the bomb. So now the three criminals (Terence Stamp, Jack O'Halloran, Sarah Douglas) are on their way to earth. In the meantime, Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) has just escaped from prison and is working on a new plan. After all the caos, Clark Kent and Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) pose as newly weds at a Niagra Falls Honeymoon Hotel. While there, Lois begins to notice that Clark is not around while Superman is. So now, she knows that he is Superman. She expresses her true feelings for him and he decides that he will take her to the Fortress of Solitude.When the three criminals arrive on earth, they start by taking over a small town in the west, and it is shown that they are invincible from gunfire or even Nuclear Weapons. At the same time, Superman purposely loses his powers for Lois. When that doesn't work out, he decides to get them back from a crystal that his father had put in the starship that he sent Superman to earth on.The trio is then introduced to Lex Luthor at the white house and discover that he knows a lot about Superman. So they all head to Metropolis to kill Superman and take over the city. When the plan is foiled by Superman, it becomes a battle of the Steel because the three have the same powers as Superman.Eventhough Richard Lester (Superman III) recieved all the directing credit for this film, I fell the whole credit deserves to go to Richard Donner.Produced by Alexander & Ilya Salkind, written by Mario Puzo (The Godfather), David and Leslie Newman (Superman I & III) and directed by Richard Donner (Lethal Weapon), Superman II is a masterpiece of a sequel. "},{"Title":"GREAT SEQUEL","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After the awesome Superman, the producers gave us the just as awesome Superman II.(SPOILERS THROUGHOUT THIS REVIEW) This is a really interesting film where three villains from Krypton come to Earth to rule after Superman inadvertently frees them from their space jail.Superman decides to give up his powers to be with Lois Lane and this is an interesting sub plot. However, after he gives up his powers the three villains take over the Earth. Oh no, what will Superman do?Terence Stamp plays the extremely wicked General Zod. Zod is pure evil-he's the type of villain who will kill anyone who even looks at him. Gene Hackman is also back as the opportunistic Lex Luthor who sides with whoever has the upper hand at any one time.It's interesting seeing a powerless Superman particularly in the scene where some thug beats him up in a diner. Then Superman has to hike all over icy land to find a crystal that will return his powers.The battle between the villains and Superman is awesome. Superman is a great hero with very high morals and I like the scene where he flees from the battle and makes himself look like a coward because he doesn't wany any innocent people caught in the crossfire. What a hero?The final battle in Superman's base is awesome and it's great the way he outwits the villains with his brain rather than his strength. Then we're off to the diner again where Superman gives that thug his comeuppance.All in all, a fantastic film. It's rare for a sequel to be as good. It has everything-action and fantastic subplots. And it was followed by two more great movies which I'll review when I can. "},{"Title":"the best of the superman series","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DRichard Lester. Christopher Reeve,Gene Hackman,Margot Kidder,Terence Stamp,Ned Beatty,Jackie CooperCOST(INFLATED)$140m GROSS(INFLATED)$260.7mThe reason this is the best of the series is that it is not melodramatic,(ala Superman) and has the best special effects of that time, what makes these worth watching is the performances from Ned Beatty and of course the always watchable Gene Hackman.****(5) "},{"Title":"Easily the most compelling story of the big screen comic adaptations.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, the composites have a few shaggy moments.  This film does deserve some re-touching and preservation.  Superman doesn't get any better than this one.  Deserves a re-release with technical improvements.  Especially like the longer version shown on television which (as with the original) makes available a few more scenes.  I never understand why videos (which don't have to worry about cramming more showings in at the theater) don't always include extra bits.   "},{"Title":"Just as good, if not better than the original","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie picks up right where the first one left off.  Most of the special effects in this movie will seems dated again, but they are better than the ones from the original.  Christopher Reeve once again shows off his acting ability as he does an even better job of his portrayal as the Man of Steel and the Mild Mannered Clark Kent.  He not only looks bigger in this movie, but he also dominates every scene he is in with incredible poise.  The three villains he is pitted against, are all unique in their own way and they hold their own.  The best out of these three villains is Terence Stamp, General Zod, the leader of three rogue Kryptonians.  He and Reeve are the ones who really treat the movie goers to this film.  Gene Hackman is also back, but his role is even less demanding this time around.  Yet he still provides loads of entertainment with each of his scenes.  The screenplay involves Superman falling for Lois Lane and abandoning his powers while the three rogues from Krypton tear the Earth apart.  The only thing that is confusing about this sub-plot is the fact that Lois Lane is in love with Superman, yet he gives up everything which makes him that!  That is the one hole I can find whenever I watch this movie, other than that it is incredible.  Finally the showdown between Superman and the three rogues in Metropolis is the best scene of the entire movie and probably the best scene out of the whole series.  Up to this point in the movie there has been incredible hype about the final showdown between these four people, and it exceeds everyone's expectation.  This fight just about destroys most of Metropolis. The final scene between Clark and Lois is extremely poignant and very touching to see how these two characters say 'I love you' in their own unique way.  The love story is not excellent in this comic book film, but it also stands up to other ROMANTIC films as well.  By the end of the film, as we see Superman fly off and smile at us before he disappears, we are given this heart warm feeling that somewhere up above us, he is actually looking out for us all. "},{"Title":"A Super Sequel...","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What made Superman II superior to the original Superman film, was the simple fact that Mario Puzo gave us a much better story.While the original Superman took about an hour to get going, Superman II takes off almost immediately from the get-go with a gang of terrorists seizing the Eiffel Tower in Paris. And of course, Lois Lane is right in the middle of it and winds up in trouble until a certain superhero comes to the rescue .There are really two things going on here the supervillians from Krypton, led by General Zod (Terrance Stamp) have escaped from The Phantom Zone (a prision in space) and go to Earth to wreak havoc. Also, we find Superman falling in love with Lois Lane.Returning, but in a smaller role, is Gene Hackman as our favorite villain, Lex Luger, who aids General Zod and company in seeking out Superman. As you remember from the first film, Superman's father, Jor-El, imprisoned General Zod and the other villains in The Phantom Zone after they had committed crimes against the people of the planet Krypton.There's a lot more action in this one than the original. This, plus the fact that the story is a lot better, makes Superman II a film not to miss! Grade A "},{"Title":"A mess - but it's almost saved by Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran as the three super-powered Kryptonian villains","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite the seemingly neverending stream of comic book adaptation that we're getting nowadays, Richard Donner's 1978 adaptation of Superman remains the high point of the genre. Unfortunately, the sequels stumbled terribly. Donner got into some big arguments with the studio and ended up quitting. He was replaced by Richard Lester, who was forced to cobble together a final film using Donner's footage of Gene Hackman, who wouldn't come back to reshoot. Superman II is a pretty big mess. And the script is pretty lousy in general, so even if it weren't badly edited with a goofy Gene Hackman stand-in in several scenes, it wouldn't be very good. Margot Kidder's Lois Lane has become quite annoying in the sequel, somehow seeming dumber than she was in the first one even when seeing through Clark Kent's costume (when he loses his glasses, of course). Gene Hackman, when he is in the film, feels superfluous. Lex Luthor never makes much sense in the film, and it probably would have been better if they just left him in jail, as they do with Ned Beatty (as Hackman escapes via hot air balloon - for Christ's sake). Valerie Perrine, playing Luthor's girlfriend, simply vanishes from the film without explanation. The reason Lex Luthor feels superfluous is because his position as villain is usurped by far more powerful villains, three Kryptonian criminals who are accidentally released from their prison by Superman. Fortunately, these three villains, played by Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran, are awesome. They raise the quality of the movie by a huge amount, and whenever the film is concentrating on them, it's quite entertaining. There's some hilarious fish-out-of-water stuff, and they really are intimidating villains. I haven't yet mentioned Christopher Reeve. Well, he's fine. Superman/Clark Kent remains mostly unchanged from the first film. He was a delight there, and he's fun here, too. The film has a ridiculous amount of product placement, most disgustingly Marlboro cigarettes, whose logo appears all over the place in the film (one of the big action sequences of the final part of the film is centered around a Marlboro truck). The vast majority of the audience for this film are children and teenagers. Even for 1980, that's low. The producers who accepted that money, and, honestly Lester (or Donner, if those were his scenes), should be ashamed of themselves. My favorite product placement, though, is a box of Kentucky Fried Chicken on someone's dashboard - seriously, how much of a pig does one have to be to eat fried chicken while they're driving? "},{"Title":"Superman 2 Donner's Cut","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a child Superman 2 was always the fun film of the pair, of course back then one wasn't aware of the fact that films had crews let alone producers and directors. The biggest mistake the Salkind's ever made was dropping the crew of the first movie in order to rush a sequel patched together with both Donner's and Lester's material to save a few 'bucks'.Thanks to fan's desires and the restoration of the many tons of film reels eventually found in European vaults, Warner's finally allowed Donner to re cut Superman 2 as best as possible into his definitive or even 'intended' cut ! The result is something very special indeed. A direct continuation of the story as set up in Superman the movie with virtually no flaws. As a viewer you can even forgive the screen-test footage used for the Clark/Lois scene in which she produces the pistol to dupe Clark into admitting he is Supermen ! With the advantage of modern day post production editing and compositing, Donner and his restoration team were able to re-composite many of the original 'Lester' effects and in many cases used completely different 'takes' in order to maintain the narrative as it was intended. The return of Brando to the fortress of solitude is one such example of the beautiful work done by these classic film makers.Donner's restored cut of Superman 2 is by far a superior movie to the Salkind's theatrical release and pretty much eliminates the need for the second rate version to even exist.God Bless Richard Donner and Tom Mankiewicz "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel, with a busy plot and enthusiastic performances.","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Superman movie took quite a while to get going, but Superman II dives straight into the action. Also, where part one had a degree of seriousness, this sequel plants its tongue very much in its cheek. Many of the original cast members are back, which helps to bring a sense of continuity to the film, but most crucially Superman II brings back the three leather-clad villains from Krypton played by Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran (you may remember from the original film that they were exiled by Superman's father, Jor-El).In Paris, a gang of terrorists seize the Eiffel Tower and threaten to detonate a nuclear bomb. Ace reporter Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) sneaks into the tower hoping for a major news scoop, but one of the terrorists accidentally &#150; and irreversibly &#150; sets the bomb's timer ticking. Just in the nick of time, Superman (Christopher Reeve) flies in to save the day. With seconds remaining he carries the nuclear bomb into space, where it explodes harmlessly outside the Earth's atmosphere. The explosion is not quite as harmless as Superman thinks, though&#133;. for at that very moment, a glass mirror drifts by, imprisoned in which are three super-villains from Superman's home planet of Krypton. Zod (Terence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas) and Non (Jack O'Halloran) have been floating around in space since Superman's father, Jor-El, banished them from Krypton years before! Meanwhile, back on earth Superman's old adversary Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) escapes from jail and sets off in search of information about the Man Of Steel so that he might find a way to defeat him. Luthor discovers Superman's Arctic ice palace, where all the teachings and background history about Superman are stored. Soon, Zod, Ursa and Non arrive on Earth and use their super-powers to wreak havoc and destruction on a grand scale. Luthor teams up with them, and offers to tell them what he knows about Superman and his ancestry. And Superman's problems don't end there&#133; for his girl-friend Lois begins to slowly figure out that his alter ego is the nerdy news reporter Clark Kent &#150; with whom she works!!! Superman II is certainly a busy film, with plots and subplots galore, but thanks to skillful story-telling it never becomes cluttered or confusing. Reeve is excellent once again as Superman/Clark Kent. He is especially good during a sequence where he confesses everything to Lois Lane and relinquishes his super-powers in order to be with her. Hackman seems to be having great fun as Luthor &#150; in one hilarious scene, he bargains with the trio of Krypton villains, promising them they can rule the whole world as long as they give him Australia for his contribution towards Superman's downfall!! The special effects are well done for a 1980 film, with certain improvements made since the first Superman film (which was released two years earlier). During the big street battle between Superman and his three super-human opponents, the destruction of buildings, vehicles and roads is convincingly staged. And the flying sequences, while still not totally perfect, look a little more believable than they did in the earlier film. Superman II might well be 2-hours plus of juvenile, comic-strip shenanigans, but it's good fun! "},{"Title":"A truly great sequel and movie!","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" With Superman Returns opening now, I wanted to give my thoughts on this masterpiece. We were going to see it in a theater 25 years ago this month (July, 1981), but went to see The Cannonball Run instead, but I then rented it out and watched it a number of times on our VCR in 1983 and 1984, and then taped it off ABC in mid 1984 (and in fact thought the edited for TV version was even better than the VHS one). I watched the taped version of it a lot after that, and it became one of my ten favorite movies, and is now #10 for me. The relationship between Superman and Lois Lane is very good, but the heart of it is the three villains escaping and reaching Earth, then taking it over, Superman losing and regaining his powers, and the battle they have in Metropolis, and finally at the Fortress of Solitude. And the role Lex Luther plays in it is very interesting and a perfect fit, as their agent. I thought the screenplay was the best of any movie I'd ever seen, and the direction was flawless (in spite of the fact that two directors really did it-I didn't even know that until reading it on here, but you sure can't tell). Its adventure and action are great and move right along, as does its drama, and they inter-cut perfectly. The best sequel I have ever seen, a big improvement over the original, and a truly great movie. "}{"Title":"low budget old Mexican movies like, and I'm Mexican","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I agree totally with Bryce David, the second part of SUPERMAN is sloppy and hilarious....and cheap...SPOILER WARNING **************************** In the scene where the villains enter the office at the planet asking for superman one of the villains get angry and crack a desk slamming his hand over it, but instead of breaking in the direction of the hitting it splits out revealing the white inside. meaning that the desk was made of some sort of foam.. (the kind of thermal)!!!! SPOILER ENDS *********************************please, i've only seen this in some low budget old Mexican movies!!!sorry for my English "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman has fallen in love with Lois Lane, and has given up his super powers to be with her. But Lex Luthor is back and this time he has the help of 3 Evil Super Villains from Krypton, who were imprisoned by Supermans Father and are out for revenge.Equally as good as the first movie, this probably has the edge in terms of Action, and the Story is Solid too, i love the fact that superman shows he can reap revenge at the end.For everyone who enjoyed the first film, this is a must see Movie.8/10 Superman 3 is just about OK, but trust me and avoid the 4th film like the plague. It's not even worth the time it's taken me to warn you how bad it is. "},{"Title":"Very easily the best film in the series","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II is my favorite film in the series because it's the most action packed of them all and it's so very exciting from start to finish.  The story was well written enough to hold your interest throughout the film and so very well acted by an all around great cast.  In my book, superhero films don't come any better than this. "},{"Title":"It's a bird. It's plain. It's not super, man.","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" KNEEL BEFORE ZOD!Could that possibly be the cheesiest line in cinematic history? Yes. Yes, it could; most certainly aided by the level of fruitage employed by Terence Stamp as the titular General Zod, resplendent in black, pseudo-leather, thigh-high disco boots and heavier eyeliner than Heidi Fleiss.Director Richard Donner, filmed *Superman* (1978) and *Superman II* simultaneously for expediency. Creative differences between producers Ilya and Alexander Salkind and Donner caused Donner to jump ship before finishing *II*, leaving inferior director Richard Lester to salvage the shreds of two movies' worth of footage into a cogent sequel. Consequently, *Superman II* is two movies mashed together to make HALF a movie. Badly scripted (by too many cooks &#150; Mario Puzo, David Newman, Leslie Newman, Tom Mankiewicz), badly acted (by *Superman*'s principal cast Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Valerie Perrine, Marc McClure, Gene Hackman &#150; well, Hackman's good in anything, but his scenes in *II* were shot with Donner, and he refused to do any more scenes for *II*, which resulted in stand-ins finishing his job from behind), badly directed (Lester's forte was comedy), badly edited (by John Victor-Smith, with amateurish looping and unsalvageable scenes that had to be included because nothing else was shot), badly scored (by Ken Thorne, trying to augment the great John Williams' music, but churning out a bombastic hash instead); were it not for Superman himself &#150; that blue-clad icon with the red towel tied 'round his neck burned into our neo-cortexes since birth &#150; this movie would be as unbearably ludicrous as E.G. Marshal's wig. Superman hurls a nuclear bomb into space, which is so powerful it releases three Kryptonian super-villains from the *previous* Superman movie - Zod (Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas, as some kind of sadomasochist dyke) and Non (Jack O'Halloran, as a big dumb galoot) &#150; who, all possessing the same powers as Superman, decide to conquer Earth just as Superman decides to conquer Lois Lane by inexplicably abdicating his powers to show his love for her. Smart move, puss.Did Kal-El fail to consider that trailer-park Lois fell in lust with a SUPER man and that the loss of his powers would translate to a 9-to-fiver brain-fry existence, coming home to find Lois with a mud pack on her face watching Jerry Springer, ignoring the screaming kid? And having an affair with Green Lantern. After all, that's what she fell in love with &#150; super powers. In brightest day, in blackest night / No evil shall escape my sight&#133; Whatever you say, Greenie, you had me at Let's fly to Paris for lunch&#133;Kal-El's disembodied mother (Susannah York &#150; because Brando wouldn't) warns him that there will be Far Less Pussy once he takes the Irreversible Step in becoming human; nonetheless, Superman enters an anti-super chamber, gets irradiated with brothel-red lights and leaves the chamber in chic John Holmes threads and a really bad hairstyle. Cue 70's porn music.Meanwhile, General Zod is camping it up in Midwest Podunk with his dyke and galoot, orating cheese in High English vernacular, then kicking the badass American army in the groin and storming the White House to make the President (E.G. Marshal's crooked wig) kneel before him.The unthinking script has Ursa mock a helicopter, Look! They need machines to fly! (well, so did you on Krypton, honey) and pick up a snake that bites and hurts her &#150; even though she is a veritable woman of steel. The script continues to unthink&#133; as Clark, driving a hire car back from the North Pole with Lois, gets his shiny new human ass whipped by a trucker and, to add insult to his injuries, also learns of the three super-villains who are stealing his thunder-cheese. (As a further insult, the trucker was probably Canadian.) Fearing it just might have been a mistake to go *homo sapien* (what gave it away &#150; the internal bleeding?), he hikes back to the Pole to get his supermojo back (I guess three super-villains taking over the world wasn't a big enough emergency for Lois to give him the HIRE CAR - already treating him like a nut-less puss).And &#150; like Final Notices, Final Destinations, Drop-Dead Deadlines, etc. - we find that the Irreversible anti-super effect wasn't that Irreversible after all, as Superman's blue-groined hard-body is soon streaking through Metropolis skies to tangle with the three super-villains with stunningly mediocre special effects.It is a real pity that the *Superman* franchise is not better than it is, because there is something so inspiring and awesome about John Williams' soundtrack, truly capturing the essence of thunderous power, a majestic, sweeping paean of an otherworldly being who can bend the world at will. We vicariously thrill to the possibilities of being a Superman, or of loving a Superman. It's the lottery one-hundredfold.Ironic that General Zod mincing, KNEEL BEFORE ZOD! was part of the reason the franchise was brought to its knees. "},{"Title":"My Second Favorite Movie Ever","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS Superman II was an excellent movie, with almost as much magic as the first one. This sequel focused more on romance than Superman I. The action scenes involved hand to hand combat, unlike Superman I. Christopher Reeve returned as the Man of Steel. Marlon Brando, due to legal problems, didn't appear in Superman II nor any of the other sequels. Gene Hackman returned as Lex Luthor, just as evil and manipulative as before. The plot is pretty simple. 3 villains who were banished to the Phantom Zone in the first movie were freed, when Superman hurled a hydrogen bomb into space. The villains made their way to Earth, and slowly discovered their growing powers. Meanwhile, Clark and Lois were assigned to pose as a newly-wed couple, to find out if a Niagra Falls hotel cheated it's customers. Lois started to piece Clark and Superman together, and eventually discovered his identity. The 3 villains, after hearing an astronaut calling for Houston, assumed that Earth was called Houston. The traveled to a small town called Houston (not in Texas), which they eventually burned down to ashes. They made themselves known, and declared that if the rulers of the world didn't give all authority of the world to General Zod, they would destroy cities, and kill people, until they changed their minds. Later, Superman brings Lois to the Fortress of Solitude. He tells her about his story, and how he discovered who he was, and what he had to do. He later gives up his powers for Lois, so that he can marry her. General Zod, Ursa, and Non take over the White House. They force the President to kneel towards them. The powerless Clark and Lois later go to a nearby diner. Clark is beaten up by a bully named Rocky. As Lois wipes the blood off of his face, the TV is turned on. They discover that the President, and all of the world leaders, have given all authority over Earth to General Zod. Clark decides he has to go back, and find someway to get his powers back. He walks miles and miles to the fortress and solitude. He has no way of communicating to his father, and all of the crystals have been destroyed, so it seems hopeless. Suddenly, there is a green glow on the ground. He finds the green crystal that called to him when he was a teenager. Later, Lex Luthor leads Zod, Ursa, and Non to the Daily Planet. They hold Lois hostage, and hope that eventually Superman will come to save her. Amazingly, Superman comes, and invites General Zod outside. There is a huge fight outside, leaving debris everywhere. Superman is crushed in between a bus and a Marlboro truck. He manages to get out, and looks at all of the damage General Zod, Ursa, and Non have made. He realizes that this fight isn't safe for the civilians, and it's destroying the entire city, so he flees. Luthor takes the Super villains to the fortress of solitude. They bring Lois as well, to give him another disadvantage. They find him in the Fortress. The villains, and Superman, are using holograms of some sort to disappear, and reappear in different places. Superman grabs General Zod, but Ursa and Non threaten to tear Lois apart if he harms the General. Luthor tells General Zod about the molecule chamber, and how it can take Superman's powers away from him. Superman is forced to enter it, because of Lois. He comes out, and kneels to Zod. Zod asks him to take his hand, he does, and then amazingly, he crushes it. He picks Zod up over his head, and throws him into the wall. Zod falls into a crevice in the ground. Non tries unsuccessfully to fly at Superman, and he falls as well. Lois punches Ursa into a ditch, thereby trapping all of the villains. Luthor realizes that Superman switched the molecule chamber, so everyone outside of it felt its effects. Superman and Lois leave Luthor in the fortress, while they fly away. The next morning, Superman finds Lois, distraught. He gives her a kiss of amnesia, which takes Lois' memory of everything that happened with Superman away. The movie ends with Clark coming back to the diner. Rocky attempts to punch him, but breaks his fist in the process. Clark spins him around in a chair, stops it, picks him up and sits him down on his plate, and then throws him into a pinball machine. Clark gives the owner of the diner money for the damage, and then leaves. Superman flies to the White House, with the American flag in his hand, and returns it. The movie ends with the famous shot of Superman flying above Earth, and smiling at the camera.Superman II had a long and hard history behind it. Parts of it were filmed by Richard Donner, while other parts were filmed by Richard Lester, who would go on and direct Superman III. Donner was fired, and he received no credit whatsoever of his work. Very few of Lester's shots had any merit, most of them were filled with camp (attempted and unoriginal humor.) You do have to give him credit however, for parts like the last Daily Planet scene. I guess people are a little biased towards all of his work, because of the camp of Superman III.Parts of Superman II were filmed during the filming of Superman I. Superman I featured a script with a huge number of scenes - it was basically cut in half into Superman I and Superman II. Released in 1980, 2 years after Superman I, Superman II is an amazing movie, and a worthy successor of Superman The Movie  "},{"Title":"Planet Houston... what a strange surface","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am probably the only person in the world who thinks this , but I honestly believe that Superman II is (and I'm not joking), one of the absolute greatest, most fun movies of all time.  I think I've seen it 300 times (no exaggeration), and at least thirty of those were during the original theatrical release.  Once, my father and I sat through it twice.  This movie has it all-- humor, melodrama, three supervillains.  What is there not to like about it?  And unlike most sequels, it actually improves on the original.  I feel about this movie (and the original Superman) the way many movie goers feel about Star Wars.  There's something so mythical, so archetypal about it.  The scene where Superman faces off against General Zod and his flunkies is sheer magic.  Maybe I just love this movie because of my childhood memories, but I loved a lot of stuff during my childhood (fruit roll ups, Shira Princess of Power, football players, etc.) that I can't stand now, and therefore the conclusion I'm coming to is that regardless of nostalgia, this film rules.   Go out and rent this movie, and the original, but don't bother getting Superman III or IV, because they are an embarrassment compared to the first two. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is the sequel to Superman the Movie which is great, it is unfortunately .very lower than the first movie , more is not a bad movie . far from it is a funny movie while in Superman the movie the story was very well presented and had almost no action in this movie already has more action, the film's villain is Zod , the special effects are good , the soundtrack is sensational like the first film , the final scene of Superman vs Zod fight is good , the cast is good, Christopher Reeve is great as the first , Superman II is not better than the first , more is far superior to his Superman III successors , IIII and Returns. Note 6.5 "},{"Title":"Great Sequel but the first one was better....","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is bigger in everything but that doesn't mean that is better than the first film. What bagged me the most about the film is the humor which it was kinda weak at times and this whole thing of Superman sacrificing his powers in order to be with Lois Lane what the hell was that? Sure Clark deserves a little bit happiness in his life but getting his ass kicked by a mortal was kinda stupid. Also the 3 villains could be better if they didn't acted as cartoons of themselves i think Man of Steel gave Zod a much better story. Gene Hackman reprises his role as Lex Luthor but he doesn't have enough screen time. What i loved about the first film was that it was serious but also the humor was great in it and Richard Donner was all by himself in directing and not Richard Lester and him teaming up. Christopher Reeve remains a badass and an amazing Superman/ Clark Kent tho as always. I give the film a 9 out of 10 it's basically the Batman Returns of the Superman Series it's entertaining but not better than the first movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but not the same as the first","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before I go into about the title that I put in my review, I want say about this first on how it all happen during the behind the scenes of the movie. While the first two Superman movies where being filmed simultaneously, Richard Donner and the Salkinds where having issues on set about going over schedule alongside with its budget as they were both going at each other's throat. So the Salkinds fired Donner after the first Superman movie being released and becoming a popular movie; they replace Donner with Richard Lester who was an uncredited producer on the first movie as he becomes the director for this sequel. Most of Donner's footage was scraped, and Marlon Brando was never included but replace by Susannah York who plays Superman's mother Lara from the first movie. Even the tone of the movie was changed into being campy with some little moments that are serious. Nevertheless, Superman II was released and became another popular movie. Does it have the same charm as the first one? Here it goes the sequel is about General Zod and the other two Krptonians as they were prison in the Phantom Zone from the first movie are now free as they come to Earth to destroy humanity as well as Superman. Also, Lois Lane is trying to bet her life that Clark Kent is Superman. Lex Luthor escapes from prison, and the story goes on. In my opinion, Superman II really doesn't have the same charm as the first one because here is why The tone of the movie is not balanced well enough as the majority of the movie is being taken over by its camp factor, while it has some little moments that are serious. For example, the scene were Clark Kent gets his beat up by a bully at the diner does not seem to fit for the film's tone; if its suppose to be there, then it would've made more sense if the Salkinds have not fired Donner for being kicked off the project. As for the humor, there were some parts that are funny, but mostly I find the humor to be dated. Heck, when I was watching, I see Zod making some reaction on those scenes where he just finds it ridiculous on the making this movie campy. Like where Non takes the siren off the police car, and Ursa going for an arm wrestle with a guy at the bar. You can tell that he doesn't seem to enjoy for having this movie being campy. Also, when Lester re-shot most of Donner's footage, Lois Lane's look is very much different than the way she looks from the first movie. There are some scenes where Lois looks like the way she looks from the first one, but only filmed by Donner; she doesn't look as glamorous as she is from the first movie. She sort of makes me think of Courtney Cox or something. I really don't think Lara seems to fit with the story of Superman losing his powers, because there wasn't that much of a connection between Superman and Lara as much as Superman had a connection with his father Jor-El which makes more sense than I what I'm seeing in Lester's cut. The special effects are good, but I find parts that are pretty much dated. The action in this movie was fun and all, but pretty much done in a traditional way like the first one. I do enjoy the relationship between Clark and Lois, but the last part of the movie where Clark kisses Lois by erasing her memory is like a whatever to me because I don't care if I like the memory erased kiss or turning time back in Donner's cut; it really doesn't matter to me at all. Lester's direction is fine, but it would've been better if Donner directed this movie if he wasn't fired. The acting is very well done for Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder and Terence Stamp. Stamp's performance is over the top, but really makes this character very memorable. Gene Hackman is good, but when Donner got fired, you can find some shots of him being replaced by a double as well as an impersonator for trying to sound like Hackman. Ken Thorne's music is okay, but I rather hear John Williams than Thorne. So, in my opinion, Superman II is enjoyable but not the same as first; its has moments that are good and moments that are bad. It is watchable and I have nothing to bragged about. So that is what I put the title in my review. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel that makes some interesting tonal choices","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" At some point with certain kinds of movies, you just have to ignore whatever preconceived notions you have about the subject matter, sit back, and enjoy what unfolds before you on screen. I wouldn't call myself a Superman fan, per se, but midway through this film I decided to stop resisting and let it be. I wouldn't exactly call SUPERMAN II superb filmmaking, but as a blockbuster sequel it's certainly up there in terms of quality. It also makes a knowing turn toward the silly, which was present in the first one, but here is utilized even more. Yes, there are plot elements that make no sense, but what's important is that I had some fun.The film begins by doing a recap of its predecessor, in case you forgot the events that occurred beforehand and then launches straight into the main story. When Superman saves a bunch of tourists (and Lois Lane) in Paris from terrorists wielding a hydrogen bomb, he leaves Earth's atmosphere and releases it into space. The force of the explosion shatters the Phantom Zone prison where Zod, Ursa and Non are kept and they make their way to Earth in order to rule it. There's also the risible subplot about Superman giving up his powers in order to be with Lois Lane, but thankfully that doesn't take up as much screen time as you'd think. Lex Luthor also shows up for a few scenes, but isn't really given that much to do.First, the good. At first, I was taken aback at just how silly the film was. However, it grew on me. Zod and his minions were easily the best part of the whole film. Campy? Yes. But what exactly did you expect from an alien whose only motive is subjugation, and who is completely out of touch with Earth culture? I think I liked Michael Shannon's take on the character better, but Terence Stamp was great too, in a different way. Other elements I liked were the improved special effects, although a climactic fight scene between Zod and Superman in the air kind of showed the limitations of what was achievable in the early 80's. Still, the production values were excellent. And the sweeping vistas during the flying sequences were something to behold. Acting was generally good across the board, although no one was awards-worthy. Christopher Reeve was undoubtedly the best among the cast, and I like how played up the differences between Clark Kent and Superman. And of course, the score was phenomenal. Apparently, John Williams wasn't the composer this time around, but they used a lot of his material from the first film.All of my complaints are largely to do with incredulous or ludicrous plot elements. First Superman gives up his powers to be with Lois Lane? Come on. He's supposed to be devoted to truth, justice, and the American way (however corny that is), and he lets a woman come in between him and the mission handed down to him from his father? Sure, whatever. Directly tying into that scene, how does he get back to Metropolis after giving up his power of flight? In the scene where he goes back to his Fortress of Solitude to reverse his previous decision it's implied that he walk. But seriously? Not only does he walk from the North Pole to Metropolis, but does it twice? That part really took me out of the story. And then there's the part towards the end where he uses the Superman symbol on his chest to incapacitate Non. Even in a movie that's knowingly campy, that was a little much.However, despite the campiness there was a sense that the filmmakers were aware of this fact, which made the film more palatable to me. The source material isn't the greatest stuff in the world and yet they managed to make an entertaining blockbuster sequel that builds on what they created in the first one. Yes, there are some absolutely gut-busting funny moments, and not necessarily in a good way, but there was a pervasive sense of fun that allowed me to overlook a lot of what didn't work. If pressed to choose, I still think I enjoyed SUPERMAN a little more, but SUPERMAN II is no slouch either. "}{"Title":"Man of my dreams","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember looking forward to this film when it was first announced. I remember the thrill of standing in line to finally see this when it finally opened. For me the magic of seeing Superman fly on the screen was just that,magic. I see the film now and it still has a place in my heart. Christopher Reeves as Superman still makes my heart beat fast. And every time he is flying and does that little acknowledgment to the audience..wow. The story line..eh. I never liked Margot Kidder as Lois so my little teenage heart was not happy with the story. But it also showed me a wonderful side to the Superman character that totally ruined me for future expectation on men (wa-wa). "},{"Title":"A Decent Follow Up In Light Of Circumstances.","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Richard Donner had finished direction of the first movie, he had completed over 81% of photography for the intended sequel. However, tensions rose over creative control between Donner and the studio, so they got Richard Lester to take control over the second film (Even Lester widely regards Superman is and always will be Donner's story). Lester shot 51% of the movie, along with rewrites of Donner's work which they both worked on. Richard Lester's version was very well received, and with the release of Superman Returns in 2006 Warner Bros. released Superman 2 The Richard Donner Cut, restoring 80% of Donner's footage. The response of course was that Donner's movie has been obviously regarded as the superior film. I've yet to see it personally, but I thought I'd just bring that knowledge up to those who are fans of the series.Superman 2 is a great sequel in the Superman franchise, that in some areas succeeds over the first movie in terms of action. General Zod is portrayed by Terrance Stamp, and Stamp's performance seems to lack the emotion gravitas of what you'd think from a power hungry tyrant. Nevertheless he does a good job, but personally I myself would have wanted a bit more of an enthusiastic performance. I also love that there's also a lot more of a fight in this movie, but it's not spectacular in any way and half the time it feels like a giant advertisement. Superman gets smacked into a Marlboro cigarette's truck, Zod is hilariously chucked into a giant neon Coca Cola installation. It knows what it is and has fun with it, and I can respect that in this kind of film.But by far the weirdest part for me is when Superman decides to become human. I know it's a sign of love and loyalty towards Lois, and it raises the age old question of why Superman can't copulate with her etc. But the fact it reduces him into something weaker and even less than human makes me wonder why he would own such a device. The strengths of what makes Superman appealing is partly his own instincts, therefore his nature. For whatever reason, I just didn't think much of it other than to include a silly I can't fight them excuse for the third act. Either way, Richard Lester did a very good job with the movie. It obviously continues the story strongly and Christopher Reeve, along with everyone else is as wonderful as ever. But the big question will always remain why was Richard Lester asked to do this? Final Verdict After saying everything that needs to be said, both versions of this film have made a successful sequel nonetheless. I enjoyed it, and personally cannot wait to see the Donner Cut. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The effects are very good for 1980, but this kind of unsentimental character piece needs a tight focus so all of the nuances of said characters shines through. Nonetheless, the characters in this film have a lot of depth and the realism with which they are portrayed by the actors is shocking at times. The only thing that keeps it afloat is the sensitivity of the bilaterally desperately needy relationship between the heroes and villains. Some poignant sequences for a dark tale, whilst not being depressing. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods -- and truth isn't found. Reeves' is not the restrained performance that the critics have described. "},{"Title":"An excellent sequel but it's not on quite the same level as its predecessor.","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder are once again wonderful and, as in the first film, Lois and Clark's relationship helps to ground the events of the film. The storyline is excellent and the acting is generally of a very high calibre. Terence Stamp is suitably intimidating as General Zod. Some of his screams are a bit over the top but it is nevertheless a great performance. The main reason that I didn't like the screams is that Zod is at his most imposing when he is calm.The behind the scenes chaos caused by the replacement of Richard Donner with Richard Lester is well known and, hardly surprisingly, it had an impact on what we were presented with on screen. Gene Hackman disappears for about 40 minutes and Ned Beatty and Valerine Perrine disappear altogether about 30 and 40 minutes into the film respectively, as none of them returned when production resumed with Lester at the helm. Jackie Cooper and Marc McClure worked for both directors but likewise disappear for a considerable portion of the film. Some scenes, particularly the ones featuring the powerless Clark, seem a little rushed. I get the feeling that there was more of this part of the story to be told. However, the film has a very good pace and never seems disjointed, which it very easily could have under the circumstances. I'm looking forward to comparing and contrasting the Donner Cut with the theatrical version.In spite of some silly moments (particularly during the Metropolis fight scene when the supervillains use their superbreath), I'm giving this a perfect score as well. One of the most thoroughly entertaining films and best sequels that I've ever seen.10/10 "},{"Title":"SUPERMAN 2 Has Two Versions!","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The versions of Superman 2 are available. First, the theatrical cut of Superman 2 runs 127 minutes and Richard Lester takes credit as the director. Second, the cut of the movie that original Superman director Richard Donner helmed, clocking in at 116 minutes is now available as the version you've never seen. Personally, I prefer the Donner cut, but Superman 2 looks more like a brisk comedy with several outlandish dramatic moments. This is the Superman movie where savvy reporter Lois Lane cracks the mystery of Clark Kent never being around when Superman shows up to save the day. Superman finds himself pitted against more than just human villains in Superman 2. As feats of heroism go, the Man of Tomorrow leads off by foiling an attempt to detonate a hydrogen bomb that terrorists have hidden in the Eiffel Tower. Naturally, he has to rescue Lois, who has concealed herself underneath the Eiffel Tower elevator. After he saves Lois, he flies into outer space with the hydrogen bomb and hurls it into the void where it explodes. What the Man of Steel has no way of knowing is that General Zod, Ursa, and Non, who were imprisoned in a phantom zone not long before Krypton blew up, are floating around in space. The hydrogen explosion releases the trio of villainous Kryptonians from confinement, and they fly to the Moon where they encounter an American-Russian space expedition. General Zod (Terence Stamp of Billy Budd) comes to the realization that they are far stronger under a yellow sun and they head to Earth where they plan to confront the son of Jor-El. The tension here grows out of the Man of Steel tangling with three adversaries who have super power virtually identical to his. Meanwhile, the wily Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman of The French Connection) has managed to escape from prison. This is one of the least believable scenes with the help of Miss Teschmacher. Apparently, Lex has patched up his relationship with her because she removed the Kryptonite necklace dangling around Superman's neck so he could foil Luthor's earthquake scheme to obtain the best real estate on the California coast in the original Superman. The last half of Superman 2 is like a wrestling match with General Zod, Ursa (Sarah Douglas of Conan the Destroyer) and Non (Jack O'Halloran of Dragnet) battling it out with the Man of Steel. Actually, this superhuman struggle boils down to a product placement smash up with the characters smashing up or crashing into signs or vehicles with trademark names like Coke, Marlboro, and Kentucky Fried Chicken on it. Incidentally, if you haven't seen the original Superman, all you have to do is watch the opening credits of the theatrical Superman 2, and you can see a montage of the entire film. "},{"Title":"A good sequel to the original","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It starts with General Zod (Terence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas), and Non (Jack O'Halloran) sentenced by the Kryptonian council to be imprisoned in the Phantom Zone. Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) is sent to cover a terrorist threat to blow up the Eiffel Tower with a hydrogen bomb. Superman (Christopher Reeve) goes to save Lois and launches the bomb into space. The bomb explodes releasing the three criminals. Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) escapes from prison and discovers the Fortress of Solitude. Lois gets suspicious of Clark and discovers the truth.The start is just a little too hokey and a little too jokey. I don't know why anybody thought a honeymoon suite in Niagara Falls would be a good idea. With General Zod, it seems better to be more serious. Even if they can't be dark, the constant silliness really drains away the excitement factor. They even use Clifton James from the Bond movies as the sheriff.Luckily it moves off the silly stupidity. Terence Stamp puts a more serious bent to the movie. The movie dives into Superman's mortality and his responsibility. The battle with Zod in the streets of Metropolis is superb fun, and great effects work for the time. It is a good sequel to the first original modern comic book movie. "},{"Title":"Christopher Reeve Is Back.","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Action-packed sequel to the original brings back most of the first cast, in how Superman must defeat three fellow Kryptonians, who have arrived on Earth after escaping their Phantom Zone prison that his father had put them in. Subplot involves Clark Kent trying to reveal his real identity to Lois Lane, whom he has fallen in love with, and considers sacrificing his powers for.Although great fun, and a worthy continuation of the first, this subplot about Superman becoming human feels wrong somehow, not to mention a bit sappy, but this is dealt with nicely by the slam-bang finale, and the ending really soars. Pity the quality didn't continue on... "},{"Title":"Superman II is now as Man of Steel","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a kid when I saw superman first. Now I have got bigger but just like a kid can't still wipe out this film from my mind. The previous sequels of superman are superb and now the Man of Steel what should be I can't imagine. From this thinking I made a blog on this film. http//supermanofsteelmovie.blogspot.com. If some one visits my blog I will be blessed. Man of Steel is the coming US super hit movie directed by Zack Snyder, developed by Christopher Nolan, & written by David S. Goyer. This flick story is based on DC Comedians as Superman role, and it is the The Hangover Part III is the new coming US based clowning flick, that is developed under Legendary Pictures & disseminated by Warner Bros. Pictures. This movie is subsequence of 2011's The Hangover Part II, & the 3rd installment and final part of The Hangover motion picture series. Movie's lead stars are Ed Helms, Bradley Cooper, Ken Jeong, Zach Galifianakis, Jeffrey Tambor, Heather Graham, John Goodman and Justin Bartha. While director Todd Phillips & writer Craig Mazin screen played of it. This blockbuster Man of Steel is coming on the 14th June of this year 2013. "},{"Title":"Not as fresh as the original, but still a good sequel","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I may not have been a fan of the comics, but I loved the original Superman film. Aside from it's corny moments, it was a compelling start to the superhero genre in Hollywood history. So, when it became a box office success, a sequel was made and was met with a positive reception. I saw it with my brother on a DVD copy and while it's not as fresh as the original Superman, it's a pretty good sequel. It may be a little bit long and it's tone shifting is very uneven, but those flaws are outweighed by it's best aspects.The story is fine and I liked how it shows the emotion of Clark Kent when he chooses not to be Superman anymore. The dialog is pretty good and it's well-paced. The music from John Williams (accompanied by Ken Thorne) is superb, the scenery is magnificent, and the direction from Richard Lester is above-decent as are the special effects, but the best part would have to go to the cast. Christopher Reeves did a great job once again as Superman, Terence Stamp did great as the sinister villain General Zod and Gene Hackman is rock solid as Lex Luthor.Overall, Superman II isn't as fresh as the original, but like I said before, it's a pretty good sequel to the classic and is worth-recommending. "},{"Title":"An Improved Sequel,","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman 2 is a great movie with a great story line,a great cast and of course fantastic characters.I know it isn't considered to be,but I thought this sequel improved on the first Superman,because the first one can be very cheesy at times,and they got rid of that,also the main villains are more intimidating and we also really get to see Superman as a hero in this.I found it to be a very fresh,and slightly improved sequel.Three criminals from the planet Kryptonite escape and are causing trouble around Earth.Superman is the only person who can possibly stop them,but he gave up his powers so he can be with Lois Lane.-DILLON HARRIS "}{"Title":"great sequel","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" liked this one a lot, in my opinion it was probably even better than the first one. One of the biggest reasons would probably be the villains. They are a physical match for superman so they pose more of a threat than lex luthers so called intelligence. Since supermans new villains can fly there is one really good scene of them battling it out and throwing large objects at each other and fighting while flying. The dated special effects add a cheese factor but its really fun to watch. There is also a very cool scene on the moon that felt very sci-fi like, this was a great scene i thought looked very cool. These two things were in my opinion better than anything that happened in the origonal. On the negative side though there was some pretty stupid plot elements that might be hard for some people to look passed, i personally just laughed and shrugged it off. One thing i found funny was how supermans mom tells him he can turn into a human but will never be able to regain his old powers and then he easilly gets his powers back using the green crystal, that was ridiculous, also lex luthers escape from jail in a hot air balloon was silly. Overall superman 2 is a cheesy good time i found more entertaining than the first. "},{"Title":"He actually cares for these Earth people.","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie may be over thirty years old, but I never knew it's history until I read some of the other reviews here this evening. There did seem to be a disconnect between the character of the three Kryptonian villains at the start of the picture and the way they ended up in their final showdown with the Man of Steel. For better or worse, I measure my super-hero flicks against the comic book icons that existed during my personal Golden Age when I was around ten years old in the early Sixties. So in that respect it was easy enough to identify with a Superman whose molecular density provided unlimited powers under a yellow sun.From an entertainment perspective this film was OK, though if you want to get nit-picky, that would be easy enough to do. Clark/Superman (Christopher Reeve) should have known that the gun Lois (Margot Kidder) used didn't fire a real bullet at him, and I wondered why she wouldn't have been committed for jumping out of a high rise window - how does one explain that? There was a clever gimmick I got a kick out of when Superman reversed General Zod's (Terence Stamp) heat vision with a mirror, and the advertising sign behind Zod said 'Cool It'.However if there was ever a film that shamelessly took advantage of high rolling commercial opportunities this was it. Marlboro and Coca-Cola were the most blatant examples, but you also got a glimpse of thrifty advertisers like Kentucky Fried Chicken as well. Usually product placement is done in a much more subtle way but here it was pretty much in your face.I guess what I'm saying is that it's not that easy for a director (or two) to interpret a character that will turn out satisfactory for every fan that ever grew up with a favorite super hero. As a sequel, this one doesn't quite measure up to the original made two years earlier but it has it's heroic moments, and manages to remind us how much Christopher Reeve is missed. "},{"Title":"In Superman II, the Man of Steel has a Spiderman Existential Moment,","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" To its credit, Superman II continues the exploration of and challenges to both the Super and man aspects of the legendary Kryptonian. His Super part must confront three utterly ruthless, rampaging Kryptonian villains he inadvertently freed from the Phantom Zone limbo with the bomb he flung from the Eiffel Tower during the beginning of the film. Fueled by powers equal to (and maybe even surpassing) Superman's own, and by vengeance against the son of our jailer, Jor-el, General Zod, Ursa, and Non prove quite a nasty handful. Complicating Superman's job, however, is an emotional and psychological dilemma facing his man persona, something I call a Spiderman Existential Moment.Every so often in the Spiderman comics (and in the recent movies), Peter Parker has agonizing debates about whether he should continue as Spiderman, because playing hero denies him a normal life and constantly puts his friends and loved ones in danger. Apparently but unexpectedly, Superman as soft-spoken bumbler Clark Kent feels the same doubt about his superhero life. Superman II scores points for devoting equal time to Clark Kent, but in my opinion does not fully prepare us for his renunciation of his powers for love. Nothing leads us to suspect that he is dissatisfied or burdened by his superhero responsibilities, or by having to support a secret identity. We are asked to take it for granted. We are also asked to accept the fact that Superman/Clark Kent has harbored such secret, burning desire to be with Lois Lane for a long time. OK, OK, he did reverse time in the first Superman to resurrect her from the dead. But, and I know I might get attacked for saying this, why would anyone give up his superpowers to be with Lois Lane? I guess I was never a Lois Lane fan. Superficially, Lois is presented as an intrepid, daring, celebrated newspaper reporter. However, she's always making reckless, foolhardy mistakes that put her in danger from which only Superman can save her. Lois can also be breezingly thoughtless and cruel to fellow employees like Jimmy Olsen - and the unassuming Clark especially. And as others have said from time immemorial, if she is such a perceptive reporter, why did it take her so long to notice that Superman and Clark are one and the same? I guess Superman/Clark has a special kind of emotional, as well as physical, X-ray vision that sees something in Lois we mere mortals just can't.Well anyway, as the Kryptonian trio ravage the Earth, Superman whisks Lois off to his Fortress of Solitude, uses the crystal shards to de-power himself, and has an un-PC sexual dalliance with Ms. Lane at his Arctic home. Soon, they somehow leave the Fortress (it must have taken days without his powers) without freezing to death, find a station wagon and drive back to Metropolis. During a pit stop at a diner, a humiliating brawl with a bully makes Clark have second thoughts about his sacrifice. Clark has another Spiderman moment when he finally learns that the Kryptonian trio may soon take over, and that with great power comes great responsibilities. Better get those powers back. But wait, Jor-El and Lara had warned him that the superpower loss was irrevocable. Except when it isn't. The green crystal is the key. Clark has to trudge back thousands of freezing miles with the crystal back to the Fortress to get his mojo back. Just in time too, because the Kryptonian trio has invaded Metropolis.You know the rest the Kryptonians have a destructive battle, the villains capture Lois, Superman retreats to his Fortress to lure the villains away and spare Metropolis more devastation, Superman tricks the villains into losing their powers, the villains fall into an icy crevasse (awaiting a sequel that never came), Superman saves Lois and gives her the forgetfulness kiss, Superman promises the President of the United States that he will never desert his post again, the end.Now, now, I liked the movie very much, in spite of some inconsistencies and improbabilities (due to the checkered development history reported by other posters), because of both the dynamic action and character development, plus the interspersions of humor, drama, and even horror. But Superman II is special because it humanizes the demigod from another world and, even though it may surprise and annoy us, he is as capable of making hasty, impulsive, romantic choices as any of us. Fortunately for the world, Superman/Clark Kent learns from his mistakes.Wait, I forgot. Newly re-powered Clark revisits the diner and meets the bully again. Clark shoves the bully against a pinball machine and pays for the damage. Sweet payback. NOW it's the end. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman, Margot Kidder, Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran star in this 1980 action sequel. This takes place shortly after the events of the original with Superman (Reeve) accidentally releasing 3 Kryptonian criminals, General Zod (Stamp), Ursa (Douglas) and Non (O'Halloran) from the Phantom Zone who naturally head for Earth. Soon, Clark travels with Lois Lane (Kidder) to Niagra Falls for a newspaper assignment and she discovers he's Superman. Since he loves her, he decides to give up his superpowers for her. Meanwhile, Lex Luthor (Hackman) escapes from prison and teams up with the 3 criminals. While out with Lois, Clark learns there's consequences of being human and that the 3 criminals are destroying the country. He realizes he must try to get his powers back and stop them. This is a good sequel and Stamp is great as Zod. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Three criminals from the planet Krypton, with the same powers as Superman, come to Earth and make havoc, and superman must stop them.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was spectacular! It was much better than the first one, and was much more exciting and full of action. If you look at films from the bad side, be warned. They do cuss a little more than the first one, and they do have more violence than the first one. It was still a great movie and will still be a classic. I recommend that this movie should be watched by nine years old and up. This had good acting and more better ideas than the first. I do however think it was not really ideal to have Lex Luthor in the movie, because he didn't really do much as a character in the movie, and the three criminals of Krypton were basically the general bad guys in the movie. Otherwise, have fun seeing this. "},{"Title":"While the romance can be poorly done, it doesn't prevent this from being a decent first sequel","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally saw the first of the four Superman films, based on the comic book series and starring Christopher Reeve, just last month, and since I was impressed with the first installment, I intended to watch the sequels. One can obviously tell by the title of this 1980 release that it's the second installment in the franchise. Richard Donner, who directed its predecessor, was originally the director of this sequel, but was replaced by Richard Lester (I previously knew him as the director of A Hard Day's Night and Help!) before he finished, so some changes were made. Unsurprisingly, it seems that the original 1978 release is the most popular of the bunch, so I wasn't expecting Superman II to be as good, but I was expecting it to be a worthy second installment, since it was still at least reasonably popular, and it basically turned out to be what I was expecting.Superman still lives in Metropolis, and his alter ego, Clark Kent, still works for the city's Daily Planet newspaper. When he hears that the Eiffel Tower has been seized by terrorists and Lois Lane has been sent to Paris, France to report on this, he flies to the scene, rescues Lois from death, and forces an elevator containing a nuclear bomb into space before it detonates! So, Superman has stopped the terrorist attack, but he doesn't see that General Zod, Ursa, and Non, three criminals from Krypton who were sent away just before the planet's destruction, happen to be floating by in the Phantom Zone when the bomb goes off in space, and the explosion sets them free! The three of them go to the Earth's moon, where they meet astronauts and kill them, and then make their way to Earth with plans to enslave the planet! To make matters worse, Superman's old foe, Lex Luthor, manages to escape from prison! The caped wonder is the only one on Earth who can take on these extraterrestrial criminals, but before he is aware of this invasion, he decides to give up his superpowers and become mortal so he can settle down with Lois, who has recently found out that he is Clark Kent!Christopher Reeve's performance as Superman/Clark Kent here is just like it is in the first installment in the franchise, not stunning, but decent. Some of the other performances here are fairly weak, however, and I think that includes Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas, and Jack O'Halloran as the three invaders respectively. I certainly wasn't blown away by Margot Kidder's performance as Lois Lane in the first film, but somehow found her to be slightly worse in this second one. The flawed performances may have something to do with the flawed script. Some of the scenes here showing the romance between Superman/Clark Kent and Lois Lane certainly could have been done much better, and there are more of those here than in the 1978 blockbuster. However, like its predecessor, Superman II has lots of excitement, starting with the Eiffel Tower segment and then focusing on General Zod, Ursa, and Non's invasion on Earth. It's a well written story, and the excitement level increases after the first hour of the movie or so. Another thing this first sequel has in common with the original is that it can be very pleasing to the eye as well, with the special effects and scenery.Since this is another franchise movie, it's not surprising that it's inferior to the film that started the series. 26 years after the release of this second installment in the famous franchise starring Christopher Reeve came into theatres, Superman II The Richard Donner Cut, a re-edit of this film featuring lots of never-before-seen footage directed by Donner before he was replaced by Richard Lester for the project, was released. I haven't seen that version yet, having just seen this one, and it seems many consider it to be better than the final theatrical cut, but now that I've seen this version, the one which was seen in theatres in 1980, I think it is a pretty good comic book adaptation, even if it would have been better had Donner not been replaced before finishing the direction. For the most part, this second installment in the movie franchise based on the world-famous DC Comics series does its job, giving many comic book movie fans their share of suspenseful entertainment, despite the significant flaws which make it lose points. "},{"Title":"Epic and exciting, a visual accomplishment for its time despite lack of focus","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is a direct continuation of the 1978 original, yet it is directed by Richard Lester, not Richard Donner, and there is the film's biggest point of contention. The controversial firing of Donner led to a film that while it doesn't have a distinctly different feel, certainly feels a bit shaky at points in terms of making sense. Otherwise, Superman II is still a pretty attention-capturing special effects and stunt-filled sequel.The film's villains are General Zod (Stamp) and his cohorts who after being imprisoned in the Phantom Zone by Jor-El, Superman's father, in the very beginning of the first installment, are released by a hydrogen bomb explosion in outer space thanks to Superman's heroic efforts at the beginning of this film. As Zod tries to take over the world, Superman grows closer to Lois, though his personally life will soon be sacrificed if the earth is to survive Zod.For 1980, the film's use of green screen is pretty effective though definitely obvious at points and the sweeping shots of Superman flying give the film an epic quality that combined with the John Williams score are pretty cinematically unbeatable. A large amount of explosions and actual car crashing stunts combined with the special effects powers of the Kryptonians in the film make it pretty action-intensive.What is most surprising is the script. Mario Puzo, famed writer of the The Godfather trilogy, in his last writing credit, makes the relationship of Lois and Superman really jump out. There is some real drama to be had there. Margot Kidder as Lois helps this along too. This movie is just as much about her character as it is Superman. The script really hits at the interesting concept of can Superman give up his powers for mortal love?There were definitely a couple points during the movie where I had to ask myself if I'd missed a scene because something was off. The focal points seem to jump around and you really can't tell what's supposed to be important overall. Lois and Superman on their own is a great story, but it gets lost in the Zod taking over the world plot. And Lex Luthor (Hackman), while a great personality and name, certainly doesn't need to be there. "},{"Title":"Zod  kicks ass in this super sequel","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the original superman movie, and this carries on where the last one left off. I've got the Donner cut as well but the original is the best. If they put brando's scenes in the theatrical Lester version, then that would be the ultimate version for me. The three villains steal the show in this movie to be honest, particularly the pretentious power hungry Zod. They fly around having a great time wrecking everything while superman is trying to get Lois into his love shack of solitude. The scenes between Lois and superman/Clark are a bit slow and boring. The entire film is building up to the climactic battle in metropolis between superman and the three krypton lunatics who are hell bent on making him kneel. The dialogue is atrocious, but for some reason it all works because the movie isn't trying to be serious. Zod is so happy to see superman at last, he proudly says, Son of Jor el, we were beginning to think you were a coward, I'm not a coward, Zod, then die as you deserve to. Ha ha! Great harmless fun that's far superior to the dreadful superman returns. "},{"Title":"Like a finely honed and fitted piece to a Jig-Saw Puzzle, SUPERMAN II fits in and makes previous film even better!","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" SUCCESS of a film or lack there of is the main barometer in the decisions made by the suits pontificating in many a closed door meeting held in the Hollywood Studios. 'Art for Art's Sake' aside, the performance of a particular movie at the Box Office is the bottom line. Hence, we saw the old Thumbs Down to making sequels to some fine candidates as FLASH GORDON (Dino DiLaurientes/Universal Pictures, 1980) and THE PHANTOM (Boam Prod./Ladd Co./Village Roadshow Pics., 1996) and yet gave their blessings to something like the POLICE ACADEMY Series. EVEN with the imprimatur and full support from the Studio Moguls, there is no guarantee that the production would have any of the appeal of its precursor. In fact very rarely do any sequels come up to anywhere near to the success, popular $upport and public appeal of the original. For every BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, THE GODFATHER, PART II or ROCKY II there are at least a dozen the likes of JAWS II, SON OF KONG, DEATH WISH II and Mel Brooks' HISTORY OF THE WORLD, PART II. *AS for the old SUPERMAN Screen Franchise, the quality and integrity of the series got a shot in the arm with the release of SUPERMAN II (Alexander Salkind/Dovemead/Film Export/International Film Prod./Warner Brothers Pictures, 1980). The continuity and flavor of the first film, SUPERMANTHE MOVIE (All those Companies & Warner Bros., 1978) is maintained and even improved.VERY cleverly and wisely, the foundation for the story line of SUPERMAN II is laid at the very beginning of the first movie. As we recall, while The Man of Steel's Father, Jor-el, is preoccupied with his scientific findings predicting the impending destruction of their home planet, Krypton; he is charged with the prosecution of 3 seditious Kryptonian renegades. THE Evil Trio, composed of the band of General Zod (Terrence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas) and the mute giant, Non (Jack O'Halloran)** is sentenced to an eternal imprisonment in the void of the bleak and bizarre dimension known as The Phantom Zone. (Not that same Phantom from the movie, Schultz.) Ergo, when the baby Kal-el arrives on Mother Earth, his family's sworn mortal enemies show up there, also. But whereas Superman's powers and abilities far beyond those of a mortal man are pledged to the good of mankind; the General and his accomplices have less honourable intentions. The story hits the ground running and never stops.OTHER elements from the previous outing include the cast; which survived the jump from one picture to the next, pretty much intact. We have Kent/Superman (Christopher Reeve), Lois Lane (Margott Kidder), Superman's Mother, Lara (Sussanah York), Perry White (Jackie Cooper), Jimmy Olsen (Marc McClure), Luthor (Gene Hackman), Miss Tessbacher (Valerie Perrine) and Otis (Ned Beatty)***GONE are the Kents, Jonathon & Martha (Glen Ford & Phyllis Thaxter), who have passed on and Jor-el and his duplicate life-force hologram (Mr. Marlon Brando).THE Film stands as a prime example of not only an excellent rendering of a movie adaptation of a Comic Strip/Book; but also of just what the quintessential sequel should accomplish. Being that the previous Superman outing concentrated on the Origin, coming out as a super-hero and his head-on meeting with the super evil genius scientist, Luthor; SUPERMAN II was able to continue and pursue the line about the 3 evil Kryptonians. The sequel fulfills the previous effort without skewing any of its impact or fun.IT also accomplishes the seemingly impossible task of complementing the first film; yet stands on its own. One would surely benefit from viewing SUPERMAN THE MOVIE before seeing the sequel, SUPERMAN II; but it's neither mandatory nor necessary. NOTE * That's correct! There was no HISTORY OF THE WORLS, PART II. The reason is self-explanatory to any one who ever saw it. (Definitely NOT Recommended!) It just goes to show what we were trying desperately to say! NOTE ** This aspect of the 3 Evil Super-Renegades is adapted from a Superman story from an early 1950's issue of Action Comics, which was the first comic book magazine to feature Superman.NOTE *** We just have to mention Ned Beatty's characterization of 'Otis' from the first 2 Superman pictures. He did both a bang-up job in a comic relief role as the dim-witted henchman. He also gave us a sort of throw-back to the sort of characters (some crooks, some pals with the heroes) that were found in the old comic book stories of the 1940's and '50's. POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"Rather muddled, thanks to production problems, but still a lot of fun.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw Superman II, in 1980, I was an easily impressed 12-year-old who was too astounded by the on-screen spectacle and special effects to notice any problems with the film's story. However, having just re-watched the theatrical release (for the first time in years), I was amazed to see some glaringly obvious errors in continuity.After reading a few of the more in-depth comments about the film on IMDb, I am now aware that the originally released cut was something of a 'Frankenstein's monster' a mixture of footage shot by director Richard Donner and his eventual replacement, Richard Lester. But even despite its narrative glitches&#151;the unfortunate result of studio meddling&#151; it still manages to be a pretty fun superhero film.Christopher Reeve returns as the Man of Steel&#151;faster than a speeding bullet and able to leap tall buildings in a single bound&#151;and, once again, he must save the Earth from danger, which this time comes in the form of three super-villains each possessing the same powers as himself. He also has to come to terms with the fact that, sometimes, being a superhero ain't that great in order to spend his life with the woman he loves (Lois Lane, played by Margot Kidder), he must give up his powers.The action in this film is great starting with an exciting set-piece atop the Eiffel tower and culminating in a terrific showdown between Superman and his three evil counterparts (played by Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas, and Jack O'Halloran). Superman II provides more genuine excitement than half-a-dozen modern superhero films, proving that good ideas are far more important than jaw-dropping CGI.It is only when scenes from Donner's vision obviously jar with Lester's footage that the film stumbles there are quite a few inconsistencies in the plot, and when things aren't explained very well (such as how Superman actually gets his powers back), I tend to get a bit antsy. A lot of viewers seem to have a big problem with Lester's more comedic approach; I don't mind this too much, as I find that it suits the comic-book style (I think a lot of films based on comics take themselves far too seriously).I am interested to see Donner's cut of the film, which has recently been released on DVD; the general consensus seems to be that it is the better version. Until then, I am content with the cut that I currently own. It's lightweight entertainment, and certainly a lot better than Superman Returns. "}{"Title":"Superman 2 - the super sequel","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion Superman 2 surpassed Superman 1. For one thing in Superman 1 they took almost an hour explaining the origins of Superman. Secondly the ending could have been more thrilling. Now back to Superman 2. Gene Hackman returned as Superman's arch nemeses Lex Luthor. On top of that there were three villains from outer space, who create absolute havoc in Metropolis. I see this movie as two parts,the first being The Clark Kent/Lois Lane love story and the second where Superman returns to take on the villains. After this movie things started to go downhill, Superman 3 was bearable, Superman 4 was torture and Superman returns was a waste of time. Everything was top notch, the scripting, the effects and much more. Superman 2 was the super sequel. "},{"Title":"SuperOmanTIC (DVD)","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This second part in the Superman movies comes in straight line from the first one, but it begins also the drop of quality of the franchise.As commented in Superman I & Superman Returns (reviewed in IMDb), I saw this Superman not as a extraordinary human who happens to be in love, but rather the opposite as a common folk in a welcomed love story but who happens to have super powers&#133; In other words, Superman is a bonus to his private life and not a goal in his life.It is very clear in this sequel, because Superman only appears to save Lois Lane in Paris, at Niagara Falls,&#133; As Lois finally discovers the truth, he accepts calmly to lose his powers. Without being stern, he lacks some sense of responsibility (With great powers comes heavy responsibility ! OK, Spiderman&#133;.).Finally, when he learns his duty (in a symbolic shoot when he brings back the American flag), it isn't explained by countries and people in chaos, but because he realized that Lois is totally torn by their special romance. As he cares for her, he ends their romance in an amnesiac kiss, so that he can become Superman at 100%. This part of the script is interesting because this moral dilemma is rather lacking in his colleagues (Batman,&#133;). This is something I completely missed when I saw it the first time.Except this, the enjoyment of the first movie has disappeared Kidder, Reeve and Hackman delivers excellent moments but the Kryptonian villains have no charisma. Then, there isn't any emotional support from the soundtrack, the successor of John Williams bringing no new themes. The special effects look like cartoons.So if the story is good, the final product is rather a deception. I would like to see the version of the original director, Richard Donner, to have a final feeling about this movie! "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Superman II is definitely one of the best sequels. I do agree with another review that was done that the richard lester version was done more on a comedic level instead of the Richard donner version which is more like an action/adventure. In fact sometimes friends of mine and I watch the movie and laugh at some of the dialog and some of the scenes because they really are goofy, but in a good way. I love the 3 villains, but truthfully they should have been portrayed as rougher and someone we would all be scared of, at times you can only laugh, especially at Non. I think the beginning of the movie was great when rolling the credits to flashbacks of Superman I. You definitely can tell the difference between some of the scenes shot by Richard donner and the scenes shot by richard lester. I think the movie was great, but probably would have been better if Lester had just continued where Donner left off. Why someone wont release the Donner footage i will never understand. What good is it locked up. "},{"Title":"Is there no-one on this planet to even challenge me?!","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arguably the best of the Super-flicks with Reeve reprising the title role amiss all sorts of the backstage disruption. Fans will know that whatever the credits say this is Richard Donner's film, albeit modified a touch by replacement director Dick Lester. Usually a change of face behind the camera can make for an uneven spectacle, witness for hotch potch that is Casino Royale (1967) for example, but the miracle of Superman II is that it's coherent, tightly focused stuff &#150; the changes in tone between the martyred Donner and his less talented successor barely notable amongst the movie's many pleasures.Of course it would have been hard for Lester to ruin the second film when the bulk of it had been done nearly 18 months previously. It would be like you building your own home from scratch, adding all the fixtures and fittings and then having a heart attack only for the bloke who did the painting and guttering while you were hospital taking credit for the finished abode. In light of this directed by Richard Lester may be the most spiteful credit in Hollywood history&#133;some would say even on the movies he did direct himself. Its all down to the Salkinds of course, those Icelandic loonies who could be thankful that the man they hated had done all the groundwork, effectively guaranteeing the sequel's success prior to completion. Everything memorable in this Superman is his doing &#150; the tender scenes between Lois and Clarke, the climatic fight between Terrance Stamp's General Zod, Ursa and Non and the man of steel and the fortress of solitude end game &#150; all played straight using Donner's mantra of dramatic integrity over weightless camp. All of this begs the question of what Lester actually did to earn his director's credit? Not enough would be a fair answer and the real director could and should have sued the super-arse off all concerned.Memorable for many reasons, not least Stamp's scene chewing performance - Kneel before Zod! has entered the lexicon of popular culture as much as Kryptonite and the red cape; Superman II succeeds in developing the relationship between Reeve and Kidder while effortlessly extending the first film's epic reach. Yes, you can feel the quality as well as the width with this one. There's almost nothing wrong with it but if we have to nickpick and we do, Brando's backstage greed saps the re-worked opening of its significance as Jor-El is not present thus the 'punish the son of our gaoler' angle that explains Zod's hatred of Superman seems forced and would Supes really go back and kick the bar brawler's backside at the end? I'm glad he did but it feels naughty, Superman having a self-indulgent moment &#150; mind you it is consistent with the overall theme of dispatching bullies both alien and domestic that fills the film's last half-hour. A great sequel all told as well as a cautionary tale about the pitfalls of romancing some girl while the world is being destroyed by intergalactic super-criminals, but even as audiences sat down to enjoy it they had no idea that the source of its success had already been shown the door long before it had hit the cinemas. It would take another three years and Richard Pryor before the consequences of the Salkind's actions became clear &#150; a destructive force in Super-terms that General Zod could only have dreamt about Superman III &#150; the producers crushing the audience's hand for a full two hours. "},{"Title":"more like the comic book, which is a good thing!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although I only read Superman, Justice League and Adventure Comics for a short period in the early 1960's as a kid, I have to say Richard Lester's SUPERMAN II, even with all its faults, is far superior in matching the feel of them to Donner's original first SUPERMAN. If Lester had never heard of nor seen Superman comics as one commentator here claims, there certainly must've been someone on the production who understood the comics (or else Lester did massive research catch-up). SUPERMAN II has the closest feeling to a comic book of all the SUPERMAN movies without the bloated self-importance and generic homogenized look of Donner's original. I know the first was photographed by the great Geoffrey Unsworth, but you could have fooled me. I saw the first film when it was originally released and thought it looked - well, dreary, half-baked. Seeing part of it again recently only intensified this impression. Unfortunately, Lester did really fall down on SUPERMAN III which was just plain terrible - if he really wanted to go totally absurd, he would have been better served in bringing in characters from the Bizzaro World alternate universe of the '50s/'60s era comics (something the movies have unfortunately never tapped!), rather than the totally-out-of-place and poorly conceived Richard Pryor character.Another commentator was wrong about Lester never having directed any epics - he directed THE THREE MUSKETEERS and FOUR MUSKETEERS in the early-to-mid seventies which had stellar casts and just the right balance of action and humor as well as fairly well-done period atmosphere. "},{"Title":"The series gains more of a comic-book feel... for better or for worse","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" From what I've heard, the original director, Donner(who also directed the first) had a completely different vision of this. Odd, though, since it seems so much like the first. In any event... Lester came in and re-shot most of Donner's work on this, and the result is a much less epic piece of cinema. Most of the allusions to Christianity are gone. The cinematography now displays much more of a comic-book look... horizontal pans to simulate reading a comic book as well as framing altered to fit that. It has been said that Lester had no respect for the character... perhaps even a disdain. While that may be true, he does create a sequel that captures the root of it better than the original. The plot is fair. It picks up nicely from the first, with the three entrapped baddies from the opening of the first released... alive and killin'. The idea of Superman sacrificing his powers to marry Lois was interesting, though it could have been utilized better. I do like the development of the relationship between Lois and the title character... not to mention his somewhat clumsy alter-ego. The pacing is quite good... it seemed to work better than that of the first. After a title sequence that is so long that it should be a short movie in itself(much like that of the first, though this is less drab to sit through), which is inter-cut somewhat lazily with parts of the first(as a half-hearted attempt at a proper summary of it, I suppose... did people have an awful memory in the early eighties, not being able to remember a film that came out no more than two years before, and was re-watching it a complete impossibility at the time?), but once that is over, the film never really seems to lose momentum. The acting is fair, if a few of the performances are (perhaps deliberately, like much of the rest of the film?) overplayed. The humor remains silly, and is even slightly worse than that of the first. I missed the wit of Superman in this one. The villains remain moronic, though they do at least pose a reasonable threat. Some of the writing is downright awful. Characters' actions go unexplained. In one scene, civilians are threatened in a major battle, so what do they do? Run, as would be the sane and instinctive reaction? No, they cheer for their hero, ignoring the fact that they're in danger. That being said, I still enjoyed this overall at least as much as the first, and in some ways, possibly a little more. A pretty decent sequel, if you can live with the utter slaughter of most of what made the first film so popular. I recommend this to fans of the first and of superhero flicks in general, though I would urge anyone who loved the first to lower their expectations, or maybe even skip this altogether. I would imagine some might regret watching this. 7/10 "},{"Title":"But don't they get parole?","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Clearly a more enjoyable motion picture than SUPERMAN THE MOVIE, for reasons that it develops and directly continues what was foreshadowed and left open in the original film. I was thoroughly entertained by the charm and wit of SUPERMAN 2... From scenes of Clark and Lois in Niagra Falls, where Lois Lane finally reveals her suspicions of Clark and Superman being one, and after a terrible mishap... (caused with devious intent by Lane), Clark is told You were who I thought were Superman?.The action even starts immediately, in Paris when Superman disarms a potential catastrophe, but while simultaneously, and unwittingly freeing 3 prisoners from The Phantom Zone - infuriated villains, especially Zod (played magnificently by Terence Stamp) who were jailed by Jor-El in the first movie. Lex Luthor returns with the same cynical humor as in the first film, I laughed when he said, But couldn't they get parole?It is hard to distinguish the Donner scenes from those made by Lester, but nonetheless this does not make the film of lesser entertainment value, because a lot of trailer moments in here, comic relief and romance. Might I even say the performances are even better than that of the original film, Reeve portrays his Clark Kent persona with much more bungling sensitivity, and watch the darker side of Kent as he attempts to confront a bully, while stripped off of his Kryptonian powers. And Margot Kidder, gives much passion and child-like adventurosity to Lois Lane.What I didn't really like about Superman II, was one thing - the opening credits I could have done without all the recaps from the first movie, but I can assure you the salvaged John Williams theme performed by another composer is NOT ruined either but even a layman to music, like myself can discern slight alterations to the tone of the instruments, but nonetheless the new composer stays faithful; and may I just say if you want a better revival and re-use of Williams's classic scoring, it is found in SUPERMAN RETURNS. I have not seen the series 3rd and 4th installment, but it is all right as RETURNS, the movie which came out this year as well as fans choose to ignore those installments of lesser quality.Though many have found the dual-director shifting an awkward undertaking, as I have stated I could NOT tell apart the Donner scenes from the Lester-directed sequences, but the writing is just as skillful as the first film because of Mario Puzo and company, you will also find clearer exposition in this film, unless I missed it if it was in SUPERMAN THE MOVIE, in here the villains state that the molecular structure of Kryptonians are increased, thus giving them abilities aplenty because of their exposure to our Solar System's sun. In contrast, it is the rays of the sun of Krypton that can remove those powers... at least temporarily. Notice, the much darker tone of portraying the antagonists, a tone set and maintained, the three fugitives begin their reign of terror at our friends in the Lunar Excurscion Module, just when our Supes has the inclination to settle down. The conflict within is when he discovers that settling down might NOT be an option after all.Superman II is as exciting as it can get, but interestingly it does NOT have a commonplace Hollywood finale, there is denouement here and there, but watch the sentimental and almost tragic resolve to Clark/Superman and Lois Lane's relationship when our Supes is left with but one choice - thus explaining why Lane does NOT know who the man of steel really is in the movie that follows this one, NOT the 3rd and 4th installment which may rightfully be ignored, but 2006's SUPERMAN RETURNS.All in all, Superman II is a highly enjoyable treat of Saturday Matine entertainment although my first viewing of this one in my PC was a rather first house schedule due to school... Nonetheless, those seeking a light, funny, action-packed piece with good music and some of the finest acting need no look further than this 1980 outing. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Big Mac Movie and Sequel","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nothing says America like Superman...or big Hollywood blockbusters and MacDonalds Big Macs (or Royales With Cheese as they're known in parts of Europe). This sequel to Superman The Movie (aka the comic book Gone With the Wind) is like a tasty combination of all three.This movie amazingly narrowly avoids being a z grade clunker (and it comes dangerously close in some scenes) mainly on the strength of the Superman legend, the acting (especially by Reeves, Kidder, and Hackman), and its lightweight, unpretentious charm. Depending on your view, its either endearingly corny, or hopelessly dated. To me however, its both. As with Raiders of the Lost Ark, the out of date special effects help rather than hinder, something other blockbusters, like Jurassic Park (whose premise hinges on the audience believing scientifically accurate dinosaurs have been recreated through technology) couldn't get away with. One of the few comic book movies that actually feels like a comic book come to life (like Superman The Movie, Batman, and Spider-man 2)The dulcet chemistry between Reeves and Kidder, which shines even the much maligned Superman IV The Quest For Peace, helps gives what could have simply been a big, crass, flavor of the month American toy movie some warmth and heart. Their doomed romance has gravitas absent from many later comic book movies, like Batman Begins and Spider-Man. All in all, its great for a nostalgic trip back in time, to see the rise of the designed to sell McBlockbuster from its humble 1970's origins in bestseller adaptations like The Godfather (which Mario Puzo also co-wrote with Francis Ford Coppola), The Exorcist, and Jaws. Enjoy it with some coke, and a big mac (or Kentucky Fried Chicken as the movie's product placement suggest), and remember statistically speaking flying is still the safest way to travel. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel.","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II tells the story of three Kryptonian criminals that Superman's father Jor-El once imprisoned, escaping and landing on the planet Earth, discovering that they have all the powers Superman has. The three of them team up with Lex Luthor to take Superman down. The only problem is that he's missing. He's given up his powers as Superman so he can live a normal life with Lois Lane. Now, as the world is in danger or destruction, Superman must sort out what his priorities are. Though not as good as the first film, Superman II is highly entertaining and packs a good punch.Richard Donner managed to turn the first Superman film into an iconic smash hit. He was well on his way to turning Superman II into an even bigger hit, but due to artistic differences between him and the producers, he was fired and replaced at the last minute. I can't help but think Superman II would be on a par with the first film if Donner had stayed on board. However, a lot of his ideas and footage still remained, so Superman II manages to have the same serious yet funny style that made the first film so good. I liked how this movie gave Superman an actual threat rather than just Luthor, a regular guy with brains, though I like the character. The action scenes are just as fun, and the dramatic scenes flow just as well.Christopher Reeve does a blowout job as Clark Kent/Superman once again, and Gene Hackman is hilarious once again as Lex Luthor. Terence Stamp was kind of corny at times in the role of General Zod, but overall he was cool.Overall, though Superman II isn't as great as the first film, it still manages to flow along the same lines, and for that, I like it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Meeting your match...","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This time Superman (Played well by Christopher Reeve) meets his match in the villains of Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran who have all the super powers of Superman but out-number him, however things complicate when Superman trades in his power for a normal life, although he realizes he must fight the overwhelming odds when the terrible threesome take over the planet. Superman II is often times considered to be an improvement over the first one and while this is certainly a great movie to watch, I personally prefer Superman #1 due to it's sense of wonder and good natured drive. That is not to say that Superman II doesn't always equal the greatness of # 1, for instance the romance between Lois Lane(Margot Kidder) and Clark Kent/Superman(Christopher Reeve) provides unexpected texture to the climatic proceedings, even if it is somewhat of a letdown by what happens at the end. The villains are well played and the ice palace is great. Although the character of Lex Luther is a big distraction, especially since he's hardly the threat that the three super villains are. Still for a superior adaptation of a comic book, Superman II is one of the best.* * *1/2 out of 4-(Very good) "}{"Title":"One of the best Sequels...can't wait for the Donner Version...","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I'm still excited and anticipating both Superman Returns and the Richard Donner cut of Superman II, I can only go back and appreciate the two great Superman Epics that changed the way action/science fiction movies are made today (yes, I say the two Superman movies because, in my eyes, III and IV did NOT happen&#133;god bless Bryan Singer!). This film, while somewhat contradictory to part one in a small manner, and a bit choppy with it's editing and humor, IS an exciting and riveting piece of comic book action adventure, and one to be watched and enjoyed time and time again. While I'm still upset that Donner's cut never saw the light of day, Richard Lester did his best no to destroy this blockbuster sequel&#133;he did THAT in Superman III. The film reunites Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder in one of the most famous romances in pop culture. It combines the classic romantic elements with a great and powerful storyline, packed with great villains, catastrophic events, and bellicose battle sequences in to one of the best movie sequels of all time.The film picks up only a short time after Superman/Clark Kent/Kal-El (Christopher Reeve) brought the villainous real-estate tycoon/master criminal, Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) to justice after his cataclysmic plan to destroy California. After Clark is notified by his aggressive and fast-talking boss, Perry White (Jackie Cooper), about Lois Lane's (Margot Kidder) venture to Paris, France to cover a hydrogen bomb threat&#133;Superman rushes to the rescue. Within minutes he rescues Lois, topples the terrorists, and hurls the vicious bomb into outer space. Little does Superman know&#133;the bomb's explosive impact destroyed the chamber in which his father's arch nemesis, General Zod (Terence Stamp) was imprisoned in. Zod, along with his female accomplice, Ursa (Sarah Douglas), and the mindless Non (Jack O'Halloran), head for Earth&#133;as Zod puts Finally to Rule! Meanwhile, Lex Luthor, the self proclaimed Greatest criminal mind of all time has managed to break free of his maximum security prison with one thing on his mind&#133;Revenge on Superman. Following their story involving a corrupt ring of Honeymoon Hotels&#133;Lois Lane finally discovers Clark's identity&#133;Superman. This only leads for the two to confess their love for one another&#133;and flee to Superman's home, The Fortress of Solitude. While Lois and Kal-El focus on their flourishing love affair, General Zod and his followers begin tearing the United States apart&#133;from destroying a middle-America town, to defacing Mount Rushmore, and finally taking hold of the White House. After forcing his hand, Zod managed to make the President of the United States (E.G. Marshall) bow to him as absolute ruler.Now that Kal-El is cut off from the world&#133;he decides to relieve himself of his duties as our hero, to become human, all for Lois. Although his mother, Lara (Susannah York), warns him of his inability to return, Kal-El chooses to use the Fortress's crystal chamber to become human. Now, as Clark, he and Lois try to begin a normal life with one another. It is only after he is pummeled by a bully at a diner, that Clark discovers his father's enemy has now taken over the globe. Now he must return to the Fortress, now in ruins, to beg his father's guidance. Once his powers return, he sets a course to Metropolis, where he makes an awful discovery, that the Daily Planet and Lois Lane are being held by General Zod and his new partner&#133;Lex Luthor. Now Superman must take on his deadly enemies from street to stars, from buildings to ice, all for Truth, Justice, the American way, Lois and his father. Returning Christopher Reeve once again does a brilliant job with the role that will forever hold his presence, Superman. He gives such power and heroism to the character, and is able to match that with grace and humanity&#133;showing it isn't easy nor luxurious to be the Man of Steel. Margot Kidder does an amazing job as Lois, I thought she did an even better job this time around. You really believe that she is heart broken because of her tragic love for Superman, and, in the end, you can't help but feel her pain. Terence Stamp creates one of the most memorable, cunning, and ferocious villains that film history has ever seen. His deep and powerful voice and memorable dialog make his General Zod unbeatable. Gene Hackman returns to the ego-maniacal, venomous, and often hysterical version of master villain Lex Luthor. While some may argue his Lex as a joke, I can't help but love his snaky performance&#133;a dark villain is good&#133;but a villain you can laugh with is far more enjoyable.Filled with incredible visual effects for it's time, a powerful musical score (recycled from John Williams), and brilliant performances all around&#133;this is one Action-filled comic book film that you do not want to miss. "},{"Title":"A Deserved Follow-Up to a Legend","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman is definitely the finest and strongest and the most lovable of all the good old days action heroes. It is therefore natural that his story is not limited into one movie and great amount of the magic that the previous film has pertains into this continuation too and the Superman is greater than ever.The three criminals, who were imprisoned in the first movie at the Planet Krypton, arrived at Earth to threaten the President and make people's life difficult. Unfortunately for our present quest is the Superman currently seriously considering to leave his supernatural powers for love's sake with a woman from Earth. Luckily he takes that decision into reconsideration as the Earth happens to be again in peril.Much of the fascination of the Superman is owed to the actor Christopher Reeve. Now when he is not present anymore his character truly possess an aura that only a true superhero, and childhood's hero, has. "},{"Title":"Please,W.B. a new score by John Williams !!!","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am so Happy to read about the Richard Donner cut's of Superman 2, it was something that all fans were waiting for a such long time , at least it have worked very well! But it will be also extremely appreciated to have a new score composed by Maestro John Williams !!! One of the weak points of S2 was th re-use of the score as heard in Superman-the movie...AsRichard Donner is returning to this project, John Williams should be asked to re-score the film as well, I think that a new score will be a nice task to do, if the schedule of the Maestro John Williams permit to do so... Then it will be a complete fun to see the film !!! "},{"Title":"A Worthy follow up","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the success of the original Superman, it was almost guaranteed that a second film would be made. The films were in fact shot back to back, although a lot of footage was re-shot prior to the release of Superman II. This was primarily because of the dismissal of original director Richard Donner.Superman II is more of a continuation of the first film than a sequel, with many of the original's unresolved issues finding closure here. The film opens with a flashback to the first Superman film, with the trial and subsequent imprisonment in the Phantom Zone of the three Kryptonian rebels &#150; General Zod, Ursa and Non. When the film proper begins, we find Superman rushing to Paris to stop a terrorist group from detonating a hydrogen bomb. Superman successfully hurls the bomb into deep space, thus averting the disaster. Unfortunately, the resulting explosion frees the Kryptonian rebels (who just happen to be passing through the area) from imprisonment in the Phantom Zone. The three head to Earth, where they discover that they have fantastic powers, and begin their bid for world domination.Like the first film, Superman II features great performances from the cast. In addition to Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder and Gene Hackman, the film is bolstered by excellent performances from the three villains. Terence Stamp is the standout baddie in his role as General Zod, although Jack O'Halloran is very amusing as the mindless thug Non. "},{"Title":"The Best Picture of (1980)","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That one was was my 2nd favorite.  If I said Superman IV The Quest For Peace was my 2nd one, I made a mistake.  That one is my 3rd favorite.  I was so excited.  But, this one, this my 2nd favorite.  I watch this nonstop. I even like the fight between Zod, Ursa, and Non against Superman.  I even liked how he fools them by taking their powers away from them.  That is my best picture of (1980), best Warner Bros movie, best rated PG movie, and best movie poster of (1980). "},{"Title":"Second best","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Along with Wrath of Khan and Empire Strikes Back kind of proves that second film in a series can improve on the first. As with other user comments Superman gets to kick backsides in this film in a way that no other superhero on screen does easily until .... ever!The film dodges the TV moralising of the first film. The only shame is Lester mucking around with the character rules that Tom Mankiewich and Richard Donner created for the first film and the wierd marrage of Lester's footage - watch as Reeve's hair parting changes sides and Margot Kidder looses weight.What I would really like Warner Bros to do rather than make a new Superman film is give Richard Donner title to reassemble Superman 1 and 2 as maybe a 3 hour film. 1 hits all the right character notes but then goes nowhere - 2 has all the meat but Lester hams it up. "},{"Title":"Superior sequel..... WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILER","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the land of sequels, SUPERMAN II is another superior sequel that delivers on his promise of 'more of the same', but does it with far greater humour and spectacle. Granted, this is effectively the second part of SUPERMAN THE MOVIE, as the sequel was effectively already shot as the original 141 minute movie was playing to packed houses in cinemas. Still, I am sure most of my fellow fans remember seeing this on it's original release in the spring of 1981. Although today some of the Zoptic process is a lot more obvious, in the widescreen DVD version, this is not as apparent as in some of the full frame versions that have been released on video and screened on TV and I would suggest that if you haven't seen it for a long time, go out and rent or buy the DVD version to get a sense of how good the film really is. Terence Stamp and Sarah Douglas steal the film from Reeve and Hackman as Zod and Ursa and the relationship between Lois and Superman is also one of the other strengths of the film.SPOILER!!! Favourite moment is the climactic scene in which Clark gets his revenge on the trucker who beat him up in the diner when he lost his powers.... "},{"Title":"A Super Sequel","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before the Superman franchise went completely to hell with the third and fourth installments and the spin-off Supergirl, there was this fitting follow-up. Superman II picks up where the original movie left off and brings back most of the original cast (the notable exception is Marlon Brando, whose scenes as Jor-El were cut by the producers to avoid paying him royalties). Since Superman II doesn't have to go through all the exposition that the first film had to it is shorter, faster paced, and has more action.Superman (Christopher Reeve) renounces his powers for the love of Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) after she discovers his secret identity. Meanwhile, Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) escapes from prison and joins forces with three Kryptonian criminals (Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas, and Jack O'Halloran) accidentally freed from the Phantom Zone by the Man of Steel. Superman must somehow regain his abilities when the evil Kryptonians conquer America.Superman II boasts some wonderfully over the top action sequences. It's like a comic book come to life. Because he's so powerful, Superman needs big challenges in order to be an interesting character. It's a stroke of genius to pit Superman against three bad guys who all have his powers, forcing Supes to rely on his brains and courage instead of brawn. The villains are great, particularly Stamp's power hungry General Zod.But what also makes this film work is the surprisingly touching and bittersweet love story. Superman is torn between his love for one woman and his duty to protect the entire world. His final decision is heartbreaking but understandable. Superman II does have some flaws , including numerous plot holes, shameless product placements, and the injection of some silly comedic bits that foreshadow the campy disaster that was Superman III. Overall, though, it is a fun fantasy film with spirited characters and a witty script.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":" You're a pain in the neck","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Christopher Reeve is marvelous as Superman in this charming adventure farce. The supporting cast is excellent. The costumes are elegant. One of the good movies in the genre, Superman 2 will whisk the viewer away to new heights. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superman II The Adventure Continues","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN 2 is my favorite sequel. The Man of Steel has meet his match with the Super-Powered Kryptonian Outlaws of home his planet called krypton. These 3 fugitives were release from the nuclear explosion in space while, the phantom zone crashed into peaces. They flew to planet earth and had same powers that is linked to Superman's powers. The first Superman movie shows Terence Stamp (General Zod), Sarah Douglas (Ursa), and Jack O'Halloran (Non) trapped in a circle while, the gates of krypton's rooftops opens to the flying mirror image kite envelops a prison cell shapes like a diamond that swallows these 3 up. They were sentenced to the phantom zone for years and years til they meet Superman. General Zod is the leader of the army war of krypton, Non is a big tough guy who couldn't speak, and Ursa is a Man-Hatered Woman who also collects symbols. They were helding Planet Earth hostage til Clark changed back into Superman and meet them for the battle.Kal-El became an ordinary human without his powers and decides to marry Lois. Lois figure out that Clark is Superman. She was being a noisy parker on Clark's secret and the end, Clark gives Lois a kiss and erases her mind to forget all about him being Superman. I like the part of this movie that Superman walked in the crystal chamber and started to loose his powers, but the whole area of the fortress glows red and he had a fake idea how to get rid of General Zod and his team. They lost their powers and he got rid of them. But Lois got rid of Ursa for Superman and says to her You know something, your the pain in the neck and she punched her. Superman didn;t know how to get rid of Ursa. But Lois helped him.Superman II is a great adventure movie in family times.    "}{"Title":"A good sequel to the original hit!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sequel is what superman movies are meant to be about - action packed, plot driven, with little care to characterisation or any other boring factors that often plague superhero movies! Seperman is more enjoyable than batman because it is more upbeat and never depressing! the scenes with lois lane are great, and it is a great way to spend two hours! Well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Still a classic","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even by todays standards I believe that this film still has much to offer. The good versus evil battle that puts the good guy fighting against all the odds is still a winning formula used by Hollywood execs even to this day. Let down only by two further mediocre sequels that have tarnished the very nature of the series you can still look back and say that you'll believe a man can fly. OK the film still has flaws ie the end battle at Superman's home. How did all the Super villains know how to make themselves into holograms with Superman. What the hell was the S thing that Superman throws at Non when Non does his flying charge. How did Lex get from the Arctic to jail. However more recent films consist of far more flaws even by todays standards e.g. Batman and Robin. I wouldn't even know where to begin with that pile of crap. Anyway by summing up I still love this film for giving me a superhero that I could worship and provide me with an icon that will be with me always "},{"Title":"The new powers","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my first shot at writing a review in IMDb, but I felt like I had to start somewhere and so . . . Superman II. Strange choice, but there were strange things going on in this film.I *do* like it - I thought it was a great sequel - I remember the most from when I was younger because I was a superman nut, and this film was the only one I had on tape. But, watching it again recently was also good.The soundtrack (as in the first) is fantastic, the way it builds up to action and gives the film that sense of hero and power. I hated the way that the next to superman movies just used it as a background 'noise' such crap.Anyway, after watching it again recently I was marvelled to so see how many new powers were in this film . . . loads!One of the bad guys - Zorg or something - can walk on water?? whats that about? He can levitate things - he takes the gun off a sheriff by just waving his hand in the way. They can all make doubles of themselves to fool each other. A kiss from superman makes you forget stuff - where that one came from I have noooo idea. And since when can superman pull out a big cling-film 'S' out of his chest to cover someone? Remarkable!Watch it anyway - its cool. "},{"Title":"Man this is gonna be good!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I only had one word to describe this movie it would be PayoffIt's been arqued for years now which film is better, this or the first film. I just like to think of them both as significantly good films.(WARNING MAJOR SPOILER ALERT.  Do not read if you havent seen the film)In this return of The man of steel ,Superman (again played brilliantly by Christopher Reeve)faces off against the same Three Kryptonians that his father enslaved for trying to rule Krypton.  They are lead by General Zod, (executed flawlessly by Terence Stamp). Zod and his loyal associates (Vampy seductive Ursa and mindless, speechless giant Non) almost took over Krypton when they were mere mortals.  Now that they have Super-human powers, they are practically unstoppable on Earth.  Things get even more complicated when Superman chooses to give up his powers in order to have the only thing he has ever wanted. A normal life with Lois.Just as the first film dealt with Supermans' complex difficulties of being Earths' hero and risk losing the people close to him, this film digs even deeper by turning things the other way. It explores Supermans' complexities of having the make the difficult decisions between personal happiness and public responsibility.The on-screen chemisty between Superman and Lois (play dynamically well by Margot Kidder) is one of the best things showcased in ths film. The most memerable and emotionally poinent scene is at the end when Lois comes to terms letting Superman go.This movie, as most movies, is not without it's flaws.  The scene-stealing arch-villian Lex Luther (again handle gracfully by Gene Hackman) returns to do his dirty work.  Unfortunatly, instead of getting to see that great screen presence that Hackman had brought to the first film. He's imbarrassing upstaged as soon as the Kryptonians arrive and reduced to the level of mild comic relief.  This film also has some visual that don't age every well and are reduced by todays' standards.  People seeing this film for the first time are surly to critizie the humble tehcniques used to create some of the key action sequences.This film was originally directed by the man who made the first film a classic, Richard Donner.  He left the projcet, do to create differences and the film was finished by Three Musketeers directer Richard Lester. Fortunatly ,much of Donners' signiture work still resides in the finished product.Superman II should be a film school case study on the right way to make a sequel, because it is by far the best sequel ever made, tied with The Empire Strikes Back.  I would say Godfather part II, but it's half prequel.ExplanationThere is only one true reason to have a sequel, to finish telling the story that was started in the original, by expanding on the recurring character and not just to make more money.In the first film, we the audience are fully introduced to Kalel and the more significant people in his life. That set the stage for the next act.Here's where the film becomes a significant sequel  The audience gets the payoff of what would happen if Lois and Clark got together. We see what happens when the three Kryponian criminals escape the Phantom Zone. We see what happens when Superman is giving the chance to have a normal life as a mortal.  All there questions we had after seeing the first film are answered in the most entertaining way.To sum up, this is a must ,must see after seeing the first film.  "},{"Title":"A great sequel","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As sequels go it's one of the best, but not as good as Superman The Movie. It does have very good acting in it, and the special effects are as good as the first.This movie has it's faults though. First of all, the thought that Superman, with all his morals would think of himself first and give up his powers to marry Lois Lane is unthinkable and out of character. Secondly, speaking of character, the EXTRA powers that are given to Superman in this movie make it even harder to follow his character. Why didn't he use these powers in the first movie? I'll be happy to tell you why...Superman doesn't even have these powers at all. As with all super-hero movies, once the director or whomever goes outside the continuity of the character(s)it turns out to be the down fall of the movie itself.I did enjoy this movie a lot, but it still is a shadow of the first in the series. All in all, it was 3/4 Superman and 1/4 Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Best threesome ever created attack Superman!!!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jack O'Halloran, Sarah Douglas, and Terence Stamp produce very underrated results from this stellar film.  Terence Stamp as General Zod, O'Halloran as Non, and Douglas as Ursa join together upon their release from the Phantom Zone to wreak havok on Superman, who happens to be the son of their jailor, Jourell.  They realize they have spectacular power and move quickly over to earth to rule it as they had tried to on Krypton.  Superman has some key moves in this film.  He eye-beams a souffle for Lois to feast on and he also eye beams a branch to save Lois from Niagara Falls' rapids.  The man of steel becomes a mortal and all else seems to be going fine when Zod (Stamp) moves in and starts finger and eye beaming everyone and their mothers. Ursa eye beams a snake and Non tries to eye beam the snake, but is too retarded and fails miserably.  This film is full of good quotes, mostly all from the mouth of Zod.  He claims, (to Superman)The son of Jourell will be my slave....forever!  If you refuse, the millions of earthlings you protect will pay for your defiance!  Kneel before Zod!!!!!  The closer we get to an atmosphere with only 1 sun, a yellow sun, the more our molecular density gives us unlimited powers!  There are all kinds of other classics, but I will let you discover them on your own.  Go find this film right now for an experience that will change your life forever.  I used to skip college classes to sit at home in my room with a few cold ones and watch this film over, and over, and over and over.  It never gets old and it never makes me cease laughing.  I think Jack O'Halloran, Douglas, and Stamp should have won Oscars for the film, it is that good.         "},{"Title":"The adventure continue","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II takes off from where the first movie ends. Action from start to finish. This movie was made two years after the original and maintains the standard which continues the story of one of the world's greatest superheroes.Superman II begins with Superman foiling the plans of terrorists setting a hydrogen bomb in Paris. After getting rid of the bomb, Superman takes it far into deep space. It explodes and the bomb also allows three of Krypton's worst criminals to escape. Once they reach earth they vow to take over. If anything or anyone gets in their way, there will be a high price to pay. These mean creatures have the same powers as Superman. Meanwhile Superman and Lois Lane realise that they are falling in love and have a passionate love affair. The price for this is that the man of Steel has to relinquish his powers. So can superman save the earth from the evil criminals from Krypton or is he gone forever?Continuing on the role of Superman is the talented actor Christopher Reeve. It was a real treat to watch him again. His acting ability really comes out here. Whether he trying to act like Clark Kent or Superman, it looks as if he isn't even trying. He really is a genius. Then we have the role of General Zod, played by Terence Stamp. It is was a role which needed someone who could act as if he didn't care and again they found the right man for this role. Whether his accomplices were as good, in my view is debatable. Then we have Margot Kidder. In her early years, she was an attractive looking woman and perfectly scripted in the role of Lois Lane. Actually, the whole love affair part of this film was quite touching and leaves the audience wondering whether the man of steel is gone forever or not. Last but not least I must commend the role of Lex Luthor once again. Of course I am talking about Gene Hackman. He really is great as Lex Luthor. The scene where Luthor tries to bargain with the 3 evil Kryptonians at the Whitehouse was great.Many sequels in my view are done for the hell of it. Yet this film is one of the exceptions to that rule. I say some of the credit for this needs to go director Richard Donner. Even though he isn't credited as being part of the directing force behind Superman II, he was. Yet he mustn't have wanted anyone to know about it. I certainly didn't. Donner's influence certainly helped the final product. My favourite scene was when Superman tackled the three evil villains in Metropolis. This scene has action from start to finish and has the Donner presence in it also.The storyline of Superman II was also well done, and the credit for this needs to go to Mario Puzo. It was fascinating, well written and also able to follow the first movie perfectly. I would love to read the book of this film considering the way that it was bought to the big screen. So if you loved Superman, hire the sequel and get swept up with an excellent follow up movie. Up Up and Away!!!!!!Rating 4 out of 5 stars or 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Reeve At His Best!","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Superman II two years after seeing Superman. I saw it on the ABC Movie of the Week.I fell in love with it. Valerie Perrine & Hackman were back too bad Eve didn't have a bigger part.That aside,I loved the performances of the three phantom zone Villains My Favorite being Sarah Douglas's Ursa.For awhile there,I thought Reeve had met his match,In the end good always truimps over evil. STM & SII are the best comic book movies out there. Give them a shot.10 out of 10****stars.Check out the extended version and watch for the DVD in May. "},{"Title":"This text refers to the extended version!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Many different extended versions of this film appeared on various TV stations across the world.  These versions where a major improvement on an average film, that was badly butchered  A lot of the footage was that of Richard Donner before he was sacked from directing the film.  The longest known cut of Superman II appreared in Europe and Australia throughout the 1980s, and feature scenes that were not in the US extended screenings. The highlights of the expanded version to me, and scenes that I feel shouldn't have been cut are* Concorde scene (although this scene was destined to be in the orginal picture) * Alternate Prison Laundry scene * Extended NASA/Moon scenes * Extended Prison escape sequence * The full 9 min sequence with Eve and Lex exploring the fortress (This scene was abruptly edited in US TV versions, but can be found in full in the European/Australian versions) * Whitehouse scenes - Zod using the gun, Non scaring the dog and Ursa mincing words with the president's agents! * Extended scenes of Lex and the villains at the whitehouse * Daily Planet extended sequences - Lex's lines, Lex stealing perry's coffee * Extended battle scenes - Non crashing into the wall * The alternate Donner footage of the villains, Lex and Lois outside the fortress * The Arctic police taken away Lex and the villains - Superman's Blast off! line *  Long conversation between Superman and Lois at the fortress plus the full conversation on the balcony.All these scenes I have mentioned improve the film greatly!  the theatrical cut is just an average film.  Hopefully we may see the lost Brando footage restored to the DVD along with these scenes!Indo "},{"Title":"An Excellent Sequel","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the few sequels that actually eclipses the work of the original. In this edition of the Superman series, the caped superhero must battle three supervillians and his nemesis Lex Luthor, while learning to cope with his feelings for Lois Lane and the responsibilities that come with being a hero. The potential for having too many storylines is present in this movie, but the plots and subplots are skillfully crafted together, and an interesting, entertaining movie is the result.The acting, writing and directing are all excellent, and this movie is appropriate for the entire family, as it's full of funny, exciting and intriguing situations and sequences. I would recommend this movie to all audiences.   *** and 1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"The adventure continues","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" * * *  (3 out of 5)Superman IIDirected by Richard Lester, 1980Worthy sequel remembers what made the original great sincerity.  Some of the scenes were filmed simultaneously with the first Superman and in having already (and carefully) outlined the characters and origins, Superman II jumps right into action. At the same time it takes a slightly more dark and daring approach and director Richard Lester (some scenes by original director Richard Donner were re-shot by Lester and he got final credit) even added a loose slapstick edge to the proceedings.  The continuity is striking; the story is once again by Mario Puzo, the dialogue is fresh and the whole cast from the original return in good form. Margot Kidder and Christopher Reeve get to share several genuine love scenes and the otherwise innocent and naive feel of the franchise is momentarily abandoned as Superman gives up his powers (for Lois Lane) and gets a roughing at a roadside diner. Watching Superman/Clark Kent hurting and bleeding was more than some could take &#150; but it works well.  Gene Hackman as the twisted but humorous Lex Luthor is clearly having a field day once more, verbally sparring with the three new super villains as played by Terrence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran. Also thrown in the mix is Clifton James as a funny local hick sheriff &#150; practically portraying the same redneck peacemaker he did in two old James Bond movies (Live and Let Die, Man With The Golden Gun).  Somehow Superman II looks more dated than the original though &#150; maybe because it goes for action where the original went for awe &#150; but also because it in many scenes seems uneven. The battle scenes in and above the streets of Metropolis (on a huge set) look spectacular but feel restrained. Kids will love these scenes (I know I did back in the early 80s) but again much of the wonder of the original is gone, replaced by action-packed and matter-of-factly brawn.Side-note Look out for the immense product placement; a Marlboro van and huge Coca Cola sign during the aerial battle scene.   "},{"Title":"Sequel's don't get much better than this","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sequel to Superman The Movie practically equals the original, one reason being, because both I and II were made at the same time, both by director Richard Donner, but who was fired in the middle of II and practically an entire new Superman II was shot by director Richard Lester. Donner deserves the credit for maintaining the reality in this sequel - the drama, the romance, the action. Lester can be credited with providing some very funny scenes (although he is the only director credited in the movie). The sequel goes straight into the action, unlike the first, but then slows down, concentrating on the romance between Clark and Lois, and Lois discovering Clark's true identity. Half the film deals with their relationship and the other half deals with the three super-villains (accidentally released from the Phantom Zone by Superman) taking over the planet. The film moves to a grand double finale, with a superb Metropolis fight scene lasting about twenty minutes and then moving on to another finale at Superman's home. Many believe the sequel to be superior to the original, but it doesn't contain that true epic quality that Superman I possessed. This is obviously because of Donner's departure (blame the producers for that), followed by John Williams' resignation and Marlon Brando's scenes being cut (that way the producers wouldn't have to add Brando's credit to the movie and pay him any percentage of the profits!). Now without them, Lester re-shoots a lot of the sequel to make it his own, replacing Donner's involving, dramatic movie with some great comic scenes and some corny scenes. Williams' score is replicated by Ken Thorne, who simply doesn't match that spectacular feeling heard in the original, and Brando's scenes replaced Susannah York (Superman's mum). There's a lot of criticism here, but let me contradict myself and say that Superman II is still one of the most entertaining and watchable movies ever made. Unlike the first, it doesn't have the pressure of having to focus on Superman's background and can therefore move straight into the action, comedy and romance. Hackman is not as good as in the first, but this is only because of the corny lines he is given to say. This movie can be enjoyed again and again, and is probably easier to watch than the first one, because it is quicker and contains more comedy. But it is just a bit too funny, and Lester doesn't give Superman the integrity that Donner knew it deserved. For such a harsh review, this movie is still brilliant and deserves 9 out of 10, compared to Superman I's 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Manages to Hold Your Interest In Spite of Being Simple-Minded","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II doesn't really have a sense of building up the story as it supposedly takes place about a day after the original.  The movie sets into full motion from the start based an action sequences and continues the stretch of being action packed.  While Superman II manages to be fairly quick with the pacing, expand the characters, and provides some good special effects for its time (i.e. pre-computer graphics), the script on certain occasions can get so simple-minded, that the movie tends to lose a sense of anything logical.  When the film tries to be very ingenious and/or showy in certain areas, it's either pretty confusing or silly.  Not to mention that the movie throws in an absolutely ridiculous cop-out resolution for the relationship of the main characters.  Still, Superman II manages to be very entertaining throughout and is definitely superior to the films in the series that followed (Superman III, which was ultimately hampered by awkward and juvenile humor and a certain devoid of action while Superman IV was ultimately hampered by cheesy special effects, a thin story, and some considerable derivation from Superman II). "},{"Title":"SUPERMAN saves the world...paves the way for crappy third film.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN 2, suffers due to the lack of RICHARD DONNER. Donner was fired, shortly after the film had began shooting and was replaced by RICHARD LESTER. MARGOT KIDDER, was so upset, she became quite vocal about it......she was rewarded for this with about three lines in the horrid sequel, SUPERMAN 3. This film is good, but one can only imagine what it would have been like had Donner been kept. Planning for SUPERMAN 2, had commenced before the first one was even filmed. The production values on this one, are not nearly as good as the original. However, GENE HACKMAN, TERENCE STAMP, MARGOT KIDDER and CHRISTOPHER REEVE pick up for this slack with their fine performances. The battle over NEW YORK CITY, is a comic book lovers dream come true...however, the battle in Texas, is lame. If the three super baddies had shown up the US government would have sent in more than a rag tag platoon of National Guardsmen to combat them. They would have sent everybody! Of note, in the Texas scenes is the fact that these soldiers are not using US military gear or vehicles....I hate movies that do this. I happen to be one of those movie viewers who notice this sort of tripe. (I guess I'm a geek on this level....I like authenticity, dammnit!) It would seem that this film was rushed out, as not much time is given to the actors. Lester's style of directing is watchable, but not as compelling as Donner's. This film, at times had a sly wit to it (ie. the scene, where the super krypton bad guys, use their lazer vision to resuface MT. RUSHMORE with their likenesses) If you liked the first film, then by all means see this one. You'll enjoy it. However, SUPERMAN 2, was not all it could have been. "},{"Title":"Superman saves the world...again","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film which is a sequel to Superman (1978) contains a lot more action and violence and less drama than the original.In this one, the villainous trio of Zod, Ursa and Non (Terrence Stamp, Sara Douglas, Jack O'Halloran) imprisoned in the Phantom Zone in the first film, are accidently released by Superman and then proceed first to the Moon and then on to Earth to rule. There unbeknownst to them Superman a fugitive from their home planet of Krypton and the son of their arch enemy Jor-el awaits.Christopher Reeve is back as Superman and his nerdy alter-ego, Clark Kent. Margot Kidder and Jackie Cooper reprise their roles as Lois Lane and Perry White. Gene Hackman repeats his role of Lex Luthor and is less over the top than in the original. Ned Beatty appears briefly as Luthor's assistant Otis, and Valerie Perrine again appears as Miss Teschmacher. E.G. Marshall, in a hilarious fright wig, has a cameo as the President of the U.S. Clifton James also appears as a comical red-necked Southern sheriff.The special effects are dazzling, and director Lester keeps the action coming. The battle between Superman and the three villains in the middle of Metropolis is superb. The two encounters with the bully at the lunch counter are also worthy of note.Superman II is an excellent action film. It's too bad that the next two installments in the series could not measure up to the first two. "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of the three sequels following the superior Superman (1978) this is the best.  Great special effects, an awesome plot, and the acting is Oscar-worthy.In this sequel, the three villains who were cast into the Phantom Zone escape and go to earth.  Meanwhile, Superman wants to live his life with a mortal.  In order to do this he has his powers taken away.  Will Superman regain his powers in time to save the world from General Zod, Ursa, Non, and Lex Luthor?The second best of the Superman series starring Christopher Reeve is grandly entertaining.I give it 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Great movie !!cool story,great sequel!!!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second of the Superman movies is awesome!It brings back the three criminals who Superman's dad exiled into the phantom zone in the original . There is also a subplot involving the love Superman has for Louis Lane. The story is cool . This movie along with the first are my favorites of the series. My favorite part is when the criminals meet Lex Luthor and destroy Metropolis. It is a classic movie that everyone can enjoy even if you do not like superheroes!!!Overall, it a great movie with a cool story!!! "},{"Title":"Superior than the original","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II is the best movie out of the series with the best acting, best lines, and best scenes. The special effects also outshine the ones in the original film. Part II picks up about a day or so after the original ends. Clark Kent/Superman (Christopher Reeve) has saved California from utter destruction and goes back to being a normal reporter at the Planet. Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) arrives in Paris to cover a story about terrorists planning to blow up the city using a hydrogen bomb on the Eiffel Tower. Naturally, Lois gets into some trouble but Superman comes to save the day, he gets the elevator with the hydrogen bomb in it and throws it out into space where it explodes, but The Phantom Zone passes through our system at the same time and when it hits the shockwave of the explosion, it cracks releasing the three criminals imprisoned in the beginning of the original. Once they arrive on Earth, they create total destruction as General Zod (Terence Stamp) and his two followers Ursa (Sarah Douglas), and Non (Jack O'Holloran) try to establish a New Order. While all of this destruction is going on, Lois Lane accidentally finds out Clark Kent is one with Superman, and he ends up sacrificing his powers for her, and Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) breaks out of prison and joins forces with General Zod to help them destroy Superman. I have to say, this film is awesome! The fight scene between Superman and the PZ-3 is fantastic, with some of the best special effects I have seen in a movie. I loved the interaction between Zod, Ursa and Non and there are some funny scenes with Lois and Clark. Gene Hackman once again was terrific reprising his role as Lex Luthor, although he was shadowed as a minor villian to Zod. I have no negative thoughts about the performances, Jackie Cooper and Marc McClure return as well as Susannah York as Lara, Kal-El's mother, Valerie Perrine as Eve Tessmacher and Ned Beatty as Luthor's sidekick, Otis. An extremely wonderful movie which should be watched with the original or even more than just because everything in this movie is perfect. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie isn't exactly Citizen Kane, but its pretty darn good.  Far and away the best of the Superman series, it has an interesting plot and some memorable scenes.  The extent to which the romance angle is developed is quite unique for this sort of movie, and the contrasting plotlines is fabulous (while Superman marries Lois, the 3 villains take over the world (unbeknownst to him)).In the end, the plots collide in a superbattle over New York City.  The special effects are pretty good for the day, and the fight scene is very entertaining.  Far and away my favorite aspect of the movie is the several memorable quotes and scenes, like the ending (where Superman crushes Zod's hand), and Lex Luther demanding Australia as payment for locating Superman for the 3 villains.  The villains do a great acting job, especially the leader, Zod.  It is a great movie that is quite underrated because it is a sequel, and the series as a whole (especially the last two movies) leaves a lot to be desired.  "},{"Title":"And now another episode in the continuing story of...","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Only a select few sequels are ever recognized as following true to a predecessor.  Superman II is one of those sequels.  Picking up where the original film left off, Superman Two seems to focus more on General Zod and Co.'s dream of establishing a New World Order, now that they share the same powers of Jor-El's Son, powered by our orbiting sun.  But don't forget the added bonus of Lex Luthor's plan to try to give Zod, Ursa, and Non revenge by killing Kal-El (Superman) in retaliation for their banishment from Krypton by Jor-El.Still penned by Mario Puzo's powerful mind, the story does more than make it a worthy sequel to it's 1978 predecessor.  It shows you that Superman had more to face up to when he sacrificed his power for Lois Lane and learned of an arch Kryptonion war criminal who terrorized Krypton before his birth and was now terrorizing Earth.Interesting to this was the fact that Richard Donner directed a few scenes in Superman II and was replaced by Richard Lester due to creative differences, which can break up a unit almost altogether, like the Spice Girls.  Ken Thorne's music was relaxing, but his rendition of John Williams' score was still powerful, but not as gripping as the original orchestrations.Many could wonder what the bond between Lois and Superman would be like with Lois knowing that Superman's cover was blown only to her at the end.  Many could wonder what it would have been like to live under the rule of General Zod's iron fist.As before, only a select few sequels are given respect.  This should be considered one of them. "}{"Title":"Superman II squanders its potential, raising interesting questions but providing no answers","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Superman was a pretty silly movie, but a lot of that was attributable to the goofy stooge played by Ned Beatty. Superman II dumps Beatty early on, but instead of getting more serious as a result, everything else becomes dumber to compensate. The movie starts off with a long series of clips from the original, and recycled footage continues to pop up here and there, padding out the 2+ hour runtime. The trio of baddies headed by General Kneel Before Zod are actually pretty cool in a B-movie sort of way, with their struts and their Cirque du Soleil costumes. Following their reintroduction in an imaginative scene on the moon, the first half of Superman II sees some truly unexpected plot twists involving Lois Lane and Superman's relationship. These developments raise some interesting questions about the nature of Superman, and for a while it seems as if the franchise may take off in a bold and fresh new direction. At the midway point, a hologram of Superman's mother (Susannah York) underlines the absolute irreversibility of a decision by stepping out of her holographic projection crystal. This step feels momentous, and it pays off when Clark Kent visits a diner and gets thrown through a glass door in a bloody and sad scene underscored by shots of the desolate, frozen landscape outside. After that, though, things go rapidly downhill. All too soon, and without any real explanation or subsequent acknowledgment, the irrevocable decision is revoked and forgotten. An explanatory featuring Marlon Brando, Superman's father from the first film, was in fact filmed, but was cut due in part to a change of director midway through production. Since the scene was never replaced, the chance to develop the mythos and characters was lost, and throughout the second half of Superman II an offhanded silliness reigns. Sheriff J.W. Pepper (Clifton James), a cartoon character from two of the worst James Bond movies, had already shown up early on for no purpose, and although he disappears after a couple of scenes the tone he sets continues throughout the final act. The four invincible, flying aliens toss cars around Metropolis while onlookers and a hammy Gene Hackman crack lame jokes. The action hops to the Fortress of Solitude, but there are no real stakes to it now that the film has backed away from the precipice. The conclusion is cheaply-won and dissatisfying, and as the credits role another silly Superman movie starts to evaporate from the mind. "},{"Title":"Come to me, son of Jor-El! Kneel before Zod!!","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Originally, the 1978 film Superman was designed to be shot and released back-to-back with its immediate sequel. With the rivalry between the producer and director, things didn't work out that way, but Superman II still saw the light of day. The vast majority of it is still Richard Donner's work, but since the man was fired before he could finish it, Richard Lester stepped in to fill in the gaps.As a result, Superman II continues in the same general tone and quality as the first film, but with more of everything. With General Zod and his henchmen as superpowered villains wreaking havoc across the US, the spectacle is pretty darn cool; some of the most thrilling scenes include an epic battle across Metropolis, in which all the superpowered characters duel and cause mass destruction. Plenty of other interesting scenes, including fun sequences in Paris and Niagara Falls, keep the film evenly-entertaining.However, the film also has a lot of campy comedy, which can come off as being really silly (I blame a lot of it on Richard Lester's additions to the film). Once again, the film hasn't aged all that gracefully, so the special effects and production looks rather cheap and gaudy. Compared to the first film, this sequel doesn't quite have the same emotional punch or epic-scale ambition either.The story, however, covers some interesting ground. Characters remain charming as ever, but it gets really interesting when Superman faces the challenge of maintaining his secret identity, and makes the drastic decision to abandon his powers to experience human mortality and pain. The story is even more solid with Richard Donner's cut, which connects more thematically with the first film.This film has solid photography and editing. Christopher Reeve is still great as Superman, while Margot Kidder, Gene Hackman, and other major players return to provide more of the same as before. Terrence Stamp, Sarah Douglas, and Jack O'Halloran are wickedly fun as the villains. Writing is okay. This production uses okay-looking sets, props, costumes, and special effects. The film uses a few exotic locales to give the film a slightly bigger scope. The music score employs most of the same themes that were composed in the first film.The film's theatrical cut is generally enjoyable as it is, but Richard Donner's cut has been assembled for DVD and Blu-Ray, and it is a totally different experience. Using a combination of existing footage, screen tests, and original special effects, this version of the film cuts out a lot of the silly comedy, re-arranges the plot, and adds in so much more to the story and characters. I personally prefer and recommend that version of the movie, for it is a stronger storytelling experience (even if it is slapped together with raw materials).Either version comes recommended for anybody wanting more of Superman.4/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Good | Film Good) "},{"Title":"Good Follow Up To Superman The Movie","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is the sequel to Superman The Movie.It stars Gene Hackman, Christopher Reeve, Terence Stamp, Ned Beatty, Sarah Douglas, Margot Kidder, and Jack O'Halloran. It was the only Superman film to be filmed by two directors. For this reason, the film is surrounded with controversy since original director Richard Donner had completed, by his estimation, roughly 75% of the movie in 1977 before being taken off the project and the remaining 25% completed by Richard Lester.In this movie,Superman is torn between giving up his super powers, confronting criminals from outer space, and having problems with his girlfriend,Lois Lane. When terrorists threaten to destroy Paris with a thermonuclear device as they hold reporter Lois Lane hostage, Superman comes to the rescue and flings the weapon into space. However, its blast outside the earth's orbit awakens Zod,Ursa, and Non,three villains from Superman's home planet of Krypton who were exiled to outer space for their crimes. Zod and his partners arrive on Earth and use their powers in a bid to take over the U.S., and then the world. However, when Lois realizes that mild mannered Clark Kent and Superman are actually the same person, he brings her to his Fortress of Solitude, where his decision to marry Lois costs him his remarkable strength. Thus the superhero faces a great conflict.The movie is a great follow-up to the first film considering that it retains all the delightful characteristics that the first movie has like adventure,tension,suspense and humor.Also,this one goes deeper into the love story between Superman and Lois Lane as well as the sacrifices each one is willing to go forward into their relationship.The performances were good from Reeve,Hackman,Kidder and the three Supervillains - who proved to be a great opponent to our Superhero. The only reason I am giving this one a 9/10 instead of a 10/10 unlike the first film is due to the fact that the other director,Richard Lester included numerous campy and comic relief moments to the film's disaster and eventually the franchise as shown in Superman III.But nevertheless,the other 75% work of Richard Donner was great as the original. "},{"Title":"Now, kneel before Zod... and Warner Bros....","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, when you saw the opening to 'Superman', you figured these three had to show up at some point, right?Originally, 'Superman II' was 'Superman'. The sequel was planned as the second half of the original, many of the scenes being shot during the original filming. But Warner's decided it ran too long and cut the film, deciding to rehash the edits and cuts into a sequel. Richard Donner, in various disagreements with management bowed out and his name was removed as director of the sequel, but make no mistake... its his film. Marlon Brando's scenes were cut due to the legalities of filming the original film and then suddenly being edited into a sequel without contractual provisions for a sequel.Minus the John Williams aspect as well, you still have a near better film than the original. No origin rehashing, no drawn out stuff, just jump right in and go. Terrance Stamp was very underrated in his role as Zod, as is Hackman in his again scene stealing Luthor role. Reeves is as Reeves was, Clark Kent (obviously Brandon Routh took some serious notes). With the introduction of 'Superman Returns' over 20 years later, this film finally has a fitting if not flawed sequel. Erase 'Superman III' and leave 'Superman IV' the aborted mess it was on the cutting room floor. Comic epic and definitely bring the popcorn. "},{"Title":"Classic sequel stuff","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" An epic picture that zips by faster than a speeding bullet (etc.) A funny, slightly camp, rabble-rousing hagiograph which even fits in significant allusions to Christian mythology and the inflated dangers of the Cold War.Lester could hardly have failed in his remit. The nobility of Reeves' Christ-in-trunks Superhero is brought to a premature Calvary through his love for the echt-New Yorker Margot Kidder. Terence Stamp's General Zod manages to bend even the script to his will; he fights with the endlessly entertaining Gene Hackman for the acting laurels. The marvel of the special effects is that (again), for all that they are rather basic they serve a narrative purpose rather than one-of-itself. The streets of the Big Apple shrink down into town-sized pockets where extras come into their own. We have a believable insurrection during the inevitable super-showdown, as the crowd get Superman's back, a sequence strong enough to re-emerge in Spiderman 2 twenty-four years later.But the crowning glory of this film is it score. John Williams was at the peak of his alchemist's powers as the 70s turned into the 80s. Here, as in the first - and as in Star Wars IV moving to V - he turns a good film into something iconic, indelible and important. 8/10Framescourer's comment follows viewing the Richard Donner Edition (2006) on DVD, although it reflects the experience of watching the (better) theatrical edition. "},{"Title":"The Richard Donner Cut not perfect, but still a vast improvement","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II &#150; The Richard Donner Cut isn't a perfect film by any means, but it's a huge improvement over the Richard Lester theatrical version, which was completely lacking in soul and filled with incredibly awkward shifts in tone. Indeed, Lester's determination to abandon the verisimilitude that was Donner's watchword and turn the whole thing into a cheap custard pie comedy showed how little he cared for the material. As with Superman III, where he had more of a free hand, he seemed more interested in an Adam West-style slapstick spoof than anything else.Although some have compared it to a rough cut, despite Donner only finishing about 70% of the film, the reconstruction is a lot smoother than expected. Aside from the awkward 'Last week on Superman' opening which goes on forever, it doesn't look bad at all - even the screen test used for one key sequence is shot in full costume on a fully dressed set, and is more competently executed than many of Lester's scenes. Using the first film's turning back the Earth plot device yet again IS awkward (it was originally intended for Superman II with the first film ending on the cliffhanger of the supervillains being freed from the Phantom Zone), and the effects reintegrating the unused Brando scenes aren't always as smooth as they might be, but it never looks particularly unfinished. If anything the editing is much more disjointed in Lester's cut, where the additions were painfully noticeable - not just the different film stock or change in tone but the fact that everyone suddenly looked so much older in the reshot footage. Donner's version also benefits immeasurably from the much better writing and the much better performances he got from Reeve and Kidder. The soul and power doesn't just come from Brando - there's a real relationship between Clark and Lois that isn't replicated in the replacement scenes Lester shot.Although the film is now a lot tighter, the first half is still awkward - too much Gene Hackman, too little conquering the Earth (gee but the President rolls over easy fry a few rednecks and knock over a single Washington monument and he'll give you the keys to the planet). It still has too much of that atrocious audio manipulation of Terence Stamp's voice that makes him sound like a bad drag act as well (and this a decade before he became Priscilla). But once the second half hits its stride, it's a massive improvement. While the early Brando scenes are purely functional, there's some real emotional power in his final scene, and with all the infantile cutaways to badly-executed slapstick comic cutaways to people getting ice creams in the face or the like removed, the battle in Metropolis finally works and even takes on an apocalyptic dimension entirely absent in Lester's isn't-this-childish-crap-really? approach to the scene.The end is a little disappointing, but still perhaps more convincing than the kiss ending in Lester's cut. Most importantly the film finally has the soul that Lester chewed out and threw away. It still would have been a disappointing sequel had Donner been able to finish and tighten it, but compared to the horrendously disappointing version Lester delivered it's a much more satisfying number.While many at the time welcomed the lighter, jokier tone of Lester's theatrical version, its determination not to take the material seriously sits awkwardly with its predecessor's verisimilitude and it's strange that those who dismissed Donner's cut on the grounds that it was clearly unfinished seem to be overlooking the fact that Lester's film often looks even more like a work-in-progress cut that somebody okayed for release before it was quite ready. With the exception of a restrained Clifton James avoiding the temptation to do a rerun of his Sheriff J.W. Pepper routine, the performances are generally much weaker too, with Reeve and Kidder all to often left to flounder in their Daily Planet scenes as if they shot the walk-through rehearsal and never bothered with a proper take.There are some nice moments in the Lester cut - the They have a wide selection dialogue with Clifton James, Superman collecting the exotic ingredients for a romantic meal, the three supervillains facing more resistance in the town - but the picture just feels saggy and half-hearted and shows all the signs of how much worse things would become with Superman III. While two action scenes in Lester's cut are played without jokes - the Moon sequence and the truncated and less violent Whitehouse scene - the others are filled with often tiresomely unfunny pratfalls, be it the town sequences or the big battle in Metropolis where every beat is punctuated by a sight gag. In the superbreath sequence alone you have two separate payphone gags, Kentucky Fried Chicken waitresses blown down the street, ice creams blowing in peoples' faces and a comic turn from a man with an umbrella. And just in case we might still think the situation is too serious, Lester throws in a Daily Planet employee rooting for the villains. There's simply no threat in Lester's cut he doesn't want to frighten the kiddies and even turns Jack O'Halloran's Non into an increasingly unthreatening comic figure (yes, Donner shot some of that footage but he didn't use it). The less said about the bad Gene Hackman impersonator who dubs Luthor's lines the better.Lester just seems to shoot the material. He never engages with it beyond the gags, leaving the new scenes flat and lifeless. The change in crew doesn't help either. Bob Paynter's cinematography matches badly with Geoffrey Unsworth's in the Daily Planet and Fortress of Solitude scenes &#150; too sharp, with none of Unsworth's slight diffusion of light, though he does give the film a real comic book look in the battle over Metropolis - and Ken Thorne's reorchestrations of John Williams themes suffer from awkward changes in tempo and an audibly smaller orchestra. "},{"Title":"A Superior Sequel, brilliant!!  MY 300TH REVIEW!!","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here I am 300 reviews...an average of 20 films a month...honestly I do have a full time job. I just love films and I would like to sincerely thank everyone who reads me as a reviewer and all the input and emails I have received over the years. I do appreciate getting feedback and I love talking films. That being said I thought long and hard about what I was going to do the big 300th review on and I thought it only fair that I do the sequel to one of my favorite big screen adaptations and characters and the sequel to the film I reviewed for my 200th review.Superman II was the follow up to the original classic film that opened in 1978. It was only two years later but the origins of the story had come and gone with the original and the writers and director were likely faced with an even bigger challenge and that was creating an entirely new adventure for the man of steel. Smart move and fortunately for them that the original cast all returned, every single one of them. Although I think casting was not entirely perfect for this series it's still not good to replace character in the middle of a franchise when audiences have become comfortable with them. In many ways and opinions Superman II nearly or does exceed the greatness of the original. A True war raging between Kryptonians on Earth with super powers, the blossoming of one of the great romances in history, and a new and original story about an age old classic hero.Christopher Reeve returns to his role as Superman and Clark Kent. His emotions and very human side are much more explored in this sequel as he struggles with the decision to give up his super powers in exchange for the love of his life...Lois Lane. Reeve is still the absolutely perfect choice for this role. He still remains the man of steel. His powerful presence both as Superman and his bumbling, well maintained alter ego is perfect. Margot Kidder also returns as Lois Lane. She's never been my favorite choice for Lois Lane but as I re-watch these films my opinion of her performance grows and Superman II certainly helps that. She shows more of an emotional side, and we get to see her deep feeling for the Man Of Steel. She's still brash and forward and strong willed but definitely softens the image for the romance to take place. The real stars and stand out performances of the film are the villains who truly encompass the meaning of an adversary, arch nemesis or villain. General Zod played by Terence Stamp (who just for interesting facts now is the voice of Jor-El, Superman's Father on Smallville) plays the absolutely perfect Super Villain. He is downright insane with power and desperate to rule the world. He also perfectly portrays a Kryptonian completely unfamiliar with Earth and it's cultures. He's brutal and unforgiving and his battle with Superman is edge of your seat. His followers are the horribly cruel Ursa played by Sarah Douglas. As the only female villain in the film she holds her own against all the testosterone and perhaps has the cruelest look to her out of all of them. She also seems to be the one who holds her own the most against the Man of Steel. Finally Jack O'Halloran plays the silent and very deadly Non. His brute strength and lack of brains make him the perfect (and not campy) sidekick to Zod. Together the three of them are some of the best Film villains in history and their knock down battle across Metropolis is without a doubt a highlight in the Superman series. Also returning (although not with much fanfare, and apparently didn't actually return at all) is the wonderful Gene Hackman but never really so wonderful in the role of Lex Luthor. The writers always made Luthor more of a comedy break which doesn't make sense to me but the plus side to Superman II is that they eliminated the sidekick of Otis who was a complete joke to the entire original film. Apparently Hackman's role was created using look a-likes, stand ins and voice overs. If that is true they actually did a very good job and explains a lot of Luthor's toned down part. They did bring Ned Beatty as Otis back briefly for a cameo but left him behind in order to make a far more serious film which was a welcome change. Hackman's Luthor was much more tolerable and effective without all the bumbling and errors.Superman II went through many, many changes and problems and law suits and everything else. Brando who got top billing for his very brief cameo in the first film caused so many issues with the second that his already filmed parts were pulled altogether from the sequel. No loss in quality there because as great as Brando is his role as Jor-El is very small. Original director who was more than ready to film the sequel Richard Donner was replaced after filming a lot of scenes already. He was replaced with Richard Lester who I think still got a lot of help and ideas from Donner's original ideas for the film. However it was done it was done very well and turned out to be even better than the original. Still, for nowadays it might seem a little campy, and the acting isn't entirely on par but for what it was then and still today is the only big screen adaptation of The Man of Steel it's a great movie and a classic in it's own right. Keep reading my reviews, and we'll see you at #400!!! Maybe for Superman III?? 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not as great as the original but still great","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman 2 can be considered a true sequel to the original (while the other 2 1980s sequels cannot). It is reported that director Richard Donner began to shoot Superman 2 when he was replaced mid-way through with Richard Lester (whose directing was okay for this, but appalling for Superman 3 because of his over-emphasis on slapstick). However, at least in this film, the script is still very strong and great villains which are only seen for a few minutes in the first film make a great appearance - especially Terence Stamp as General Zod. And since I am a film music aficionado, I want to mention that the music itself was basically the first Superman score, with composer Ken Thorne basically reusing John Williams' music from the aforementioned first film. A still strong 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An above average and entertaining sequel.","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's obvious that Superman II doesn't take itself very serious. This sequel to Superman has a campy look and story and some over-the-top, stereotypical villains. It makes this movie a very entertaining one to watch even though of course it at no time comes close to the brilliance of the first movie.Most of the movie was shot simultaneously along with Superman, so that explains why almost all of the characters from the first movie are also in this one again. Would Gene Hackman had been in this movie otherwise? I don't think so, his character doesn't really serves a purpose in this movie and I think he would had kindly declined. I'm of course still glad he is still in this movie. Even though he doesn't really serves a purpose, he most certainly does make the movie extra entertaining and gives the movie some extra flair. This time the real main villains are being played by Terence Stamp, Jack O'Halloran and Sarah Douglas, the three persons who we saw being convicted in the beginning of the first movie. They have come to Earth to make some trouble and try to take the planet over in control (how original). The story is totally ridiculous and is really non-existent at times but it really is the fact that the movie doesn't take itself seriously, that saves this movie and makes it work as perfect entertainment. The movie has some typical slapstick comedy, which the first movie also had.Christopher Reeve is really great as Superman/Clark Kent and so is Margot Kidder as Lois Lane. Also in his element was respected and Oscar nominee actor Terence Stamp who played his villainous role intensively and with seemingly joy.The music is good and mainly consist out of the old John Williams musical score from the first movie. It isn't of course a terrible original way to score a movie but it works well for the movie and its sequences.I'm looking forward to the Richard Donner cut of Superman II and I have the feeling that that movie will be even better and more entertaining to watch.So this movie if you want to have a good time. It's perfect simple campy entertainment as long as you don't take it all too seriously.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Better than the first one!!","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first sequel to the original superman-the movie, and it's better also for many reasons.......the first movie had a terrible mistake at the end(when superman reverses everything), here there's no such mistake in the whole movie.........in the original it took us 40 minutes to see superman in action.....here we see him in action since it starts(although the first one had to take longer in showing the hero since they had to show him grow up and everything, but it could've arguably been shown in shorter time).........in this one the battle between the three villains and superman in metropolis is great and keeps your eyes on the screen.....and how superman defeats them at the end is also great as well......there are a few problems.......the musical score shows the same great material composed by John Williams but you can't feel the same power it had in the first movie.......and superman's father isn't shown.....well we understand why they couldn't pay the same great amount of money to marlon brando as they did in the first one...but still it is disturbing to see superman talking serious things with his mother and not with his father as he did in the first one(in the first one superman shared everything with his father).......but so far this is better than the first one for not making any mistake like superman-the movie did at the end.....and for all the action it has......**** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Absolutely perfect SF fantasy.","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a really meaningful film for me, discovered at just age 12, as budding science fiction fan and science fiction writer.  Thoroughly entertaining, exciting, exhilarating, intelligent, with a sweet whimsical charm, silly on the edges, but pouring with heart straight through.Wonder that is what SF is really about isn't it?  That glow of wonder brought to the heart of every fan, transferring us from the ordinary bs of everyday life, to the apex of wonderous doings.  Classed with the old film greats, when films were films...not corporate programmed video game previews.  Honest, sincere and always on target, this film preserves the grace of the comic whilst rising to the occasion of being a potent blockbuster film.   "},{"Title":"Best of the four (spoilers)","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Originally intended to be filmed simultaneously with the original Superman, Superman II was set back through production delays, lead actors dropping out and internal power struggles amongst the production team. The end result saw Richard Donner replaced by Richard Lester (although some of Donner's footage remains in the finished film) and Marlon Brando (who played Superman's father Jor-El) written out completely. The end result remains surprisingly consistent with the original film, with the same mix of earnest superheroics and slapstick comedy.The story has moved on some time from Superman, and the citizens of Metropolis are now fully adjusted to the superhero in their midst. Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) is sent to Paris to cover a group of terrorists who have planted a bomb in the Eiffel Tower. Before too long, she's in over her head and it's up to Superman (Christopher Reeve) to save her. He arrives in the nick of time and hurtles the bomb into outer space. Meanwhile, Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) escapes from prison when Miss Teschmacher (Valerie Perrion) spirits him away in a hot-air balloon.Superman, as his alter ego Clark Kent, eventually reveals his true identity and real feelings for Lois. She feels as much for him, so he takes her up North to the Fortress of Solitude to give up his powers so he can settle down and marry her. But trouble looms for Superman, as the bomb he launches into space inadvertently releases the three criminals exiled from his home planet at the beginning of the first film maniacal, power-hungry General Zod (Terence Stamp), vicious, sadistic Ursa (Sarah Douglas) and the brutal mute Non (Jack O'Halloran). They arrive on Earth, with powers like his own, intent on gaining world domination...The story in this film is better than the first. The film opens up with a pre-credits sequence that leads showing the villain's exile, then lenses in segments from the first film in with the opening credits. This easily takes care of any backstory or exposition. Nevertheless both plot strands (the villain's arrival on Earth, and the Lois/Superman love story) are very carefully developed. The flaws in the story include some unnecessary slapstick comedy inserted at random into the big action sequences and the inclusion of one or two plot twists that are not hinted at before they occur.There are some fantastic scenes to savour, however. The opening scenes in Paris, the three villains making short work of White House security; the fiery, destructive scrap between Superman and the bad guys on the streets of Metropolis, and the finale in the Fortress of Solitude. There's also a small subplot with a human Clark Kent receiving a pounding from a diner bully before going back, repowered, to give him a deserved comeuppance.Technically, the film is superlative. It is very well shot and edited by Geoffrey Unsworth and Bob Paynter and the special effects, asides from the matte flying shots, still hold up very well today. Ken Thorne also weaves in some fine original music along with John William's universally popular Superman theme.Christopher Reeve still makes for a good Superman/Clark Kent. By now it seems he's more comfortable the role and it shows in a more relaxed, subtle performance. Margot Kidder portrays inner strength and tearful vulnerability as Lois Lane, and conveys well the tragic fate of her character, never to be with the man she truly loves.Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran are on top form as the deadly villains, declaring themselves world rulers and easily dispatching anyone who gets in their way. Their base power lust contrasts well with the honest nature of Superman, and this adds a charge when they finally meet. Hackman, relegated to a supporting role, here plays the comedy weasel and this suits his style of laid-back, acerbic wit. Susannah York, filling in for Marlon Brando, adds an eerie, Freudian charge to Superman's transformation.Easily the best of the Superman series, which would begin something of a decline in quality with the arrival of Superman III.  "},{"Title":"Simply the Best of the 4, Hands Down *SPOILERS*","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie will stand the test of time.My son loves this movie.  There will never be another one like it.  Aside from Star Wars and Indiana Jones, the only movie franchise to have a sequel truly worthy to its predecessors.Hindsight  Looking back, yes, some of the plot points are silly.  But the acting is superb, and the main focal point of the plot is never lost.Superman is faced with the blood-thirsty criminals of Krypton placed in the Phantom Zone by his father.  Terrence Stamp performs flawlessly as as the manaiacal General Zod.  The movie deals with Superman giving up his strength and powers for love, then having to obtain them back again to fight the trio once they basically take over the Earth.The trio of baddies are proven time and again not to be as powerful as Superman, though they do take a few good shots at him in what still stands up today as one of the most titanic epic battles of good vs. evil on the bigscreen  The fight in Metropolis.As a kid, I did not predict the end would come as it did.  I remember the movie theaters, for the first time in my life, being absolutely stoked and charged with energy during this movie.  Particularly notable cheering occured during the following momentGeneral...would you care to step outside?Classic.The epilogue scene was a delightful bonus, seeing Clark Kent going back after re-acquiring his powers and teaching Mr. Diner Man a lesson.In spite of many attempted and dropped projects to make a new generation of Superman movies since the late 90s, this one and its predecessor (Superman The Movie) will never be repeated, or duplicated in terms of raw performance and great directing.Superman II gets 9 stars out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Even better than the original","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN II is a brilliant movie. The story sees the the three Kryptonian villains who were jailed by Superman's Dad, Jor-El in the original, escape the cell they were being kept in. They come to Earth and try to extract revenge on Superman. The acting is excellent and the story is brilliant too. I give SUPERMAN II a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Lex Luthor, Ruler of Australia","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being Australian, I thought Lex's beachfront property dream was wonderful in fact I'm tempted to vote for him as our first president when we become a Republic very soon!This movie follows on beautifully from the first and viewed back to back it's like one long epic. The 3 villains who were wasted in their short roles in movie I are back with a vengeance and that is what's on their minds. As a kid I thought the effects were fabulous but as an adult I can pick the cost cutting and wonder what the actual budget of the film was.The characters are again spot on but I felt that Jimmy was sorely under used.The most interseting thing I notice about this film is what's known in the industry as Product Placement. When Superman battles the 3 Kryptonian criminals in Metropolis we see more flagrant advertising than has ever been seen in a film since (and yes that includes the fights in front of Pepsi machines in 'Total Recall').Coke a cola, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Malboro cigarettes and JVC all get a pretty good plug during the fight scene, in fact Coke got the most obvious one of all with Superman hurtling a foe straight at a sign that fills the viewer's screen!Adverts aside this battle was riveting and I couldn't help but see the inspiration drawn from it for the Comic book adventures of Superman's battle to the death with Doomsday (look especially for a shot of doomsday punched up from street level right through a building - it's identical to Non's fate!).They should have stopped the series with this one because you should always leave them wanting for more! I'd rather wish for another great sequel and not get it than sit through a poor one made just for coattail riding exploitation from the producers (by that I mean Superman 3 and 4 and throw in Supergirl for good measure!).A few cheap effects and poor editing let it down compared to the original (the quick shot of REEVE's sweaty armpit as he raises Zod above his head was a BAAAAAD editing SNAFU!!!) and did they just pull some guy off the street to be Hackman's stuntman for the flying scenes or what?All of this aside I give it 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful sequel","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The man of steel gives up his powers to marry Lois Lane,but he does not know that several aliens who have powers just like him are coming to destroy earth.Smashing,exciting sequel has the action but is lacking.The following sequels are terrible at best.Rating***1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Superman II","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Thrilling sequel that outshines the original with exquisite special effects and heroic splendor. Stamp stands out as a leader of three crimimals from Krypton who reek hell and havoc on Earth and on the Man of Steel.  "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Three criminals who were imprisoned during the original movie escape and cause havoc on earth.  At the same time Superman loses his special powers. It has a dynamite scene in Metropolis and also at the fortress of solitude. Easily as good as the original movie.   "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of all the Superman movies, I liked this one the best.  The first Superman was good, but the special effects were pretty poor and I thought some of the important scenes were overacted and melodramatic.  The third Superman was kind of corny, what with Richard Pryor being himself and that woman who turned into a machine or whatever it was.  The fourth Superman was a sad, sad joke probably intended to destroy the whole Superman fan base and marketing empire (I can't imagine why else it would be so horrible).As far as this installment goes, I thoroughly enjoyed it.  General Zod (the gifted Terence Stamp) and his cronies were excellent as the three exiled Kryptonian criminals who do battle with Superman.  I also liked the subplot in which Superman gives up his powers so he can love Lois like a mortal; I thought it was an interesting idea and seeing ex-Superman getting beat up by a sleazy trucker was certainly ironic.  Everyone did a good job all-around (especially Reeve and Stamp), the effects were adequate, and the plot flowed smoothly and made complete sense.  All-around a great piece of entertainment and one of the best of the superhero movies (not that there's much competition in that genre, though). "},{"Title":"SuperCheese Ball","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadPlease Richard Cheeseball Lester, everybody acts like SUPERMAN 3 was an anomaly, not it is just a perfect continuation of this horrible film. Lester made some truly awful films including the overrated, unfunny ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM roman crap fest. Yet, for all its cheese, it is still better than the Donnor edition. The problem, beside that half of the cast and crew pulled out in protest of the Salkinds firing Donnor, is that it has the usual over the top cartoon humor that may have worked in the Musketeer movies but falls flat here. The battle between the three super villains and superman is a great example; Lester cheeses it all up with guys rolling around on roller-skates, end of the world man, people generally acting stupid which removes every ounce of realism from the scene. The love courtship and super syrupy THIS IS LOVE will make you beg for a barf bag. How about at the end when Lois is ready to pass out from wheezing all over the screen; I see you every day this is hell for me; jeez, please OK move on we are getting sick. Is this Superman or THE YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS; THE SUPER YEARS. Lester was just a dreadful director; he never could write humor without it being stupid and silly. The Niagara falls scenes would have been rejected as too stupid for most daytime soap operas. Lester is an expert at removing all dramatic impact from every scene with extraneous unfunny stupid humor. There is no discontinuity between this movie and SUPERMAN 3; they are in fact the same movie. It is true, adding Richard Pryor, the most overrated comic of the 20th century, turns it from crap to legendarily awful. The opening scene at the Eiffel Tower, even removing the fruity French, is just awful. This film while better than Donnor's boring cut is still a disaster; the Salkind's hired the wrong replacement. It is a false dichotomy, we do not have to pick they are both simply awful. I hate MAN OF STEEL yet I prefer it to either version of SUPERMAN 2. At least it is a drama, it continues the SUPERMAN THE MOVIE tone albeit nihilistically. The Lester released version is pure stupid cheese-ball; corny, silly and unfunny. The only serious moments are gooey romance LOVE OF THE STARS crap; hey, was this supposed to be a superman movie? The Donnor version is boring and poorly written; they were right to fire him. His version stinks sorry Donnor apologists. Find me any movie the man directed that was any good? LETHAL WEAPON was awful, please. Do yourself a favor pretend no sequels with Christopher Reeve were ever made because in reality there really weren't they bare no resemblance to the original; they are three stooges movies directed by a moron. "}{"Title":"Best of an overrated series","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having recently watched the original SUPERMAN for the first time and not particularly enjoyed it, I had no great expectations for its sequel. I'm glad of that, because SUPERMAN II is another film that hasn't dated very well over the years, and seems silly rather than spectacular when watched today. The bloated running time means that there's a lot of extraneous material and sitting around waiting for stuff to happen, and throwing in some lame comedy to fill up the running time doesn't help either. The special effects, while better than in the first film, still haven't aged too well.The good news is that this is better than the first one, and the reason lies in the villains. Oh, Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor is back in this one, breaking out of jail for more of his scheming, but he's sidelined (and wasted) in favour of some far cheesier, more entertaining bad guys three intergalactic warlords with a penchant for wreaking chaos. Watching these guys go around blowing stuff up while Terence Stamp deliciously chews the scenery is the best we've had yet. Of course, this all builds up to one of those massive, city-destroying brawls, a set-piece stand-off between Superman and his foes which doesn't disappoint. The climax is great, and acts as a template for pretty much every modern day superhero outing. If only they'd ended it here... "},{"Title":"Nearly As Good As The First Film","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the success of Superman The Movie, Superman II picked up where the first film left off. And despite the firing of director Richard Donner & Editor Stuart Baird, the deaths of cinematographer Geoffrey Unsworth & production designer John Barry, and the unavailability of composer John Williams, director Richard Lester and the rest of the cast and crew still make Superman II a splendid film. Indeed, Superman II nearly equals the first film in terms of story and entertainment value.Christopher Reeve proved he was the Man of Steel in Superman The Movie and here he improves upon the role. Reeve has some great moments as Superman during the films opening sequence in Paris and later during the more romantic scenes with Lois. Reeve proves to be exceptional in the films action sequences and, as in the first film, Reeve makes you want to believe a man can fly. As Clark Kent, Reeve also does well especially in the diner, his return to the Fortress of Solitude to regain his powers, and in the final scene in the Daily Planet. All in all Reeves' improves in the role and would continue to do so. Margot Kidder, like Reeve, improves in her role as Lois Lane. Her Lois is full of spunk and its fun to watch the chemistry between the two. She also handles the emotional scenes very well especially during the Niagara Falls hotel scene where Clark is forced to reveal that he is in fact Superman. Kidder is arguably at her best as Lois and considering her lack of appearance in the following two films, this is probably the definitive performance of any actress as Lois.The rest of the cast lives up to the standards they set in the first film. Gene Hackman returns as Lex Luthor and while his role is reduced, he still manages to bring humor and menace to every scene he's in and he remains a delight to watch. Jackie Cooper and Mark McClure return in their roles of Perry White and Jimmy Olson, respectively, and do very well considering their limited appearances. The same can be said of Ned Beatty and Valerie Perrine in their roles as Luthor's dimwitted Hench-people. E.G. Marshall does well in his brief appearance as the President. Clifton James returns in a role more appropriate for his J.D. Pepper character from the 007 films and he seems out of place in this film. Susannah York appears once again as Superman's mother and her scenes in the Fortress during the lead up to the depowering scene are at times touching to watch, though it would probably have been better if Marlon Brando had appeared as originally planned.But the film really belongs to three other people besides Reeve and Kidder Sarah Douglas, Jack O'Halloran and Terence Stamp as the villains from krypton. Stamp has a lot of menace and screen presence and is highly believable in the role of evil General Zod. Sarah Douglas brings menace to the role of Ursa and one never doubts her ability to kill someone. Jack O'Halloran's Non is also a great character and is at times menacing despite being used for comic relief every so often. Together they form one of the best groups of villains ever put on film.The films writing isn't as good as that of the first film, but the films story is somewhat of an improvement over the original films. One has to keep in mind that Donner had shot a large amount of material for the film that in is this film (specifically the scenes with Hackman, the Moon attack, and White House surrender) and that Lester had to film new material to bridge the sequences together so that he would get his credit for director (long story believe me). Despite the obvious tone differences, the footage shot by Donner and Lester are edited together into a seamless film. While at times the film is too campy during the Houston, Idaho sequence and during the insert shots during the battle over Metropolis, the film has a sense of both seriousness and fun that at times lacked in the first film. The romance between Lois and Superman/Clark is especially well handled and serves as a high point of the film.The special effects are hit and miss at times. The flying sequences are well done most of the time but there is some obvious use of dolls during some sequences that serve as a bit of an annoyance. The scene on the Moon is especially well done in terms of special effects as is the de-powering scene in the Fortress. Overall the special effects aren't quite as good as those in the first film but they're still good enough.The music of the film is a bit of a disappointment. John Williams proved to be unavailable to do the score and composer Ken Thorne was brought in to do the music. Instead of creating an original score and infusing elements of the original Williams score, he simply rehashes it. The effect is an overall disappointing score that seems to fit the scenes of the original film throughout. For better or worse, this film has a Ken Thorne score and exactly how good or bad his rehash of the Williams music is has been, and will be, a matter of debate.Overall, Superman II is an enjoyable film. While at time too campy at times and suffering from a bad rehash of the first films score, this film still has many things going for it. With grand performances from the leads, good performances from the supporting cast, great villains, a well handled love story and a nice mixing of two director's visions this film is one of the best Superhero films there is. While not as good as Superman The Movie, this film deserves a high ranking in terms of best Superman films out there. "},{"Title":"What a disaster!","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere near the film that the first one was. Brando's absence leaves quite a vacuum. You can tell, scene by scene, which were filmed by Donner (good) and which were filmed by Lester (horrible). Donner and screenwriter (a.k.a. Creative Consultant) Mankiewicz had brought to the first film a level of respect and awe to the Superman myth without ever becoming dull. Lester replaced that with cheap and easy camp. When I think about what Superman II might have been had Donner been allowed to finish it, it makes me sad.  "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series...","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best of the series has Superman, a.k.a. The Man of Steel, a.k.a. Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve), giving up his superhuman powers so that he can spend the rest of his life with Lois Lane, the curious as a cat reporter who can't keep her nose out of other people's affairs.Unfortunately, Clark soon finds that life is not quite as easy without his superpowers, and his adversary--Lex Luther--is eager to settle his score with Clark now that he is left mortal.All in all, I enjoy this film the most. It's the most fun and the most interesting of the series, followed by two more entries and now a remake that is slated for a possible 2006 release.This is certainly my favorite.4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A Rare Case of a Sequel Being Just As Good As the Original","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In Superman II three super-villains, led by Terence Stamp, come to Earth to seek revenge on the son of the man who imprisoned them in the first film (Superman's father).  However, Superman (Reeve) has chosen to be a human and has lost all of his super powers.  Thus the super-villains take over the world and now Clark Kent must re-create his alter ego.  Once again Gene Hackman is along for the ride and he steals every scene, keeping the film fun and entertaining.  Overall Superman II is just as good as the original.  It never tries to be more than it is and it succeeds at being a nice little film.  4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Campy, but fun entry in the Superman series...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1st watched 5/27/2001 - 6 out of 10 (Dir-Richard Lester) Campy, but fun entry in the Superman series.  In this episode, Lex Luthor  is not near as menacing as a threesome jailed by Superman's father and finds themselves on Earth to take revenge upon Superman and takes it out on the good old USA as well.  The special effects are not top-notch if you compare them to today's standards, but the movie works because we know it is based on a comic-strip character(this is not supposed to be real, people).  This is similar to the impact of other comic book movies like Popeye and Flash Gordon, where the filmmakers don't try to make everything seem real because it's not.   A little romance between Superman and Lois Lane also adds to the appeal. "},{"Title":"Great sequel to the masterpiece, Superman!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II is in my opinion the best sequel of the Superman movie series.Christopher Reeves and Gene Hackman as always is great,Sarah Douglas,Terence Stamp,Jack O'Halloran are all good but Stamp`s performance was awesome! This is my favorite Superman film of the the series. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still great!","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm glad this movie is actually good, although I would have liked it if Richard Donner had stayed on for this. That's why Superman II The Richard Donner Cut is better than this. Positives Christopher Reeve is Awesome, General Zod is a great villain, Terence Stamp nails it, and this movie has 3 PEOPLE TO FIGHT SUPERMAN. Negatives however It's a teeny bit more campy, it's trying to be MORE like a comic book than the first one, and Richard Lester and the Salkinds Booted Donner off of the set. For the most part though, I like it. I'm gonna give Superman II a B. 7/10. 3.5/5, etc. If you loved the first movie like I did, you'll have less fun with this, but fun nonetheless. Go break a leg with Superman II. "},{"Title":"Decent, but the original is better","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" (54%) Unlike today were the studios aim their big movies solely at teenage boys to the detriment of everything else (Man of steel), whilst back in the day they at least tried to make a movie everyone can enjoy. So here there is at least some romantic interaction between Lois and Clark, there is some light-hearted fun, and Superman by the end isn't at least partly responsible for the death of millions of people. There is no desire to make him dark and moody either, he is just a good guy that wants to help people whenever he can. The plot/script is more than a little broken here though as Lois almost kills herself trying to find out if Clark is Superman which just doesn't work, and some of the dialogue is weak. But it is fun and very entertaining, just not as solid as the original. "},{"Title":"Not the Definitive Version Since the Release of the Richard Donner Cut But Quite Good","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II was partially filmed back to back with Superman The Movie to keep production costs down. Filming came to a halt when disputes between Alexander and Ilya Salkind and Pierre Spengler caused Richard Donner to be fired with only 75% of Superman II completed. Richard 'The Three Musketeers' Lester was assigned to complete the film but in order to receive directorial credit he had to cut much of the Donner material and work from a new screenplay after more than a year long delay. Also gone from the production was legendary actor Marlon Brando who's litigation with the Salkings resulted in a fifty million dollar lawsuit. Despite the chaos behind the scenes and the hard feelings which persist to this day, the Salkinds and Lester delivered a smash hit Superman sequel starring Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder whose charisma and chemistry crackles in every scene. Together, the face a trio of Kryptonian villains released from the Phantom Zone and the nefarious Lex Luthor charmingly played by Gene Hackman. To coincide with the release of Bryan Singers' Superman Returns in 2006 a Richard Donner Cut of Superman II was released which will come as a revelation to fans. "}{"Title":"And they complain about Shperman killing in Man of Steel","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman 2 as a child I loved it but as an adult I can see all of the flaws but the thing I've been wanting to talk about ever since the hatred for the amazing film man of steel I just had to complain even more on this movie I already hate. 1st of all who in their right mines thinks that this is a good film its not superman depowers zod kills him by throwing him down a pit doesn't save nod from falling to his death and then lets Lois kill Ursa and he has a jolly happy smile and they have no remorse in man of steel he is heartbroken and saddened by doing this but it was his only option in superman 2 it wasn't hes depowered put them in the phanon zone or jail this movie is crap. "},{"Title":"The first film in the decline of Superman","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firstly it's probably best to give a bit of background to the films development. Superman 2 was already being planned even before the first Superman movie was a success, with Richard Donner filming many scenes at the same time as the first. However, Donner fell out with the studio leading to his removal and being replaced by Richard Lester. Along with this, after Marlon Brando sued for profits from the original he was completely removed from this film, Gene Hackman did not return to film any other scenes than the one's done with Donner leaving his role in the film incomplete and many of the cast and crew did not like the directors changes causing great tension on set. All these weaknesses in production led to the great disappointment that is Superman 2. It is a weaker sequel in every sense with its bad writing, poor directing and is in my opinion the first of the films leading to the decline of Superman in the 80s.Even the story does not make that much sense for Superman betraying some of the key basis for his character. After Lois discovers Clarke Kent is Superman, Superman gives up his powers to live a normal life. Yeah, he doesn't second think himself at the time. He doesn't think of the various people who he won't be able to protect any more. All he thinks about is banging Louis. But is there really that much need for him to lose his superpowers? Couldn't he just date Lois as Clarke and just maintain his superpowers? But regardless of logic, they're happy together but then he finds out that Zod has come to earth and thus he must become Superman again to stop them.Christopher Reeve does about as well as he can do with the script he was given. There are some good Superman moments, such as watching him fly. Even with the films weaker cinematography compared to the first one, it's still iconic seeing Superman fly. But then there are some moments that push the patriotic side of him too far, like flying an American flag on to the white house. And the fact he gave up his powers and allowed many people to get killed by Zod...Then there's Luthor. Since Hackman only filmed some of his scenes, his role in the film is about as pointless as the Rhino cameo in Amazing Spiderman 2, having no real impact on the story. The only reason he's in the film is to gain sales, as demonstrated by his top billing in spite of his short screen time. And unfortunately instead of focusing on a good character like Luthor, the film instead focuses on the worst character of the films, Louis. Even in the first one she was constantly annoying and admittedly within this one then during the second half she's bearable, but there is one scene which really gets on my nerves. She begins to suspect Clarke is Superman and literally throws herself in the water just so he can save her. She is now actually throwing herself in to harms way just to get Supermans attention just like they do in Twilight! And yes, this scene is so bad that I would compare it to Twilight...Probably the best addition to the film this time round are the villains. Rather than Luthor who was decent, but had weak comedy entwined with his character there's Zod and his two henchmen. We also see how ruthless they are, putting many lives in danger just to gain the upper hand on Superman. They're also one of the few things making me chuckle in the film simply because of how they seem to present their understanding of humans. The only thing I would say against them is their flying. I'm not entirely sure whether it was their stillness or just bad directing, but unlike Superman they do not fly gracefully. Instead they seem to look more like the fish in Monty Python's Meaning of life, just hovering slowly through the air.The fights in the film and the general destruction by caused by Zod is a mixture of good and bad. Some scenes such as when the army are attacking Zod actually look pretty cool with some decent effects and Zod appearing as a very powerful figure. But then there are other times where they take you out of the moment and we see a person complaining that Zod blew off his wig. If the city was literally being torn down by 4 god like beings, then would you really be fussed about losing a wig? It's the cheap laughs like this which really cheapen the film and feel like a foreshadowing for the comedic focus of the next two sequels.It's also this comedy that is the films biggest flaw. Whilst the first remained focused on the drama and action of the story of Superman, this one focuses far too much on the comedy. Whilst it may make you chuckle at times, it's a far weaker tone to maintain such an iconic superhero as Superman and it's significant shift in tone goes against the comics and betrays the key ideals of the character stopping us from becoming invested in the character of Superman.I will state however that this is not the only version of the film. In 2006 then there was a version called the Donner Cut and contains various different scenes and is apparently significantly better, though I haven't seen it so this review is entirely based on the Lester cut and that cut is extremely poor. Other than the good villains, this film adds nothing positive to the franchise. Whilst it is not the worst Superhero film ever made, it is still a let-down after the greatness of the first film and it is in my opinion one of the more disappointing sequels trying too hard to get us to laugh and failing at almost every pun. "},{"Title":"A Decent Sequel but Disappointing as Well","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Too much humor, which spoils the grandeur present, for the most part, in the first movie. Unconvincing sets the Southern town, the diner, cardboard & fake-looking cars and trucks. I could go on, but let's get more specific. Inane dialog abounds. Who cares about the deputy's lunch choices? Bad British accents slip out from time-to-time from Zod and weren't re-looped. The cars, trucks, and buses look like the thin-tin replicas that they are when thrown about by Superman and Zod. The scenes in the White House are actually boring; there is no tension or sense of horror there. Why does Superman have to become a powerless human just to bed and wed Lois? Perhaps Kyptonian and human sexual parts are incompatible or maybe Jor-el doesn't want any half human progeny? It's never fully explained; I suppose to keep the film-rating family-friendly? Many of the sets look fake or cheap. Even the urban diner. Overall, it's easy to see what Richard Lester directed. His scenes are flat, dull, and too comedic. It's amazing that this film is as good as it is. Again, shameless product-placements abound. The Canadian Niagara Falls honeymoon suite looks like it came out of a comic book. It's ridiculous-looking. The only thing that saves this movie is the unwavering spirit of Christopher Reeve. He may have been in several badly-crafted Superman movies, but he always personified the character. He was Superman and always will be. "},{"Title":"Thank Zod for Terence Stamp","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is true that one can't expect a Superman film to have a particularly plausible plot. However, it would be a huge understatement to say that Superman II lacks in the suspension of disbelief department. The film is so full of plot holes, what-the-hell moments and unexplained (also inexplicable) decisions on the part of its characters that it's fairly obvious no one bothered with the script. The writer didn't even try to explain to any convincing degree why Superman decides to lose his powers, how he got them back after explicitly stating he can't actually do that, etc. I'm not referring to stuff like the Kryptonians happening to end up on Earth - this is Superman's universe and you just go along with such coincidences, although I wonder if it was necessary to have his mother declaring that the prisoners can be freed by a nuclear explosion in space - it simply sounds funny.So all in all, the plot borders on the ridiculous - but still, the film is worth watching. Why? Because in all its goofiness, it has a great asset the commanding presence of Terence Stamp, whose portrayal of General Zod easily earns him a place in a list of the most badass villains in film history. A feat all the more admirable considering he has quite little to work on, and a BDSM costume to do it with. Next to that, his henchmen, Ursa and Non, are doing their part to save the film, along with Christopher Reeve who proves again that he was perfect for the role of Superman. So by the end, you will probably be disappointed with the result, but I can promise you will feel a strong urge to kneel before Zod. "},{"Title":"Superman!","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A Superman movie which met my expectations. Christopher Reeve and Terrence Stamp were good in their respective roles. The action scenes were well done. Most of the story is entertaining.However, I had a few problems. How did Lex chance upon the Fortress of Solitude? I don't think that any human technology would be able to pinpoint the location of an alien construct. Also, Gene Hackman still doesn't make me feel like he is Lex Luthor. Why is he still wearing a wig? Does Lex really care about his appearance that much? His demeanor is quite unlike Lex, as he uses more of his mouth than his brain. I really can't tell that he is a genius billionaire mastermind. He is more like a plump guy trying to manipulate those weaker and dumber than him. Also, in the films, Superman didn't do anything to him so there was no motivation for him in wanting to eliminate Superman. Another problem was regarding the powers. I'm pretty sure General Zod and his gang aren't supposed to have the ability to fire beams that can make stuff levitate. And whats Superman throwing his blanket on the enemy and it disappearing? Also, like Superman, General Zod is supposed to have super-hearing so he probably shouldn't have fell for that trap. But oh well!Apart from these problems, it is a pretty good movie. In terms of action and pace, I prefer this film over its predecessor. Also, I like the ending where Superman gave Lois the amnesiac kiss and him going back to the caf to beat the arrogant man. "},{"Title":"A Solid Second Adventure for the Man of Steel","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" And now the epic conclusion to the story introduced in the opening sequence of Richard Donner's SUPERMAN in 1978. Well, I suppose it actually depends on which version you see. One version definitely rolls a little smoother than the other. For those that aren't aware, there are two versions of SUPERMAN II the Richard Lester version released in U.S. theaters in 1981 and the Richard Donner re-cut version released on home video in 2006. Regardless of which version you've seen, they both follow the same basic premise as a direct sequel to SUPERMAN. In the first film, we see Jor-El and a council on Krypton addressing three criminals who have attempted treason against their government before sentencing them to the Phantom Zone. These criminals, under the command of General Zod, are later released in the vicinity of Earth, where they arrive with intention of dominating our species. As a bonus, Zod sees an opportunity to gain revenge against the son of the man who condemned him&#x85;Kal-El, son of Jor-El. I'm sure Superman would be eager to stop these villains if he weren't so busy chasing Lois Lane. In the time since the original SUPERMAN, Lois has become suspicious of Clark Kent and has almost made the connection between him and Superman. So Lois continues searching for the final evidence to Superman's identity, while Clark continues battling his feelings for Lois, and Zod strolls around conquering Earth without breaking a sweat. Meanwhile, for those who couldn't get enough Lex Luthor in the first film, he returns in SUPERMAN II to&#x85;I dunno&#x85;move the plot along. And steal Australia. He wants Australia.I've gone and watched both versions and I agree with the majority on this one the Richard Donner version is much better than Lester's. It's no surprise. Donner originally intended SUPERMAN and it's sequel to be shot at the same time and work together to create one epic cohesive story. Then the producers and Donner encountered some creative differences, Donner was let go from his position, and the producers brought in Lester to finish the second film. Lester than opted to amp up the humor in the movie and brought the campiness. This is most apparent in a scene late in the movie when Superman is battling the Kryptonian supervillains in Metropolis and the villains utilize their super-breath to swat away the rioting civilians. Lester used this opportunity to throw in any goofy thing he could think of&#x85;man on rollerblades, man who refuses to get off payphone as it's blowing down the street, etc. Donner, on the other hand, has a bit more respect for his Superman movies. It's a shame his re-cut of the second movie would be the last time Donner worked on the series. Donner had bits of comic relief in his film (i.e. Warren Beatty as Lex Luthor's bumbling henchman Otis) but it's primarily gone in this movie and the any laughs come from genuine character moments. Luthor is still an grandiose lunatic with an evil bent and a lust for real estate, and Gene Hackman's return to the role is one the best parts of the film. Granted, he really doesn't have much to do this time around. He's not the main villain of the piece (despite his best efforts) and his only real job is to direct Zod and his team in the right direction to keep the plot moving while giving us a few laughs.Donner's vision for Superman was one of grand scale fantasy with action, adventure, romance, and humor. Despite Lester's best efforts, even his version maintains some of these elements. SUPERMAN II has got even better action than the first film because Superman finally has someone he can go toe-to-toe with. Zod (Terence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas), and Non (Jack O'Halloran) are super-powered Kryptonians with all of Superman's strengths with an added bonus pure evil with no compassion for the human race. Together, they just might be more than the Man of Steel can handle as we see in a battle in the streets of Metropolis. Zod is one of those memorable on-screen comic villains and Stamp brought him to life with a massive superiority complex that helped make Kneel before Zod! so memorable a line. Outside this, there isn't a whole lot of meat to the evil Kryptonians in SUPERMAN II. They're super-powered and evil, they want to rule the Earth, and they hold a grudge against Kal-El. That's about all the character development we receive for our villains but I give it a pass because they're so fun to watch.Christopher Reeves once again proves he was a perfect choice for his role as the Man of Steel and Margot Kidder returns as the spunky Lois Lane. Their chemistry together is on display again as, just as with the first SUPERMAN, we spend a heavy chunk of time watching the development of their relationship. Whereas the first movie was the blossoming love of Clark for Lois (and Lois for Superman), SUPERMAN II takes it to the next level with Lois putting the pieces together to discover Superman's true identity. The results in Superman and Lois being absent from the action for the first half of the movie as he courts her in his Fortress of Solitude and engages in some plot holes until Superman finally catches a newscast and realizes, Whoops, I should be saving the planet right about now. Superman and Lois's little side project of love is again acceptable because of the chemistry between the two leads and how fun it is to watch them.In the end, I suppose SUPERMAN II is no better or worse than the first film but it's at least as entertaining and we get a nice change with the super-powered villains. Fans of the first film are guaranteed to enjoy SUPERMAN II, possibly even more than the original and I'm pretty sure most fans of this series would agree that Richard Donner's cut is way more satisfying. "},{"Title":"A Potentially Great Film Marred by Poor Moments","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" With Superman The Movie being one of my favorite films of all time, I was naturally expecting a great movie to follow. This movie kind of hurt me in that regard. This movie is a bit uneven, the stuff that works really works, but most of the other stuff is either lackluster or downright poor.What's the story? Superman returns as does the rest of the cast from the first movie, except for Marlon Brando, but I'll get to that in the review. After Superman destroys a bomb in the Eiffel Tower in space, the three prisoners from the first movie (Zod, Ursa, and Non) are inadvertently released from their Phantom Zone prison. In he meantime, Lois Lane finds out Superman's secret identity, and he gives up his powers to be with her. Bad timing Supe! General Zod and his cronies take over the world (well we can assume that, all we see them take over is a small Texas town and the White House) But Superman does get his powers back (unexplained of course) and must beat the three super-villains.In my review for Superman, I stated that both Superman I and II were filmed at the same time under one director, Richard Donner. Unfortunately, budget and schedule overruns and clashes of approach to these films caused tensions between director Donner and the Salkinds, the producers of these films. After Superman The Movie was released, it was a success beyond any of their expectations. But in a radical move for the cast and crew, the Salkinds fired Donner and replaced him with A Hard Days Night director Richard Lester, who had worked with the Salkinds before on The Three Musketeers. There are scenes that Donner filmed that are in this movie, but the majority of them were either re-shot or added by Lester. The shift is completely noticeable.While some of the scenes are played out dramatically, most of them became light and comedic when Lester took over. There are too many dumb moments to count, the cellophane S weapon, Zod's almost prima-donna platitudes, and the stupid magic kiss to make Lois forget that Clark is Superman. No one knows how this works, and I'll never know why that works. Richard Donner had a vision of a semi-serious vision of Superman, but with grand drama and awesome spectacle. Lester, the more economical director, cuts down everything to rivets, and the special effects are pretty cheesy as a result. Not to diss Lester completely, I think he is a very competent director. The problem here is that his approach to this sort of material doesn't fit with what the material was trying to do, therefore the blend of pathos and comedy is completely uneven and for the most part doesn't work.The biggest aspect about this production is the lack of Marlon Brando as Jor-El. In an effort to save even more money, the Salkinds didn't want to hire him back and pay him more money. He is shamefully replaced by unknown Kryptonian counselors, but less so by the mother Lara. But all the things that were set up in the first movie are for naught and it's gone out the window.That's not to say there weren't good scenes. Especially the last scene between Lois and Superman/Clark is one of the best I have seen in any movie. It's very real and it deals with how Lois cant live or be with him because of his life as a superhero. He too acknowledges that he loves her but he can't stand to see her suffer. It's almost killed by the magic kiss, but it's still one of the strongest scenes in any film. Lester did very well for this.The scenes that also work, like the Lex Luthor scenes, and the scenes at the end in the Fortress of Solitude are excellent. I say excellent because these last couple scenes I have mentioned were directed by Richard Donner.Christopher Reeve is actually very good in this movie, showing the turmoil that he goes through during the story. Margot Kidder is OK, but she looks hideous in this movie (by that I mean she looks very gaunt compared to Superman I where she looks very attractive) Gene Hackman is good too, and Terence Stamp is one of the great villains of cinema.This movie is very entertaining, but when watching Superman II The Richard Donner Cut (in my profile page) this pales in comparison. I recommend it, but only marginally. "},{"Title":"Crude noisemaker.....","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of terrorists seize the Eiffel Tower and threaten Paris with a hydrogen bomb if the French government does not meet their demands. Superman immediately heads to Paris, where he launches the elevator carrying the bomb into outer space before it can detonate. Unfortunately, when the bomb explodes, it disintegrates the 'Phantom Zone', where 3 Kryptonian criminals had been imprisoned years before by Jor-El. Immediately, the 3 criminals, led by General Zod, head to Earth. Superman is unaware of their arrival, and is forced to sacrifice his powers for a life with Lois Lane. When he finds out about Zod and his companions, Superman returns to the Fortress of Solitude to regain his powers and confront the Kryptonian criminals.....Plot holes aside, and there are a hell of a lot, thanks to the behind the scenes goings on, this movie is the best of the franchise, and on a par with Nolans Batman movies.Yes, there is blatant slapstick humour, and Hackmans voice is dubbed worse than Seagal, but this is a very dark movie, Superman sacrificing his powers for love, and the ability to protect earth, is a hard decision, and despite the way it's handled in this, very quickly, it still is a ballsy move from the Man of Steel.Reeve still proves that he is the best choice to play a comic book hero in the world, and dominates the screen. But then you have Terence Stamp. His Zod is amazing, and Shannon will have a lot to live up to.Even though he goes a bit cockney in the White House, Stamp almost steals the whole film from Reeve.The battle in Metroplis is still an epic piece of film making, even thirty years later and despite the fact it all takes place on one street, and the final scene is brilliant.Hackman didn't need to be in this, albeit for the double cross scene, but hey ho, they had the footage, so why not.The Donner cut is a little better, but this still stands out as one of the best comic book movies ever made.In my opinion anyway. "},{"Title":"It feels as though there is something missing","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The heart of the original Superman, for me, was not in its special effects or panoramic directing&#x97;although both of those were delightfully good as well&#x97;but in its eccentric love triangle. In the middle was the feisty Lois Lane; on one end was our titular superhero from the planet Krypton; on the other end was his goodhearted twerp of an alter-ego, Clark Kent. I liked this dynamic so much in the original film that I actually wanted a little less of the spectacle that made up the climax and a little more of their chemistry. For those reasons, and others, I found myself astonished that Superman II, which expands upon the love story, left me feeling rather cold and uninvolved by the end.A hill-and-valley effect plagues the sequel. Sequences are soaring high one minute and plummeting hard the next. I've read accounts that Superman II had a troubled production with the film changing directors after a good chunk of the picture had been shot, and unfortunately the schizophrenic relationships on the set do show in the final product. It really does feel as though there is something missing in just about every scene. I do not know who to point fingers at (the new director, Richard Lester, or his screenwriters) but almost every scene caps off with a set of lame jokes. A defining moment would be an early-on chapter where three arch-villains from Superman's home planet attack some astronauts on the moon. The scene itself is padded out tediously and wraps itself up with some lame meanwhile-in-Houston shots as NASA people on the ground quip about age differences. Other times, such as when those same villains arrive on earth and start pillaging a Midwest town, Director Lester builds up some promising moments and just when they seem to get interesting, he cuts away often with an odd two-shot of some characters. Again, it feels as though there is something missing.But whereas some scenes feel as though they are too short, there are others that persist on going on too long. Superman has two encounters with these villains from outer space. One of them is staged in downtown Metropolis, and it is insufferably boring. Bad editing really stands out when a sequence filled with colorful explosions, lasers crossing the skies, and cars being blown across main street, crashing into everything, seems to drag on forever. But it is. When the three villains spew hurricane-force winds from their lips to repel a rioting crowd of citizens, not only do we get too many shots of people and cars toppling over, but too many silly shots of the villains with their lips puckered. The rest of the battle, apart from containing too many effects shots, is crippled by a constant urge by Director Lester to include reaction shots of citizens. And as the scene went on and on, I kept on wondering just what was all the attention for on these three black-suited bores.There lies my other big quip with the movie the villains are pretentious bores. Even though one of them, the leader Zod, is acted excellently by the underrated Terence Stamp, none of these fiends struck me as particularly menacing. They had no energy and no real presence. Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman), the villain of the first picture, returns and does have some good individual moments. But by the end of it all, Mr. Hackman's inclusion just seems like a studio obligation&#x97;after all, he gets top billing over everybody else. I wanted a whole lot more of Mr. Hackman's Lex Luthor and his comical stooges than General Zod and his pretentious stooges.But what about the love story I like so much? True, there are more scenes between Christopher Reeve, as Superman, and Margot Kidder, as Lois Lane. Sadly, they are mostly reserved for the first half of the movie, as Miss Kidder starts to unravel Mr. Reeve's big secret. Every moment where Clark Kent and Lois are pretending to be newlyweds visiting Niagara Falls, and there are a lot of these early on, are solid gold. These sequences are terrific, as are the ones that resolve their dynamic at the end of the movie. But in the middle, save for an impressively directed scene set in a diner&#x97;actually the best part of the movie&#x97;their chemistry seems to teeter. As a result, Superman's already sudden decision to give up his powers to live with Lois comes across even more rash than the filmmakers, and characters, probably intended. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" For only the second time in the nine years I have been watching Smallville, I have seen an alternative version of the Superman story. I saw Superman III many years ago, and Superman IV recently. I have yet to see the first movie. I'm waiting for broadcast TV, I guess, or at least a channel that comes with the cheapest cable.I was unaware of the Donner/Lester controversy when I watched, but I read about it and determined I am on Lester's side. WGN obviously showed his version because the Eiffel Tower scenes were in it, and I wouldn't have it any other way. Lois is most fun when she's the damsel in distress.It was a fun experience for sure. Certainly darker and more violent than Superman IV when Zod was involved, but Terence Stamp made a truly dominant and intimidating villain--which is more than I can say for Lex Luthor in this version.On the other hand, the Lois and Clark scenes were campy and fun and I once again found myself wishing these two could be in a TV series. I liked Margot Kidder almost as much as Erica Durance. Almost. And Christopher Reeve was brilliant. Obviously that smile always seen after his accident was there before. The nerdy, clumsy Clark was almost as fun as in the fourth movie. On the other hand, Superman was a fine upstanding citizen who had a few more flaws here--though he still wasn't Tom Welling's more confused version of the character. Nothing wrong with the man who is still learning, but the finished process has its advantages.The action scenes were great, something I've seen all too little of on TV.Having seen the Smallville series made me appreciate this film so much more. The Phantom Zone was depicted here just as on TV, and so was The Fortress of Solitude. And I know quite a bit now about Zod, mainly from the endless discussions on the CW network's message boards.Of course, Smallville had a much better Lex, one worthy of the mythology. This Lex, while enjoyable and well-played by Gene Hackman, was little more than a clown. Zod had to be the main villain, so that accounts for part of the problem.It was truly a film worth being a part of the Superman legend. If the first one was better than this, it must really be something to look forward to. "}{"Title":"Corny fun!","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of fans have turned against this entry in the Superman series because the Salkinds fired Richard Donner before he could finish the movie. Also, since Richard Lester's Superman III was less than spectacular, people have back lashed against Lester's humor. I do believe Donner would have made a better Superman II. This movie is not perfect by any means, but that does not take away its charm and appeal. Superman II wastes no time springing into action, with an exciting opening with terrorists threatening to destroy Paris with a Hydrogen bomb. Superman of course saves the day by throwing the bomb into space, but the explosion destroys the Phantom Zone, freeing the three Kryptonian villains from the first film. Superman does not find out until it is too late; he has already given up his powers to be with Lois Lane when he discovers that Zod has captured the President of the United States! Superman must decide between love and responsibility. The scheming Lex Luthor shows up to take advantage of the situation, but he's really only in this film for comic relief.Terence Stamp is the best villain in the Superman series. His General Zod is so over the top he's hilarious, but he manages to be very threatening at the same time. He is probably more comedic than Donner would have wanted but I think his character works here just fine. What really makes this movie work is the love story with Lois and Superman. Superman's decision to give up his powers is very touching in this version, whereas the Donner version portrays it as a big mistake, almost selfish. I actually prefer Donner's version of the scene but Lester's is still good. And when Superman realizes he can no longer be with Lois Lane, he handles it like a man, not like a pansy (*cough Tobey Maguire cough*).For a while Superman II was popularly known as the best Superman movie, but Superman I seems to have gained favor with the public and the critics. There are legitimate reasons to like II better, mainly for the fact that it does not take an hour to really get going. Nevertheless I think Superman II has not aged as well as Superman. The Salkinds had a tighter control over the budget and a tighter schedule, so I think many special effects were rushed. The musical score suffered greatly too. Rather than rehire John Williams to write a new score, they hired a composer to just adapt the first film's score with a smaller orchestra. The music sounds like it was performed by a high school band. Gene Hackman refused to return to film any of his scenes again, so a body double and voice over actor were cast to fill in for him. His scenes are short but they stick out like a sore thumb. Marlon Brando is also missed, especially during the recap of Zod's trial.Richard Lester's humor is more intrusive than it should be, and it would only get worse in Superman III. Donner limited the humor to Clark Kent and Lex Luthor, whereas Lester injected humor with every no name supporting character possible, like the bellhop and the police. Superman II also has one of the same flaws as the first movie absurd powers. This time Superman can pull a cellophane S out of his chest, create holograms of himself, and give people amnesia by kissing them. Zod also has telekinesis.Still, Superman II is a lot of fun, largely due to the stellar cast. Their genuine performances really elevate what could have been a forgettable, cheesy 80's flick into something special. The Superman series influence can be felt today, especially in the Spider-Man movies. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of terrorists seize the Eiffel Tower & threaten Paris with a hydrogen bomb if the French government does not meet their demands. Superman immediately heads to Paris, where he launches the elevator carrying the bomb into outer space before it can detonate. Unfortunately, when the bomb explodes, it disintegrates the 'Phantom Zone', where 3 Kryptonian criminals had been imprisoned years before by Jor-El. Immediately, the 3 criminals, led by the psychopathic General Zod, head to Earth with the intention of enslaving the people Superman protects. The Man of Steel, however, is unaware of their arrival, and is forced to sacrifice his powers for a life with Lois Lane. When he finds out about Zod & his companions, Superman returns to the Fortress of Solitude to regain his powers and confront the horrible Kryptonian criminals - on his terms. Can Superman defeat the 3 villains who are armed with identical powers to his own? Good sequel doesn't need any hate on this, I used to hate this sequel until I saw it on TV. I decided to get it then. If only this sequel can be respected.Rated PG for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"not awful,but not as good as it could have been","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" for me,this movie was not as good as i remember it the first time.i found it boring,to be honest.i also didn't like the story that much.it just didn't seem to have much depth to it.on the plus side,though there were some humorous bits.but this movie lacks the epic quality of the first one.the villains are only mildly interesting,although they should be more.also,as far as i can tell the filmmakers didn't completely stick to the Superman lore,having the character do things he probably would not actually do.anyway,this movie is a significant drop in quality.it's not a horrible movie by any means,but it could have been much more.for me Superman II is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"A step down and an insult, but still somehow good","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why does no one ever think of Richard Donner as a great director? He was-- his works include both Ladyhawke and Superman. The fact that he was fired from this movie is one of the most infuriating facts in motion picture history. That being said, the Lester cut is not *bad*. It is a step down in quality from the first Superman movie, but it is incredibly fun to watch Superman meet his match-- no less than three times! The three Kryptonian bad guys (Terence Stamp as Zod, Sarah Douglas as Ursa, and Jack O'Halloran as the mute Non) add a dimension Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor couldn't quite reach. And while the Paris situation early in the movie is artistically nonsensical, it is a great chance to see Lois Lane in action... until she screams. However, you can only consider your Superman II experience complete until you have seen the Richard Donner Cut. "},{"Title":"It Seemed much better in 1980","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II (1980) suffers from the curse of most special effects loaded films from 25-30 years ago; the stuff you loved the most at the time of the theatrical release now looks lame and silly. Not so much because you are jaded, you are happy to cut a lot of slack for the hokey sci-fi stuff from the 50's and 60's, it's just that this transitional stuff leaves you wishing that they had waited a few years before cranking this out. To me the Donner cut vs the Lester release issue is irrelevant because Superman II was never about the script, the acting, or the editing. It was all about production design and effects. In those two areas it was a super-ambitious effort, which paid off with 1980 audiences and critics. While it's a shame that Donner's vision was not the one released to theaters, today's viewers should prefer the Lester release simply because its greater emphasis on parody elements make it a much better fit with the dated production design and effects. That said, there are some script issues that made no more sense in 1980 than they do today. The three Krypton outlaws (Terrance Stamp, Jack O'Halloran, and Sarah Douglas are still the film's most compelling element) have acquired some weird ability to levitate objects that I don't recall ever being part of the Superman's abilities. This is unnecessary and simply calls attention to screenwriter Mario Puzo's ignorance or indifference to tradition (insert disrespect here). He compounds this with a totally unconvincing Lois Lane-Superman romance more serious than the combined 60 years of comic book teasing on the subject. Finally, it is presumed that on Krypton no one had super-powers, yet within hours of acquiring these abilities the three outlaws appear baffled that everyone in the universe does not share their abilities. Acting-wise only the villains look to be having any fun with this thing, and it could use more of Ned Beatty. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Right on par with the 1st","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was/is one of the few cases where the sequel to a very successful film lived up mostly to the first one. Since 70% of this is Donner's film, that isn't a surprise. This is basically just a continuation of the first film. Everyone is back with Terrance Stamp having an expanded role as Zod and he brings a tour DE force presence to the role. It was a tricky prospect to have two villains in one film, but Zod and Luther exist in the same film and bring a balance to the evil. Zod is more militarist where Luther is more opportunistic. Stamp and Hackman are in great form. With the recent release of the Donner cut of this film, this version of the film looses some of its luster. The producers and new director removed Brando due to not wanting to pay him. This changed the whole dynamics of the film. They made plenty from the first film, they should have coughed up the extra money, put differences with Donner aside and this film would have been even better than it was/is. This film really escalated the hopes of everyone that a 3rd film would be evening better. Alas, it was not to be. This is the last time, via theatrical releases, that Superman was in full glory. "},{"Title":"Seems like the best Superman movie of all","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just like Karen Lynn Gorney of Saturday Night Fever was the innocent young lady of the 1970s, Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) was the innocent woman of the 1980s who falls for the famous DC comics superhero in Superman II. In addition, Margot's acting in the flick is almost the newest version of Natalie Wood....very good on the TV screen, but reluctant in the public life.Well, the costuming of the three super-terrorists in the flick was striking enough---all of them wearing black. The strong symbolization of the color black is that of darkness. This reminds me of the 666 analogy, but even more importantly, the dress in all black garb is akin to the Star Wars' evil character, Darth Vader.The special effects used in the messing up of New York's central Manhattan was spectacular enough. Seeing all of the New Yorkers blown away by the wind breaths of the super-terrorists reminds me of a hurricane in New York. Some of the scenes in Superman II are slight spin-offs to the earlier Star Trek movies, especially The Wrath of Khan. "},{"Title":"The Superman Lois Lane love story is charming","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman is primarily meant for teenagers. There are many people who try to hold the film to a middle aged standard and that is wrong. When I saw the movie in 1980 it was adult acompaniment 14 and under but at age 11 I made it into the theatre without adults. I met a Peoples Republic of China student named Gary who was attending Laurentian University. He started mentioning things that I mentioned in my review L'Homme du train. In that review I mentioned the Rushins and he said the Chinese were the surge ins hinting that if Russia went to war against America and its allies that China would stay neutral to avoid being nuked by either side. I call this the Kennedy Morgan Jintao new triangular diplomacy. I promised that America would never start a Nuclear War which is President Kenndys policy laid down in his peace speech of June 1963. In a previous review I mentioned President Clintons 1990 code for the nuclear war football. Apparently Clinton met with Chinese agents and told them the code so they recognized my same code as real and began to believe I was the American Shadow Vice President. I gave away no American State secrets meeting with the Chinese Spy. The Care rank Ki and Et aliens that created humans will probably not tolerate any Human alliance starting a nuclear war. Those weapons are important for safeguarding the Universe from Possibly Hostile Aliens. Stopping Global Warming will be painful but Humanity on Earth will survive I am sure. Last night I was told that America alone controls the control area of the holodeck that we are all in. Thank you and may God continue to watch over the Ki American secret Service Elizabeth Regina Alliance. Check out the other Christopher reeves movies as well. "},{"Title":"It's crap - but I love it!","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a superlatively awful movie directed by Richard Lester, who once was capable of such deft, witty comedies as A HARD DAY'S NIGHT... but who (un)wisely decided to camp it way, way up for the beloved, but Christopher Reeve SUPERMAN franchise. The dialogue is astonishingly bad, and the moments of cheese that were timely and pithy in 1980 seem like the howlingly embarrassing bits from an episode of Dobie Gillis - dated and squirm-inducing. Hey man, that's a bad out-FIT! Ouch. But Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder do the best they can with what they have, and things are lightened considerably by the campy chops of Sarah Douglas and the sublime Terence Stamp. When I was a kid, Superman/Clark's angst rang utterly true - in hindsight, it's almost painful to watch all the non-Krypton Kriminal bits. You better believe I watch it every time it's on cable, though. "},{"Title":"A good war against good and evil ,1980's style!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a war between our famous man of steel, who has super powers, and chooses to use them for peace and for rescuing stranded cats up trees, and in one scene, a train has damaged track in front of it, he lays down, and the train goes over him, and on to it's destination unharmed. Meanwhile these three villains want world domination so they use their powers for destruction. Those spacemen were doing nobody any harm. Terrence Stamp really brings Genaral Zod to life very well indeed. Why did true love get in the way of Superman when those 3 villains were on Planet Houston??? what planet is that? if General Zod did his homework correct he would of Found out that Planet Houston is in fact planet Earth! and we do not need him to rule over us! I did not find that girl villain Beautiful I liked Lois Lane the best I found that girl villain a spoilt child! luckily Superman saved us at the end like he always does. I thought this film very good I now have it on a DVD. on the telly, some of the film was cut, as on my DVD, we see Genaral Zod and the 3 villains commit the crime. "}{"Title":"Heated leftovers can be just as tasty","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II doesn't convey the sense of wonder that the original did nor does it have John Williams' majestic score(but a competent adaption by Ken Thorne nonetheless)playing on the soundtrack. The special effects are downright awful (even for 1980) and the comedy slapstick inserted by director Richard Lester (who took over from Richard Donner after he was sacked during the shooting)is often less than amusing and borders more on annoying. Despite these deficiencies Superman II rivals its predecessor at times and contains some of the best scenes in the entire series.Most of those scenes contain British actor Terence Stamp who portrays General Zod, leader of a trio of Kryptonian supervillians who have escaped exile from the Phantom Zone to wreak destruction upon Planet Houston. Stamp chews every scene he appears in with consummate skill as the cruel and sophisticated tyrant bent on vengeance.  His cohorts in Kryptonian crime are Ursa (played wonderfully by Sarah Douglas), a femme fatale and Non (played by Jack O'Hallorann), a mute brute. Together they're a sort of Brain, B*tch and Brawn against the Man of Steel.With these elements Lex Luthor becomes rather redundant in the storyline. Gene Hackman doesn't have much to do except hang around on the periphery and provide comic relief (itself already made redundant by the ubiquitous presence of the physical comedy).Superman's and Lois' relationship heats up considerably with Clark/Superman losing his powers in order to tumble in the sack with Lois Lane. This later becomes an albatross around his neck when he becomes aware of the supervillians' presence on Earth and has to stop them. This is where the excitement really begins to kick in and lifts the film from ho-hum to dynamic.Final verdict kneel before Zod! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable But Campy","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No one who saw the first Superman could possibly refuse seeing this sequel. Frankly, you could attach both movies together into one long six-hour flick and possibly make it even more enjoyable. In the movie, Superman gives up his powers for the love of Lois Lane again played by Margot Kidder, but must get them back as villains from Krypton arrive on Earth and inherit his powers as a result. The humor is good, and it gets interesting as the villains psychoanalyze Superman's responsibilty to work for the forces of good, but then it also gets a bit dry as you realize that unlike the Superman comic, the Man of Steel IS the only hero in this reality. Thor would be a good contender against Zod, the Hulk for Non and Wonder Woman for Ursa, but then it might be more of a Avengers/Justice League flick. But then, the reality is a bit off as the fake city sets distract from the action and the villains have powers that Superman does not have. They change the faces of Mount Rushmore as they fly past the monument, but Superman has none of this power. Zod walks on water; Superman has never done this. Gene Hackman heightens the fun as he portrays Lex Luthor with a comedic light.  There is a bad plot device as Lois is forced to forget all that has occurred without any believable reason. The ending is just part groan and part monumental as Superman proves to be superman again. "},{"Title":"Oh, God! Zod!","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN II is perhaps the biggest if only movies ever made. Before I go on, you need to learn some history about the Superman films They were both shot simultaneously by Richard Donner. When Superman II was 80% complete, Donner focused on pat I in order to release it by December 1978. After the rather successful US run, the British producers decided to fire Donner and get the more obedient director Richard Lester to replace him and finish the film. The main reason was that the producers wanted a more campy film a-la 60s Batman, while Donner believed in a more serious tone. Angry by the decision, both Gene Hackman and John Williams left. Fortunately, Donner completed most of Hackman's footage while the studio owned the rights to John Williams' score. So a body double was hired to complete the production posing as Hackman while a voice impersonator dubbed the final bits. British composer Ken Thorne re-worked Williams' score for the original film. Lester completed the film and re-shot most of Donner's footage with some changes in order to get the full credit as a director.This is why SUPERMAN II fails to be as magical as the original. This is one rushed badly-edited mess that somehow is still good. There are two existing versions of the film The Donner version and the Lester version. The Donner version was never completed, but can be read on screenplay around the internet. The Lester version is the finished product. And indeed, the unfinished Donner material is much better. But first, lets look at this sequel as a stand-alone filmThe three villains from the beginning of the first film (Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas, and Jack O'Halloran) escape from the prison thanks to an H-Bomb thrown into outer space by Superman (Christopher Reeve) during a terrorist threat in Paris. Following their leader, Zod, they soon come to Earth and start to spread their own message of doom from Texas to Washington DC. Meanwhile, Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) finally finds out Clark's little secret and they are both having a romantic weekend at the Fortress of Solitude. In order to have sexual relations with Lois, Clark is forced to give up his powers, and as soon as he and Lois go back to Metropolis, they learn about Zod's escape. With no more powers, Clark must figure out a way to fight Zod and free the world once and for all.SUPERMAN II takes a brave step from the family-friendly original to a darker and more serious tone. This is what makes it a good sequel. It doesn't re-tell what the original told, instead, it takes it further. It also turns the tables The original's humorous enemy (Gene Hackman) is now reduced to a lame sidekick to General Zod. This is very similar change of pace to the recent X-MEN 2. The problem with Richard Lester's SUPERMAN II is that the pacing is way too fast, and Lester's footage seems somehow rushed and poorly done. Take the big fight at the end, for example. The fight itself is well done, but the poor campy humor that surrounds it dates the film horribly. One would wonder how lame SUPERMAN II would have been if Lester had directed it completely (you can have an idea by submitting yourself to the comedy horror that is SUPERMAN III). Richard Donner wanted to take the series to a more serious direction while the producers didn't. The failure of SUPERMAN III at the box-office proved that. Donner's original fight sequence (as read in screenplay) was poor in humor, but rich in excitement and emotions. It was also Superman, not Zod, that learned the joy of Coca-Cola. Not that Lester's fight is poorly done. Are you kidding? It is perhaps the greatest superhero battle of all history, and on TV, it seems more exciting than seeing two CGI puppets hitting each other at the Manhattan bridge (*cough* SPIDERMAN *cough*).The rushed production is somehow obvious after you learn the backstory behind the film Watch Lex Luthor sometimes talk while he is not facing the camera and can only be seen from a far angle. Notice how Marlon Brando from the original film didn't return because of a high salary (he is replaced with Susannah York). Notice how the special FX work is not done with the same care as the original. Notice how the cardboard US spaceship at the moon scene looks like it came from a high-school play. And notice how Margot Kidder loses weight and goes from attractive and colorful (Donner footage) to skinny, pale, and anorexic (Lester footage). ***SPOILERS*** The worst of the edits is the terrible hack-job at the climatic scene in the Fortress of Solitude. Not only did the re-write include a senseless illusion/trick cat and mouse game, but the way it is edited, it seems like both Lois and Superman kill the villains in cold blood and leave Lex Luthor to die from starvation. Is this SUPERMAN or BLADE? Superman doesn't kill this way (neither does Batman, a thing Tim Burton didn't get in his own adaptations) making the moment very cruel and in bad taste. In the actual Donner screenplay, the villains and Lex Luthor are taken away by the military and Superman destroys the Fortress of Solitude. ***END OF SPOILERS***The actors themselves are just as good ,if not better, than the original, which is what saves SUPERMAN II from being a disaster. Both Reeve and Kidder still have the wonderful chemistry that they had in the original, while other roles like Hackman's Luthor are given more to do. It is quite amusing seeing Luthor being reduced to an idiot by the alien trio.As for Donner's version, which I had the joy of reading, is incredibly superior All the camp from the fight scene is removed, all the silly new superpowers are gone (no kiss!), the Paris opening is absent, Lois tricks Clark into revealing his identity, the dialogue was sharper, and the villains are freed by the missile Superman threw into outer space during the climax of the original film (connecting both movies better). Jor-El's (Marlon Brando) scenes are indeed the highlight, including the best scene of the entire Superman quadriology that was cut in Lester's version (Jor-El sacrificing his powers to Kal-El). The only flaw is that the scientifically incorrect Earth goes backwards trick from the original is used again. It was one of the biggest flaws the original committed If Superman can go back in time, then what is the excitement in watching SUPERMAN sequels if you know that if something really bad happens (Lois dying one again, for example) he will just turn the damn planet around again?The way I have just described SUPERMAN II makes it seem like it is a terrible movie. As a stand-alone film, it is far from it. The magic from the original IS here after all, it is just rushed. Don't go expecting the best sequel of all time like most people try to put it. You will enjoy this film even more if you excuse some of the poor effects and the whole background story. And you will witness the greatest super-hero battles of all time, which is the only moment Lester handles perfectly. But if you want to experience this sequel like you really should, read the Donner screenplay and see the dark, mature film with much better non-campy humor and no plot holes and bad editing. That is the film you should experience. That is the true SUPERMAN II.(3.5/5) "},{"Title":"Acceptable Sequel.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This entertaining sequel has the legendary Man of Steel facing three villains from Krypton, while having a love affair with Lois Lane and having to choose between two destinies.  This is a good sequel, but not as great as the original (Ain't it usually this way for sequels?).  But it's still an entertaining film with good performances and satisfying special effects.  An overachiever all the way through.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Where's Richard Donner? Marlon Brando? John Williams?","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A borderline 'near-great' sequel that should of been an awesome 'PART II' to the Superman Saga. It is partly great...because director Richard Donner of 'Superman The Movie' already had 70% of Part 2 in the can. Then, director Richard Lester discarded and reshot about 10% of that; and completed the other 30% of the film (approximately). The producers (The Salkinds) and director Donner had already restructured Part 1's  climax so they could split a long five hour movie into a pair of 2 hour plus theatrical releases.(Subtle plot spoilers) Forever missing from part 2 will be all that footage of Marlon Brando's 'Jor-El'. His scenes were reshot with actress Susannah York as 'Superman's mother' who is embedded in the archive crystal (she WAS in the beginning of the 1st movie). Not many viewers realize that Jor-El's role played a pivotal turning point where Clark Kent is able to re-gain his lost powers so he can challenge the Krypton villains' assault.Top billed Gene Hackman never had to do any additional acting for 'Superman II (neither did Ned Beatty or Valerie Perrine for that matter). All their footage had already been shot by Richard Donner in 1978 for the planned four hour plus original running time.Music composed and conducted by Ken Thorne??? (I know...from original music by John Williams). History dictates that John is loyal to any producers/directors that treat him/serve him well (Speilberg and Lucas ring a bell?). So what's up with that??And Margot Kidder who is so klutzy and spontaneous! That's a dead give-a-way between her scenes shot in 77'/78'; compared to her scenes shot for 'Superman II'. For the 2nd movie, the camera lens tries to filter her bloodshot eyes. Her voice is husky. Watch the scene that CUTS from Gene Hackman's Australia two finger victory sign (while he's lounging in THE White House executive chair;... owning the continent is his reward for delivering Superman to General Zod); cut to a globe in Perry White's office showing the map of Austrailia; then Margot's line, He'll be here! (referring to Superman's delayed absence and obviously filmed during Donner's tender). The difference in her voice and eyes are very obviously from Donner's direction; compared to the new footage done for part 2...the Paris hydrogen bomb scene; & Margot's dinner and toast with Superman at the 'Fortress of Solitude', (not Margot's fault...she was justifiably upset with Donner's unjust termination after the release of 'Superman').And Richard Lester is awarded sole credit as director when most of the footage was shot by Richard Donner. Maybe this was a compromise because Lester received no credit from his producing 'go between' chores in Superman I. When filming delays started to mount for 'Superman I', Lester was an obvious (though unjustifiable) backup to take the helm for part II after the original's release.This is no slight for Richard Lester whose brilliance is firmly established with 'The Three/Four Musketeers' (both filmed simultaneously in 1973) and the Beatles's 'Hard Days Night' & 'Help'. Maintaining the same director is essential for a successful, logical storyline. Budget restrictions may have put a damper on a more logical flow in the 'pick-up' scenes to fill the gaps that were left over. And Lester has a reputation for shooting fast. But maybe the producers should have bit the bullet for the long term reward of quality continuity.There's still so much to enjoy!7 out of 10!This is a very necessary companion piece to the 1st one. The DVD release shows no sign of being restored in either visual or audio...unlike the care taken for 'Superman The Movie'. And where's the extras? "},{"Title":"Super-film!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My problem with the first film was pacing. Boy, did they improve on that here. Right out of the box Superman is finding himself in that usual predicament of rescuing Lois Lane, as he zips to France in a very effective opening for the film. Little does he realize (by hurtling an elevator(!) into space) that he has cracked The Phantom Zone, a sort of floating window that houses three super-villains who were banned from his home planet of Krypton in the opening of the first movie. They are released and head for Earth to cause chaos for no apparent reason, which was one of my few problems with the film. Stamp and his two cohorts can pretty much do what they want to who, so why bother taking over the whole country? So they can...what? I mean, the guy can walk into any bar and order a free drink forever. Kinda falls under that old axium, what do you get the man who has everything? But, never mind. It's one of those things you don't need to think about. Along with the silly moment where a boy from Houston, Idaho speaks with a British accent (the movie was made in England). That one gets overlooked more easily because it provided a small laugh at the same time. Anywho, a terrific plot device is thrown in, as while the three wackos are tearing up the southwest, Reeve has been unmasked (or uncaped) by Kidder, and the two begin a romance far from the trouble. At one point Reeve even gives up his powers so that he may love an earthling. Right about this time he discovers Stamp on the television demanding Superman appear before him. Supes has been left in a desensitizing chamber and Reeve must decide to give up Lois or stay with her and watch the world crumble. It sets up a great ending as Reeve reappears to do what he can to save Metropolis. I so much more enjoyed this second go-round because there seemed to be more drama and a sense of urgency. If you think about it, this is the only Superman film where he has to fight other human beings. Having more hand to hand combat was so much more effective than doing battle with missiles and rockets like in the other installments. Director Lester is just as good as Donner, and the same can be said for Thorne who picks up for John Williams on the score.And like the first film, the effects still look great, with a fantastic Niagra Falls rescue (my favorite moment in any of the films) and nice visuals during the Metropolis finale. The cast repeats their fine talents of part one, and the entire film stands out as the best in the series for me. "},{"Title":"Second best in a long run of films","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  though the film lacked many aspects of the first and seemed a little melodramatic at times this is still second concidering the two that followed this film. The plot for Superman Two was more or less than perfect but with a notch of good quality. The acting was well done and followed the comics trough and trough... I give it a 9 1/2 out of 10! "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman 2 is a great sequel, but it isn't as good as the first movie because many scenes that were filmed weren't used, however they appeared in extended cuts on TV several times. Had these extra scenes appeared in the theatrical cut, the movie would have been even greater than it is as the extra footage really adds depth and emotion to the film.Christopher Reeve is once again fantastic in the dual role of Clark Kent/Superman; Gene Hackman is delightful as the villainous Lex Luthor; Terence Stamp is wonderful as the evil and menacing General Zod; and Ned Beatty, while only in the film for a short time, is once again a hoot as Otis.Superman 2 does entertain me, although it does have some flaws. For starters, director Richard Lester inserted some 'comedic scenes' that weren't needed such as the man on the phone who continues laughing after the phone box is blown over. Scenes like this do not belong in a Superman film.The special effects are great in this film as well, however it's not as good as the first film's because of time constraints. The effects artists had literally only weeks to complete hundreds of effect shots which explains why they aren't up to the standards of the first film's. However, you'll still believe a man can fly.John Williams' superb music from the first film is very much missed in Superman 2. Instead we have music that was conducted by Ken Thorne and orchestrated by a smaller orchestra using John Williams' original material. The music is good, but it's not up to the sheer greatness of the first movie's music.Superman 2 is popcorn entertainment and an enjoyable film to watch thanks to the performances and the action. I only watch the extended version though as it's better than the theatrical cut. If you do find a copy of the extended version, don't hesitate to get it as it is well worth getting.Had Richard Donner been allowed to film the rest of Superman 2 I have no doubt that it would have been even greater than the original film. "},{"Title":"The best comic movie ever!!!!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman 2 is the best comic movie ever made.  The flow of the movie keeps you interested the whole time.  The villains are very good, Terrence Stamp is great as Zod.  Gene Hackman provided the comic relief as Lex Luthor, and Christopher Reeve is the perfect Superman. "},{"Title":"SuperMEAN is more like it...","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, not a bad movie.  No one else should play Supes, Christopher Reeves is the penultimate Superman.  The Bad Kryptonians, Lex Luthor...all very entertaining. But I have one problem with this movie.  The greasy diner scene. Some trucker beats the snot out of normal Clark.  Clark gets all weepy, blah blah, gets powers back, blah blah.  Then he goes back to the bar with his super powers and slaps the trucker around.  Now, Superman was getting the snot kicked out of him by the Bad Kryptonians, but he didn't give up, and he fought on.  His indomitable spirit, his compassion for his fellow earthlings, he fights on...unless he's puny in a diner and it's ONE trucker?  That guy was about to hit Lois, and clark just lies there in a fetal position blubbering. It woulda meant a lot more if Clark coulda beat the guy up anyway. If he's not superman unless he has his powers, what kind of hero is he? Sure, it's cathartic to see the bully get his, but in that context, isn't Superman the bully?  It was such a lop sided fight.  When Clark was normal, that doesn't say he's  a total puss.  So uhhh...kinda running out of steam. All in all, I liked the movie...except for the diner...oh, and they were using some dumb ass made up powers, like the floaty finger ray, and superman's stupid insignia saran wrap frisby...oh, and they could talk in space and there's no atmosphere there to carry verbal communication...and margot kidder wasn't that hot...so...I gotta go.  Peace. "}{"Title":"The only worth sequel","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II is only worthy sequel of the first movie. The effects are great once again and so is the music. Christopher Reeve once again does a great job as Clark Kent/Superman. Gene Hackman is back also as the evil and funny Lex Luthor. The fight with Zod, Ursa and Non was spectacular and dazzling. I also enjoyed the scene where Clark went back to the diner for the second time in the movie and taught that bully a lesson. My only problem with this movie was when Superman lost his powers. The impression was that his powers would be gone forever. Now, you know he has to get his powers or else the bad guys win and the movie is over, but I wish they would have explained it better. Other than that, this movie is great and shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"A fantastic film...with a few glaring over-sights","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely the best of the Superman films.  A fantastic fast-moving story with memorable characters and some terrific scenes.  The fight scene over downtown Metropolis between Superman and the three villians is incredible.  The scene between the villians and the Lunar Astronauts is down-right terrifying!But there are some nit-pick elements that I wish they'd handled better in this film.  For example, after Superman loses his powers, a car magically appears for them to take back to Metropolis.  I doubt there are many car dealerships in the North Pole.  Also, why didn't Mr. White question the fact that Lois Lane returned, but Clark Kent did not?  And what about the charming Miss Tessmacher?  She helped Lex Luthor escape and joined him on the trek to find Superman's Fortress of Solitude.  But the next time we see Luthor in the White House, we see that Miss Tessmacher has vanished...without a trace.  No mention of what happened to her character. Even a simple line of Miss Tessmacher saying, I don't want anymore to do with this revenge of yours would have been sufficient.And my biggest problem with the film is when Superman loses his powers. Superman's mother makes it perfectly clear, All your powers will disappear FOREVER!  Once it is done, there is no return  I don't like it when films use items like disappear forever as a dramatic intensifier.  They make it all dramatic that Superman will NEVER get his powers back, but then he finds that lucky green crystal and all is right with the world.  That's just a cop-out!But those are minor details.  Definitely they shouldn't keep anybody from watching this film because it is one hell of a ride.  Even some 20 years later this film is very watchable and very enjoyable!!  Eight out of 10 "},{"Title":"Superb sequel","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superb sequel to Superman carries on from where the film left off. Superman surrendering his powers for Lois Lane as his Father's nemesis General Zod and his co-horts take over the world.  Great atmosphere and well paced. The music is not as powerful as the original as this orchestra is smaller than the one used in Superman.  Also not explained is how Superman got his powers back. The scene was filmed with Marlon Brando and Reeve set in the Northpole but as Brando was asking for to much money, they left him out.  Basically, after Superman finds the green crystal, Jor-El appears and says 'Son listen carefully, for this is the last time we'll speak.  You have made a grave error'.  Jor-el goes on to say that he will sacrifice his life for him therefore giving him his powers back and continues to say that the final prophecy of Krypton has come true, the son becomes the father and the father becomes the son.  It's shame it was left out as it seems a terrific scene. Nevertheless, this film has humour, warmth and personality.  A real winner. And what an ending!*It's about time Warner Bros did something to restore the original Superman films to their oringinal length and quality.  Do they not listen to what we have to say?  And why not?  It would make a lot of people happy and make them a lot of money. Duh! "},{"Title":"My Aw, yeaahhh review.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever I watch *Superman II*, I usually say Aw yeah! about a hundred times during the course of the movie.  There are just so many cool things that happen in this film.  In terms of satisfying the visceral, primal needs of us comic-book fanboy types, *Superman II* is probably the best superhero movie ever made.   "},{"Title":"Inferior but worthy sequel","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the original Superman film and consider it one of the all time great superhero films. This sequel is a worthy one. While it is uneven in tone, that I agree, and a tad overlong, the special effects are above decent and the score is superb. The dialogue is pretty good and this film is probably the best plotted of all the films put together, being not too serious and not as silly as the succeeding two. The pacing is secure, and the subplot is sweet and doesn't distract. The direction is good, and the acting is fine. Christopher Reeve is still likable, and Gene Hackman and Terrence Stamp are rock-solid in the roles of Lex Luthor and General Zod. Overall, it isn't as good as the first film but it is the first and I think only worthy sequel(the third being lacklustre despite some good moments and the fourth being awful). 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Superman vs The St. Louis  Assassin -Part 2","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is as good as Superman I. -period! This movie is great on many levels. What is so amazing about this movie is that it was filmed in 1979/1980 and those special effect still hold up (even by todays standards).The great John Williams sound track is back too (actually he didn't record any music for this- they re-edited the music he recorded for the first film...none the less it still sounds great I knew when I seen those 3 villains vanquished into the phantom zone in the first film that they were going to show up again....and I was right.this film is fun. Lois figures out that Clark is Superman. Then Clark kisses her at the end of the movie and erases her memory.even the Niagra Falls stuff is fun to watch. this movie is like being a kid again.once again the acting is superb. Great story....great movie "},{"Title":"I like this sequel","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman II is a very good sequel that takes off (no pun intended) from the first movie in which the three kryptonian villains escape from the phantom zone (doesn't want to spoil how) and start to take over the earth. Meanwhile Superman is falling in love with Lois Lane. all in all a good sequel but not quite topping the original but still worth watching. Overall 9/10 (by the way i think Sarah Douglas as Ursa is very fit.. Nice outfit).I also heard that Richard Donner didn't finish superman II and Richard Lester took over but it doesn't matter because Superman II still rocks and once again you will believe a man can fly, peace out. "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II is that rarity.  The sequel that surpasses the original in quality.  Like The Empire Strikes Back, Aliens, X Men 2 and Toy Story 2, Superman II does not simply repeat the first film like too many sequels tend to do.  It advances the characters and develops them more.  In Superman II, Clark Kent and Lois Lane strengthen their relationship.  However, the three super villains from Krypton show up on Earth determined to rule the Earth.  Superman must choose between his love for Lois and his duty to protect the world.  The three villains are not just standard comic book villains (unlike Nuclear Man in Superman IV).  General Zod as played by Terrence Stamp is an evil man who do anything it takes to rule the world.  He doesn't care who he has to kill to fulfill his thirst.  That is why he is one of the great movie villains.  I'd take him over the campy Batman villains any day.  Watch this movie along with the original and you will have a great time.  10/10     "},{"Title":"Could have been better than I, but misses by a mile.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman has a majestic quality to it. It has many great, quotable lines. It has great characters. There is an epic feeling to the entire film. This is a first class work by an underrated director. Everything works in this film, from the effects to the script to the acting. It is and remains a classic. Superman II had the potential to be as good or better than the first film. there are terrific scenes of mayhem and some good characters. Unfortunately, there are too many things wrong with it that drag it down well below the level of Superman. It is very sloppy and not up to the standard set by Superman. Where to begin? First, there are lots of story holes and just dumb things that happen.  1. Lois is looking for signs that Clark is Superman. They cross the street and he gets hit by a car. The car is smashed up, but she doesn't notice. Neither does anyone else. 2. A snake bites Non and he reacts as if in pain. 3. Clark gives up his powers and then hikes from the North Pole back to civilization in his suit. No sign of frostbite. 4. All of a sudden these beings have laser vision and anti-gravity vision, including Superman. No sign of either in the first film. 5. Brando is no where to be seen. He is replaced by his wife on these pre-recorded crystals. Did Reeve pick the ones that were made while his Dad was in the bathroom back on Krypton? 6. Lois has turned into a slutty, ugly person in this one. She looks awful. 7. How does Clark get his powers back when we are told that they would be gone forever?Effects miseries-1. Non punches Superman as they fly above Metropolis. The bottom half of Reeve is missing as he flies off camera. He was not matted in from the belt down. 2. Non trips over a filing cabinet in the Daily Planet building. This one is very hard to miss. He should have kicked it into orbit. 3. Ursa drops a man from the sky onto a conveniently placed mattress covered with dirt. Again very obvious. 4. The matte shots are very grainy. Everyone flying has a green ring around them. Non looks like a mannequin whenever he is shown flying. There are many more problems and they are peppered throughout the film. They make it a sloppy piece of work and not up to the first one.RATING SUPERMAN - 10 out of 10. SUPERMAN II - 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first one. ****","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superman II gives us possibly the best villains for Superman to take on, three of his own kind, evil and malicious, and make Lex Luthor look like the good guy. The whole Metropolis fight-scene between Superman and the three bad guys was wonderfully done. It puts Earth in a worst-possible situation. When the three super-villains led by General Zod wreak havoc, Superman ignores it for love for Lois Lane, enough for him to give up his powers for her! I liked the desperation in the President when he called out for Superman when he already gave his powers up. Even though I KNOW he gets them back, it feels so desperate still. And the twist ending keeps you at the edge of your seat. This was also a movie that has been missed too much.**** out of **** "}{"Title":"If it ain't broke","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" According to Super-lore, director Richard Donner had completed around two-thirds of Superman II before executive producers the Salkind brothers, citing spiraling budgets, replaced him with former co-producer Richard Lester, the man who shot the Beatles in Help! and A Hard Day's Night and made The Three Musketeers. Says Donner, I got a telegram that said, 'Your services are no longer needed.' Thus, prior to its belated DVD release in 2006, Donner's alternate, less campy and supposedly darker cut (with added Marlon Brando) assumed a near-mythical status among fanboys and girls, whose tireless campaigning contributed to its revival. But was it worth resurrecting?With the benefit of hindsight, the maligned Lester has been done a disservice. Today, even Donner admits of his version, I would never shoot like that now in a million years. Criticisms focus on the jarring restructuring; a muddled recap, a less dramatic opening, and a ludicrous ending.In this age of Youtube, fans are now attempting their own edits, trying to reconcile both directors' visions. But why bother? With the exception of some missing Brando, Lester's film is much the best film in the initial quadrilogy. If it ain't broke and all that. "},{"Title":"Great cast, but mediocre direction.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really, REALLY, wanted to like this movie. It's about my favorite character, it's got three really good villains, it could have been really ahead of its time. Sadly, it's more of it's time, and unlike its predecessor, it doesn't have the same scope or depth.SPOILER WARNING!!! It's hard to explain how using the crystals in the Fortress of Solitude, he can talk to his departed Kryptonian parents, but basically his mother, Lara, takes away his powers as a result of his wanting to be with Lois. When he steps into the chamber, it's a grotesque montage of different (unnecessary) effects. Later, when he goes to get his powers back, there's no explanation or condition as to what makes them change their minds (or, come to think of it, why he should let them take his powers away in the first place).It's bad enough that the opening scene is paced so slowly that we're just thankful that he gets there the same day (he should be able to get from the States to the Eiffel Tower quicker than that), when the film slows down to the more intimate scenes, it feels slow. Not as slow as the first Batman movie, but still slow. Margot Kidder and Christopher Reeve are great, but the Niagra Falls setting does little to add interest. When it moves to the Fortress, it's a little better, but then it takes us to the scene where he gives up his powers, which leads to an unnecessary scene showing them in bed. It doesn't show any nudity and isn't raunchy or anything, but nothing happens and it might make kids uncomfortable.The villains in this movie are pretty cool. Gene Hackman returns as Lex Luthor, but quickly jettisons his bumbling team of goof balls. The three kryptonian bad guys give powerful performances. Terence Stamp and Sarah Douglass are authoritative while sadistic, and Jack O'Halloran is threatening as NON, the big one. Lacking dialog (per his request) he does a great job of conveying his emotions with facial expressions. Anyway, SPOILER WARNING, when they take over Washington, it's a good scene. It's how all of the scenes show have been. Sarah Douglass tosses people around like paper. I think it's safe to say that that was probably a Donner scene.As for the special effects, there's a scene where the three bad guys take over a town in Texas. It's okay, but there's a scene in which Zod deflects a flame thrower with his super breath. It's glaringly fake. There are other less-than-convincing F/X elsewhere (but there are also some good ones). Plus, as is common in some Superman vehicles, the powers are inconsistent. Zod appears to have telekinesis a power Superman never demonstrated. The Fortress scene shows them teleporting, as well. And then there's what Superman does to make Lois forget that he's really Clark Kent. Finally, the climax in Time Square is far too choreographed. Moreover, the civilians in the city don't seem particularly scared of what's going on. They almost look like Superman and his enemies are putting on a show for them. This is gonna be good, says one guy. Man, Superman didn't do nothing', says a kid.When the first Superman film was released on DVD, I thought, here we go. It was given the treatment it deserved. I thought this might be re-cut and have documentaries and stuff like the first one. No such luck. As if it were one of the first DVDs ever released, all it has is chapter selection, optional subtitles, a cast & crew thing, and a (pretty cool) trailer. It's not without its audience, but unlike the first one, it lacks that universal appeal. "},{"Title":"Years later and now I find it horrible","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, since I'm not 12 anymore, I've watched this again and find it ridiculous.Good actors in a horrible and overdone movie with poor sound stages, poor props and poor story, script and direction.There is so much missing and so much thrown in, which should not be there at all.I don't understand why more though is not taken while putting together such a big scale project.I fail to see any real merit to the movie and do not consider it to be on a good level at all for the most part. "},{"Title":"Richard Lester's Superman II","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not as good as Superman I but it is still a great movie. I have already ordered The Donner Cut but it has not came in the mail yet but it will soon. I have yet to see the donner cut, once it comes in the mail I will watch it and then review it. Superman 2 is a very fun film. If you liked the first one then you will like this one also. It is almost as good as Superman 1. It is a little campy. There are a couple of scenes that are dark. It is the second best of the series in my opinion. Some people on here say that this is better then the first part. I disagree. I think this is almost as good. It is a great film. My overall rating for Superman II is 7 out of 10 stars. Enjoy. Thank you. "},{"Title":"A Serious Drop In Quality...","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw SUPERMAN II when it premiered, back in the summer of 1981. I was just 13 years old and remember to fully enjoy the picture. However, as years passed by and having seen the film yesterday, my feelings for the film have changed somewhat. Firstly, there is a serious drop in quality compared to the original, SUPERMAN, THE MOVIE, which I think still holds up rather well in this day and age of CGI wizardry. There's a sheen of cheapness stamped all over the frames of SUPERMAN II; the film itself lacks the lively colors and stunning cinematography of the first one. From the watered down music score (which uses the most familiar material composed by John Williams, but sounds like its being performed by a Junior High band!), to the useless comic relief, to the mostly garage-sale special effects, this sequel could have been so much more. The story itself sounds very interesting Superman decides to dedicate his life to his true love, Lois Lane, and give up his powers. Yet, at the very same time, the three villains Superman's dad imprisoned back in Krypton escape from the phantom zone and plan to take over the Earth. The situation puts Superman in an awkward position should he stay with the love of his life or should he save the world from its greatest menace yet. I must admit, the core of the story is really good, and because it is so good it infuriates me even more to see such potential rendered as a half baked sequel. And what ever happened to Lois Lane! She looks dreadful is most of her scenes. She looks like she's suffering from anorexia or something like that. Only on one scene does she look well groomed and pretty (the diner fight scene). And we never really know just HOW Superman regained all his super powers after supposedly losing them for good(after all, his mother tells him that, in order to live life with an earth girl, he must dispose of his super powers). Superman appears later on fighting the bad guys as if nothing had happened. Sure, this kind of script freedom was similar to the turning earth backwards ploy used in the first film. Using this type of creative device again only adds insult to injury.All in all, SUPERMAN II is not all that bad. The actions sequences are rather OK and overall, the film is still fun to watch (despite some very cheapo looking effects). But SUPERMAN II's biggest asset is that it was the basis for the much more superior SUPERMAN RETURNS, in which Brian Singer effectively links his movie to the events of SUPERMAN II, and the only way to TRULY enjoy SUPERMAN RETURNS is to revisit SUPERMAN II.I haven't seen Richard Donner's cut. My guess is that it's a case of of too little, too late, since Richard Lester's cut IS the definitive SUPERMAN II sequel (I'm sure if Donner had done it, it would've been immensely superior... too bad he didn't have it his way). Despite all its flaws, SUPERMAN II is (along with SUPERMAN RETURNS) the best sequel the original movie has. "},{"Title":"Variety of Action- Otisburg Lost","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film features a variety of action because it combines two directors efforts into one film. Superman 2 shows where in its time getting liberal with sexual mores was accepted in American Society (before HIV became serious) & why the comedy was accelerated by Richard Lester.In the first film, Richard Donner's comedy was understated, & tung in check. Otis, take Supermna's cape, says Lex Luther & Otis snaps back with I don't think he wants me to take it, Mr. Luther. While the first has a slower pace than this second one, it develops characters more.The second one is more action & quick joke like in the opening when Superman saves Lois on the Eiffel Tower. He catches her & then says I believe this is your floor, to Lois.Overall, this film has good action sequences & low brow comedy followed up by Superman giving up his virginity to Lois Lane. What is too bad is the opportunity missed here in that Lois could have had the decency to get pregnant & then have Super Boy & Super Girl. Then we could have three movies series instead of one. Where were the good Business Managers when we need them?Gene Hackman is very good in this film in a smaller but important role. The Eiffel Tower & Niagra Falls are used for back drops. The film is a bit UN-even due to the collision of the 2 directors. If Richard Donner had been used, it could have been better, no doubt. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels ever made. A classic summer Blockbuster hit.","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was so much better than the first movie. It has more action, better story, acting, and screenplay. I read about how this movie was taken away from Richard Donner, and replaced with Richard Lester. Donner completed 80% of this movie, and Lester reshot 70% of it. Only 40% of the Donner footage made it into the final cut. With all these errors, the movie is still a great experience. Christopher Reeves was and still is the best Superman ever. Margot Kidder was good as Lois Lane, Ned Betty was amusing as Otis, Gene Hackman ruled as Lex Luthor, and Terance Stamp was excellent as General Zod. This is not a perfect movie, but it is better than the other two films that came after this entry, and one of the finest sequels ever. "},{"Title":"WOW WHAT A THRILL RIDE","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even if only any of the Batman movies were 1/3 as good as this movie.  I was 14 when I saw this movie.  I loved it so much I went and saw it again the next day.  Richard Lester came in  after the producers fired Richard Donner (who directed the first movie).  This movie is more action than the first movie.  If your in the mode for a great Summer movie is hard to beat this movie. Warner Brothers is said to have a Richard Donner cut of this movie and the star Margot Kidder has said that its a better movie than the one we have seen in the movies and home video!  The story is that the 3 evil people from Superman's home planet have escaped from there prison. The end up on earth. The 3 evil people have the same powers as Superman.  Its up to Superman to save the people of earth from these 3 guys.  Now Warner Brothers how about a Special Edition of this movie on DVD!     "},{"Title":"WOW WHAT A THRILL RIDE","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even if only any of the Batman movies were 1/3 as good as this movie.  I was 14 when I saw this movie.  I loved it so much I went and saw it again the next day.  Richard Lester came in  after the producers fired Richard Donner (who directed the first movie).  This movie is more action than the first movie.  If your in the mode for a great Summer movie is hard to beat this movie. Warner Brothers is said to have a Richard Donner cut of this movie and the star Margot Kidder has said that its a better movie than the one we have seen in the movies and home video!  The story is that the 3 evil people from Superman's home planet have escaped from there prison. The end up on earth. The 3 evil people have the same powers as Superman.  Its up to Superman to save the people of earth from these 3 guys.  Now Warner Brothers how about a Special Edition of this movie on DVD!     "},{"Title":"what was I thinking ?","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Back in 1981 I was nine when I saw this film. I saw Raiders of the Lost Ark the day before, and I was still pumped up to see this. Good NO. Entertaining YES. Sequel-worthy NO. But when I was 9, that was a whole different thing- I thought Gene Hackman was one of the worst actors around then. Ah, youth...Now that I'm 30, I bought this on DVD along with the original Superman, and this one is so hard to watch. The scenes look as if they ran out of things to say/do; the dialogue itself is painful to hear, and the pacing is so slow. Is it a tradition to show all of the characters for the first 1/2 as if they were doing a reunion film (so TV movieish)? The movie had its moments, but there were some rather silly parts to it, too. I thought one of the most moving scenes of the film was the last part where Superman/Clark Kent kisses Lois making her forget the whole mess. The dialogue there was a little better than the rest (they probably had a different writer on that part). The special effects weren't as good in parts, and they only got worse in the later flicks. All in all, this film shows its age and would be more entertaining to 12-year-olds and under (perhaps that was why my parents looked bored when they took me to see it).  "}{"Title":"Gene Hackman...movie bookend.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this one better than the first one even though the first was better done for the most part.  The reason...Superman actually got to fight some villians.  In fact it was one of the best battles in a comic book movie between the hero and the supervillins for a long time.  Lord knows Batman never really had a great fight with any of his supervillins.  In fact until the fight between Blade and Deacon Frost this one was in a class by itself.  Other parts of this movie though aren't so good.  The whole Louise finding out who Superman is was a bit overdone and to soon.  It didn't seem like much time had passed since the last one and already she was finding out.  Christopher Reeve was once again a weak point except when he was outside the window and challenged General Zod to a fight.  And what was the point of Gene Hackman even being in this movie?  He gets top billing, but he is in the movie 35 to 40 minutes if that much.  He is there maybe 10 minutes at the beginning, then 20 or so minutes at the end with no real point for being there.  They also seem to ignore the fact Brando was even in the first one...I am guessing he didn't want anything to do with this one.  All in all the fight in Metropolis makes this one worth a look, but these Superman films always seem to have major flaws. "},{"Title":"Used to be the best in the series","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At one point I considered this to be the best Superman movie in the series. Then after seeing Superman The Special Edition I'm not sure if this is still the best movie in the series. It is an easy tie with the Special Edition. Anyway, this was a fun and exciting movie! This was a great movie and it might have been better if the Marlon Brando scenes wouldn't have been removed.One of the Marlon Brando scenes was Jor-El giving Clark Kent his powers back in the middle of a snow storm near Superman's hide out.The only problem I had with this movie is that the great romance between Lois and Clark was ruined at the end.***out of****stars  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzz...","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (As expected, spoilers)Some goofs in his film1. Notice that near the end of the film, Lex Luthor is stuck in Super-overrated-man's lair-without anything to eat, drink, or do?2. There is misplaced product placement near the end! We see a shot of the inside of a Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant, but because Coke had to have their product in too, there's an ad for Coke on the wall. If you don't know what I'm talking about, KFC serves Pepsi!And, I don't like this. I haven't seen the original, but if this is an indication, don't expect me to see it any time soon. "},{"Title":"Weak entry in the Superman series!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SUPERMAN 2 is not as good as the first SUPERMAN movie, but it is not nearly as bad as SUPERMAN 3 and SUPERMAN 4. It is not much more than an excuse to make some more cash off of the SUPERMAN franchise that became so very popular when the first SUPERMAN movie came out in 1978. While the movie was entertaining enough, I was disappointed by the DVD.  "},{"Title":"Campy, idiotic, often entertaining--hardly worthy of the lavish reviews found on metacritic","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" On metacritic--a service that compiles movie ratings from established critics and averages those ratings--the film, Superman II has the second highest rating of any film rated since metacritic was borne (behind The Godfather). That rating of 99 (out of a hundred) has got to be the most ridiculously inappropriate rating in the history of rating film. Superman II has a few nice moments--but the villains are too, well, comic-bookish (compare to Heath Ledger's The Joker), and the script has some incredible gaffs--for example, when the trio of super-villains land on the moon, they walk up to astronauts there AND SPEAK TO THEM (!!!!--no matter how super-powerful you may be, you're just not going to be able to use your vocal chords in a vacuum)--and then there was the inexplicable emergence of certain powers in Superman--powers never explicated upon, powers that never existed in ol' Supe before. The first film, in spite of a slow start, was magnificent, thrilling entertainment, blending action and humor perfectly and topped by the still unrivaled portrayal of a super-hero by Christopher Reeve (playing the role straight but with an ever-present twinkle in his eye). Reed was just as good in this sequel, but all in all, the film was a mixture of the entertaining, and the incredibly stupid. How does that admixture rate a 99? "},{"Title":"My beef with this flick","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What the hell is with that cellophane S that Superman throws at the dude? Things like that were my problems with these movies. ................................................................. ..... . ......... . ....... . ...... ....... . ...... . ...... ....... .. ....... ....... ......... ....... ........ ...... .................... ...... ............. .......... ....... ..... ............. ............. ................................. .......................... ............ Why in the 70's and 80's did they do such weird stuff? Were they that high? Superman is able to give up or get back his powers if he wants... he can throw a magical S off his chest. He can fly around the world so fast he turns back time?! So why doesn't he just ALWAYS do that? He could let everyone die... then a few days later go back in time and stop it form happening. The new superman movie better be reasonable. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  showing its age, skip it","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed the Superman movies when I was a kid, but I caught Superman II recently and unfortunately, I cannot recommend it. I think a lot of reviewers are relying on their memories, while I believe that reviews should relate to the modern era, since after all that's when people are making decisions about what movie to rent.Let's face it, the original Superman concept was sort of nutty to begin with. A guy who has X-Ray vision? Comic book fare back in the 1940s was sub-intellectual, for sure. So the character really needed a modernizing clean up (see the comic novel, The Dark Knight Returns) and the Superman movies failed to do this. Adding some super badguys doesn't help, because special effects and action have come a long way since 1980. And a little romance doesn't save the film, because the characters are too cardboard to really cherish.Finally, the film just makes no sense. Several new powers are added -- invisibility, levitation, strange beams from the Kryptonian fingers. There's even a kind of nutty hypnosis, in what is surely a deus ex machina that's very unclean at the end of the film. There is a lot of inappropriate violence presented as comedy, and it's a little goofy and just sucks the believability out of the film. At one point Superman picks a fight with a trucker for no reason. Without spoiling the plot, I can tell you that what happens to the badguys in the end didn't fit the Superman personality for me.I admit it -- I'm an action movie flick guy who hates arty film reviewers whining about how Arnold Schwartzenegger movies don't have good character depth. But take my word for it, I still thought it was bad. Superman I is worth seeing though.Who should see this film-- nobody. You will be tempted to relive your childhood if you saw it long ago, but what if you try to relive it and discover it was not so good in the first place?(Note keep those memories sancrosanct by also avoiding seeing any re-runs of the Six Million Dollar Man TV show)I'll give Superman II a generous 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The difference between this film and Superman The Movie is astonishing. This film goes wrong on so many levels it's amazing that anybody associated with it is still working.Superman 2 finds a far more introspective Superman. He questions whether he really wants the burden of being Superman, or whether he wants a domestic life where he can fall in love, have a family, and live for himself and his immediate significant other. This isn't a new theme (most of Superman is a Christ allegory anyhow), but has the potential to be tackled well here. Problem is, it isn't.*SPOILERS* Superman is forced to choose between whether or not he wants his powers. He is told this by the spirit of his dead mother, who informs him that once he makes the choice, he cannot go back. He makes the choice, decides he doesn't like it, and goes back to being a superhero. It's stupid, and ruins the emotional resonance of his choice. *END SPOILERS*The film had two directors, and the aforementioned thematic problem is not the only symptom of that change. The story appears to have been constructed by someone that knew what they were doing, but that then made the mistake of handing it off to a brain-damaged monkey to write the script.The dialog is atrocious. In fact, you could mold a college class on how NOT to write dialog based on this film alone. When Superman saves a woman and her baby from a falling steeple (don't ask), the woman calmly turns to Superman, waves and says thaaank youuuu. The villains have an annoying tendency to explain everything that is going on on screen, sort of like sports announcers. The primary motivation for General Zod is to get the earth to submit to him. We know this because he yells KNEEL BEFORE ME! approximately three dozen times throughout the movie. Though it would make for a great drinking game, it does not qualify as great writing.The movie might be interesting otherwise if it weren't for the lousy acting, choppy pacing, stupid plotting, and cheap special effects. Now, you might be saying How can you make fun of special effects from 1980 - 25 years ago, to which I reply watch the movie. Non (the dumb villain) has the ability to shoot beams from his eyes. Okay, Superman has that, too. But Non's laser beams are better because they originate from the same place on the screen while Non bobs his head.The film can be looked at as campy. It is clearly horrible, but there is not a hint of irony from anyone on the screen. They all play it straight. And in fact, it is so bad, that it almost overshadows the great performances by Gene Hackman and Christopher Reeve. Hackman, in a nearly throw-away performance by Lex Luthor, is so good in every frame that it's a shame that they weren't able to make the movie about him. Reeve plays the character of Superman quite well, though he's not the scene stealer that Hackman is. Margot Kidder is basically reduced to watching Superman, but she does good work with what she's given.It's a shame that it had to be camp. It's fun for what it is, but because of what it could have been it's tragic to watch. If you're a fan of Superman and haven't seen any of the films, watch the first one and skip 2 - 4. They're not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Superman II","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It should be noted that Richard Donner (The Omen, Lethal Weapon) was the original director, but after being fired and replaced by director Richard Lester (A Hard Day's Night, Robin and Marian) most of his footage did not feature, apart from on the Director's Cut DVD released years later. Basically it picks up where the first film left off, where Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) was put in prison for attempting to destroy Metropolis, and we see reminders of what happened to Krypton and three criminals from the planet where the hero came from. Three human criminals have taken over the Eiffel Tower in Paris, and after saving the life of Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) and exploding the hydrogen bomb in space, Superman aka Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) unintentionally releases the three alien criminals from their imprisonment. These three alien invaders, leader General Zod (Terence Stamp), Ursa (Sarah Douglas) and Non (Jack O'Halloran) have the same powers as the Man of Steel, and slowly start learning about life on Earth before making any plans for take over. Meanwhile, Lois is in love with Superman, and vice versa, but of course as Clark he does his best to make sure she won't find out his true identity, but of course she starts suspecting and eventually does find out. Now knowing Clark is Superman, he makes the humongous decision, advised by his dead biological mother Lara (Susannah York, who tragically died a month or two before I saw this), to relinquish himself of all his powers to be with his true love. After spending the night with her, and getting into a fight where his human blood is exposed, Clark is not quite used to the life of a human being, but worse is to come. General Zod and his two minions have mastered their powers now and have started taking over place after place with destruction, and after escaping from prison, Lex Luthor may be trying to help them take over. They have found out that Superman is the son of their enemy from Krypton, Jor-El, and they are demanding him to show his face or see all humans on Earth destroyed. Initially it looks like Clark cannot gain his powers back, but he returns to the crystal fortress in the North Pole, but he finds the green crystal to get them back and go against the alien invaders. After being defeated in an earlier battle, Superman chases after the three villains all the way back to the fortress where Lois and Lex have been taken as well, and they force him to supposedly take away his powers again. In the end of course he tricks them and makes it so that they lose their powers instead, and he simply kills them like mortals, and he also reverses the mind of Lois so that she no longer knows Clark is Superman. Also starring Ned Beatty as Otis, Valerie Perrine as Eve Teschmacher, Jackie Cooper as Perry White, Marc McClure as Jimmy Olsen, Clifton James as Sheriff and E.G. Marshall as The President. Reeve still packs a punch as Superman, but is also sympathetic being Clark and in love, Kidder is down graded in the cast ranks but still a big part, Hackman still makes a great power hungry criminal, and Stamp does do very well as the emotionless super powerful villain. The special effects are reasonable in parts, including of course the flying, but it can be unintentionally laughable, the story is not bad, but sometimes cheesy with dialogue, it feels like it's going back to the roots of being a comic book and not grown up like before, but never mind, it's a little overrated by the critics, but a good fun fantasy action adventure. Superman was number 26 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, and he was number 72 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Good! "},{"Title":"Disappointing Sequel","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rather disappointing sequel to a great adventure yarn is this tale of the man of steel's exploits with Lois Lane and the evil Zod.Unfortunately the series started to get a little silly here and really never got much better. It is certainly still fun to root for the man in the blue suit as he fights off the threat of total world tyranny, but really the opening Eiffel Tower sequence is as good as this pic gets.Great to see all the old familiar faces back, especially villainous Gene Hackman; though he's never as good as he was in number one. Margot Kidder, Terence Stamp, Ned Beatty and Valerie Perrine also return.Sadly, even John Williams' triumphant score is rehashed poorly by another composer.Friday, December 10, 1999 - Video "}{"Title":"Pretty lame","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This time the man of steel has become human (supposedly IRREVERSIBLE) and is faced by 3 criminal escapees from his native planet who, of course, all have the superpowers that Superman just gave up. The whole story is really lame, the acting below par from all involved, and overall, this one isn't even up to the (also lame) first film. I can't say I saw anything in this one to redeem it in any way. LAME! "},{"Title":"THIS is the best superhero movie in existence?","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a joke. Interesting story but whoever thought of the shamelessly laughable dialogue needs to be put in whatever that square dimensional prison thingy is that the villains were trapped in. My absolute favorite line is Lex Luthor's Superman! Thank god. I mean GET HIM! The rest of it is terrible. Cringe as Superman screams NO! THE PEOPLE!. Cringe as Zod yells BOW TO ME! or Lois says You know what? You're a real pain in the heck! Yeesh. It's so campy it's disgraceful.One thing I'll say for it, Reeve, Hackman and Kidder manage to rise above the script for the most part. But Zod and Non are laughable villain. There are all sorts of dumb continuity lapses in the powers and strength ability. Superman doesn't even bother to take off his glasses to fire heat vision. What the hell? He can alter the course of the world's rotation and send Non flying through two skyscrapers, but flying to Paris, getting from under a bus or out of the grip of Zod is ridiculously hard. The climatic fight starts off really cool but ends terribly Watch Ursa through a manhole cover at Superman. Cool. Watch Non send Superman underground, and then we wait for a minute as we just hear grunts and groans from underground. I personally would've liked to see the fight more than people stumbling around. And then the fight ends in the worst possible way. With the baddies blowing summoning large amounts of wind with their breath. Why? So we can watch more people stumbling around. Yay. It's so corny and not funny. Just sigh worthy corny. It's disgraceful that people could consider this a good movie.SupermanII touches onto greatness a few times, but stinks of mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Hmm, plot?","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is pretty dire.The opening credits is basically a complete recap of Superman The Motion Picture. And they go on way too damn long for my liking.Now why Zod, Ursa & Non curse Kal-el is beyond me. You never see him at the trial and he seems to have nothing to do with their crime, their trial or their punishment. The nuke freeing them is a bit of a really rubbish plot device.The little boy who falls down Niagra falls, this is a massive goof. He falls for 27 seconds (I counted, twice to make sure) before Superman catches him. I still say falling at terminal velocity he'd have drowned before Superman even got his cape on.The little boy in East Houston has a really good English accent for an American. Oh, and the RPG fired at Non would have still exploded before he bent it, most likely as he held it in his hands.Lois's line I'm going to change into something more comfortable is pointless. All she has with her is the clothes on her back and the handbag. Unless Superman is a closet transvestite? The President Of The USA is a funny man, saying he's trying to protect the people of the world. Funniest joke in the film. How did Clark and Lois get back from The Fortress Of Solitude and where did they get the car from? Despite being told by his mother that losing his powers is a one way thing Clark still tries to go back to being Superman. It's impossible. But why he doesn't think of using Kryptonite against the 3 criminals? He's an idiot. We're never told how does get his powers back either.And even though his journey to The Fortress Of Solitude as a mortal must have taken him a long time he still has bruises and cuts on his face from the bar fight against the truck driver.Why does Lex Luthor think the 3 Kryptonian criminals will have heard of him. And he has nothing to offer them at all. They should have killed him right away. Oh, and Luthor is bald at the start of the movie, how did he grow so much hair so quickly? What was with all the masonry falling outside the Daily Planet, Zod, Ursa & Non only flew through windows, they didn't smash through any walls so that's quite a big continuity goof. I did spot the reversed No Entry sign as well, this time.How we're expected to believe Superman can ever beat these 3? He's outnumbered. Yes, they haven't had their powers as long as him but they seemed to have MORE powers and different ones he didn't have either.The off-camera comedy noises fight with Non is totally ridiculous. Oh, and is it me or is Ursa's voice treated by a synthesizer in some way? And They've killed Superman! Let's go get 'em what the hell does this mortal think they can do to 3 Kryptonians? The matte behind them as their blowing is really bad and very obvious as well.The dubbed British accents saying He chickened out and Superman didn't do nothing were very funny. I guess only Britsh Actors were available for ADR? Lois is a very bad passenger with Non, despite having taken many flights with Superman. I found that odd. Good goof.Now what's the finger beam that Zod and Ursa use? Superman has never displayed that power. Or the ability to disappear. Until this film of course. How did Luthor know what activated the molecule chamber? Superman never told him, and it's unlikely he found that information on his previous very short trip to The Fortress Of Solitude.I guess we're left to assume that once Zod, Ursa & Non lost their powers and fell in the crevasse they froze to death? There isn't much rubble or mess in The Daily Planet offices after the huge smashing it took. Lois said I don't even know what to call you even though Lex and Zod both clearly called him Kal-el in The Fortress Of Solitude?Clark going back to teach the trucker a lesson is wrong. Superman is all about right, and revenge no matter how it's meted out is never right. Even if he did pay for the damage.The silly frozen fountains on The White House lawns just summed up this movie. Poor, with no attention to details. "},{"Title":"For Action, Not Story","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie for the first time back when I was 4, but the one that pokes out the most was Superman IV. Although, now at 18, I recently re-watched all the Superman movies, and find this to be good, but also bad.Superman 2 was a complete downfall compared to Superman The Movie. Richard Lester really made me wonder, why cut some of the more pivotal points in the movie. It does have more action in it, compared to the first movie, but the story is so plain. Zod wants to rule the world. WOW! The story is just so basic.Although it does have its good points, I still found it less apelling then the original. If you want action from this series, watch this one.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Super bad.","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a big DC comics fan and have read more than my share of Superman comics in my time, so I really wanted to like this sequel to the massively successful first Superman film, but unfortunately I found it turgidly slow, badly acted and even the action set-pieces clumsily staged and unconvincing. It really has dated very badly indeed, the blue-screen effects sequences in particular look embarrassingly false to modern eyes. There are lame attempts at humour like when the super villains alight on Hick-town USA or Lex Luthor's badinage with his stooge Ned Beatty, ditto emotion, the half-baked love-scenes between Superman and Lois and ditto even the mandatory genuflection towards American patriotism - Superman meets the President! Like I said the acting's more cardboard than a paper cup, the late Christopher Reeve terribly wooden, Margot Kidder's less than beautiful Lois Lane dressed in awful clothes and over-emoting every which way she can, Terence Stamp as General Zod, talking in his best fog-horn voice and completely failing to engage with the material and of course Gene Hackman confirming his mis-casting from the first film. Even the music is second- hand, derived almost note for note from John Williams' original score only underlining the staleness of the fare here.The only fun to be had here is counting the number of wigs on display - there are more than a few to be spotted. "},{"Title":"Far cry from the original","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Way too campy for my tastes and a far cry from the original. While that one wasn't afraid of taking itself seriously and presenting Superman as a straight drama, this one attempts to take the campy route and it ultimately fails. It's painfully clear that there were two directors on this film, as Donner's scenes are very similar to the original and Lester's are the ones that veer into camp. It's also very clear which ones are better, and makes me wonder why they fired Donner at all. It'll be interesting to see his cut of the film. Overall, a very disappointing sequel.The story itself is very interesting, though unfortunately executed rather poorly. Again, it is obvious that the editors did a big hack job on the film, as characters disappear for long stretches of time (e.g. Lex Luthor) and there is never any sense of danger present, like in the first one. The romantic scenes with Superman and Lois Lane drag on to the point of boredom, and the only thing that saves the film from being a complete waste is the three supervillains who begin ruling the planet, especially General Zod. His cold evil is a nice contrast to Lex's dark sense of humour. The final battle is okay, but ultimately ruined by some poorly placed comedy that just doesn't work. And the climax is rushed and makes no sense. Very poorly plotted.As expected with a film as campy as this, the acting isn't that good. Reeve does his best, but it's obvious that he know the dialogue is terrible - especially when he almost starts laughing during a dramatic moment. Hackman apparently didn't even shoot this film, so his scenes are stock footage combined with a stand-in and a (terrible) impersonator. It's actually hilarious to hear half of Luthor's lines spoken by a voice that sounds nothing like Hackman's. Stamp is great as Zod, and his two sidekicks are decent, but that's about it. Kidder is slightly less annoying but still terrible, and no one else even has enough screen time to make an impact.The special effects are a slight improvement over the first, but nothing spectacular; the editing is absolutely terrible; the music is a poor rendition of Williams' original; and the production design is poor. All in all, an unworthy sequel to the fantastic original, and just not a very good film all-around. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"The Donner party...","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once upon a time, a group of settlers set out in a wagon train to stake a claim to some of the land taken (by force) from the Natives of this country. But Mother Nature stepped in and covered the land with snow before The Donner Party knew what hit them. Cold and hungry, the members of the wagon train began to turn on one another. One thing led to another, and before you knew it... Well, let's just say that, in the dog eat dog worlds of nation-taming and big-budget movie-making (which some might see as one and the same, in many respects), things don't always work out the way they ought to... When I queued up to see SUPERMAN DEUCE, the debacle that had been SUPERMAN-THE MOTIONLESS PICTURE was still foremost in my frontal lobe. Going in, I reasoned that there was no way this one was going to be as bad as the first for one thing, the director this time around was the man who'd helmed one of my all-time favorite comedies, THE THREE MUSKETEERS. No more Dick Donner. The Party was over. Or so I thought. I shan't, at this late date, pretend to have eaten my words- but, boy, was I tempted! It was almost as if Donner's spectre was hovering over this one, haunting the massive soundstages and the thespians worrying over the lusterless script with the fingerprints of far too many cooks on it, reaching out its ectoplasmic hand to drop a timely monkey wrench into the works any time SUPERMAN TWO threatened to rise above its progenitor (which wouldn't have been very hard). But NO! This one was Lester's fault, from opening shot to closing credits. Unable by dint of his sheer film-making genius to lift this funny book character to Greater Heights, he instead dropped the ball (get in line, stupid). If Donner set the tone the first time around (and he did), Lester sounded the death knell. Going at it hammer and tong, they turned out not one but three Big Screen (BS) features that harked back to the second BATMAN movie serial (the unintentionally funny one that inspired the 1960s teleseries). Mario Puzo, whose outline for a novel (THE GODFATHER) became, de facto, the book itself, has to shoulder a great deal of the blame he was clueless, and it shows. Nor did any of his co-defendants (sorry collaborators) help matters any. The final irony had to be the release of SUPERMAN RETURNS, a remake in far, far too many ways of these bloated bombs. Siegel and Schuster must be spinning like tops... "},{"Title":"Only good for the comedy stylings of General Zod","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" before I start, this movie is not a bad sequel. It is one of the few movies that can live up to, if not surpass the original. The only problem is, the first Superman wasn't that good. And neither, sadly, is this. It's good for a laugh, but as a movie fan, it's pretty lame.There are too many questions looming over this for it to be realistic. Firstly, why is Lois Lane in Paris when those terrorist blokes are going to blow up the Eiffel Tower? Is it just a coincidence that she was there, or did she fly across for it? In which case, how bloody long were those terrorists hanging around for? Then there's the stupidity of Superman to lose all his powers, so he can be with Lois. What's the point of this? does he not maybe think that she only likes him because he can do all that cool stuff? Poor Calel, he ditches the superpowers, so essentially being his alter ego, Clark Kent, who everybody laughs at cos he's a massive loser.Regardless of being human, he is still a big guy, so why does he get his ass so roundly whipped by some chump in a lumberjack shirt? And why do the diner owners not call the cops when he's destroying their establishment by chucking a man about? Calel soon realises that he looks, and is, a pecker now he doesn't have his super powers, and sees a news report about General Zod tearing up the place so he tries to get his powers back. How did he not hear him wrecking the joint when he still had his powers? He's so selfish. He has the ability to help the whole world, but just spends his time cavorting with that ropey wench.However, the redeeming feature of this film, is that it brings us the superb General Zod. Obsessed with making people kneel in front of him, General Zod and his two croneys fly about the place wreaking havoc. They have an on off relationship with Lex Luthor who foolishly tries to make a deal with them so he can rule Australia.Superman 2 is a bit poor to watch, but the 2 weiners who hang about with Zod are weird, and the bird has some really crappy lines. Zod himself has numerous rubbish lines, but delivered with such gusto as to make them excellent.Watch with a pinch of salt, and a few beers, and this will be brilliant. Watch it sober and taking it seriously, you'll want to burn the DVD. "},{"Title":"It's a bore... it's too plain... it's Super Bad!!!","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"      Dear readers.  I hate to say it might I really was p.o'd when I saw this one.  There was not much about it that I didn't hate.  The flying effects looked like guys sliding around on wires... the streets looked like studio sets and the writers should be horsewhipped for ignoring just about everything about the Superman Bible.     I didn't even like the silly story.  And I often wonder why they wasted Jimmy Olson so.  Here with a character that could have roped in a lot of teen viewers who were new to the whole Superman universe.  In fact, he even had his own comic book title.        And the funny thing about it all is that I loved the next one which practically everyone else despised.  At least it was more fun than this awful mess.      The whole thing made me want to see the first one again and pretend this one didn't exist.       "},{"Title":"A Super disappointment","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Superman 2 starts up shortly after Superman. Lois Lane has been sent to Paris to report on a terrorist situation, and Superman comes to the rescue, when Superman accidentally, by rescuing Lois, releases General Zod and co. they come to earth to gain supremacy.This is a hugely disappointing addition to the series, not alone is it riddled with poor effects (it even seems to have used scenes/film strips from Superman, the acting is right on the same horrible track (Stamp & Douglas are the worst) and not even Reeve or Hackman (whom both give the same level of performance as in Superman) can save this movie. Everything in this movie screams of bad judgment on the producers/director's part.This can only get 2 out of 10 from me. "}{"Title":"Has it's moments, but far too badly dated","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS Upon his death in October 2004, a lot of kind words were said about Christopher Reeve. Paralysed in a horse riding accident in 1995, Reeve became a spokesman for those in similar physical conditions. When it came to acting, Reeve was most well known for his portrayal as Superman. Starring in four films between 1978 and 1987, it is this second encounter which is often considered to be the best. This makes life infinitely sadder then, since this second film might have it's moments, but it has just dated so badly that it is often unintentionally laughable.Years ago, before the destruction of Krypton, General Zod (Terence Stamp) and his two followers (Sarah Douglas and Jack O'Halloran) were caught and placed in a glass prison for eternity. In present day, whilst saving Paris, Superman inadvertently sets them free and they set about conquering the planet.There feels like a large amount which can be said about Superman II. With weak acting, moments of excessive patriotism and plot elements which are forever laughable, the film has so much wrong with it that months could be spent writing a list. Ironically though, it really is the finest of the four Superman movies.Whilst awkward acting performances by the main bad guys is unique to this one particular episode of the series, the lame performances by Gene Hackman, Reeves and Margo Kidder are all regulars throughout the series.The excessive patriotism is a familiar theme throughout the series too. In this feature, we even have Superman flying through the air carrying the stars and stripes. This blatant moment of American patriotism, along with the President of America speaking for the world, is infuriating and simultaneously annoying. This problem is still a regular through all four films though.Out of all of the comic book heroes, Superman is always the most annoying. Even worse than the awkward looking Ironman, Superman always feels like a sign that people really are stupid. The reasoning behind this is that whilst any superhero who has an alternative life normally wears a mask of some sort, Superman puts some glasses on. It just has always smacked of being far-fetched. If you see a familiar face walking down the street, you might say to yourself that they have new glasses, but you'd know who they are. For the people who know Superman's alias Clark Kent to never actually notice that he's just Superman wearing glasses, pretending to be clumsy, it's absurd.Anyway, rant aside, the Superman series of films are pathetic by modern standards. Whilst clever in special effect and design in the time they were made, nowadays they feel awkward and rough. These are a set of films which could possibly do with a huge makeover, but the question is why anyone would want to.Superman II is by far and a way the best of the series. Sadly though this doesn't mean much. It's like choosing between death by injection or death by medieval torture. Just because one is considerably better than the other doesn't mean it's any less of an awful choice. If you must watch one of the series, choose this one, but ultimately your better off watching none of them. "},{"Title":"See the other version instead","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is an amalgamation of two shoots of Superman II, and as a result has an inconsistent tone, poor pacing, inappropriate comedy, and comparatively poorer editing, music, and acting.This film feels half in earnest, and half as though it were done by someone who didn't like or believe in the material he had to work with. His lack of attention to detail (inconsistent makeup and wardrobe) and unconvincing alterations to the script make the whole thing rather silly in places.See the superior cut (Superman II The Donner Cut), by original director Richard Donner instead. It's more dramatic, less 'campy,' and more consistent with the first film, as well as being remarkably complete. "},{"Title":"Really couldn't stay awake on this one, sorry","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, Superman 2 was just like sloppy seconds as I would describe. The story wasn't well written and the characters, I could just care less about them. I think most Superman fans would agree with me. I mean first off, Louis just taking off Clark's glasses for a minute and she recognizes Superman at last? Redicules, is it not? The acting was lame, just as bad as the villians who just tried too hard to be bad. May I say though they have an accurate portrayal of what America's president is really like. D Just kidding! But seriously, this one I would stay away from folks, it's not that good and I kept falling asleep during the film. Hopefully Superman Returns will give a great surprise! 3/10 "},{"Title":"more interesting than its predecessor but lacks respect for the franchise","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, it's true that I wasn't exactly fond of the original Superman movie. I still prefer the corny TV series starring George Reaves. But, although this movie is far more interesting than its predecessor, it is also a huge insult to the loyal fans.But first, what I liked and didn't like about the movie. I really liked General Zod and his crazed cohorts--they were far more interesting than the stupid Lex Luther from the original. They had style and looked like they should be adorning an S&M-themed float for a Gay Pride Parade. Also, it was nice to see the Man of Steel with worthy adversaries who really could beat him. However, here comes the bad. How could the writers and all those affiliated with the film allow Superman to give up his powers as well as have sex with Lois Lane?! This never would have happened up until the 1960s or 70s, as America had respect for its heroes. This anti-hero Superman is too human--reminding us that he isn't exactly the decent and flawless guy we all respected. Because of this, I don't recommend this film be seen by kids. In fact, because of the occasionally poor writing and sleazy elements in the film, I only recommend it be shown to farm animals. "},{"Title":"excuse me while I flush","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand why people like this movie. It's one of the worst big-budget films I've ever seen. Nothing about it is good. The effects, the editing, the wooden acting (except for Gene Hackman and Margot Kidder's not bad), the direction, none of it is good. I laughed out loud when I saw the film crew boat's wake when they were showing one of the villains flying after Superman over the river. And that's not the worst of it. It's not as good as the first and doesn't deserve to be anywhere near 6.4/10. "},{"Title":"Donner Cut Rules!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Want my advice? Any real Superman, or film fan for that matter, should bypass this mess and go straight to the Richard Donner Cut - the REAL version of Superman II. The Lester version is similar to taking a perfectly good, tasty meal and pouring salt all over it! Please, please, please, see Richard Donner's version - it FEELS like part 2 to Superman the movie. .Lester's version is camp, soul-less, energy-less and tiresome. Just leave it well alone! In every way possible, the Donner cut reigns over this version. I just can't believe that we were denied the Donner version for so long. At least now, with the Donner cut and Superman Returns, the franchise is well and truly back on track! "},{"Title":"Superman II, the worst movie ever made","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was a kid, I remember Superman II to be the most exciting film ever made. I loved it when he loses his powers and gets them back. Now, I'm 36. Got a kid (4 years old) who loves to watch it. So, now I've seen this Drek 150 times in a month. I cannot believe how bad this movie is on so many levels.Special Effects Horrible. You can see green screen halos in every flight sequence.Villains - Silly and stupid.Set -- clearly a sound stage. Superman I at least had the feeling it was filmed in a live city. SII looks like it was filmed in my basement.Overall Plot - Stupid. Superman would never give up his powers for Lois Lane. Ain't gonna happen. She's a $20 hooker in this movie, a smoker, looks and dresses horribly. What would Superman possibly see in this Lois Lane. She should be the sweet lovable girl next door.. one that we could all fall in love with. Margot Kidder is a joke.The only thing worse than superman II is superman III and superman IV. I feel terrible for Christopher Reeve, but he aided and abetted the destruction of a great franchise. "},{"Title":"A tobacco commercial aimed at kids","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lois Lane - a non-smoker in the comic strips - smokes all the time and one cannot help noticing the brand of cigarettes he smokes. Also, Superman is thrown to a big Marlboro-plated cars. Even for an idiot is is obvious that Philip Morris has been financing this film which is actually true as I found out with very little Googling.As one of the main targets for this film is children one cannot but gasp at the brutal ways of marketing deadly products the tobacco industry uses.The film itself is of a mediocre level. There is nothing extraordinary in its story. As in many other films tuned for the biggest profits this one has the obligatory parts having been shot at the White House. Sigh! Having read dozens of Superman comic strips I really cannot tell how low I estimate this crap. "}]