[{"Title":"Brilliant, if uneven","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this film. A wonderful, madcap vehicle for Alan Arkin (who is brilliant), with exquisite cameos by Pendleton, Shawn, Gwynne and Kahn. Zany, but not slapstick. More than enough wit. If you're a fan of Arkin or any of the supporting cast, you'll enjoy it.It's not on par with Woody Allen or Mel Brooks' best, but certainly better than their passable mediocre efforts. Also some fun social commentary.I was working as a theater usher when this movie was released. Curiously (to me, anyway), I watch more than a few folks leave the theater before the film's end, saying the movie was awful.So, obviously not everyone's cup of tea. But I remain a fan. "},{"Title":"Wacky, intelligent, and wonderfully funny! A refreshing, unique surprise~","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alan Arkin does love mind-bender roles, doesn't he?, and this gem was a virtual playground for him!The players are all top-notch, and it's never dull for a moment.. but to explain it... hmm, wow.. well, it's really a film you have to judge for yourself.. It's very much like Woody Allen's Sleeper, which I could watch all day long and still laugh as if I'd never experienced it before! And also herein are wisps of Arkin's most well known work, Catch-22, in that it does deal with the mind and all its weird wacky wonders!It's a sort of surreal fun romp, that takes you on one velly intellesting ride.. the scenarios are all hilarious, and it's a must-see for anyone who loves Alan Arkin, Austin Pendleton, and especially (Woody)Allenesque films, that take you just a bit to the left of the center of reality~ ..Ah, but then, that's trying to describe it, and again I recommend that you find it if you can, (I believe it has been put to DVD now), and experience it for yourself, because I would be hard-pressed to whittle it down to a simple description myself!It's a screeeam, it's got a fabulous cast, and it's got a heck of a lot of phenomenal writers and creators behind it.. A highly underrated classic! . . . Do yourself a favor and see it! ) "},{"Title":"Brilliant !  DVD urgently required","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you haven't seen this you are missing out on a real gem. It was an underground cult hit upon release, then vanished into obscurity. This is a clever, truly brilliant film and it's a true crime that it hasn't been released on DVD. One of Arkin's best performances, up there with Seven Percent Solution. A bizarre film that can appeal to all fans of Woody Allen films, Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman TV show, etc. One highlight is the reference to the old TV program, Celebrity Bowling, which of course itself was one of the most bizarre things ever to hit TV screens. Worth the price of admission for that joke alone! Attention producers DVD required asap please! "},{"Title":"Where's Woody?","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a great film. I had never heard of this film before. I saw a video of this and was thoroughly entertained. If you are a Woody Allen fan, you have to seek this out! Marshall Brickman worked with Woody on Manhattan, Annie Hall, Sleeper...and it shines through this work. Alan Arkin is superb in his role...and Judy Graubart (who I was always infatuated with on THE ELECTRIC COMPANY)...oh, man, it is so nice to see her in a feature film! Austin Pendleton, Madeline Kahn, Wallace Shawn, Max Wright... They all round out a great cast! And Fred Gwynne as the sadistic army General...well that's the cherry on top!! See this if you can. PLEASE RELEASE THIS ON DVD!! "},{"Title":"An absurdist farce","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A wildly inventive absurdist farce from writer-director Marshall Brickman. An arrogant group of genius eggheads design a plot to see how the public will react to the news that an alien is living among them. They brainwash loony scientist Alan Arkin into believing he's from another planet. Once he escapes, all hell breaks loose. This is a wicked satire on massive consumption, television, fake science and a ton of other things. Brickman and co-writer Thomas Baum fill this movie with so many clever touches, it's a real comic feast. Arkin is brilliant in a performance that is, unfortunately, largely forgotten. The large cast also includes such great character actors as Austin Pendleton, William Finley, Max Wright and Wallace Shawn. Judy Graubart is excellent as Arkin's exasperated girlfriend. Fred Gwynne, Madeline Kahn and Adolph Green are in it too. Green's role has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"Unique Offbeat Comedy","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember being very impressed with Simon when I saw it on a cable. But that was more than 20 years ago. What I remember was that the humor was clever and offbeat. It wasn't goofy, just weird and fun. There is a similarity to Woody Allen's Sleeper and I would also place film like The President's Analyst in the this category. Whether it was funny or not, I don't recall. But it doesn't really matter. There are many comedies that are extremely entertaining but not necessarily laugh-out-loud funny.Of all the films that are not available on DVD, this is near the top of my want list (along with another Alan Arkin film, The Seven Percent Solution. I'm curious to see what I'd think of it now. The 9 star vote I've given it is based on my memory. Hopefully, when I see it again, it will hold up. "},{"Title":"Comedy - A community-college professor is duped by government scientists into participating in an experiment in which they convince him and the world that he is an alien.","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Simon is dated by a number of the foci of different scenes (sensory-deprivation tanks and princess phones, for example). Still, it is one of my favorite comedies despite it's flaws. I can't qualify its appeal to me as entirely rational or securely grounded in aesthetic standards. I saw it on one occasion with a close friend of mine and my house mates at that time. He and I laughed our heads off while the house mates were puzzled by both the film and our reaction. They didn't like it. It's probably a safe bet that those who like the film Annie Hall will like this. The introduction to the secret government scientific foundation is a gas as is the evolution sequence. The composition of the closing shot is almost painfully beautiful but its impact is much diminished in versions formatted for television. "},{"Title":"Funny, Intelligent, Stupid, Brilliant and Silly","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I checked the spoiler box but I can't believe that anyone reading these comments hasn't seen the movie, forgotten about it, and is now trying to remember it. It's too old, too obscure, and was never very popular even in its day, so I don't think anyone is just discovering this movie. Simon is extremely funny, extremely intelligent and sometimes very, very silly. It's also a warm, affectionate, and in the end, redeeming movie. Just to remind those who may have forgotten some of the best moments I give you Simon, creating language, names his hand mongillo, then discovering he has two, exclaims, Zwei mongillo! Or Fred Gwynne as General Korey getting all excited about the Stupid making gas?, Makes the enemy stupid? The people who will laugh the hardest at this movie are kids, who will laugh at the silliness and slapstick, and at least reasonably intelligent people who will get the multitude of cultural, political, scientific, and countless other references. Without meaning to sound sexist,(yes, women are just as capable of getting all the references) unfortunately, many women will dismiss this movie as unfunny.I think this is because of the abundance of slapstick. It's a Three Stooges thing. "},{"Title":"A great social commentary","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a true classic.  I would compare it with Dr. Strangelove or A Clockwork Orange.**POSSIBLE SPOILER** This is not a true spoiler, but may give away some parts of the plot.Simon is a college professor who wants to be special.  He plays around with sensory deprevation in an attempt to find his inner self.  A bunch of think-tank scientists convince him that he is an alien with unexpected results.He soon goes beyond them, and releases a stupid gas on them and escapes. Fred Gwynn makes a great role as the General in charge of recapturing him.He then goes and contacts a cult that worships TV and uses their ability to take over satelite transmission to create his own fourth network (remember in 1980 there were only 3).This is a great movie if you want to relax.  Alan Arkin and Madeline Kahn are excellent, along with the rest of the cast. "},{"Title":"Simon is a split decision....","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A conglomeration of ideas from older sci-fi films, especially Woody Allen's Sleeper, are given a new spin in Simon. A think tank that has been living off unlimited government grants, while coming up with nothing but nonsense, devises a plan to startle the planet. They will present the world with a space visitor of their making, and record humankind's reaction to the momentous event. These beginning moments of Simon are pure gold, clever, hilarious, and entertaining. With the birth of their creation a number of truly comic situations are presented. This does not last however, and the film gradually degenerates into silliness. Simon has a lot of great ideas that are simply not fully developed, or allowed to merely drift into slapstick - MERK "}{"Title":"Austin Pendleton Meets the Space Shuttle","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very funny film written and directed by Marshall Brickman, who wrote Woody Allen's ANNIE HALL, MANHATTAN, and MANHATTAN MURDER MYSTERY, as well as numerous other films. He only directed four films, of which this is the first, and it shows the least directorial skill unfortunately. His second film LOVESICK (1983, see my review) was much more satisfactory as a film. SIMON should have been far more hilarious than it is, but Brickman was too inexperienced and did not plot the pace sufficiently to keep the action moving, so that it repeatedly sags with people talking for too long, and with too much space between the jokes. However, it is very good value if you are willing to go with the flow and not mind the minor faults. Austin Pendleton is the co-star, along with Alan Arkin, and Madeleine Kahn is one of the two female leads. Austin is my cousin, and I believe he and I met Maddy Kahn together for the first time at the Upstairs at the Downstairs when she was still doing live shows, long before she was ever in a movie. This film is a comic sci fi caper, where a think tank full of mad scientists interested in brainwashing techniques, which is run by Austin, choose Arkin for an experiment. They put him into an isolation tank for a very long period of sensory deprivation and persuade him that he is an alien. Much of the comedy then results from Arkin's behaviour once he comes to believe this. Wallace Shawn adds good support, as he always does. I won't spoil the ending by discussing what this all leads to, but 'a good time was had by all', as they say. "},{"Title":"Strange movie...","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Simon is one of the strangest movies I have seen in quite some time. It's not the premise that is so strange - the bare bones of the plot read like they could be made into a typical comedy - but rather the execution. Although there are a number of attempts at humor throughout the movie (and I admit that I did find some of these attempts amusing), there is a strong serious undercurrent. It seems that the movie is trying to say something, though what that is I cannot say for sure. But there are deeper problem with the movie. It takes quite a while for it to get going, for one thing. And once it gets going, it seems to have a number of moments where key footage seems missing or wasn't filmed at all in the first place. But all the same, I am kind of glad that I saw the movie, because it's the rare major studio production to really be strange and offbeat - which is refreshing in an age of cookie cutter plots and lack of imagination. I would recommend this movie to viewers who want something different and are ready to accept something that is an interesting failure of sorts. "},{"Title":"A more cheerful mood may have helped.","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of those comedies which are interesting rather than funny. Not that Simon is particularly interesting either, but it does have the benefit of being somewhat unusual, straying from the norm until the last third when it gets more formulaic the wicked, wicked military chasing the alien (don't they always chase to kill?), media attention surrounding the title character (a mega-cliché in comedies), and a love interest that brings Simon back to Earth (I'm allowed a bad pun now and again, I believe).Lurking behind all the silliness is quite possibly the writer's social/political agenda, but it is so clumsily presented that it remains unclear where this guy stands politically. (And you can bet your pants that a Hollywood writer will NOT be wise enough to send a politically neutral message, i.e. mocking both sides of the fence for greater impact.) On one hand Simon quotes the Bible, but on the other he cites Sergey Eisenstein as the epitome of a great film-maker; those are contradictory signals, making it difficult to pin down the writer's political orientation. However, considering that he got a chance to write for Hollywood movies, and taking into account the extremely high percentage of left-wingers in U.S. cinema, I'd put my money on him being yet another liberal whining about modern consumer-obsessed society or some such childish nonsense. It's just that this one is probably a little confused, hence the way he went about it while writing the script.On the other hand, who could argue with the proposal to send all lawyers who lose a case to prison along with their defendant? Some of Simon's propositions are obviously goofy, included just for laughs, but some clearly reflect the writer's own frustrations with 70s America, so it's hard to figure him out. It's almost as if he used Simon both to mock him and as a jumping board for his own views - which is like wanting to have your cake and eat it too. Whatever the case, it's safe to say the writer is a bit of a malcontent who'd never personally experienced the Third World (or for that matter, the Second World) in his whole life.I like Arkin, and he's generally well-suited to playing oddballs, but I had a feeling that perhaps someone like Steve Martin or even Bill Murray would have been funnier. Martin is funnier than Arkin when he shouts, and there is plenty of shouting, whereas Murray could have made the character more of a wise-ass hence funnier; Murray is better at playing those, and less suited to playing idealistic victims of circumstance so I guess Simon would have had to be toned down somewhat for Bill. This is not to say Arkin isn't interesting. "},{"Title":"not as good as it could be","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A nice attempt at 1980-ish social commentary, but never provides the laughs and poignance it should have given the cast and situations. I found the unsympathetic characters, zany physical humor (see the poster), and somewhat lugubrious satire at fairly easy targets just didn't mix well. But it is a movie of it's time, so if you like the movies of the late 70s - that assume an intelligent audience that wants to be challenged - check it out. "},{"Title":"Loses steam very fast","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie started off better than probably 95% of the movies out there. The extremely funny segments where this think-tank of geniuses whose only aim is to jerk around the rest of the unsuspecting public were great. I loved how they used their superior intellect just to play one cruel joke after another on the world. The movie needed more of this sort of dark humor. However, when they decided to create their ultimate prank in the form of Simon, the movie slowed to a deadly crawl! It was only at the end, when Simon caught on to their scheme that the movie got back on track. So, basically I loved the beginning and the end and everything else was a bit ponderous. Because of this, this is one movie ACHING for a re-make to correct these flaws. "}]