[{"Title":"It's a wavelength thing","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"95 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It IS a wavelength thing.  Terry Gilliam's films are ALL Terry Gilliam films.  They all have that certain something, some kind of feeling about them that makes them instantly recognizable.  The same can be said of the Coen brothers.  Unfortunately, movies that are that personal and unique do not work for everybody.  For the people that just can't get into Gilliam films, I hope there's another filmmaker that inspires childlike wonderment in you.  Because it's a great feeling. Time Bandits is magic.  I've seen it many times (over 10) and each time, I find something new about it.  It's a fine example of a movie that works for children and adults alike.  When I saw it for the first time at age 8, I enjoyed the fantasy,  adventure, and basic good vs. evil story.  As I got older I started appreciating the social commentary on consumerism, the Python-esque humor, and just how imaginative and skillfully done the movie is.  After watching it again yesterday, I'm having trouble deciding which is the better movie; Brazil or Time Bandits. "},{"Title":"Masterful fantasy, in the purest form","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"71 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Finding Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits in the bargain bin at the local movie store was too good a deal for me to pass up, and I'm so glad I didn't!  This movie is probably one of the greatest modern-day fantasies I've seen, due primarily to the amazing vision of Gilliam.  I was disappointed with it on my first viewing years ago, expecting a rehash of Monty Python material, but yesterday watching it I just couldn't stop grinning.  This movie knows its sources, and sends them up right.For starters, I love how Gilliam handled the boy 'hero' in Bandits.  He's not anyone spectacular, aside from an active imagination (over and above his banal parents), and he really doesn't contribute much to the story-it simply passes him by.  Most of the other characters don't like him that much even. (the stinking Kevin line just makes me howl!) He's also not that cute, which is a rarity with child actors and which sinks most films with them.  Plus, the danger of the story doesn't stop at him, as shown by the rather sobering finale.  No 'It's all a dream' type cop-out here.  Having studied the form of the fantasy as explained by Tolkien myself, Gilliam obviously understands how it works.Of course, because it works, Time Bandits is just plain fun.  The plot's out of nowhere-just kind of trips along through time and space and stranger things.  Napoleon as a height-obsessed drunkard?  Robin Hood as the aloof, unlikely leader of a band of violent, too-merry men?  Agamemnon as the ideal father figure?  It's all here, plus the technocratic, pyromaniac Evil vs. the Supreme Being.  Ah, you always knew He was an staid Englishman in a pinstripe suit, didn't you?  (Dead?  No excuse for laying off work.)Perhaps it's not Gilliam's masterpiece, as Brazil could be argued for that...though one could also argue Time Bandits gives a bleaker perspective through the contrast of the fun and whimsy.  If our reality is depressing now, and Kevin's was, is the fulfillment of our fantasies any better?  Perhaps Randall said it best himself - Heroes, bah!  What do they know about an honest day's work?  -) "},{"Title":"A magical journey you don't ever want to end","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"45 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"       I was lucky enough to see this piece of celluloid magic on the big screen when it first came out. I'm glad I did, too, because the shoe-box multiplexes that were being slapped together couldn't do this movie justice. Terry Gilliam hits just the right note when he introduces Kevin, a ten-year old with big appetite for western mythology(you get the impression that in another year, he'll be reading Joseph Campbell and Rider Haggard)and an even bigger imagination. Having parents of the most sterile, materialistic bent(plastic couch covers--ecch)just ensure his receptiveness to the adventures that follow his falling through the time-door in the back of his closet with Randall and his fellow dwarves as they plunder and loot their way through time and history. Gilliam pokes fun at some of history's figures, like Napoleon(That's what I like to see--little things hitting each other!), Robin Hood(was it really necessary to hit him?Yes boss.Ah, I see.),and others. Gilliams' lesson that having lots of stuff will not ensure happiness and that usually, the journey itself is reward enough is artfully told without flogging the audience with it. Something else that stuck with me, but I didn't realize until long afterwards, were the things that Kevin discovered, after a fashion, in his adventures but didn't have in his life back in the 'burbs a real father figure, played by Sean Connery as Agamemnon, and true love, as presented by Peter Vaughan and Katherine Helmond as Mr. and Mrs. Ogre. Plus the special effects are economically impressive without being too cheesy(my god--the fortress of ultimate darkness WAS made of lego blocks!). In the end, though, it was something that I find far, far too rarely in movies now and before, and it occured to me after I had seen, of all things, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. What Ang Lee's film had in common with Gilliam is simply this they both had the feel of a great big story that you came in the middle of, and  you didn't want ever to end, but it didn't matter, because the structure was such that you had enough to digest for now. And I can count on less than two hands the movies where I was left with THAT wonderful feeling.   "},{"Title":"A wonderful work of imagination.","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  How's this for a zany plot? A bunch of mischievious dwarves steal a map from the Supreme Being which shows them how to find holes that lead to various historical periods. One such hole brings them out in a small boy's bedroom. The boy joins them, and together they visit diverse lands such as Napoleonic France; Sherwood Forest during the days of Robin Hood; the Titanic; the Middle East during the reign of Agamemnon; etc. Oh yes, and all the time they are being pursued by the Devil (referred to here as Evil), who would dearly love to steal the map for himself.Time Bandits is an outlandish, often hilarious, always engaging fantasy story with a magical cast. It wins over the audience by offering them a refreshingly unique story, and littering it with memorable episodes which vary in tone from hilarious to frightening, from historical to mythological. Lots of energetic performances add to the fun, with Ian Holm doing a superb Napoleon, Sean Connery an imposing Agamemnon, and Ralph Richardson a delightfully eccentric Supreme Being. The film's peculiar ending used to upset me as a youngster, but now I appreciate its ingenuity and it evokes in me memories of a famous Philip Larkin poem which begins with the infamous line They f*** you up your mum and dad, they may not mean to but they do........Time Bandits is a triumph of imagination. It isn't quite flawless, due to a bland performance by Craig Warnock as the boy and a somewhat dismal episode featuring an angry ogre, but flaws aside it is certainly one of those films with which it is always a pleasure to while away a couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"God's employees off for a bit of white collar crime.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A terrific little fantasy that, not surprisingly, has flavors of Monty Python.  My children and I first saw it in the early '80s on a night ferry from Harwich to Zeebrugge.  I've seen it a few times since, and marvel at the creativity that went into the film.  God's employees trying to use a map of the universe to track down treasure is the theme; running around through time trying to find the treasure is the game.  The cameos by Cleese, Connery and the rest are some amusing highlights, but the Time Bandits themselves really make the story.  The climactic scenes with the Evil Genius made me think more than a little of the Sorcerer's Apprentice.I think it is a well done bit of fantasy for older children and adults; it helps to know a bit of history going into it.  I wouldn't let my six-year old granddaughter see it -- at least not yet -- but she and her sister probably will love the adventure in a few years. "},{"Title":"History By Way of Gilliam","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  For my money, Terry Gilliam is one of the more innovative, creative, and fantastical directors of the last two decades.  His films easily bear his stamp of absurdist humour, witty dialogue, sheer fantasy, dream-like sequences, and always a generous dose of black comedy.  Time Bandits is certainly no exception, but rather a stepping stone for greater works such as The Fisher King and the wonderful Brazil.  The film tells the story of a group of dwarf-like crooks who leave their jobs with God(the Supreme Being) for a life of crime via a map they have stolen from their job place.  This map holds all the secrets to time holes in the fabric of creation.  Thus the bearers of the map can go forward and back in time as they please.  They use the map to steal, at which they have little skill, and become rich, at which they miserably fail.  Gilliam transports them and us through time to meet such interesting notables as Robin Hood, Napoleon, Agammenon, and the Evil Genius(devil-like entity).  The film is grand in its scope and still wanting, for it is tackling a story of epic proportions.  Still, Gilliam delivers a pretty good film both visually stunning in certain sequences and brimming with philosophical questions such as the necessity of evil and the election of choice in life.  The film is also very funny in many parts, due in large part to a great cast.  The protagonists are all quite good.  John Cleese plays as likable a Robin Hood to be seen with his almost overly polite manner.  The best performances go to Ian Holm, playing a drunken Napoleon obsessed with his size, David Warner, playing the malevolent Evil Genius with relish, and lastly to Sir Ralph Richardson, playing the Supreme Being like a bureaucrat concerned with balancing payroll and the like.  Gilliam explores the bureaucratic mentality with even more scope in his Brazil.  All in all, Time Bandits is a fun and entertaining picture.    "},{"Title":"My favorite film of all time.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is THE definitive work on the nature of good and evil. It asks the age old question Who is the Supreme Being, and what is it exactly that he wants from us? Terry Gilliam gives us a morality tale wrapped inside a an epic poem seen in the guise of an abstract painting.As a film, all the seperate elements are perfect, and blended together seemlessly by the hand of the maestro Gilliam. It is not only a brilliant comedy, but an enthralling story as well. This is a film that sparks discussion and debate that goes on well into the night.It is the rarest of all cinematic creatures-- a movie that is a genuine pleasure to watch and one that makes you think. "},{"Title":"deep satire dressed as a kids' movie","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is a deeply satirical morality tale superficially packaged as a kid's adventure film. On the surface it seems simple enough; a young boy, Kevin, is spirited away by a gang of time travelling comedy dwarfs for a series of adventures in different historical settings. But there's a lot more to it than that. Kevin's parents are a grotesque caricature of self-absorbed suburban materialism; incessantly arguing about kitchen appliances while watching brainless TV gameshows at full volume. It is Gilliam's attention to detail which really makes this film for me. Kevin's parents don't eat anything which hasn't come out of a microwave or blender and are too precious even to remove the plastic wrapping from their hideous three-piece suite. Kevin, meanwhile, is a romantic who, until the fateful night the Time Bandits arrive in his bedroom, can only live out his fantasies in history books.But history turns out not to be all it's cracked up to be. Napoleon is crippled by an inferiority complex stemming from his small stature; Robin Hood is a patronising liar and his 'merry men' are a bunch of violent filthy animals. Only in mythical Greece does Kevin come close to realising his dreams.The film retains a dark edge throughout. As Gilliam explains in his DVD commentary, by casting small people as the bandits, led by the delightfully arrogant David Rappaport, he hoodwinks the audience into swallowing their extreme cupidity. The innocent Kevin (played by a child actor deliberately selected for his shyness) finds himself swept into company even more mindlessly greedy than that of his parents'. At this stage we are introduced to David Warner's deliciously over-acted 'evil genius'; a Satan obsessed with modern technology (but, ironically, surrounded by decay and incompetence), who plots to entrap the time travellers. The film gathers momentum towards the inevitable showdown between good and evil but Gilliam leaves this disturbingly inconclusive. God, played by Ralph Richardson as an intimidating schoolmaster, assures us that he is in control but that misery and suffering are all that we can expect (something to do with free will) and Kevin's troubles have only begun. Ultimately this is a very British film which speaks to lonely idealists everywhere. "},{"Title":"Not only my favorite Terry Gilliam movie, but my favorite movie!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"30 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the funniest movie I have ever seen.  When it was on cable, we watched it about 20 times and I have worn out two tapes of it.  There are so many levels of enjoyment.  The sets are great, the effects are wondrous, the storyline is wacky, the combination of veteran actors and new faces is perfection. The dialog is a riot and you will find quotes from this movie everywhere, which thrills me to death!  I love all the actors that played the dwarfs, especially David Rappaport who played Randall and also loved his TV show The Wizard that was treated so shabbily.  We often find ourselves saying, Remember when Evil said this, and when Og said that?  Or laughly wonder what condition Pansy's boyfriend, Vincent, had that needed fruit?  The Napoleon scene alone is enough to cause you to break a rib from laughter. I guarantee that if you have a funnybone at all, you will love this movie! Run, don't walk to the nearest video rental store! "},{"Title":"Apparently, this is a boyish fantasy film with time travel and knights in armor. But in reality it is a lesson in theodicy - the problem of evil.","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"34 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Only David Warner can play the Devil himself with evil relish and yet manage to elicit some sympathy for that fallen angel. His lines are memorable, for indeed, why should a Supreme Being create such an abominable creature as a slug? The Devil just wants a perfect world and he gets hilarious when he says just how (e.g. digital telephones for everyone, fiberoptic telecommunications, etc.) This should remind us of older religious traditions' belief in a Malevolent Being that began existence as a partner of God in creation (cf. Zoroastrianism, Gnosticism, etc.) Apparently, the two had some disagreements on just what the fabric of the universe should be, hence the parting of ways. This also brings to mind Carl Anderrson in his role as Judas in Jesus Christ, Superstar when he asked why the Messiah chose that wretched time in that forsaken land to deliver his message. Jesus should have come in the 20th century with the spread of mass communication. Rantings by the characters played both by Warner and Anderrson are obviously false and yet so much fun and funny.My two little boys enjoyed the film and to my surprise, so did I. "}{"Title":"Great stuff given us by the Pythoners and Mr. Harrison.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Pure loving, scary, wonderful fantasy that Disney, Bluthe and all the rest have been trying to do their whole existence, and George and pals go out and do it the first time. Who cares what people whom surely need counseling think, and give it anything less than a 10? A true gift from the most talented Beatle and two of Python's best.-----BQ  "},{"Title":"I wonder if I would've liked this more, or less, as a child...","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After submerging myself finally into Time Bandits, perhaps too late (or too soon, if I had kids maybe it would've been a different experience), I found it reminded me of a live-action version of one of these animated adventures I would watch on TV as a kid, where a child would be brought into a fantastical universe away from his dull, ordinary existence, with strange friends/characters, and then go on adventures. In a couple of small ways its even palatable to the Terry Jones/Jim Henson collaboration Labyrinth. But the difference here is that it is fused with some more mature humor and some darker elements. In a way this is what the college-age fans of Monty Python in the 70's must have seen as the perfect film to take their kids to see in the 80's. Terry Gilliam, co-writer/director (co-written with fellow Python Michael Palin), knows how to entertain, and many sequences are terrific. It's a shame that some of them were not as much, and a little spotty. The sheer zaniness though, and the will for Gilliam to keep throwing visual gags and intense, fun imagery, keeps it never boring.It's without a doubt that Time Bandits is in a sense a more 'mainstream' (err, accessible) picture than many of Gilliam's other works, mostly because it tries to reach into the imagination in all people, young and old. Kevin (Craig Warnock, a good straight-character for the audience amid all the ruckus), is in a land of his own imagination, until a group of pillaging dwarfs (played by the likes of David Rappaport and Kenny 'R2-D2- Baker) traveling through time with a stolen map with gaps through time provided by a crazed 'supreme being'. They visit Napoleon (Ian Holm, an ingenious role), Robin Hood (John Cleese), and by accident King Agamemnon (Sean Connery, an unexpectedly cool role). But when the Evil Genius (David Warner, one of the funniest performances of the film) knows they have it, he'll do anything to lure them in to get it from them.This leads to a climax that in a darker, more scrambled way, reminded me of the climax of Blazing Saddles. There, like in this film, the story almost runs off the tracks, as many parts of history come into play with the forces of good versus evil. It does come to a satisfying conclusion, but in a small way is almost too much. Pauline Kael's comment that the film suffers from a surfeit of good ideas is not without some truth. There are so many jokes, so much imagination, so much creativity, its like a tipping scale that balances back and forth, rarely in the middle, of how affecting it is. For children, therefore, it is a sure bet, because children (for all of the modern corporate grabbing and testing of material) thrive on material like this, where the appearance of a comedian like Michael Palin in two separate, hilarious roles, doesn't matter as much as the sheer one-of-a-kind nature of everything put together. Some of the film is violent (as when the Evil Genius blows things up randomly), but always like a cartoon; one can sense the animation influence in the style's bones.And that is what separates this film from the other films and shows I saw as a child, that there is this need on the part of the filmmaker not to stick to anything really expected, while still in a 'once upon a time' framework. Some jokes may not be funny to kids until they get older, but images like the giant trudging slowly through the water, the dwarfs in a peril in the cages, the pageantry of the Greek sequences. It's all delightful, but also a little overwhelming, and of course a bit much on the first go-around. "},{"Title":"A neglected boy gets mixed up with a band of dwarfs and their quest for treasure through the pages of history.","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a big fan of some of Gilliam's other films, but this one just doesn't measure up. While there are a lot of interesting ideas scattered throughout the work, it ends up becoming a somewhat modernized regurgitation of Gulliver's Travels. The original characterization of the parents isn't very effective, Satan does carnival tricks to defeat the good guys (Go Go Gadget knife), and God comes traipsing in during the finale to reveal his ultimate plan. Not only does Gilliam cop out with deus ex machina, but he uses the cliché of waking from a dream as well. While he undermines this by killing off the boy's parents, that only serves to leave an 8 year old kid with nothing in the world. And then Sean Connery winks at him? I'm sorry, but the ideas are scattered and incohesive, making the film fall flat. "},{"Title":"Dry Run For Munchausen","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" While this is a film Terry Gilliam's many fans no doubt enjoy, few honest ones would classify Time Bandits as among his best films. With Brazil or the lost '80s classic The Adventures Of Baron Munchausen you get vision, story, and humor. Here you just get vision.Time Bandits has a great concept at least Little Kevin (Craig Warnock) lives with his uncaring parents in a house stocked with modern conveniences, daydreaming of ancient Greece. Suddenly out of his bedroom closet, Narnia-style, pop six tiny men, escapees from the Supreme Being, carrying with them a map identifying wormholes through time. One step ahead of the Creator, under the baleful eye of Evil, the six sweep Kevin across history in search of plunder.There are solid aspects to Time Bandits, especially the performance of David Rappaport as Randall, leader of the bandit gang. More than any other actor in the film, he presents a comic lightness, whether strung up upside-down and trying to impress his captor by snarling at him (They always crack in the end) or dog-paddling in the North Atlantic after landing his gang on the Titanic. (It didn't say 'Get off before the iceberg' on the ticket.')David Warner also has moments as the sinister face of Evil, less as the figure of menace he presents in the second half of the film than the goofy, insecure techno-loving whiner early on. If I were creating a world, I wouldn't mess about with butterflies or daffodils. I would have started with lasers, eight o'clock, day one.What isn't nearly as funny are the many time periods Kevin and his little friends find themselves in. Whether meeting a patronizing Robin Hood or a Napoleon who gets his kicks watching tiny people hit each other, these bits consistently disappoint as comedy and create nothing tangible in the way of a plot. They are just an excuse for Monty Python vets Gilliam and Michael Palin to string together a group of unconnected sketches like they did in the old days.Except these sketches aren't funny, not even with Palin and fellow Python John Cleese on hand in cameo roles. Cleese carries his one joke playing Robin Hood as snobby nobleman just long enough for it to get tired, while Palin overacts shamefully as a lovelorn fellow chasing Shelley Duvall across time and forever getting crossed up. Given Cleese and Palin were the two funniest Pythons, this is disappointing.So too is the second half of the film, where Gilliam and Palin lose the tiny thread of their story and decide to move the action into a more mystical realm, sending Kevin and the gang to The Time Of Legends. Here the story and special effects become even more threadbare, while the comedy is limited to a giant with a bad back who says he feels horrible when he feels great and vice versa.SPOILER AHEAD-- The most entertaining thing about reading the comments here are how the many champions of Time Bandits justify the film's mercilessly mean ending. Gilliam may talk today about his message being not to trust heroes, but there's nothing about heroes in the ending, just a small boy alone and orphaned in the world, victim of an uncaring cosmos. My belief is Gilliam stuck it in precisely because it went against the grain of his movie, and showed he wasn't getting soft. No sentimentalist he. --SPOILER ENDThe one sequence of the film I enjoyed most is the one time Gilliam gets a bit sentimental, when Kevin gets stranded alone in Mycenae and meets Agamemnon in the person of Sean Connery. Connery's star power was never brighter, and Gilliam gets the maximum value from his Morocco set. It's not funny, but no jokes are better than the weak ones scattered across the rest of the picture. At least here Gilliam is trying to create a story.It quickly passes, and so does everything else, including the time you spend watching this. It leaves a hollow feeling, proving if nothing else this film is aptly named. "},{"Title":"Cult that failed to recruit","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I was very disappointed by this one. I suppose the definition of 'cult classic' is always going to depend on whether you turn out to be a member of the cult in question or not... which you can't know until you've tried. But the only reason I persevered through until the end was because I don't believe in slating a film unless I've actually seen the whole thing to make sure.To be fair, while I was pretty clear that I didn't like it somewhere around the Napoleon mark, there were a couple of scenes after that I did enjoy; but the whole thing is wildly uneven, with long sections I found boring and/or distasteful. The level of the special effects is wildly uneven as well, with a Minotaur whose head is so obviously a mask I assumed he was supposed to *be* a masked gladiator, and some of the most unconvincing expanded polystyrene slabs for smashing that I've ever witnessed. (Maybe they blew the whole budget on Mycenae?) While there is a trace of the famous relationship to Monty Python, the affinity turns out to be with the bits of Python I originally found unfunny -- what comes across as random cruelty and ugliness.My main problems with the film, however, apart from boredom, were the usual twofold pair lack of empathy with the protagonists, to the extent that I actually felt a sense of relief when one of them looked like being killed (One down, only half a dozen to go), coupled with a resulting identification with the villain instead. Watching 'Evil' deflect the heroes' puny attacks with a wave of a hand, I'm afraid I felt a sense of warm achievement.Good points Ralph Richardson, Sean Connery. Bad points the insufferably annoying lovers (clearly I've lived much too sheltered a life to get the joke about the fruit), the endless Napoleon (all right, all right, we got the height obsession the first time), the bickering dwarfs, the leaden satire of the gadget-obsessed household, and every scene basically being milked far.... too... long.Clearly, either you like this film or you don't. If you like it, then the more the better. If you don't warm to the start, then there's no point staying the course in the hopes of improvement what you see is what you'll get. I was carried away by Baron Munchausen; after all the praise I'd heard for it, I wasn't impressed by this. "},{"Title":"I am the Supreme Being after all.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Whacky, whacked out yet somewhat disappointing fantasy from the lone American Monty Python member, Terry Gilliam. A young British boy falls in with some thieving, time traveling dwarfs who are being chased by the Evil Genius (David Warner) and the Supreme Being/God (the late Ralph Richardson). Over the course of their adventures they meet Napoleon (Ian Bilbo Baggins Holm), Robin Hood (John Cleese, who would have been an ideal Little John) and King Agamemnon of the Greeks (Sean Connery) among others. Sound like fun? Well it is, sort of. Sometimes the film is very funny and even exciting, but at other times its just long, cumbersome and somewhat boring. There are some inspired bits and it is visually arresting, but it's never as funny or as exciting as it should be. Still, Ralph Richardson is funny as the Supreme Being.  "},{"Title":"Only a dream away..... The Rise & Fall of Handmade Films","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The short, tragic ten-year history of Handmade Films, the London-based film company controlled by former Beatle George Harrison, is a cautionary tale of how not to have a successful film organization. Of the 30 or so titles in Handmade's library, Terry Gilliam and Michael Palin's Time Bandits is still the most famous Handmade Film of them all. In light of George Harrison's recent death, I think it's time to take another look at Time Bandits. By now, most of you know the story The central character, 11-year-old Kevin (Craig Warnock), is an imaginative English schoolboy whose parents are overly obsessed with the wonders of technology. One night, as Kevin sleeps in his bedroom, he is awakened by the disturbing crash of a Knight in shining armor leaping over his bed. Confused, the boy doesn't know what to make of what he has just seen. Yet it is only the beginning...... The next night, determined to learn the truth behind his previous night's encounter, Kevin decides to stay awake and find out what will happen to his bedroom next. That's when he first discovers the Bandits six delightfully lovable dwarves, escapees from the clock-and-time works of the Supreme Being (in facial form, Edwin Finn; in vocal form, Tony Jay before he ever became cool, mind you!; and eventually, Sir Ralph Richardson). It turns out they've stolen a map which He created, depicting a series of time-holes scattered across the Universe, through which the dimensia of time itself can be pierced. Before long, Kevin discovers that the Bandits --- Randall, their leader (David Rappaport); cuddly and wise Fidgit (Kenny R2-D2 Baker); action-packed Wally (Jack Purvis); dimwitted Og (Mike Edmonds); anxious Strutter (Malcolm Dixon) and ravenous Vermin (Walter Tiny Ross) --- want to use the map to loot history's rich and famous. Little do they know, however, that they're being watched by the spectre of Evil (David Warner), who seeks to use the map for his own nefarious purposes. Soon, Kevin is experiencing the world according to Napoleon I (Ian Holm), Robin Hood (John Cleese), and King Agamemnon (Sean Connery); bumping into a romantic couple named Vincent and Pansy (Michael Palin and Shelley Duvall); and then, in the midst of the Atlantic Ocean, just as the Titanic is sinking --- the group is swept into the Time of Legends, where fantastic beings abound, principally the long-suffering Ogre named Winston and his wife (Peter Vaughan and Katherine Helmond), and eventually, a huge bald giant. Finally, a powerful battle with all the forces involved, set against the mountainous backdrop of Evil's Fortress of Ultimate Darkness, culminates in spectacular explosions and such --- and then, we discover that what we have been witnessing along with Kevin has been merely a dream..... or was it? Curiously, Time Bandits' credits are a bit confusing, especially in its musical references. Mike Moran is credited with the film's underscore, yet executive producer George Harrison is also responsible for songs and additional material. The irony is that we only hear one of George's songs over the credits, Dream Away. The reason for this is that, at director Gilliam's insistence, the song soundtrack should be suppressed. Apparently, co-executive producer Denis O'Brien had interfered somewhat with Gilliam's vision for the film, forcing a vengeful Terry to take action. A few years later, Dream Away re-surfaced as a single cut from a lesser-known George Harrison album on his own Dark Horse label, Gone Troppo. 20 years or so have passed since Time Bandits was released by Avco Embassy Pictures in November 1981. Three of the six Bandits have since passed away; and Handmade Films itself no longer exists as a production entity, having been torn to shreds by various financial and legal loopholes. Still, as the first leg in Terry Gilliam's legendary 'Trilogy of the Imagination,' Time Bandits continues to captivate and inspire legions of fans of fantasy to preserve, protect and defend their own imaginations ---- by any means necessary. It has certainly fulfilled that purpose for me, because otherwise a certain heavily-bearded fellow named Blackwolf the Dragonmaster would not be hopping and bopping around the Big Apple and proclaiming himself as its first and only Unofficial Wizard! So thanks for all the magic, Time Bandits. Without you, we wouldn't be able to leave the theatre humming O ri in I A, O ri in I A, O ri in I key U lay, Ka lay um lau E, O ri in I A, Sya tay lee ay vee show...... "},{"Title":"Almost, the fourth Monty Python film.","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam mixes childlike adventurism and Monty Python oddity in his enjoyable TIME BANDITS, plotting the exceeding story of a gang of dwarfs who travels time stealing treasures. By accident they encounter the imaginative young boy Kevin (Craig Warnock), who being overlooked by his parents, joins the band and encounters the likes of Napoleon (Ian Holm), King Agamemnon (Sean Connery) and Robin Hood (John Cleese). The film's visualized by the dirty and organic production design that Gilliam fancies, the film has a somewhat extraneous narrative of episodic nature, and the many fanciful characters spices up the with 'brotherhood' enthusiasm. There's plenty of fresh ideas throughout, and they're always infused with the wacky, dark humor that defined the underbelly of Monty Python. Sadly though, it never gets all that funny, maybe it's because Gilliam, bearing the responsibilities of his own film, becomes too focused on the surreality, and so the best bits are drawn from fellow-writer Michael Palin? Still, the story is smashing and original, and I'll bet you'll be hard to find another film featuring dwarfs fighting a self-centered troll on a boat, which suddenly appears as the hat of a obese giant! For Gilliam fans this is a centerpiece, and for others it's mostly an oddball. The ball's on your court? "},{"Title":"Nonstop action/adventure from start to finish, but almost like an unsuccessful anthology in it's set-up.","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Director/writer/actor Terry Gilliam is known for making fantastical fantasy films that stretch the creative mind. I'd like to say this film stretched the creative mind, but in reality all it ever did is poke at it, and tease it. We're given a lot of potential for a great film, and a lot of great set pieces, wonderful entertainers (Monty Python's John Cleese and Michael Palin), and a script with many moments of good comedy, but what it comes down to, is that this film's disjointedness ruins it's potential of being great.Kevin (Craig Warnock) is thrown into a fantastical world when six greedy little people (aka the Time Bandits) land in his room through a time vortex. Kevin ends up falling into another vortex with these men, and goes through various times and places, along the way meeting Napolean (Ian Holm), Robinhood (John Cleese), King Agamemnon (Sean Connery). They are stopped in their path by the Evil Genis (David Wariner), who is trying to become the Supreme Being and beat out God.Most of this movie's problems come in it's structure. The main villain isn't established until fairly far into the film, and it isn't until the climax that the villain gets any screen time over five minutes. We're also thrown into the plot very early, and once it's realized what's going on, it becomes an anthology. The first hour plus is going from well known historical set piece to well known historical set piece. It's interesting to see Gilliams take on history, but at the same time it never establishes anything about the film, or the characters (except that the Time Bandits want to get rich, and Kevin wants out).For the positives, the acting is good, and the film is fairly consistently at least entertaining. There's a lot of quirky funny characters from different times, and then there's one who really isn't funny at all...Sean Connery as Agamemnon. It's not that Connery did a bad job, it's just he was not given one joke, or one funny thing to say. It's just like he's there, for the sake of being there. Still Connery gives a good performance, as does everyone else involved. The ending of the movie is so bizarre, but also hilarious. It's an ending to be remembered, as I still remembered it 10 plus years after watching the film.Overall, this movie is entertaining. It's got good characters, and it looks very stylish. But, you may find yourself wishing for a more substantial plot, and perhaps a little more center.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 115 mins. PG for some language, crude innuendos and violence. "},{"Title":"Hugely Disappointing!","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I know Terry Gilliam is considered as a good director but claiming that this movie is good is just foolish. What was the movie about? What is it a spoof? Fantasy? Comedy? Satire? No answer there from Gilliam's screenplay. Totally confused and pointlessly hurtling from one historical age to another. I find it amusing that some people actually call this movie magical. Is it because they have to praise any movie which is vague and indecisive on what it is about?? 3 stars for special effects considering it is 1981. Roger Ebert has it right in his review. The movie is ambiguous and looks like Gilliam's romp with money just to make a vague children's move masquerading as a historical revue. The movie also tries to confuse the would-be viewer by giving John Cleese and Sean Connery top billing. "}{"Title":"What was the point?","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie and in all honestly was quite disappointed. And in my opinion this movie lacks heart. I frankly didn't care what happen to the characters by the end of the movie. There was so much there they could have done with the movie that they didn't because they were either so rapped up in trying to be obscure and make some deep comment on life, or trying so hard not to, that the characters and story were completely lost in all of it. I have seen another picture by this director and enjoyed it well enough. But I felt this film lack of the whimsy and heart of the other and I was left wondering what the point was, or if the point of the movie was that it had no point. Honestly, while I didn't feel like tearing my hair out during the movie, I did remorse the lost time on the sad little film.I have no doubt that some people will love this movie, but frankly I didn't. "},{"Title":"Proof of Terry Gilliam's Genius","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A lot of great fantasy films came out in the 80's. Among the best were films like The Neverending Story, Labyrinth, Legend, Willow, and, possibly the greatest (and most criminally underrated) of them all is Terry Gilliam's masterpiece Time Bandits. It's a hilarious film that has a great cast, great directing, and a witty script!While it IS a fantasy film, it is much more than JUST a fantasy film. It is a Terry Gilliam film, a film full of insanity, magic, and a sharp satirical edge (any scene featuring the boy protagonist's technology obsessed parents is full of clever, and still quite relevant, satire).At times it's really dark (and creepy), at other it's really light, but it is always excellent and awesome! Jumping from one time period to the next, it manages to be a bizarre and creative treat almost unlike any other sci-fi/fantasy film (that wasn't directed by Mr. Gilliam, of course).It seems like a good prequel to Terry Gilliam's Brazil (which I'm really excited to see). "},{"Title":"Imaginative fantasy  about  time travels in which our heroes take on  several adventures and dangers","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This wonderful flick deal with a little boy (Craig Warnock won the role after a wide search for the right child actor) and six dwarfs (Kenny Baker , David Rappaport , Jack Purvis , among others) who are chased by the Supreme Being through time and space . As the kid accidentally joins a band as they jump from time-period to time-period looking for treasure to steal . All of them travel back in time via a map that charts a course through holes holes in the fabric of the universe . Along the way they meet historical characters such as Napoleon (49-year-old Ian Holm plays the 26-year-old Bonaparte) , Robin Hood (John Cleese , though Michael Palin wrote the role of Robin for himself, but Cleese wanted to play him), Supreme Being (Ralph Richardson) and King Agamemnon (the gold masks of Agamemnon's priests are replicas of a king's deathmask, found by Heinrich Schliemann at Mycenae in 1876 , it is in Museum of Atenas). At the end the motley group contends the Evil Genius (David Wagner , the apparatus on his head was influenced by H.R. Giger's work on Alien) .This is an imaginative , glamorous , chaotic fantasy based on the wonderful trips carried out by a group of adventurers along with a young English schoolboy . Fantastic film contains sense of adventure , thrills , and lots of imagination . From start to finish fantasy , action and delightful adventure are continued . Exciting and interesting screenplay written by Michael Palin and and Terry Gilliam of Monty Python fame . Marvelous special effects are visually stunning and magnificently realized with no computer generator . Starring a considerable cast of top-names performers such as John Cleese as Robin Hood , Shelley Duvall as Dame , Ian Holm as Napoleon , Michael Palin as Vincent , Ralph Richardson as Supreme Being and David Warner as Evil and a young Jim Broadbent as a TV host . Special mention to Sean Connery as King Agamemnon and Fireman , Gilliam did not originally intend to cast Sean Connery as King Agamemnon , he merely wrote in the screenplay that when Agamemnon took off his helmet that he looked exactly like Sean Connery. To Gilliam's surprise, the script found its way into Connery's hands and Connery subsequently expressed interest in doing the film.This big-budgeted , under-appreciated film achieved a limited hit at box office and panned by some critics ; however , today is very well considered . Colorful and glimmer cinematography by Peter Biziou . Thrilling as well as evocative original music by Mike Moran . The motion picture was imaginatively directed by Terry Gilliam . Terry shot the film in low camera angles throughout in order to give the audience the perspective of a dwarf or a child . Gilliam is an expert on wonderful , surreal atmospheres (Adventures of Baron Munchausen , Brazil , Fisher king , Doctor Parnasus). He is member of the comedy group Monty Python along with John Cleese, Michael Palin, Terry Jones, Eric Idle and Graham Chapman. ¨Time bandits¨ might be described as an extraordinary fantasy full of imagination and color . It's a tale for teens and adults in which entertainment and amusement are guaranteed . Rating  Good , better than average . Worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"One of the definitive movies about childhood","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you were once a young boy (or girl) who enjoyed riding their bike at breakneck speed or got their thrills from wandering off to places you were forbidden to go to, then you will totally get Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits. If adventure and danger were what spurred you on as a child, then you no doubt fantasised about travelling through time and meeting the famous historical figures you learned about whilst falling asleep in history class. Time Bandits is pure Boys Own adventure, making idiots out of the likes of Robin Hood and Napoleon, and even bringing six dwarfs along for the ride. The plot is muddled and nonsensical, but the plot is beside the point - arguably just a McGuffin for some childish fun.It tells the story of eleven year old Kevin (Craig Warnock), who, when not being ignored by his lazy absent-minded parents, spends his time doting on history, particularly Ancient Greece. One night, six dwarfs come crashing out of his wardrobe holding a map that they claim show the world's time portals, that they appear to have stolen from the Supreme Being (i.e. God, played at the climax by the wonderful Ralph Richardson). Kevin goes along for the ride, and finds himself meeting Napoleon (Ian Holm) during the Napoleonic Wars, Robin Hood (John Cleese) in the Middle Ages, and King Agamenmon (Sean Connery) in Ancient Greece (amongst others). Meanwhile, in the Fortress of Ultimate Darkness, the technologically obsessed Evil (David Warner) is planning to steal the map and take over the world.The set design is fantastic in this film, and the main credit should go to that department. The sets look as if constructed from the mind of a child, paying no real attention to historical detail or a 'lived-in' feel - this is all pure fantasy. The film rushes at such a breakneck speed that we don't get to spend enough time with these characters in their times, and this was my main (and only) problem with Time Bandits. Thankfully, these scenes are packed with so much wit by writers Gilliam and Michael Palin (who also appears as the dim-witted romantic Vincent), that it is hard to care too much. This is not Monty Python though, there is humour here for children and adults both, but it's just as funny. John Cleese's over-enthusiastic Robin Hood was a particular stand-out for me.Gilliam also uses the film to take some sly satirical digs at the emergence of technology, juxtaposing Evil's plan to use computers to carry out his evil deeds alongside Kevin's active imagination and sense of wonder. His parents are bone-idle idiots that get excited at the idea of a microwave cooking their dinner in quick time, and technology is clearly viewed by Gilliam as something that will rot the imagination. This isn't entirely true of course - technology can inspire innovation - but I often see young children staring open mouthed and expressionless at their mobile phones when they should be annoying their parents or getting up to something they shouldn't be, so I can certainly sympathise with Gilliam's concerns. But Time Bandits is mainly about adventure and the wonder of a child's imagination. Funny, manic, and occasionally moving, this is one of the definitive movies about childhood, and how we occasionally long for it.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A magical adventure.","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam is one of those filmmakers who can truly be labelled a visionary. This elaborate fantasy does have a real appeal and can be enjoyed by most members of the family, never getting too scary or traumatic for the younger viewers. It shows some real imagination, and has abundant humour as well as a sense of wonder.Young Craig Warnock stars as Kevin, a bright boy who is visited by six larcenous dwarfs that are travelling through time, all the while pursued by none other than The Supreme Being, and watched by the appropriately dubbed Evil Genius (David Warner). As part of the hook of this storyline, Kevin and the dwarfs encounter various historical figures such as Napoleon (Ian Holm), Robin Hood (John Cleese), and King Agamemnon (Sean Connery), while also ending up on the Titanic at one point.As Kevins' diminutive new friends, David Rappaport, Kenny Baker, Malcolm Dixon, Mike Edmonds, Jack Purvis, and Tiny Ross prove to be very engaging characters, and the all-star cast is a lot of fun to watch, even if some of the appearances are fairly brief. Holm is an ill-tempered Napoleon, Cleese a rather goofy Robin Hood, and Connery a warm and welcoming King. Michael Palin (with whom Gilliam wrote the screenplay) and Shelley Duvall pop up more than once, Katherine Helmond and Peter Vaughan are a delight as the seagoing ogre and his wife, and the always excellent Ralph Richardson is nicely cast as The Supreme Being. Be sure to look for Jim Broadbent and Derrick O'Connor in small roles.Now, the movie does go on for quite a bit, dragging at times, but it's still got enough spectacle, atmosphere, special effects, laughs - some of them in the Monty Python tradition - and social commentary on such subjects as materialism to keep it highly watchable. Gilliam doesn't turn the main character into a hero, but merely an observer and only sometime participant in the action; he's just one of the gang, basically. He also stays true to the dark nature of many a fairy tale, going with the kind of bleak ending we don't always see in this kind of thing.It's directors of his ilk who provide a very diverting and refreshing alternative to most mainstream cinema; now this viewer really must see the film that some fans regard as his masterpiece, 1985's Brazil.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"And '80s fantasy epic with a bizarre Gilliam twist","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Well, you knew Terry Gilliam wasn't going to make a traditional contribution to the '80s fantasy/adventure canon. Time Bandits might be the oddest film ever intended for family audiences. Only the writer/director's second non-Monty Python film after 1977's Jabberwocky, Gilliam infuses purposefully odd humor and nonsensical characters and events in this smorgasbord of an epic.Kevin (Craig Warnock) is an imaginative young boy whose parents are obsessed with As Seen on TV-style kitchen appliances and other material objects, but he doesn't have to worry about them for long when a band of dwarfs climb out of his wardrobe and whisk him away on an adventure throughout time in search of treasure.The dwarfs are not all that different from Kevin's parents; they seek only to amass treasure despite being in possession of a map that shows all the world's time holes, Kevin sees this as a quite a waste of a gift, but there's not much he can do &#x97; and it beats being at home. The five dwarfs, Randall (David Rappaport), Fidgit (Kenny Baker, a.k.a. R2-D2), Strutter (Malcolm Dixon), Og (Mike Edmonds) and Wally (Jack Purvis) are a delightful bunch. Gilliam shoots the film at their level, and you really see them for their acting ability, not simply their stature.Complicating their journey from Napoleon France to the Middle Ages to Ancient Greece and beyond is that they're being pursued by the Wizard of Oz-like Supreme Being, a sort of euphemism for God, who wants his map back, while the Evil Genius (David Warner) tries to lure them to his Fortress of Ultimate Darkness to steal the map and recreate the world in his own evil image. Evil Genius is an extreme caricature of the force of evil equipped with a bizarre bent only Gilliam seems truly capable of.Whatever statements Gilliam and co-writer Michael Palin wish to make about God/Satan or good/evil get lost fairly quickly in the countless strange events that occur in each of the journey's pit stops. After sinking with the Titanic, they get caught in an ogre's fishing net only the ogre has back pains that distract him from being menacing. In moments like those the film feels as its most Python.Although we're only peppered with the humor of Time Bandits, Gilliam's imagination never lags for even a moment. He undoubtedly proves himself a man of tremendous vision, even though a child would be more likely to be terrified of it than appreciate its combination of dark and eccentric.Time Bandits is truly an adventure to behold. The journey of its hero plays second fiddle, but there's enough swirling metaphor and symbolism for the child's imagination going on that we understand what he's going through and identify with it personally. The ending does but another weird cap on things, but it gels with the unexpected nature of most everything else in the film.Gilliam embraces fantasy and historical fantasy archetypes with a fervor nearly equal to his desire to chop them into weirdly shaped pieces before serving them to us. Time Bandits is consequently as familiar as it is spontaneous and silly. Although not the staple of its genre, it certainly must be described as timeless.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"A Spectacular Journey Through Time","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In what seems to be a near-future society, a frustrated boy manages to escape from a home environment full of petty rules, materialism and an obsession with reality-TV by joining up with a gang of time-traveling bandit dwarfs who have stolen a special map from their former employer the Supreme Being who gave them the sack after they created a 600ft red tree that smelled terrible. The script (written by Terry Gilliam and Michael Palin) features plenty of Python-esque humor, and director Gilliam brings his usual visual flair and surrealism. For the most part, this is a very funny and charming fantasy adventure suitable for the whole family but also highly recommended for fans of Python and/or Gilliam. "},{"Title":"Pitch black","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a work of blackly Cynical (as opposed to cynical, yes there is a difference) genius. This is Athenian Cynicism that Diogenes would be proud of.12 yo Kevin has his life destroyed by a gang of midgets. There are some interpreters that think he has a light at the end of the tunnel at the conclusion - but that is irrelevant. It is the journey, not the destination that counts.This is Gilliam at his unrestrained best. Bitter, black and noxious. Yet uplifting. This film is pure joy for those that like the dark side.The scenes with Napoleon are magic, especially _me and my shadow_, as are those with Agamemnon. After 30 years, they still reduce me to giggle fits.This is a keeper. Enjoy it with your kids and grand kids. "},{"Title":"Wildly imaginative","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Quintessential early Gilliam - wildly imaginative, insanely chaotic, deliciously dark and very very funny. Like Munchausen, Time Bandits is part-Pythonesque British Dada and part Hollywood family movie, and it strikes a solid balance, even if it's a bit too messy to be considered anywhere near as good as masterpieces to come - Brazil, The Fisher King etc. Time Bandits has aged, more so than actual Monty Python movies, but it's still a cult classic, and with lots of fantastic, very short but very memorable cameo appearances (Connery, Cleese, Palin, Duvall, Holm, Vaughan) it's still tons of fun. "},{"Title":"In spite of a lack of real stone-wall substance, Time Bandits is a jolly and hearty romp through mankind's ages combining the terrifying with the exciting with the sombre.","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Banidts is a giddy, quite riotous science fiction comedy blurring lines between what is a young boy's fantasy and an unnerving, stone-wall reality running perfectly in tow with the ambiguities that surround it being a family orientated comedy or just a flat out horror film. What the film lacks in concrete narrative, or indeed any apparent characterisation, it makes up for in brutish energy and sheer outlandishness; the film effectively an episodic bounding from decade to decade, era to era, historical time zone to historical time zone covering a handful of scurrying, genuinely funny characters doing what they do for certain outlandish reasons - all of which we find immensely charming. The film strikes us as being of a mould more broadly representative of what one's imaginary fantasy games from childhood might have represented, and yet in spite of its consummate rejection of anything necessarily nostalgic, there is a neat balance throughout of child-like glee and ruffled, eyes-down dramatics that combine well. It is very much the sort of film that ends up with a scene in which the infamous Nottinghamshire outlaw Robin Hood stands in one of Sherwood forest's clearings fawning over the majesty of the Mona Lisa; a scene surmising the film's uncanny sense of ambition and its infectious array of ideas in what is a tough film to ultimately dislike.The piece is that of early Terry Gilliam; its flitting nature and ability to whisk characters, whom we genuinely like, away on madcap adventures, to what appear unreal locations, is an approach to filmmaking that is evident here as well as later on in the bulk of his big-screen work. Examples range from 1988's The Adventures of Baron Munchausen to that of 2009's The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus, by way of what strikes me as his best work in Twelve Monkeys; each of them films dramatising people with a great object at their disposal, and of which lies at the centre of the film, which they're able to utilise as a means of coming into contact with the close-to-unreal for whatever reasons. Looking back over his work, we find the the separate strands of love triangles and centuries-long debts to The Devil that he weaves into Parnassus as wondrous material to go against the backdrop of fantasy; likewise, the Seven Samurai pastiche brought to Baron Munchausen tied in really well with an array of characters rediscovering their purpose in life &#x96; 1995's Twelve Monkeys was a tale of disturbing apocalyptic realisation which works incredibly well mostly every time you see it.Time Bandits falls a little below these high watermarks; the film limited to being an amusing excursion into creative fantasy filmmaking, but that is about it. We follow a young English boy named Kevin (Warnock), someone with a real enthusiasm for history and historical figures; his room drenched in figurines and such iconography inferring this. He lives in a quaint suburban street in a small house with his mother and father, two relatively soulless people whom subscribe to consumerism; feel the need to 'top' their neighbours in this field and find it tough to answer relatively trivial questions featured on a television quiz show that even has the contestants struggle. Kevin's life is lackluster and somewhat routine - his world shrouded in philistinism and, by way of the contestants' performance on the quiz show, idiocy; his escape away from it his textbooks detailing rich and activity-laden periods in mankind's existence, worlds away from his droll housing estate entity of eating one's dinner, watching one's parents slouch in front of a television and being sent to bed with his books he must read illegally if he is to do so at all.One evening, he witnesses a horse mounted knight appear out of his wardrobe and rear in surprise at Kevin's presence before disappearing again; the staying up in order to try and catch this incredible act, or something like, the reaction to such an occurrence. What does occur is the bumbling into his room by that of a collection of dwarfs, the titular time bandits, whom utilise a space and time rift machine in the form of a map they stole from God himself to now use to whizz from place in history to place in history garnering treasure and riches. The bandits are led uneasily by that of Randall (Rappaport); someone overseeing that of five others and now Kevin, whose bedroom they stumbled into and whom tags along with them on their travels. Looming over proceedings, in his lair rife with disillusioning iconography, stands David Warner's nameless evil being gazing on through his crystal ball desiring the map for his own ill-gain.Where the film treads from there is into a neat routine of episodes with varying content, ranging from that of needing to help an ancient Greek warrior played by Sean Connery slay a Minotaur, to that of hitching a ride on the scalp of a giant whom rises out of the ocean. An overlying tract of times of old appearing alluring and, despite their brutality or general nature, being exciting or the sort of era one would rather live in if it means escaping from the modern life of materialism and so forth, prominent. In spite of the danger Kevin finds himself in, rarely does he, nor the audience, desire the quest to necessarily conclude; the good, honest fun culminating in a dizzy finale tough to take seriously but easy to slot into. It is not without his moments, a specific line So that's what invisible forcefields look like neatly encapsulating the oft laid back nature of the dialogue despite the surreal nature of the situations, whereas one man's theological rant on why various species of parrot exist is amusing. Alas, we are not as involved as we are in other Gilliam films; the film, like Kevin's tag-along flitting from century to century, a pleasing excursion into the irrelevant aided by the presence of an odd joy. "}{"Title":"Sublime fantasy nonsense","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The six members of Monty Python's Flying Circus had always worked together in small sub-groups before the TV series brought them together, and this practice didn't stop after the TV series finished. Time Bandits brings three of them together Gilliam as director and writer, Palin as writer and performer, and Cleese as performer.It tells an odd story of a group of seven unprincipled individuals of diminished stature who work for the divine being, and steal a map which shows all the little gaps in space time which result from the fact that the creation of reality was not an act of flawless craftsmanship. They propose to use these gaps to embark on a career of crime, stealing valuables from one place and time, then using the map to escape elsewhere and elsewhen. There are a number of flaws in this plan one, they're not very good at it; two, the Divine Being has a good idea what they are up to, and wants the map back; three, the Evil One also knows what they're up to, and sees the map as a useful tool to enhance his own power play; and, four, they accidentally pick up small boy Kevin on their travels.This is essentially a series of vignettes held together by a story thread which runs through everything, and it works on all levels. It has a solid story with the displaced Kevin at its centre, it is exciting and also very funny (with a running gag featuring different incarnations of characters played by Palin and Shelly Duvall), it has a unique sense of visual style about it which is typical Gilliam, and the performances are all excellent.I would single out Sean Connery for a warm Agamemnon, the family which Kevin has always been searching for), and Cleese playing Robin Hood as a visiting dignitary, but the whole thing is absolutely splendid and a complete one-off. "},{"Title":"Eccentric adventures in history and fantasy","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is the story of a young boy named Kevin who becomes entangled with a group of dwarfs that travels through time to loot treasure. This film is directed by Terry Gilliam and co-written by him and Michael Palin, both of Monty Python fame. Given that, it's not surprising that the film takes a humorous approach to history and fantasy.Craig Warnock gives a fine performance as Kevin and the dwarfs are all well-portrayed. This film certainly derives a lot of strength from its casting, and my favorite performances come from John Cleese as a patronizing foppish Robin Hood, David Warner as an evil genius who revels in being malicious and Ralph Richardson as a pretentious Supreme Being. Also notable are Ian Holm as an exceedingly insecure Napoleon and Sean Connery as King Agamemnon.While this didn't seem as funny as some of Terry Gilliam's other efforts, the laughs were quite consistent throughout the film. There are also some great moments of tension developed, particularly toward the end. Terry Gilliam and Michael Palin have succeeded here in creating a humorous look at different historical figures and fantasy settings. "},{"Title":"A Monty Python's fan must see","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam of the Monty Python group directs this and Michael Palin helps him write the screenplay to this twisted time trip premise. Now the acting is perfect, the humor is dark but most of the time funny. The cast is wonderful and the story works. The effects are astounding, but my only two complaint is this. One, some of the humor is a little dark, I doubt Robin Hood's Merry Men were greasy thugs and the other is the climax. Without giving away too much it is on the confusing side. Also makes you wonder if it was all a dream or not. But as a whole Terry Gilliam does a great job directing and it is a must see for all the fans of the old Monty Python show of the 1960s. 8 STARS out of 10. "},{"Title":"wonderful imagination","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The best in this film is the visual and the imagination of the writers. I like very much the kind of humour of Terry Gilliam, he kept this in this film and it's hilarious. The cast is great, personally, I like very much to watch Shelley Duvall, Sean Conery, Michael Palin, etc. This film is a celebration of imagination although, the experience of the boy was real, he was not dreaming, the photos and the disappearance of his parents. He had a experience in another dimension, a voyage in time space! This film must be inspired Terry Gilliam to direct the Twelve Monkeys, after. I think both films are similar although 12 Monkeys is better than Time Bandits, I think.Congratulations to Terry Gilliam and all the cast! "},{"Title":"Heroes? What do they know about a day's work?","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits is that rare thing &#150; a kid's film that really understands and respects children. It is also, after the hotch-potch of Jabberwocky, Gilliam's first fully-fledged feature film.Time Bandits is about the power of a child's imagination, particularly in the face of the dullness of bland TV. Kevin's family home, packed with high-tech labour-saving devices, seems cramped and puckered up, and is dwarfed by the grandeur of the historical settings. It's not an anti-technology statement as such, but more an attack on the impersonal nature of modern gadgetry, which Gilliam would come back to in his masterpiece, Brazil.This is also a film about the problems of childhood. Kevin is ignored by his parents, and his imagination is stifled. But when he is with the dwarfs, he becomes listened to and respected. It's the antithesis of the statement children should be seen and not heard. Gilliam also goes a long way to creating a child's (or dwarfs) eye view, both physically, keeps his camera at waist height (making Ralph Richardson look absolutely huge) and in terms of the film's outlook. For example, most of the comedy comes from ridiculing the worries of the adult world &#150; Napoleon's anxiety over his height, the ogres mid-life crisis and, of course, Michael Palin's problem.The fact that the story is about time travelling allows Gilliam to flex his imagination to the greatest extent since his days as Monty Python animator. Travelling from one historical setting to another, and eventually into the realms of fantasy, Gilliam must really have felt like a kid with the biggest train set in the world (to paraphrase Orson Welles). The story is incredibly fast-paced and we never dwell too long in one era, but Gilliam still manages to cram as many ideas as possible into each setting. The fifteen minutes or so set in the middle ages is funnier than the entirety of Jabberwocky. One of the few similarities to Jabberwocky in fact is Gilliam's warts-and-all portrayal of history.And how could I forget to mention the dwarfs? This is their picture too, and alongside the ideas about childhood this is also a rarity in that it actors with dwarfism a chance to play real characters, rather than just be body type specialists. And there truly are some great actors among them. David Rapapport (Randall), who had the most acting experience, clearly relishes his role, but the real standout is Jack Purvis (Wally). His performance is the most powerful, and in the later scenes in particular he manages to convey so much emotion in the way he moves and the way he screws up is face.The cast is good all round in fact. Gilliam would frequently cast against type in his later work, and while that's not quite the case here there's an eclectic mix of cameos that creates some very unusual but brilliant characters. Although it's quite small, this is my favourite Sean Connery performance &#150; he shows real warmth and fatherliness, and clearly took the role seriously in spite of it being a small part in a cheap film. Ian Holm and John Cleese vie for funniest role as Napoleon and Robin Hood respectively (by the way, for those who don't know, Cleese is basing his portrayal on Prince Phillip). And Time Bandits also ends centuries of theological debate by proving once and for all, that Ralph Richardson IS God.When I first saw this as a kid of about the same age as Kevin himself, I was really disappointed by the ending. It's not a sad ending as such, it just makes you go uh? In fact this is kind of a Gilliam trademark &#150; plenty of his films end with the good guys technically winning, but with the hero ending up worse off. It's also an ending that is appropriate even though it's tough for kids to accept, because as much as anything else Time Bandits is about the end of childhood. Along his journey Kevin learns that sometimes heroes aren't all they're cracked up to be, and also that the most important thing in the adult world is money. Finally, he is abandoned and left to fend for himself &#150; the comfortable world of childhood has gone.I'll also mention an interesting little fact about George Harrison's involvement in this film. As many people know, the ex-Beatle executive produced Time Bandits. He had various ideas about how the film should be made and frequently clashed with Gilliam. In the end, Gilliam managed to overrule him, and Harrison's only contribution to the finished product was writing the song that plays over the end credits. It's a great tune (Harrison was in my opinion the best songwriter in the Beatles), but as Gilliam points out in his commentary, the lyrics are actually nothing to do with the film. They are in fact an anti-Gilliam rant, something which the director himself only realised (to his amusement) after the picture was released.Time Bandits is a film about a child's imagination being set free &#150; but it is really Gilliam's imagination that is being set free. It's the first time he really escapes from the shadow of Monty Python, and paved the way for future masterpieces. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is a brilliant film. It plays with the downtrodden, British humorist view of life. Gilliam is a genius, I just don't always like his stuff. Time Bandits, like Brazil, is the very best of his stuff. The hero is a rather naive boy living in a world that offers him only bored continuity. Then the dwarfs fall into his room and spirit him away on this fantastic journey. The dwarfs are anti-heroes themselves, driven by greed. The play between God and Satan here shows remarkable understanding of just who they are according to Gilliam's interpretation of the Bible. Good, played by a fine, aged English gentleman, states evil must exist because it offhandedly has something to do with freewill. Evil on the other hand convinces himself he is not enslaved, or destined to lose, but in fact, he is just setting up the moment for him to be victorious. He also refuses to be counted as a created being, he has convinced himself he is an equal to God, and in fact, more worthy of God's position due to his intellect and intent. Which is all in fact his arrogance, which started his rebellious trouble in the first place. Almost all the characters are dubious, depressed, failures, or those trying hard but just not able to completely win out the internal/external battle of being good but having an evil nature. The character played in the best light outside of Kevin is Connery's Agememnon. Yet right before the scene of him adopting Kevin he is ordering summary executions. I saw this as a child in the theaters. It fascinated me then for its fantasy and imagery. I see it now as an adult, in the same light but with an appreciation of the brilliance of Gilliams commentary on the natural and supernatural world. I just don't always agree with him. BTW an A to all the actors involved. Warner is one of the best movie villain actors of all time. He plays them all the time and he is perfectly dislike able each time. "},{"Title":"Gilliam's greatest film will rock your socks off...if you can get into his highly personal style","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely love this film, but I can understand why someone else wouldn't care for it. Time Bandits essentially sets the stage for all the later Gilliam films. Costuming, fantastic sets, wildly creative and over-packed art direction, misanthropic viewpoint, Kafkaesque distrust and fear of authority and bureaucracy, wonderful throwaway gags with perfect comic timing, slapstick and menace,heroes with feet of clay...it's all here. In some ways, in fact, Time Bandits may be Gilliam's best realization of his vision, since in later movies (with the exception of Fisher King) the overwhelming complexity of the production design and the sprawl of the screenplay can overtax the viewers' patience (as Brazil and Munchausen certainly did with me).In addition, someone unfamiliar with Gilliam's work who picks up a movie like this because of the Monty Python/Holy Grail connection may be angered and disappointed to find that haw-haw-funny-funny Pythonesque whimsy and wordplay are at an absolute minimum here (although Python alumni Cleese, Palin, Jones and Idle often do show up in his films).But if you can get into it - this is a wonderful treat. It's like a trifle trimmed with cotton candy but laced with habanero pepper flakes that keep you on your toes. The young hero is the most believably bland and likable little boy in the world - imaginative, bright,resourceful and plucky, but somewhat shy and definitely clueless about the world he finds himself. He is easily bamboozled by the dwarven time travelers who drag him along for the ride. The characters he meets along the way are perfectly drawn and realized by the actors. There are too many great performances to detail, but I absolutely MUST mention David Warner's turn as Evil, which is the highlight of the film for me. Impatient,petty, vindictive,seething with anger and irritation at his imprisonment, he is the very embodiment of every petty official, corporate executive, bureaucrat and dick-weed who takes the inconveniences and problems of life and other people as a personal insult. And he gets most of the best lines. Ahhh, Benson...you are so mercifully free of the ravages of intelligence. ====Spoiler Below ========= After all this time, I still have a bit of a problem with the ending. The movie's implicit message is that Kevin is actually better off without his parents and that they would have eventually killed off the dreamer within him (and so the dream within him got them first). But Kevin obviously loved his Mom and Dad as any little boy would, and to deprive him at such a young and vulnerable age - and leave him on his own...after every thing he'd been through, and the courage (pluck, as the Brits would say) and intelligence he'd displayed at every step of his journey...he deserved better, and it still rankles me. But please note that I am still haunted by the fate of a fictional character, which may indicated how thoroughly Time Bandits engaged my imagination. This is a wonderful look into a fantastic realm. 25 years later, it still stands as a major work of art. If Gilliam never made another good movie, Time Bandits would still justify Gilliam's entire career. "},{"Title":"sporadically good, bizarre film","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  One of Gilliam's first non-Python films is extremely awkward in places, dull in others, but wildly imaginative all-round.  The best sequence has to do with a giant with a boat on his head - wonderfully surreal as is the final showdown with the evil genius.  It's just too bad that the rest of the film doesn't live up to it.  With the participation of half the old Monty Python gang, I would have expected it to have been a lot funnier than it is.  I think the only place that really got a good laugh out of me had to be the exploding dog - similar to the random exploding sheep bit in Peter Jackson's BAD TASTE.  Cleese and Palin turn in very brief, though memorable performances.  Connery is totally wasted along with most of the other top-billed stars.  It's really the gang of dwarves who get the most screentime and steal the whole show (though their motivation to get rich makes little sense as they seem to have little use for money).  The boy who plays Kevin is okay - definitely not as irritating as most child actors.Time Bandits works best for children with long attention spans, though there's a lot of it they'll want to FF through...  also the ending is a real eyebrow-raiser. "},{"Title":"A floating head, Horseflesh and Napoleon","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The aforementioned characters and entities do not necessarily, as a whole, constitute an accurate summation of this film...but the very fact that the movie contains either representations of or references to all of the folks in the subject line is, perhaps, a matter worthy of some thought. Because that's just how bizarre, offbeat and imaginative this flick is.And it's good, too. Oh, yeah--special effects have come a long way since 1981. And, yeah--there's a lot of stuff that's completely unexplained in the story, which in a somewhat simplistic nutshell deals with the adventures of a smart young lad and his bickering buddies as they travel through holes in time whilst attempting to rob famous folks. (That description alone should inspire one to demand further explanation.)But this movie's a gas. The images--partially hidden by smoke, or, perhaps, flying paper--are dreamlike...though more like daydreams, akin to the ones a young, alienated boy might fantasize about. This daydream, to my mind, appears to be about a child wanting to be taken seriously and listened to, and finally getting the chance from a troupe of adults who treat him like he's one of the gang. And, as it's from a child's perspective, it also has a perceptive take on adult behavior--both evil and good.Time Bandits has strong acting from David Rappaport, David Warner, Ian Holm, Ralph Richardson (as the Supreme Being, no less), and especially Craig Warnock, whose portrayal of the sensitive young Kevin puts various performances by other perhaps more vaunted child actors to shame. The music is as fitting as anything by Georges Delerue or Bernard Herrmann. (I know that's a strong statement, but the score--I'm not sure whether it's by Mike Moran or Trevor Jones, or a combination of both--is ominous, triumphant and hummable in all the right places.) The writing, by ex-Monty Pythoners Michael Palin and director Terry Gilliam, is hilarious but also smart--and quite esoteric. (Subsequent viewings may still not reveal who, exactly, Horseflesh was or how, perhaps, a pink bunkadoo (sp?) came into the picture.)Is this a masterpiece? I'm not sure--there are a few sloppy cuts and loose ends that may preclude it from attaining that super-duper level. It's a swell flick, though. And I enjoy it well enough to call it a favorite of mine, though I agree that perhaps this film is not for all tastes. Those, however, who do enjoy this film are part of a distinctive group. We are, after all, the nice ones. -)- Simon "},{"Title":"this is as good as it gets","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  In the world of sci-fi comedy this is as good as it gets.  I have to admit that I'm a lifelong fan of little people in movies, and I'm in the beginning stages of writing a book about this subject.  If anyone is in touch with David Rappaport, Jack Purvis, or any of the other little people actors involved, please get in touch at my email adress above.  That said, I'd like to lambast the comment that was posted on IMDB saying Sean Connery contributed the low note to the film.  I'm not sure which movie that guy was watching.  I'm not the hugest Connery fan (especially his lame modern movies, Entrapment was just awful) but in this role he had the right warmth, humor, and power to play Agammemnon.  This movie is very silly, and that' all part of the fun, so I don't think it was a method performance or anything like that, OK?, give the guy a break.  Connery had been way too serious up to that point in his career.  Anyway, I love all the actors, Gilliam is as usually absolutely perfect and very inventive.  This is the best midget movie of all time (yes, even better than the Wizard of Oz and Under the Rainbow) because it shows the little people as real human beings.  Even though there is not much time for characterization given the huge cast of character actors/cameo stars, each of the bandits has his own personality that contributes to the chemistry of the group.  The boy who plays Kevin is pretty bad, but I never think the term actor should be applied to children.  A final note  I could swear that when I first saw this movie in Virginia when it came out (I was 6) the soundtrack on the movie included Let's Get Physical by Olivia Newton John.  This might just be the effect of my youth at the time, I don't know but if anyone else remembers this, let me know, OK?  ) "}{"Title":"A wonderful film, perhaps Gilliam's best","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about many of Gilliam's other films -- I felt Brazil was a bit too disorganized and too self-consciously Orwellian, while The Fisher King never quite nailed the quirky tone it was attempting -- but Time Bandits is a pure delight.  Though at heart a lightweight children's film, it contains moments of great wit and also visionary beauty; and it carries on the spirit of Monty Python, from which Terry Gilliam and two of the film's actors (John Cleese and Michael Palin) came.I wish more special-effects blockbusters had the imagination that Time Bandits has.  While some of the jokes are hit-and-miss, the baroque world Gilliam creates is entirely convincing -- from the bizarre, foreboding Time of Legends to the idyllic Mycenae where, for a brief moment, young Kevin finds true happiness.  David Warner is hilarious as Evil, the villain who wants to introduce microchips and lasers into Creation.  The late David Rappaport gives a wonderful performance as Randall, the avaricious leader of the dwarves, while Kevin, the boy, is altogether appealing (perhaps George Lucas should have studied this film before casting Jake Lloyd for Phantom Menace).To my mind, Time Bandits is the most purely Gilliamesque of Gilliam's films, and his best to date. "},{"Title":"A tribute to the imagination and ability of Terry Gilliam","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits is a work of supreme craft and imagination, and a prime example of his unchallenged ability to reduce the unreal and fantastic to the big screen.Made in the time before the wonders of digital effects, Gilliam nevertheless manages to create some unforgettable images, among them a living breathing giant and a forbidding Fortress of Ultimate Darkness, and give them a sense of reality that few other directors could manage.Gilliam, who co-wrote the screenplay with fellow Monty Python alum Michael Palin, tells the story of young Kevin, played ably by Craig Warnock. Ignored by parents too enamoured with progress and products, Kevin loses himself in his toys and dreams, until, one fateful night, those dreams come to vivid life.David Rappaport leads a band of midget explorers, traversing holes in the fabric of space-time in search of history's greatest treasures (which they proceed to pocket), who Kevin unwittingly joins up with. Sir Ralph Richardson plays the Supreme Being, who pursues the band of travellers to reclaim his stolen map of the holes in time; and David Warner is perfect as the personification of Evil, delivering every line with relish.Other stand-out performers include John Cleese as a charmingly polite though slightly demented Robin Hood, Ian Holm as Napoleon, and Sean Connery, who does a masterful turn as King Agamemnon.As with all Gilliam works, nothing is exactly what it seems, and even backgrounds and scenery must be viewed carefully, to see what they really are. As an added bonus, George Harrison provides some cool original music. Appropriate for anyone ages 8-80, Time Bandits is enjoyable, engrossing, and just plain fun.   "},{"Title":"A typically messy and wonderful Gilliam fantasy","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Young Kevin lives in suburbia with his parents. They focus on the telly and quiet while he gets excited about history and learning. His world changes totally when he wakes to find four men have come out of his wardrobe. They start pushing one of his walls away and, when a powerful force comes out after them, Kevin flees with them. He learns the time are time travellers who have stolen a map of the holes in the galaxy from their former employer, The Supreme Being.Far from being a perfect film, Time Bandits is still a wonderfully fun fantasy for the family (although perhaps not younger children) which is also notable for not really having dated at all in its 25 years. The plot starts from nowhere and jumps around in various adventures in different times (real and fantasy) with a vague plot to hold it together. The narrative flows well in some regards but it is hard not to notice that at times it is very much like a collection of ideas and sketches rather than a strong plot. What keeps the flow though is the sense of fun and imagination that runs through it &#150; things that I think owe a lot to Gilliam's roles as director and co-writer. He fills the film with a consistent sense of wonder which is well propped up by many great shots and atmospheric scenes. It does well to mix comedy with the more serious fantasy stuff and does provide something that children and adults will like (although both will occasionally feel the effects of the film being a bit piecemeal).The principle cast are pretty enjoyable with the bandits themselves being a fun ragtag of Baker, Rappaport, Edmonds, Dixon, Purvis and Ross. Far from being a modern annoying brat actor, Warnock is actually really good and he holds the essential English-ness of the film throughout. Of course, given the fragmented nature of the film means that a lot rest on the cameos which include nice turns from Palin, a wonderfully polite Cleese and solid characters from Holm, Connery, Duvall, Warner, Broadbent and others all giving good performances in their respective roles.Overall then an enjoyable family fantasy that has all the strengths and weaknesses that you should expect from Gilliam. Structure wise it is a bit all over the place and does occasionally feel like a collection of separate ideas and sketches it does have a great sense of fun and wonder about it. "},{"Title":"Worth running for!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I've seen. Let me start at the early part of the story. I hate running. Every Friday at my school we run a mile. I've never seen this movie before but I saw it earlier in the week for 10 dollars, brand new DVD. I knew that my long-time love Michael Palin would be in it so I made a deal with myself that if I ran the entire mile on Friday I would go after school and get it. I live in Southern California, I have PE 4th period, and let me tell you... running a mile gets HOT! So one very excrushiatingly long period (ok, it's maybe 15 minutes) of running my little legs off I looked forward to getting my movie. Up untill now I thought nothing was worth running for (not even Ewan McGregor... bite my tounge). Let me tell you guys.... THIS was worth running for! I'm a big campy movie person, and if you, like I love movies such as moulin rouge! little shop of horrors or the labyrinth you will love this! It was very funny and clever and that little boy (Craig something-or-other) had the cutest accent. A little boy that is british and cannot pronouce his R's... a wubbewy?. Honestly, this movie is brilliant. I would not however, suggest this to Die-Hard Palin fans, like myself. If you're going to see something for the main purpose of Mike go see Full Circle, he was in this for maybe 5 minutes altogether. Anyone else I think would love it. Palin and Gilliam... you hit a another homerun!!! "},{"Title":"OK, this was just crappy","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I do believe that tales, no matter if fairy ones or the normal kind, should have some sort of meaning. Some of Terry Gillian's movies don't seem to have any.In this one, a boy joins a band of idiotic dwarfs (who helped create the Universe, no wonder it is so messed up) into a journey through time and space that goes so far that it makes King Agamemnon and Napoleon speak English. There is no real moral to the story, no funny scenes, no historic facts that are depicted near to accurate, Evil is a smoked up cliché of sadistic stupidity, really, there is NOTHING worthwhile in this film. Even the main character, a little boy, is not really main and it not really pleasant. I wonder if he was a boy.The effects are really old, the music is horrible, the only merit of this movie is that it makes you wonder what comes next. I'll spoil it for you nothing comes next, it's just a bunch of crap.Oh, and by the way, the true Evil in the world is caused by science and technology and it is there because of free will. Ugh, disgusting movie. "},{"Title":"Okay, but not great","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" OK, but not great. Plot is random. At first, this is good and provides several funny moments and pleasant turns. After a while though, it becomes chaotic, and the random turns seem like a desperate way to keep the movie going and pad out time. Reasonably fun though - kids will probably enjoy it. Also very funny at times and has some great Pythonesque moments (quite appropriate, for a movie written by Terry Gilliam and Michael Palin, directed by Gilliam, and starring Palin and John Cleese).Ultimately a bit disappointing as it had quite a lot of potential and started so well. "},{"Title":"Marvelously idiosyncratic and imaginative fantasy comedy adventure pip","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Unhappy eleven-year-old boy Kevin (a fine and engaging performance by Craig Warnack) inadvertently joins up with a gang of mischievous dwarfs who possess a map that enables them to travel through time and happily plunder treasure from famous historical figures. Meanwhile, Evil (a splendidly sardonic portrayal by David Warner) plots to obtain the map so he can rule the universe.Director Terry Gilliam, who co-wrote the witty and creative script with Michael Palin, displays a tireless and positively infectious go-for-broke inventiveness that's quite a joy to behold from start to finish, keeps the wildly entertaining story moving along at a constant snappy pace, ably crafts and maintains a fairly dark, yet blithely irreverent tone, delivers an uproarious array of inspired wacky gags (for example, an ogre's ship turns out to be a hat on top of a giant's head), further provides wickedly spot-on satirical swipes at free will, mindless greed, technology run amok, shallow consumerism and materialism, and the necessity for evil to exist in the world, and tops everything off with a genuinely startling bleak ending.A slew of sharp cameos from a terrific assortment of big names qualifies as an additional delightful plus Ian Holm as a neurotic and irritable Napoleon, Sean Connery as the kindly King Agamemnon, John Cleese as a cheerfully doltish and polite Robin Hood, a deliciously droll Ralph Richardson as the prim'n'proper Supreme Being, Peter Vaughan as an ogre with a bad back, Katherine Helmond as the ogre's doting wife, and Palin and Shelley Duvall as lovers both in the Middle Ages and on board the Titanic. Tiny Ross, Kenny Baker, Jack Purvis, Malcolm Dixon, Mike Edmonds, and especially David Rappaport as rascally leader Randall are all extremely personable as the dwarfs. A real treat. "},{"Title":"Time Bandits","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" From the mind of the man who brought us Monty Python, Terry Gilliam, comes the 1981 film Time Bandits. A misfit group of time travelers joined by a little boy bring to life eras in history with wonderful designs and detail. With cover art that is a brilliant mix of Dali and Kandinsky, Time Bandits is a film that has to be enjoyed at least once.Feeling increasingly more neglected by his technology-obsessed parents, Kevin (Craig Warnock) seeks solace alone, often tucked away in his room. One evening his room is crashed by a gang of misfit time travelers, international criminals (in training) who have stolen a map with all the time holes marked on it. These time holes will help them pop into a time period, steal whatever they wish, and jump into another time period before they can be caught. Along the way, Kevin runs into many of the people he has always read about in books during his alone time. Among those he meets are an endearing Robin Hood (John Cleese), the imposing King Agamemnon (Sean Connery), and the ever self- conscious Napoleon (Ian Holm). Traveling with his new troupe brings about some danger and not just in their missions alone. As it turns out, the gang is also constantly jumping away from the Supreme Being (Ralph Richardson) that they stole the map from in the first place. Time hopping was instrumental for Kevin to escape his ignored life at home, and finding just the right gang of misfits was more than he could ever imagine, and a group he didn't want to let go of.Time Bandits was a fun movie both for its plot, and production design. Each time in history that they jumped to was full of detail and thoroughly designed. I think of this movie as a good version of Forrest Gump. The group jumped around from time to time, yet maintained a story and was engaging. I doubt I will see this film too many more times, but it was a fun one to watch! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I would say for the most part, the entertainment(music, movies)that I enjoyed as kid I still like as an adult. Time Bandits, holds up way better than most and as time goes on, I actually appreciate the film more. Time Bandits has a lot going for it. It is a unique fantasy film that is intelligent, funny, well made and all around entertaining. This very unconventional adventure is carried well by young Craig Warnock who plays Kevin(who is very smart and grounds the film) and our most outstanding gang of little people who stole a map of creation from God, to go through time to rob history blind. This sets them on course to The Fortress Of Ultimate Darkness where Evil(played by the great David Warner) has his own plans for the map and plans to recreate the world in his image. Also John Cleese, Shelly Duvall and Sean Connery all appear in memorable, well used cameos. This came from the mind of genius Terry Gilliam who wrote this in a weekend and directed this as well. While this movie is appropriate entertainment for the whole family, it never comes across as cheesy or dumbed down. It is also very unpretentious, lighthearted and moves along quickly. Time Bandits holds up better than most and I have never seen anything else that is quite like it. "},{"Title":"An odd little trip, fueled by wit and imagination","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Even though the movie is bookended by chaos, and fueled by a sort of demented Terry Gilliam charm (not to mention the dark-but-funny violence) Time Bandits is really a kid's movie. And that's what I love about it it's just a young boy stealing away on an adventure from his mundane existence. Add to that the trappings of a magical cosmic map, the gallop through the Napoleonic Wars, Ancient Greece and Medieval England, and a cadre of greedy dwarfs and it's a lot of fun. Even with that cast of familiar faces, David Warner handily steals the movie as Evil (like Sark from TRON, only having more fun with it). And I love that the Supreme Being turns out to be a cheeky old British guy.It also ends with some sort of statement about modern technology, but that's just a last-minute zinger. What this really proves is that there's fun to be had in cult movies, and Sean Connery is awesome.7/10 "}{"Title":"Time bandits is a fascinating movie","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've watched this movie and I found it quite interesting. The story is written in a very creative and imaginative way, which fascinates me in a way. It's also quite addictive, because they're many interesting plots. As for the characters, Kevin, is very smart and intelligent and the 6 dwarfs represents selfishness and greediness. But they changed in the end and realized they're mistakes. The writer shows a very imaginative side of him in this movie, by basing the movie on time traveling through portals, and basing on good and bad. I really love the ending when the good side wins over the bad side but I don't really understand why Kevin's parent had to explode. Why can't they just end it with a happy ending like, Kevin return back to his normal life and no one find out what happen. It's just my own opinion on how to end the movie. "},{"Title":"Philosophical fantasy stands up to god","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A boy ditches tedious reality for dangerous fantasy.Lovely story that includes all the best elements of Monty Python, but without the dull class-based humour. And for once I enjoyed something with midgets.It goes through episodes, each very imaginative, and ends up with a broad assessment of the meaning of life - plus a little jab at the god botherers.Outstanding scene is the cage-swinging in the dark abyss. Low point in the Michael Palin scenes on the Titanic - I guess Gilliam had to suffer interference.Brazil is Gilliam's best, but this is a pleasure too. Point docked because of Palin. "},{"Title":"Exciting, gorgeous looking time travel adventure","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Terry Gilliam's unique visual storytelling style, and I can say that this has to be his most visually effective film. No expenses are spared as every frame is filled to the brim with opulent, period detailed, eye boggling set design and special effects. Moreover, this being released in 1981, all of the effects are of the old fashioned, practical variety, which take much more work than cgi and the payoff is enormous. Gilliam's films are somewhat hit and miss, but I consider this to be a tremendous success, enrapturing and exciting from beginning to end, if not for a few overly silly bits, but you can expect at least a few loopy touches from the creators of Monty Python.Kevin, a smart young kid, is hijacked by a sextet of sassy time travelling dwarfs on the run from their employer, the Supreme Being (a delightfully droll Ralph Richardson), and taken on a madcap odyssey across a network of portals, each leading to a different era in history. Along the way they encounter the Evil Genius (David Warner having a ball in devilish rockstar steampunk getup), intent on stealing their time leaping secrets and unleashing his nefarious plan on the universe.Time Bandits is a sweeping, wholly immersing, visually striking, phenomenally entertaining film that never panders to a young audience by shying away from dark or ominous tones, and always maintains its rip roaring momentum. Gilliam at his finest. "},{"Title":"A Terry Gilliam Fantasy","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A young boy accidentally joins a band of dwarfs as they jump from era to era looking for treasure to steal.Upon my first viewing, I didn't much care for this film. Not sure why, but it definitely did not appeal to me. Even with all the Monty Python folks involved (including John Cleese as Robin Hood), I wasn't sold.On second viewing, I love it. The costumes, the characters... and with Blu-ray, the film looks better than ever before. There are some elements of fantasy similar to Legend or other films of the era, but executed better here and with that quirky sense that Gilliam had before he went mainstream. "},{"Title":"Great Gilliam Imagination","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A young boy Kevin's bedroom is invaded by unreal visions. One night, midgets come out of his wardrobe. They are on the run from the Supreme Being after stealing his map. It's a map to all the holes in the universe and they intend to use it to get stinkin' rich. They run into Napoleon (Ian Holm). Then they get captured by Robin Hood (John Cleese). The Great Evil (David Warner) is looking for the map after being trapped in the Fortress of Ultimate Darkness by the Supreme Being. Kevin gets separated and lands on Agamemnon (Sean Connery) battling the Minotaur.It's got great Terry Gilliam imagination behind this. It gets a bit random at times but it's always nice to have the Monty Python gang around. The only problem is the lack of compelling actors in the lead. The little actors and the kid can't pull focus. I really like Gilliam's imagination but the movie rambles from one crazy place to the next. Some of the places are not grand enough but one must remember that this is time before computers. The effects are mostly real or in miniatures. "},{"Title":"Cute Comedy Classic","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A travel through time in this comedy classic. Time Bandits is not a film for everyone, some people will get the humor in the film while others will not. This particular comedy is similar to some of the works of Monty Python or Mel Brooks - it's that type of humor.I remember falling in-love with this film as a kid - I found it hysterical. This movie deals with time travel and I loved each of the time eras The Time Bandits landed in - it was like several mini-films in one full-length film.If you liked Time Bandits the you might like similar films Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Wholly Moses, The Meaning of Life or Robin Hood Men in Tights.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A well made family film.","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam's made many movies throughout his career since being the American of the (Mostly) British comedy gang Monty Pyhton. He co-directed Holy Grail with the other Terry, Jones. Then Jabberwocky, and now this. I suggest having this be an introduction to Gilliam to your child in a double feature with the Baron's film for they are easily his most child friendly for seven or eight year olds (I'd hold off on Brazil until ten for the youngling, despite the briefness of the language and other R- rated things). Alright now, this may not be the most enjoyable seeing it for the first time as an adult. I'd think I'd have a higher enjoyment if I grew up on it. But that only means that you'd better show it to your kid during a history and adventure loving phase. Since I didn't grow up on it, I haven't the appreciation as someone raised with it. But I can't deny its quality, eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"Loved it, hated it","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a classic movie, and in some ways it really stands apart from movies of its time. The vision and scope is extremely impressive. However, it lacks a bit in execution. The story is very episodic, and it's hard sometimes to stay with it. The band of bandits is actually kind of unlikeable sometimes, and the kid isn't exactly the most proactive protagonist.As a kid, though, I totally adored this movie. It was really really fun. it still holds some of that magic and wonder, and there are so many exotic locations and characters that if you get bored with one, don't worry another will be right around the corner. However likewise if you are enjoying one period, you don't get to be there for very long. In that way it felt a bit like a sketch comedy show or something, just higher budget and the humor is very dark.I want to rate it higher, because I love Terry Gilliam, but I'd have to say this one is one of his more uneven efforts. "},{"Title":"Time Bandits","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Is Terry Gilliam riding on the coattails of Monty Python with this film? his cast does include a few Python members in small cameos and the films direction is most definitely bizarre. Not only that but the film looks and sounds like a Python sketch in various places much like 'Jabberwocky' did. Not complaining just pointing it out, love the film title though and those lovely looking opening credits.The first film in Gilliam's off the wall dream-like fantasy film trilogy where the plot basically revolves around escaping reality through imagination...or a dream. In this surreal adventure a young boy is zapped through time with the help of a bunch of dwarfs. This little team go around pinching loot trying to get rich with the aid of a map that shows them time holes to jump through time. On their tail is an evil sorcerer who wants the map for evil purposes and the maps owner the 'Supreme Being' (God?).The film starts off in a very simple manner that is quite enjoyable. Its very similar to the later Bill and Ted franchise as we jump to the Napoleonic Wars and meet Napoleon, then to England meeting up with Robin Hood and then to Greece meeting King Agamemnon. These few segments are good fun showcasing the films main big name cameos such as a rather dull Connery as Agamemnon, a very good Ian Holm as the height obsessed Napoleon and the brilliant Cleese as a rather stiff upper lipped Robin Hood and his cutthroat band of merry men. The Robin Hood sequence is easily the best with Cleese donning a daft over sized green Hood hat and typical clichéd Hood attire. He looks utterly ridiculous in his pantomime garb where as in contrast his men are a bunch of dirty filthy violent scum. The other funny angle is the fact Cleese speaks quite normally in his aloof aristocratic manner and his men don't, they are just your standard commoner oiks.Once we are introduced to the villainous 'Evil' (that's his name) who wants the map things kinda nose dive in my opinion. The dwarf team stop time jumping and instead go on the run from Evil but end up in Evil's realm and things just become all too weird. There are some nice moments that are typically Gilliam in visual style and idea, the galleon perched on top of the underwater giants head is a good one. No real clue what the hell was going on there, why the galleon is stuck to this giants head (it appeared to be his hat), why the giant was under the sea and who or what was in that little cottage before the giant crushed it??. Looked like some kind of elephant alien person, quirky little moment but totally off the wall, they just get killed then?.The entire final sequence where the dwarfs and little boy fight against Evil is just a mess really. This sorcerer is obviously pretty invincible yet the dwarfs conjure up all these pointless character from various time periods to fight him. I know its a young persons film but this battle is really quite hokey. Then in the end we meet the Supreme Being who turns out to be (or at least in human form) an elderly man in a suit who can't really act too well, nice concept though.I think the main thing that I disliked in this film was the little boy in the main role. This is an old film sure and the kid actor didn't have to be a great actor I admit but damn he's fudging annoying. His soft weedy whiny voice just grates the whole time and fails to give his character any impact at all, he always begs and pleads like a baby but you can hardly hear him half the time because he's so quiet...and wet. Am I being harsh? maybe, but this kid ruins the film, should of used a girl. The squad of dwarfs are the films main hook really...much like 'Willow'. None of them are particularly good actors but they are amusing and they do add to the fantasy charm. Seeing them all dressed up in their nifty warrior-like bandit outfits is kinda cool, clearly Gilliam (or someone) had this idea and knew they had to make a film around it.The film is essentially a kids flick, an imaginative adventure for young boys who like to play war, knights, cowboys etc...In that sense the film does its job and delivers a highly imaginative yarn no doubt. As an adult watching now the film doesn't quite hit the mark for me anymore, I guess the thrill has been left behind with age coupled with the fact the film doesn't really look very good anymore. It has dated quite badly in all honesty and the effects can be a bit dodgy. Like I said the first half set in the few time periods is good but after that it gets a bit rough around the edges. The very end feels too open ended also, definitely needed a more conclusive finish.In the end the film is a fun little ride with some nice visual ideas, but I can't help but feel without those few Python cameos this film wouldn't be half as much fun. You could say its only worth watching for the John Cleese sequence really...but that's just me.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Unique and at times Very Funny,","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is a good movie with a very enjoyable,different and different storyline and a good cast.The movie had plenty of very funny scenes,but I felt like there were several misses as well.I was disappointed the movie didn't have any Monty Python-like humour that I was expecting,since the movie was written by Terry Gilliam and Michael Palin and stars John Cleese,the humour was very much like the comedies they have made together before this film.I would have liked to see a lot more if Sean Connery and John Cleese's character,they aren't in it an awful lot and I found their characters and Palin's the funniest,other than the dwarfs,although it was hard to keep laughing at little people wanting to steal things for a two hour film.Time Bandits has plenty of funny scenes and I would recommend it to fans of Terry Gilliam films and as a fun film to watch with the family. A bunch of rebel dwarfs kidnap a young boy to join them for a madcap adventure across time in search of treasure. "}{"Title":"One of the best fantasy films ever","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There just aren't that many films as entertaining as Time Bandits. I watched it again recently, and&#x97;as you'd expect from someone as meticulous about detail as Gilliam&#x97;it holds up extremely well. This may also be due to the fact that the effects had to be achieved practically. Of course, real effects always look more real than digital effects.This time round, as an adult, the influence of The Wizard of Oz was more apparent, and I believe it deserves to be classed alongside that epic fantasy. Time travel was always fascinating as a kid, and the film definitely struck a chord with my daughter. There are brilliant supporting roles and cameos from some of the greatest British actors and comedians. And I forgot just how funny the script was, steeped in Monty Python's dark, satirical humour. It's very sad to me that, because of the changing nature of film financing and increasing reliance on digital effects, films like this don't get made anymore. But at least we've got this classic.Despite the relatively low grades, it may very well be Gilliam's most well-rounded and timeless film. "},{"Title":"A fun 80's fantasy movie","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is about who this boy who accidentally ends up going on adventure with dwarfs who go from time period to time period looking for stuff to steel. It starts out with dwarfs who steel this map from the supreme being which shows them holes that lead to various time periods. They end up traveling to different time periods and get to meet people such as Napoleon, Robin Hood, and even someone who resembles the devil. This movie shows you different sides of each character and the problems they have. Time Bandits was a fun movie to watch. This movie reminds me of other 80's fantasy movies where even if the movie is only rated PG there could be some parts that may be a little scary for younger children.People have mentioned they were planning to remake this movie into a series of kids movies. I don't know why anyone would want to remake this movie into a series of kids movies. This was a fun movie to watch. There are some funny parts like when they meet a drunk napoleon and when they end up on the Titanic. I would recommend people to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Still makes me laugh...","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I know it's not a perfect film by any stretch of the imagination; but it is fun and entertaining. A film with enormous scope and with some really great set pieces from the crazy mind of Terry Gilliam. You can see the Python influence all over it, although there are bits where it calms down and we see a more tender side of things. The performances were all excellent with Craig Warnock and David Rappaport taking star billing (for me). Oh and look out for a recurring gag featuring Michael Palin and Shelley Duvall, very funny. If there is a down side, it's that it's a little too long and the bickering between the dwarfs does get a little tedious after a while. Over all though, well worth a watch; it may look a little dated, but it's still worth your time (get it?).SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 8.2/10You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"A rather dark jaunt through history","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It seems that when it comes to Terry Gilliam movies you either love him or you hate him, and I have to say that I tend to fall into the former category. Gilliam just seems to have a special way in which he makes his movies that not only make them enjoyable, but that they are also rewatchable, amusing, and very entertaining, not to mention that they also seem to have a unique fantasy quality about them. Also, being the guy that directed the Life of Brian, he also have more than just a number of detractors, though Life of Brian tends to come under the heading of Monty Python (despite the fact that he tends to direct all of their movies anyway).This movie is focused around a young boy that discovers that his bedroom happens to have a time hole in it, and this is discovered after a knight runs through his room one night on a horse. So, the very next night he packs a satchel of things that might be needed on an adventure (including a Polaroid camera) and waits until a bunch of dwarfs come barreling out of his closet, and are then chased by the Supreme Being to another time, and thus the adventure begins.Basically these dwarfs have stolen a map from the Surpreme Being and are using this map, which contains the locations and destinations of the numerous time holes scattered throughout the universe, to rob and loot. However they are not very good at it, particularly since every time they make a haul, they immediately lose it, first after having it taken from them by Robin Hood, and the next time seeing it sink to the bottom of the Atlantic after the Titanic crashes into an ice berg.The film is sort of like Bill and Ted's Excellent adventure, but in a way much better. Where the later film has Bill and Ted traveling through time to pass their history assignment so that they might become saviours of the world, this film is simply about a bunch of dwarfs attempting to being thieves, and completely failing. Of course there is the protagonist, who is only known as evil, and we also have the Supreme Being that is not as bad as Evil, though he is portrayed as not a nice person if you get on the wrong side of him.In a way this film is actually a lot darker than Bill and Ted's, and I guess that is Gilliam's style. We have Napoleon who is obsessed with height, and if there is one thing that he does not like, it is people who are taller than him. Of course, seeing him sitting among the ruins of a city that he has just captured laughing his head off at a Punch and Judy show is just classic python. Upon meeting Kevin and the Dwarfs, he then immediately makes them his generals, simply because they are shorter than him.Then there is Robin Hood, as played by John Cleese, who is so caught up in his idealism that he really does not see how rotten his Merry Men are. Notice that he does not blink an eyelid when his second in command (I suspect it is Little John) punches the peasant after Robin hands out the treasure to him. I guess what we are seeing here is a demythologising of the myths of our world, though notice how Agamemnon is portrayed as the idea father figure (not that the Greek section of this movie is anything close to the original, except for the mentioning of Mycene as the city in which they live).There are numerous scenes in this film I particularly like, and it have all of the Monty Python style humour as well, such as the ogre and his wife having a normal conversation, and then bursting into a series of roars. In fact, I would probably have to say that the Ogre is probably my favourite character in the film, though the dwarfs all have their time in the sun as well. What I do find very interesting about this film is that Sean Connery is the top billed actor despite him only playing a supporting role, if that. I wonder if Connery insisted on being the top billed actor simply because he is Sean Connery. "},{"Title":"entertaining but unfinished","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" EFFECTS The most positive thing I can express about this movie is the fact, that the producers, actors, the director and other members of the crew must have worked a lot on this movie. The special effects are carefully done with a love for the details and the proof for the fact, that plastic modeling can work just as well or even better than modern 3D computer- based models (of course that only applies for stationary objects). CAST I did very much like the cast, led (in quality of performance) by (Sir) Ian Holm as Napoleon with an inferiority complex both drunk and sober, always borderline insane and performed brilliantly. Also several members of Monty Python funny as usual (although sadly unsurprising) and a not-so-bad Sean Connery as Agamemnon, charming and smiling, heroic and charismatic (business as usual for him but still&#x85;). Additionally Craig Roberts as Kevin and David Rappaport as Randall, the more or less tough leader of the Bandits, perform fairly well too.PLOT The plot is fairly if not impressively creative, very well thought out and does like so many time-travel-stories force one to actually think about the (plausbility of the) time line. GENERAL But as a movie this project is rather unfinished, as though final version is in fact not the final version, but instead still misses several cutting-processes to tighten the story up. Especially the ending, or rather the final showdown between the Bandits and Evil is so faltering that it appears to be a mere collection of shots, about which nobody has yet decided which ones to show and which ones to cut out. "},{"Title":"one of gilliam's best","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" So I watched time bandits from 1981 and directed by the great Terry Gilliam. So is it a classic, well yes but just possibly of the cult variety. Time bandits represents Gilliam's more playful side, a side that is directed at making kid's fairy tales. Other examples of this side include The Adventures of Baron Munchausen and the brothers Grimm. This film is his most successful attempt at making a kid's movie. However, this movie is not just for kids, I do remember making my dad take me to this when I was just 7. However, I have seen this movie at various points in my life and it held up at every stop, including this latest viewing. This film is a child's dream come true (or is it). It is strange at times, while making subtle statements on modern suburban life at other times. Statements that I may add still hold up today. The story centers around the adventures of a young boy, well played by Craig Warnock (this was one of the few things he did as an actor), as he joins a rag tag bunch of little people who work for the supreme being. These pint size creative assistants are hell bent on making a name for themselves as robbers. The first thing they steal is the supreme beings map of time portals allowing them to time travel and well become time bandits. From there the movie is a mythical adventure partly based on historical figures and partly based on fairy tales. This movie is hilarious, it is stylistically a good example of the unique genius of Terry Gilliam, and has several cameos of great actors including Sean Connery. The one thing that is up for debate is was this a dream, was it real, or was it a dream so powerful it became real. I lean toward the last theory, just look for giant leg-gos and the last shot of the boys bedroom, to understand part of my justification for subscribing to this last theory. The end is odd and leaves many unresolved questions, but that is part of the beauty of this great film. This movie is not for everyone, it is for the indy lovers, the more creative among us, and the little kids who grow up and don't necessarily score with the head cheer leader. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"????","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Gee, I'm not quite sure what to make of Time Bandits, Is it fiction or fantasy, fairy tale or surrealism. I think it wants to be all of these, the result is messy, and not even that magical or mystical, but it has sporadic charm and humour, not enough though that I'd call it an ideal family film. If you want to be intrigued, Time Bandit may do the job, but children don't want to be intrigued, they want to be entertained. Terry Gilliam's black sense of humour, and satirical Italian theatrics may be bit much. The whole thing is just very weird.A boy in a middle class suburban British house hold. Wakes up in the middle of the night to fight a gang of Midgets in his room, he follows them across history, and ancient civilizations as they loot and pillage, from all sorts of treasures, and subsequently get into mischief. To do this, these little men use a time map, which they have stolen from their apparent master, and know they have evil forces chasing after them eager to get it. Terry Giliam has a great imagination but with the excaptio of the last couple, his movies are not as colourful as his illustrations. The sets are very bland in tone, unsaturated and look murky and fake, most of it looks like a movie set. The same can be said of Baron Munchausen made a few years later. Brazil was intentionally, grey and Bleak so I have no problem there, but this is an adventure movie. It should capture the imagination, by making us think we are in a different world. sometimes I think Gilliam wants to make a throwback to the days of Georges Melies (A trip to the moon). If this is the case, then one could say his success is controversial. It doesn't really benefit the movie, it only draws attention to itself.Time Bandits, is not completely devoid of life, It has moments of humour, and excitement. It is not actually all that disappointing a film, I kind of enjoy being confused by it, but it is a tricky film to recommend. "},{"Title":"Well acted silly fantasy","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" At the start of the movie, a typical family is watching TV. Well, not exactly. The son, Kevin, is more interested in his magazines, which is unusual. The parents are watching a 50s-style TV commercial for the latest labor-saving kitchen gadget. By the way, they are apparently in Britain, not America.After he goes to bed, Kevin is awakened by a group of little people led by Randall. They seem confused. First they think Kevin is their enemy and start beating on him. Then they realize he is just a kid. They need to find the way out, which they finally do, and just in time. They must run from a scary face resembling The Wizard of Oz when Dorothy and her friends first meet him. Kevin goes along.The group ends up in the middle of a battle being fought by Napoleon for a town in France. After the battle, Napoleon is entertained by a puppet show. He can't do anything requiring two hands--apparently the one must stay in his jacket.We learn that the little people travel through time and steal from the rich. After a meal with Napoleon, they take everything they can carry and escape through a time hole just ahead of Napoleon's army--who can't follow because the hole closes!The next destination is the time of Robin Hood. The outlaw is impressed with their philosophy but I doubt he would agree with robbing from the rich and giving to the poor--US! Randall has a map of the time holes, which he got from The Supreme Being. His every move is witnessed by The Evil Genius, who would like to have it so he can rule the world.At one point Kevin gets separated from the rest and ends up in a desert that is part of ancient Greece. The time travelers also sail on The Titanic and on the boat of the man-eating ogre Winston and his wife. They also witness numerous combat styles including modern tank warfare, futuristic space weapons, and Old West cowboys with ropes.The ending is weird, which is to be expected. A strange sequence of events.If John Cleese, Michael Palin and Terry Gilliam are involved, you know it will be funny with an edge. I have recently discovered Monty Python's Flying Circus on my PBS station, and while I don't have a genuine appreciation for the zaniness of this crew, I do enjoy their often bawdy humor. But this is still family-friendly, except for some violence which is essential to the plot. Just enough violence for concern, but not enough to keep most kids from watching.Cleese does a fine job as Robin Hood, but he isn't on for nearly long enough. Sean Connery is outstanding as the Greek king. I never saw him smile like that! He seems to be genuinely enjoying himself. Again, too small a role. Other fine performances come from David Rappaport as the leader of the little people, Ian Holm as Napoleon, David Warner as The Evil Genius and Ralph Richardson as The Supreme Being. And there is plenty of silliness from our diminutive heroes and from the minions of The Evil Genius. Plenty of clever writing too. And plenty of action. And passable visual effects add to the film.It was fun. "},{"Title":"The Ogre and his wife are worth the whole film!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One of my favourite movies! The Napoleon scene is not quite funny enough, and the small parts that Michael Palin has written for himself are not good. But things get better and better as the movie progresses, and it is a fantastically great idea to make the most valuable thing in the world a new kitchen that one can win in a crazy TV-quiz show! The whole film is good and the devil in particular turned out rather well as Ralph Richardson puts it! The only thing it took me time to really understand was the way 'the supreme being' is portrayed. Ralph Richardson is actually doing a parody of God!! Extremely daring I think, he might have stepped on a lot of peoples' toes. But he does it well, and hopefully God (if he exists) has a sense of humour and the ability to laugh at himself. Many people seem to dislike the ship-scene with the ogre and his wife for some reason. It's too long, a bit boring, doesn't really work are some of the comments I've heard. That scene is my top favourite!!! Darling, You ARE terrible is the funniest flattering remark I can think of! And the Ogre IS terrible - wonderfully terrible! Actually I think it's a pity to use a brilliant actress like Katherine Helmond for just one short scene. It should have been much longer! "},{"Title":"imagination is the key","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Here's the story. I was 11 and had no life except sports and particularly nerf football. But that's beside the point. I went to an alternative school with alternative kids;this means your hanging out with different kids. Well,one day playing this sad sport there was a kid who didn't speak,just looked,with this composed face. He was deaf. They made fun of him,but he helped us win the game. Somehow I got the courage to try and communicate to him that he was cool. We agreed on seeing a movie. He said time bandits in a warbled but cognicent way. I was afraid of those trailers;you had to be an outcast or something to see that scary film. But we met up at the theatre in berkeley,and once the movie started it became apparent that this was a special film. No,a really,really,COOL film! Scary at times,but interesting as OG would say. I couldn't believe how captivating this film was,and once it hit cable I even taped the film with a tape deck. The dialogue and acting and execution of everything made it believable in the sense you could be saved by a fantasy film like this and not capitulate to the American materialism that has imbued all art from every perspective. Once the 70's were over the 80's was a last hurrah or boo,depending if you enjoyed the 80's. The only way to make another film like this is to follow the old concepts. English theatre is more real in that sense. Remember,time bandits is a film that never had video or DVD in the back of it's mind,so try to take this film in correctly. Is it worth watching? You've got to be joking! Of course it is! Soon you will be writing the dalogue down in long hand.I never met that kid again,but we both have that moment when we stepped out of our own worlds and became entranced in this bizarre vision. What a memory. What a film. 3 stars from ebert? What movies did he like? Did he give yellow submarine 1 1/4 stars? That ought to tell you. One of the best films I've seen. If only there were more like these. "}{"Title":"Only slightly dissapointed","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this movie with extremely high expectations and was only slightly disappointed. I was hoping to see more of Michael Palin and John Cleese, but the movie was still good. It was an extremely bizarre movie and I thoroughly enjoyed it from beginning to end. I recommend it highly to someone who enjoys fantasy movies or movies that are out of the ordinary. "},{"Title":"Funny weird fantasy","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  'Time Bandits' comes from the great director Terry Gilliam and has a lot of the Monty Python team in it. Gilliam himself of course belongs to that team, but we also see familiar faces from John Cleese and Michael Palin. It also has appearances by Sean Connery, Shelley Duvall and Ian Holm.A young boy Kevin joins a gang of dwarfs who have a map with which they can travel in time. The map is from the Supreme Being and is wanted by Evil. The dwarfs have decided to steal treasures in different times. They steal from Napoleon (Ian Holm), they steal for Robin Hood (John Cleese) and they steal from King Agamemnon (Sean Connery), all in very funny sequences. In the mean while the Supreme Being wants the map back and Evil has an evil plan to lead the dwarfs and Kevin to him so he can own and use the map.This movie is as it sounds. Weird, but funny and very creative. Almost everything looks great and the whole journey is an adventure you will not forget soon. If you like a little strange, you will like 'Time Bandits'. "},{"Title":"We can make beans into peas!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've loved this movie since I was a kid and just recently purchased it on DVD ($9.44 at Target, although I would've paid twice as much). I have always thought it to be one of the funniest, most original comedy/fantasy pictures ever. Yeah, maybe the special effects are dated but that anti-materialism message that it slaps you across the face with isn't. Great perfomances throughout (Ian Holm, Sean Connery, David Warner) and of course the Monty Python-esque humor courtesy of director Terry Gilliam. I always though that George Harrison tune (Dream Away)over the closing credits was really catchy too. I highly recommend this film if you've never seen it.  "},{"Title":"Great Fun, Great Imagination, Great laugh!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a magical, imaginative tale, of a band of dwarfs who, using a time map stolen from the supreme being, travel across time stealing lot of artifacts to make themselves rich. Along the way they pick up a kevin who provides us with the more same view of the adventure, which involves napoleon, robin hood and other magical and mythological beings, good and evil, allsorts.  This film shines for its sheer imagination, and fun.  Its also reeeeally funny.Take my word for it, get yourself a cup of tea and settle down to watch this fun little adventure. "},{"Title":"REEEETURN THE MAP!!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my all-time favorite films from childhood, Time Bandits remains timeless (pardon the pun)!  This entire picture just emanates fun, quirkiness, and fantasy - while still managing to be intelligent and very witty.  In fact, I have trouble even categorizing Time Bandits into a film genre.  While not being the greatest or most coherent movie of all time, it remains one of the most memorable. Based on the most timeless and ongoing good-vs-evil struggle  God vs. The Devil (or Supreme Being vs. Evil Genius in this case), Time Bandits moves all over in and out of reality mixing fact and fiction. (*Minor Spoiler*) We're even left in the end to come up with our own conclusions about what happened, further proof that to watch this movie you need a good imagination and a strange sense of humor!If you're too nitpicky and have forgotten how to just relax and enjoy a fun movie then this may not be for you.  For those of us with the runaway imaginations and an off the wall outlook on life - this is it right here!I have just picked up this movie on DVD and can't wait to show my kids one day - hopefully before they become spoiled by $100 million CGI special effects, bland story lines, and characters without heart. "},{"Title":"its good","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie rocks. I loved it as a kid and I still do. It has some terrific characters who are memorable and funny. The costume deign is superb and the set design is not bad either. The overall production design is good.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Damn, this movie is great. A real adventure movie which we have too little of. The great thing about the movie is that the character's are traveling all the time and that makes the movie so interesting+ there's cool effects and it's an original movie,  "},{"Title":"Often funny but also dark and wildly uneven","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a good, but not great, movie. Episodic in nature, some parts are hilarious while other bits are just plain boring.  John Cleese as Robin Hood is hysterical!  Probably would have been a good idea for the movie to have been edited a bit more and tightened up, but on the whole, worth watching. "},{"Title":"gnarly movie dudes!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Great movie, lots of imagination, back when you didn't need high tech stuff to make up for lack of it. I enjoyed it when I was younger and I still enjoy it! Despite what some people commented on sean connery's appearance, I think he did an outstanding job as king agamemnon/ reincarnated as the fireman, his quote  you're a very lucky boy is still in my head. "},{"Title":"An imaginative classic that entertains me now as much as it did when I was a kid","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If I had owned this film on VHS tape, and not had cable, I would have worn out the tape when I was younger. I saw this movie a zillion times in the early 80's, and it was my first exposure to the wonders of Terry Gilliam and, ultimately, Monty Python. Not a bad route, if you ask me. "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Very clever, original movie that has held up well over time.  DVD is a must-own.  Good at repeat watching.  Outrageous scenes.  As a short person myself, I loved, and use, Napolean's reference to  Tiny Guys.  Lots of painful truth there. "},{"Title":"Best Kids Film Ever","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first kids' film I've ever seen where the lead child actor is very likable and realistic. A wildly original and intelligent plot, lots of humor and adventure, and fun cameos. Sean Connery makes a warrior king into a nice dad guy who'd rather do magic tricks. Plus a nice Roald Dahl-esque ending. Parents might cringe, but kids will cheer. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is also one of my favorite films. It brings back many memories. It is delightfully funny and entertaining. Gilliam has a superb imagination, and his film skills are equally good. I recommend this film to anyone who likes Terry Gilliam's movies. "},{"Title":"the crushing exit","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This would have been a very defining experience, in my life, of movies watched in the theatre. I remember seeing the original ad in the Paper for it, the design itself sucking me in, i was 8 years old at the time and was just so excited, then the commercials hit and I HAD to see this movie.I don't remember how much convincing this took to see, but we went as a family to see it, my mom, step dad, and my siblings. As I recall, i was the only one looking forward to seeing this movie.I say would have been a great experience, because probably 15 minutes into the movie, my parents were groaning and just generally unsettled with the content it the film and decided to pack up and walk out, forcing me along with them. I was pretty much in shock and probably cried.This was repeated with the movie the Dark Crystal, and I'm pretty sure Krull too.Fortunately I got to see all of the Star Wars movies in their entirety and Indiana Jones, among other movies.As soon as Time Bandits was released on Video Cassette, I jumped at the opportunity to watch it, and my friend Jason and I watched it over and over, it was an at home experience that was one of the earliest VHS viewings, and one I honor as being fabulous. Oh, I watched it on Selectavision too!!! Total utter classic. Genius overflowing in the premise and it's great Terry had such an opportunity. He has gone on to do so much, a great and essential primer. "},{"Title":"Waiter, More Champagne -  And Plenty Of Ice !!","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One night, six strange dwarfs tumble out of the wardrobe of Kevin, a schoolboy, and he follows them through a strange vortex which appears in his bedroom. The dwarfs have a map of space / time holes all over the world and are off seeking adventure, but are being followed by The Supreme Being, who wants his map back ...Terry Gilliam's first non-Monty Python movie, Jabberwocky, is good fun, but this one is the bee's knees. It's cracking good entertainment all the way through, with lots of lumpen bits of bloody history thrown together, a great sextet of reprobate dwarf actors, a brilliant guest star list (with Holm as Napoleon and Warner as the memorable Evil sharing the honours), hilarious knockabout scenes, bizarre characters, nightmarish horror moments and even social satire. Most of all, it looks sensational, belying its modest budget with amazing scenes as our heroes sail through a war-torn Italian town in 1795, dance at the mythic palace of Agamemnon in Mycenae, and hang suspended in the abyss at the Fortress Of Ultimate Darkness, all rendered in vivid detail. The wonderful visuals come from Gilliam's keen artist's eye, and the script (written by Gilliam and Palin) is chock-full of nutty ideas - an ogre's ship worn on the head of a much bigger ogre - and hilarious dialogue; just about everything Warner and Holm say is hysterical. It's also just a terrific story - Kevin is a normal kid who's scared, anxious, confused and bewildered, but is also intelligent and resourceful. I love the moment where he asks The Supreme Being why people had to die and we need to have evil in the world, and gets fobbed off with a lame, half-hearted philosophical answer. I also love the six little people in the cast, particularly Rappaport's egotistical bluster, Baker's happy-go-lucky charm and Edmonds' good-natured blockhead; after Napoleon's long drunken ramble on short guys in history, he replies, I'n't 'e interesting !. Gilliam is an incredibly talented director, who for me is a unique mix of uncompromising auteur artist and self-deprecating clown, a sort of Stanley Kubrick meets Jacques Tati. This was the movie where he really hit his stride and it's endlessly rewarding viewing for the imaginatively-minded. Brilliantly shot by Peter Biziou with fine editing by Julian Doyle, and produced by George Harrison's Handmade Films - a great independent little film company which has made some real gems (The Long Good Friday, Withnail & I, Track 29) - this is a funny, scary, wonderful comic adventure unlike any other movie. "},{"Title":"My Gosh But It Looks Splendid!","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Long before Kevin Costner became Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves, John Cleese gave us Robin Hood, Prince of Wales. Greeting people like a royal dignitary and handing out goods to the poor (Oh you must meet them. I'm sure you'll like them. Of course they haven't got two pennies to rub together but that's because they're poor.) and then looking a little confused as one of his merry men punches said peasant in the face, Cleese's insane take on Hood would seem out of place in most movies. But not in Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits The story is at once complex and really very simple. Simple in so far as it is just a coming of age story. Complex because it involves time travel, fantastical elements and even the concept of Evil itself. In summary, the plot involves Kevin (Craig Warnock) entering a portal through time and space due to the fact that 6 dwarfs appear in his bedroom, and rather than face the big scary head that is chasing them, he decides to join them. The big scary head turns out to be that of the supreme being and the dwarfs turn out to be his assistants. They have taken a map showing all of the holes in the universe, and using this valuable artefact, have decided to make their fortune. Kevin, who frankly is ignored by his gadget-obsessed Mum and Dad, is happy to go along with the insanity, which leads him from Napoleonic Italy, to Ancient Greece, from Medieval England to the deck of the Titanic. Yet all of this fun comes at a cost. The group are tricked into going to 'The Time Of Legends' by Evil (David Warner), who wishes to steal the map and recreate the world in his own image a modern world, without useless things such as butterflies and daffodils. Luckily in the end all is set to right, apart from the fact that Kevin's parents are both killed in front of him in a horrific fashion and his home and almost everything he owns is burnt to a crisp. Still, mustn't grumble&#133; Considering that it is written by two former Pythons it is not surprising that this film is of both the zany and the funny ilk. It is also really rather dark, with a large number of brutal deaths occurring on screen, as well as some adult concepts. Just because it is a comedy fantasy, do not be fooled into thinking it is designed for children. While it has a PG rating I think that this movie is more enjoyable to people over the age of 12, simply because many of the ideas within the movie are intellectually abstract.At times watching this movie is much like watching one of Gilliam's animated interludes come to life. A giants foot coming down on a hut while we hear a couple bicker, the fantastic settings of Evil's lair, and even the slightly surreal home of Kevin and his parents, remind us of the slightly skewed vision of the director. However skewed it may be it is, ultimately, compelling viewing.Does it really happen or is it all in the mind of Kevin? Frankly there are arguments for both ideas. All of the places visited can be seen around Kevin's bedroom. From the obvious pictures of Napoleonic armies and the tank seen at the end of the movie to the less obvious Lego model that becomes Evil's domain. Also Kevin is clearly a child with great imagination and very little outlet, with two ghastly parents living in a shrink-wrapped sofa world. On the other hand, after all of his adventures are over and he has returned to normality, there are still photos of his adventures in his knapsack. So, who is to say if it was all a dream or not? Certainly not me. And, frankly, it doesn't matter either way.On a personal note this review has been a hard one for me to write so far. Not because I don't like this movie - I do - but because I don't actually know what to say about it. Like many movies of Gilliam's it is the visual splendour that leaves its mark and there are really only so many times I can say that things do really look rather splendid. "},{"Title":"Vermin, will you please stop eating?","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" At the end of the school year, my son's World History teacher gave the class a list of movie lines and the above line was one of the ones on the 'quiz'----my son was the only person in the teacher's seven years of using the quiz to know the answer. His teacher asked how he knew it. My son explained that his parents had liked the movie so much they had named him after one of the characters---Kevin. I think the combination of Terry Gilliam and Craig Warnock made such an impression on me---I remember watching the movie, turning to my husband and saying, Let's have a little boy and name him Kevin. ---so I guess there is something to the idea of 'movie magic', whatever it is Time Bandits definitely has it. "},{"Title":"The best film of a kid for the kids","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know how many times i have watched this film on a rainy Sunday afternoon, but however many times i have seen this, the more it stands. I would say it is perhaps Gilliams most enjoyable film. I say this in terms of the fact that it requires less thinking than if you watched another of Gilliams films, step forward Brazil. Many have said that Gilliams films stray away from his Python roots, however the giant sequence is a bit of python if ever i did see it. Though it is the endless cameos that are the highlight of this film, i find that the dwarf actors are fantastic. Especially Jack Purvis and David Rapparport. However the star turn should essentially go to the great Ralph Richardson. Thrifty, Suave and a cherry on top of an ice cream sundae of a film. "},{"Title":"Innocence of childhood","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one movie for me that I can watch every time and enjoy.  Never get tired of it.Gilliam's early work has a very imaginative, quirky, strange, fantastical nature to it.  Similar to a child's imagination where the mind can form imaginary worlds of magic and excitement.  The trippy and surreal look definitely credits Terry's ability to capture his vision on film with simple, yet highly effective results.  The timeholes, the cage scene, the looks of different times seem like the real deal.  I can never forget the sound of shattering glass and the cracking of a skeleton's bones in an arid bleak desert setting after seeing this.  The cast is great from Kevin as our young, yet brave protagonist and his time traveling buddies.  Don't let appearances deceive you, these guys play their hearts out in this one. From the brash, yet effective leader Randall you my personal fave Wally played by late Jack Purvis.  I just love how Wally's emotions are so extreme whether it's being happy, grief, or rage (You're MAD Randall!!!).  Jack seemed like a friend you'd go out with for a drink and have a jolly good time.  Of course, Fidgit, Og (OINK!), Strutter, and Vermin who's has got a mad case of the munchies!  Then, the baddies led by David Warner who wonderfully leads his 'Yes' men from the dark underworld.  Just don't get Evil ticked off or ZAP!  Add cameos from John Cleese, Mike Palin, Shelly Duvall and not to mention Sean Connery and this one has your attention from start to finish.Gilliam and Palin show that a children's story doesn't have to be cutesy and sugar coated.  Like most of Gilliam's work, he allows you to watch his films and draw your own inferences and opinions; movies that don't take the viewer's intelligence for granted.  Being open minded and accepting it for what it is makes watching Gilliam's movies a pleasure that never gets old. "},{"Title":"Good movie that could have used a few more laughs.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This fantasy movie is about a boy who gets caught up in time travel by these little people who go to different times and rob them.  All in all a good movie, but at times you just wish there was more comedy.  The Robin Hood time was the best as Monty Python alum John Cleese plays Hood.  It is the funniest segment in the movie.  Then the kid gets separated from his band of time travelers and ends up in sometime that isn't very funny at all.  Sean Connery plays a king here, and I like Connery a lot so it is a shame he is in the weakest section of the movie.  They also go to France during Napoleon's reign and they also have a brief stop on the Titanic as well, before the final world, which is some kind of dark realm.  There are funny scenes in this world, but there are also times this world gets to serious as well.  During all their travels a bad guy from the dark realm wants to get the time travelers to his world so he can steal their map, which shows all the time travel portals.  One thing about this movie I can't stand though is the ending...I won't dwell on it though.  If this movie had more comedy it would have been great. "}{"Title":"Highly Visual, Very Imaginative","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is great fun. I liked the thrill ride of never knowing what to expect from one moment to the next. I liked all the little touches -- the simple incongruous sound of a Polaroid in ancient Greece, the fleeting glimpses of toys and pictures in Kevin's room that foreshadowed later incidents in the movie, the hilarious jibes at progress and modernism. I liked the variety of personalities among the main characters. I liked Robin Hood's hat. I like the silly debate over whether this is a children's movie (since it has a child in a lead role) or an adult's movie (because of the occasionally dark touches); I suspect Gilliam probably loves the debate.My respect for Sean Connery went up in this movie. In the scene with the disappearing act, Agamemnon suddenly realizes that something is wrong and stands up. When I saw this in the theater, I was struck by Connery's commanding presence as realization hit and he stood up with regal indignation and concern; he conveyed a lot through a relatively simple action. When I see this on the small screen, perhaps worsened by the non-letterbox format, the effect is lost, and all you see is that Agamemnon stands up. But in the theatre, it was a good scene.Great fun. Go see it. "},{"Title":"An exhilarating adventure - or spoof - or something","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  An exhilarating adventure - or spoof - or something; anyway, it's great fun. Six dwarfs have escaped with God's map of time, and hook up with an imaginative little boy to make it a seven-some . . . and so they search for their own version of Snow White across time, space, and other dimensions, with a host of notable actors (Ian Holm, Sean Connery, John Cleese, Ralph Richardson, among others) in bit parts.  Strange, imaginative, and wonderful, with a delightful sense of humor, yet never so giddy that you completely lose your bearings . . . and a reminder that movies are perhaps the most versatile of all art forms. "},{"Title":"Dazzling","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie at age 12 and was spellbound.  It is a perfect example of how a children's movie need not simplify things with trite morals and facile messages of hope.  People expecting a comedy might be disappointed, but those seeking a magical adventure (with a little theosophy thrown in for seasoning) should be most excited and impressed. "},{"Title":"If you want consistency, watch Chuck Norris","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you want someone to challenge your expectations , someone whose work you can love and hate, and one of the most innovative, brilliant and independent film makers ever - Terry Gilliam is your man.I saw Time Bandits at its initial theatrical release, and hated it. Expecting MONTY PYTHON, I was bitterly disappointed that it wasn't wall-to-wall laughs in the familiar style. I couldn't figure out why Sean Connery was in it, why the sub-plots were unfinished, and and why the PYTHON people were barely used.A few years later it became one of the first films to be rediscovered on cable.  I gave it a second chance and was richly rewarded.  For some reason it came across better in a home screening; it also helped that I was no longer looking for the Python ensemble.  That time I was won by the wit and audacity of a film which was clearly a personal vision rather than comedy product.What I had initially taken for a poor imitation of Cleese & Co was in fact a wondrously complete work of originality and engaging charm.  When I looked past my sour notion of circus humor in the use of a midget cast, and allowed the individual characters created by Michael Rappaport,et al to come through, it invited a third viewing solely devoted to enjoying Digit, Vermin, Randall and the rest of these characters whose throw-away lines alone  are worth the price of admission.  Kevin, sweet and innocent without ever dipping to cute, is the perfect foil to the splendidly earnest and wholly inept cut-throats. The other character being the worlds of Gilliam's peerless imagination.After fifteen or so viewings, I can say with certainty I could view it monthly for the rest of my life and never fail to find a fresh ingredient with each. With Kubrick's passing, Terry Gilliam holds the chair in daring, originality, taking risks, and quite often re-setting the standard for outrageous and visually stunning satire. "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable surrealism.","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Probably the most enjoyable, audience-friendly example of modern day surrealist cinema you could ever find. A solid storyline, outlined perfectly within the first half hour, is backed up by a strong cast and impressive cameo performances. David Warner steals the show in one of his finest performances to date.  9/10 "},{"Title":"This is a science fiction classic in the vein of The Goonies and Labyrinth.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Time Bandits is an extremely imaginative fantasy film, and it clearly did not have the budget to make it as spectacular as it could have been. However, keeping in mind how many years ago it was made, it is a very respectable effort. The film is about a young boy who accidently winds up time traveling with a band of midgets who travel through time robbing people. Hence, Time Bandits. Their adventures through time are fascinating to watch, especially scenes like their run-in with the hilariously polite Robin Hood (played wonderfully by John Cleese). The final goal of the midgets is to find the greatest object on the face of the earth, and their efforts to obtain it provide for wonderful entertainment. While Time Bandits may not be for all tastes, it is definitely an excellent adventure film that can be enjoyed by children and adults alike. It is a trip through the imagination, and a hilarious ending involving the young boy's parents adds to the great fun of it all. If you are a fan of films like The Goonies and Labyrinth (which everyone is), don't miss Time Bandits. "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable films ever","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've loved Time Bandits on first viewing and this feeling hasn't changed on several repetitions. The surreal plot and somewhat quirky humour work great for me. There are a few lengths, though, so it doesn't quite make it to the absolute top ranking. If you haven't seen it, and have found some British humour funny, try it out. It may not work for you but if it does, you'll be in for a real treat! "},{"Title":"a burst of imagination","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film easily outdistances many of the so called serious works and shows how powerful and interesting history can be.  It has some fantastic sections where the viewer is transported back in time and can become a participant of periods long gone.  At times, it's a bit eccentric, but it's always enjoyable! "},{"Title":"Great FUN!","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  From the makers of Monty Python comes this frolic.  A gang of dwarfs working for God swipe his map and use it to hop-scotch through time or riches.   One day they find themselves in the closet of a boy named Kevin, and seeing nothing better to do, he joins their group.  What follows is a weird and funny adventure that ends on a rather peculiar note.  Please don't miss this one...and don't miss the cute end title song by George Harrison.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful fable!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies but I fear it is commonly misunderstood. While there are many hilarious parts, this is not (nor meant to be) a comedy of the usual Monty Python fare.  Time Bandits is about childhood, good, and evil with many psychological undertones.  The characters are all very real and the boy who plays Kevin is great.  The guest spots are a pleasure, too. The wild romp flavor evolves to a more bittersweet feelings of sadness tinged with hope.  There are also great images throughout the film.  The film is quirky and might not be for all tastes but I love it and recommend to everyone who has a wicked sense of humor and remembers being a child. Have no expectations and you will be blown away. "}{"Title":"Not only fun, but hopeful.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I had to comment to improve the 7.1/10 average rating--this is a VERY fine film.  Other viewers have commented on its attractiveness to kids, with its fascinating premise, intriguing characters, and suspenseful plot.  Less apparent, perhaps, is the film's psychological underpinning a troubled child, emotionally abandoned by his parents, reworks the elements of his fantasies to conclude that his existence is meaningful and that he is supported in life.  This is a message that many kids--and adults--need to hear. "},{"Title":"Highly imaginative","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Time Bandits benefits being sprung from the mind of Terry Gilliam.  His visuals fit the wild exploits of time travelling midgets whose main goal in life is to rob various historical figures.  John Cleese is a hoot as a very proper Robin Hood.  He comes off not as the dashing hero that the legend states, but more of a politician.  The highlight of the film is David Warner, who plays Evil very well.  Who knew that Evil was so touchy?  I especially like his ideas for starting the world over.  Gilliam's imagination is allowed to run wild in the Fortress of Ultimate Darkness, where the final confrontation between good and Evil takes place, and where we are introduced to a very proper Supreme Being, who hates showing up in the form of a giant glowing head.  A very organized fellow who sees death as an escape from work.  Fun film to watch, just don't touch that thing in the toaster oven.  It might turn you into a hermit crab! "},{"Title":"Timeless Travel, Mindless Fun","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, Yes, Yes!  Innovative, funny, goofball-zany, care-not-in-the-world-boldness-journey where no sane men have gone before and lived from the side-achy-drop-dead-hilarity.Every now and then there comes a comedy that is all out, nonstop inventiveness, and the makers of it care not a whit whether it will reap profits, garner critical praise or turn people hopelessly cynical (try making a movie yourself and see how difficult it is just trying to come under budget, and keep the cast from really killing each other).Without giving too much of the plot away, Time Bandits can be compared with the subsequent comedy about Baron Munchhausen (an international literary legend and cinematic venture), co-starring Robin Williams as a floating head (wishful thinking, I wish he'd shut up!), and similarly fractured-fantasy-oriented fare such as The Neverending Story and the oft-referenced Alice's Adventures in Wonderland storybook series (with the books' stronger deliniations on 'potions' which make one metamorphose--read hallucinatory drugs).Unwind and just enjoy the creativity and professionalism, and the fact that these Monty Python-ites, et al; freaks delivering good-natured ribbing (they're merely boy-children trapped in adult bodies, but you gotta love 'em!) that are greatly underrated, and, although considerably recognized by some critics and film-fans, don't get enough attention in the currently crowded world of wannabe-comics who get larger paychecks for less talent. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and funny, can be watched time and again.","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie.  The fantasy it contains - the Map, the time travel, the places the characters travel to - the humour, the creativity of the storyline, the way the basic fact of the movie (time-space gates) gives the author the ability to take his characters to so many different places - ancient Greece, modern England, Napoleanic France, the Time of Legends.And it's one of those rare movies I can watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"The greatest midget film of all time","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The best midget film I've ever seen.  Why?  Lots of reasons, because it includes all the best elements of midget exploitation (Ian Holm's Napoleon is priceless) but it also invests each little person character with a personality.  The story is a Monty Python dream, one of Gilliam's best movies.... funny and sadistic.  I saw it as a kid and loved it.  What can I say?  I truly wish there could be more movies like this.When I saw it as a kid, I must have been 5 or 6 years old.  I seem to remember Olivia Newton John's Let's Get Physical being on the soundtrack, but when I tell anyone this they look at me like I'm crazy.  Does anyone know if this was ever distributed in such a form (I know it's not impossible, because pop songs are often tastelessly added to films in America after production if the film isn't doing so well in the box office)?Recommended to everyone. "},{"Title":"Awkward mix of Monty Python and grotesque fantasy","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There is a lot that is impressive about this film. It has a very high calibre cast, very good production values and excellent special effects. The problem for me is the script. The different elements that are brought into play don't make a coherent whole. We have satire at the expense of the gadget obsessed middle-classes, Monty Python-style silliness (the Robin Hood and Titanic episodes), historic epic (the ancient Greece of Agamemnon) and grotesque fantasy sequences. These are all brought together in a rather over-long and violent climax but this still doesn't round the film off satisfactorily.The best thing about the film for me is Ralph Richardson's Supreme Being God as a slightly vague (he thinks creating Evil had something to do with free will) management figure in a tweed suit is somehow more fitting to the real world than a booming-voiced Charlton Heston type with a big beard. "},{"Title":"Exploration of deceptive world","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Beautiful exploration of premodern atmosphere, of time's masks and of faith. Show in rule's body and ambiguity of innocence. Signs, symbols and respiration of a era. Misticism, sin and a strange advocate lost in a deceptive world.A great character in Ian Holm acting and subtle recreation of gestures of every period. At first sight, the love is only motive of characters actions. Love for law, for power or money, prestige or personal image, for ideal or for a woman. But, the essence is the sin, like result of corruption, hypocrisy and prejudices. The chlid hero is not only an outsider, the stranger but principal danger for community. The desertion of the creator is capital error . The endeavor to move life in his rational limits- a cruel blasphemy. Image of his failure is not the departure, but the presence of the Supreme Being in a place who destroys every innocence's shadow.In spite of atmosphere, it is not a historical film. The reality after September 11 is Medieval in same measure and same saving knight is expecting. "},{"Title":"Amazing fantasy film.","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Its important to understand that despite the director and a few cast members, this is NOT a Monty Python movie. There are many funny moments here, but this is mostly a fantasy film. I think this is the kind of movie that kids would adore because the imagination here is amazing. First things first, this is a Terry Gilliam movie, don't expect anything normal. There is time travel, a band of thieving dwarfs, a very memorable villain, the Titanic, and Sean Connery. There are plenty of thrilling moments here. The set design in incredible, its amazing how much work went into this film. Every character is memorable. You'll become very attached to the main character and the band of dwarfs. For me, the film was almost perfect, except for the divisive ending. This seems to a huge factor for many people in whether they simply liked or loved the movie. Judge it for yourself. "},{"Title":"An entertaining fantasy piece... Or an insightful movie you'll feel like sharing then TALK about it ?","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I think the magical key phrase for truly enjoying this movie can be resumed simply in 'WHAT IF'...It is my personal belief that Mr. Gilliam beside managing to weave a visually convincing and entertaining children fairytale (one that still appeal to kids 30 years after it was made), also managed to raise a serious questioning in both the young and the adult viewer (in most of them I do hope) about the way we see the world around us.A younger (or simply disinterested) audience would while following the story, somewhat 'fill' the darker more adult oriented undertone portions of it with something familiar. What is hinted AT but left unsaid on screen is then resolved in a conventional fairytale fashion and it remain at that, a Tale... One that involve midgets in a fantastic setting doing wacky things like 'swimming' or riding a tank that shoot lasers in Legoland.But there is much more going on there, and that's where the 'Pythonesque' experience is to be found. (A bit of a comparison could be drawn here with 'Edward Scissorhands' from the work of Mr.Burton before he stopped being relevant).There's that ONE moment where you should stop to think, 'Yeah but what if?'For the characters portrayed on screen, the events unfolding represent their 'Reality'... Why should this be interpreted differently because its presented as a 'Tale' to the viewer?- Are Kevin's new friends 'simply' lacking strong moral values for the way the story resolve itself BECAUSE they are to be portrayed as 'thieves'??- Is what some people might refer as 'overacting' simply not loud *HINT HINT* What is happening is not to be interpreted literally ??.Wasn't the Legal System (encompassing Law, Currency & Government) the very fabric of which bind our modern society together conceived by the same minds that simultaneously wrote the 'Iliad' and made sacrifices to Gods?This is precisely where Terry Gilliam shine, subtlety.HE and few others are timeless reminders of why CINEMA can occasionally be ART instead of simple mass 'entertainment'. As so, applying a rating to a 'somewhat visually dated children story' is entirely subjective to whether or not it made you think 'around the edge' afterward. "},{"Title":"Time Bandits is great","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The 1980s were a golden age for film in Hollywood, Europe and Japan. I am happy to see that film buffs of a younger generation than mine are discovering those excellent creations; comedies like Tootsie, Victor/Victoria, Hope and Glory, dramas like Babette's Feast, Fanny and Alexander, My Life as a Dog, Valmont, Apartment Zero... I could go on and on.Terry Gilliam was in his early prime at that time from Time Bandits (1981), Brazil (1985) to The Adventures of Baron Munchausen (1989). The 1990s gave us a Brazil-esquire Twelve Monkeys (1995) which is going to go down in history as one of the great science fiction films ever, then the disturbing, not very funny but memorable Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (2001) with the frightening, manic performances of Johnny Depp and Benicio Del Toro. In 2005 Gilliam made his much-maligned masterpiece Tideland, but all this is another topic.The Time Bandits is not a children's movie. Intelligent children will enjoy it but the teletubby crowd won't. I also think that because this film didn't knock 'em dead in America (those British accents, you know) there is a faint mist of failure surrounding this film in the minds of the cinema academics. All these mists can be dispelled by returning to this movie and watching it like a kid would, wondering what is going to happen next. So much happens in this movie as Kevin and his cohort of dwarfs jump through time warps and have hilarious and, in the case of Sean Connery's hunky Agamemnon, heart-tugging moments.It helps if the viewer has a fairly educated grasp of history, from ancient times to 1980. If you know who Agamemnon and Clytemnestra were, for instance, the sequences that take place in Greek mythology become 100 times more interesting. Fear not (loathe not), you don't have to be a degreed history major to enjoy Time Bandits. It is all, historical or not, fantasy, beautifully designed, filmed, scored and edited, not to mention acted. Kevin is no twee tike, he's tough as well as lovable, and his personal path in life is rather sad and an open-ended question as he has such idiotic parents. The dwarfs are a scream and are not demeaned or mocked in any way.David Warner is wonderful as the Evil Genius with lines like Why did God make nipples for men! a great comedic performance. His minions are pure Monty Python and the set designer out did himself as Gilliam's set designers always do. The setting for the Evil Genius's labyrinthine castle is jaw-dropping.And there are some classic performances on the edge of farce, which is a trait of all Gilliam's movies, with unforgettable turns from Kathryn Hellman and Peter Vaughan as the Ogres and Michael Palin and Shelley Duvall as the young silly lovers who keep recurring together throughout eternity... 'I need fruit!!' (Palin) and countless other lines that mean nothing here but if you know the movie provokes laughter.Finally Ralph Richardson appears as God in a three-piece grey flannel suit talking about procedure and such business-like things. Time Bandits actually has an ending which so many movies don't bother with these days. All Terry Gilliam's films are unusual, some of them (Fear and Loathing, Tidelands) are just downright bizarre and upsetting, but they are all finely crafted and don't waste an inch of celluloid on non-essentials. On top of that they entertain, and Time Bandits is Gilliams most entertaining film that will appeal to young and old who possess luminous minds and need more than Sharon Stone boob fests and Sandra Bullock boredom.Highest Recommendation. "}{"Title":"Timetravelling and the charm of Sean Connery","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Kevin, an 11-year old boy who keeps getting ignored by his parents, suddenly becomes the world's youngest timetraveller.He goes on a journey in time with six dwarfs.These six dwarfs are thieves who have stolen the map of space and time which they are using to steal treasures from across history.They meet some historic figures, like Napoleon and Robin Hood.Then Kevin finds himself separated from the group, ending up in Ancient Greece, where King Agamemnon treats him like his son.Will he ever get back home, to his own time? Does he even want to? Timebandits (1981) is a film by the Monty Python gang.Its director is Terry Gilliam.John Cleese plays Robin Hood.Michael Palin is Vincent.The role of Kevin is played by the very talented Craig Warnock.The very charismatic Scot, Sean Connery, portrays King Agamemnon and Fireman.Today this legendary actor turns 80, so congratulations! Ian Holm is Napoleon.This movie has a lot of fun stuff.The Robin Hood piece is most hilarious, you know the one where he keeps hitting people.And the part that takes place on Titanic, is funny.The ending is a bit of shocking, which also makes it memorable.Take part in this journey through time and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Funny, smart and always engaging fantasy adventure, with a marvellous cast","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As a director, Terry Gilliam is a very unpredictable and inventive director, and Time Bandits is no exception. The film may be a tad too long perhaps, but Time Bandits does move briskly and overall is a hugely enjoyable fantasy adventure with a huge amount to like about it. It does have a brilliant concept, and the story is always engaging with a rare dull moment. The sets and costumes are wonderfully imaginative, the cinematography is beautiful and the special effects were surprisingly very good. The script is deliciously witty and smart, and the direction is unpredictable pretty much.The film is filled with astonishing sequences particularly the climax and likable characters, as well as a fun and wondrous soundtrack. On top of all the things that made Time Bandits work so well, the cast is marvellous, Michael Palin, Craig Warnock, Shelley Duvall and Katherine Helmond are all entertaining and appealing, David Warner was great as the Evil Genius and the Time Bandits are a sheer delight, but the four standouts were John Cleese who was hilarious as Robin Hood, Ian Holm who made for a superb Napolean, Sean Connery who was suitably imposing and charismatic and I loved the eccentricity that Ralph Richardson gave to the Supreme Being.Overall, hugely enjoyable and in my opinion a must watch for fans of the genre. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Magic","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Gilliam's films are not for everyone. He makes a unique brand of surreal pictures, where he lets his considerable imagination run wild. In them, literally anything can... and often does... happen. You can recognize his style once you've seen at least one of them(which is not at all to say that they aren't all worth a chance, because every single one of them that I've seen has been), and you can thus relatively quickly tell if you like his approach to fiction or not. He is not mainstream, and not for everyone. This has a young boy joining a band of midgets, and they go through different parts of history... to steal valuables. You never know what to expect to happen in this, and this pulls the rug out from under you so many times that you almost... but not quite... get used to it. Honestly, some of the time, you don't *know* what is going on, either... then again, I believe that this was the intent. The surrealism knows no bounds. This has fantastic creatures, locations and internal logic. The editing and cinematography are well-done. There is absurdity through the entirety of this... including in the comedy, and it is hilarious at its best. A few of the jokes and gags do fall flat. This has tons of effects, and they are all fairly well-done(if maybe on a budget) for the period. To be objective, one negative about this is that, for the large cast, this does not hold an awful lot of characters that you can relate to. If one wanted to be harsh, one could suggest that Terry has the leads mainly to lead them through the situations where they visit odd places and meet bizarre... people; to connect the scenes in this. In that regard, this is not his best. There is disturbing content(the amount will vary based upon the individual viewer) and a little mild to moderate language in this. I recommend this to any fan of the director. 7/10 "},{"Title":"compelled to write a review about this childhood favorite of mine","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" At present, this film is rated 6.9 on IMDb. Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits deserves a far higher rating. This film has everything! The Time Bandits jump through a time hole and end up in the armoire of a young, bored kid who inadvertently joins them in their quest for riches.In the beginning of the film - Gilliam creates unbelievable thrills and sound effects that grab the audience and scare the kiddies. From there the group of misfits go on a wondrous journey through time, escaping evil, stealing, and hitching a ride on a giant. The sites and sounds steal the show, but it is the characters of evil, mainly Ralph Richardson as the Supreme Being, who oozes evil with a dash of comedic genius, and holds the film together in the palm of his hand, that makes this film fantastic.The movie has some strange qualities and settings that really set it apart. It starts in the future and ends in the future. There are many scenes where there seems to be no end to the madness(the hallway, the pit, the maze, the ending). The ending is absolutely wild - a battle for world domination.Gilliam had his pulse on what kids could take and understand, and yet he still pushed the envelope. The adults ask the questions while the kids enjoy the ride.As the fantasy moves along - the lead character, played by Craig Warnock, is faced with a series of tough questions. Even though he is younger in age than his smaller counterparts - Kevin eventually becomes a valuable member of the group. While on his quest to get home - he finds different places and people that have far more intrigue and understanding than his home-life. Before it's over the Bandits will have defeated evil and changed Kevin's life as he knew it.This is a quintessential fantasy. A diamond in a rough genre. Time Bandits may be impervious to time itself - a film that will always live dear in the hearts of those who experienced it as kids - yet still has mass appeal to new audiences.85/100You'll like it if you liked Goonies(better) Brazil(better) Back to the Future(better), Hook(not quite as good but close).. But this film's keeping good company anyway. and Temple of Doom. "},{"Title":"A humorous and chaotic fantasy adventure from Terry Gilliam","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a film I clearly remember from my childhood, or at least I remember a lot of it. Right now, I'm familiar with Terry Gilliam as one of the members of the groundbreaking comedy team, Monty Python (the one who made the funny animations), and the director of several other movies, but when I first saw Time Bandits, I was too young for a lot of that stuff. So, I saw this film long before I ever saw any of Gilliam's other projects, and long before I knew his name or anything about him. Twice in the past several years, I've watched this 1981 fantasy comedy adventure again on DVD, familiar with Gilliam and Monty Python by this time, and while I've never thought of it as an absolute masterpiece, it sure is entertaining.Kevin is a young history buff who lives with his neglectful, materialistic parents. One night, in his bedroom, he sees a knight on horseback come in through the wardrobe! The bedroom wall is gone, and in its place is a forest, which the knight disappears into! After this, everything goes back to normal! The following night, a mysterious group of dwarfs come out of Kevin's wardrobe, and are soon chased by the Supreme Being, who tells them to give back the map they have! The boy escapes with the dwarfs and finds himself falling into another place with them. He learns from the leader, Randall that they work for the Supreme Being, usually creating trees and bushes, but now they are using a map of time holes to steal treasure from different periods in history, and Kevin has joined them on their journey! Unbeknownst to them all, the Supreme Being is not the only one after them. The Evil Genius is watching them, and intends to get the map so he can take the Supreme Being's place and recreate the universe! The film doesn't go into much detail about Kevin and his life before the adventure, but it does clearly show what it's like in his household, and it's no surprise when he doesn't miss his parents on the journey. The film is often amusing around the beginning, but gets really funny when the dwarfs make their entrance. These characters are a major part of the humour, with their antics and conflict, plus such memorable lines as, Vermin, will you stop eating! Like several other Terry Gilliam films, other Pythons were involved in this one. Michael Palin co-wrote the story with Gilliam and played Vincent, and John Cleese played Robin Hood. These two are both memorable in their roles, especially Cleese, with what his character says to the dwarfs. David Warner also has really funny lines in the role of the Evil Genius, and comical things happen at his lair, especially with him and his dimwitted servant, Benson. There are too many great comic moments to mention, with Kevin and the thieves getting into so many situations on their adventure, in several different places and time periods. As well as humour, there's also some suspense, and some fascinating sets, especially the lair of the Evil Genius. Sean Connery in the straight role of King Agamemnon is another highlight.This is a rather bizarre movie, and a lot of people obviously wouldn't appreciate it for that, but what do you expect? It's from Terry Gilliam! Even though Time Bandits is in the family category, some might consider it too scary for kids, but that can happen. Personally, it didn't scare me as a kid, but everyone is different. I guess that's the risk you take with some movies. If kids can tolerate the dark moments (which I'm sure many of them can), they could enjoy this comic fantasy adventure, and obviously, many adults like it as well. It's not as popular certain other non-Monty Python movies from Gilliam (such as Brazil and Twelve Monkeys, which are indisputably not family movies, unlike this one), but despite how many critics it may have, it does have a well-deserved cult following. If you like Gilliam's demented style, this 1981 film of his is probably a good one for you to watch. "},{"Title":"Why don't they get it?","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is brilliant and innovative. One has to remind oneself that it was made quite cheaply (though it does not look like it) and without the use of CGI. Only a director of real creativity and imagination with great technicians could have made this. I have found it gets better every time I see it and I have seen it many times over the years. It is an adventure, a sci-fi fantasy, an historical romp, a children's/family film, an adult-orientated satire and a Pythonesque comedy all at the same time. There was a post that said this film has no heart - I think that poster had no brain or imagination. Palin, Richardson, Duvall, Warner, Cleese and the lesser known members of the cast all turned in great performances. Wonderful direction and great writing make this movie a treat for anyone who loves movies. "},{"Title":"Surreal Fanstay Film","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Monty Python has a big influence on this film, which isn't surprising with Terry Gilliam directing, Michael Palin and Gilliam both writing the script and Palin and John Cleese having supporting roles.Time Bandits focuses on Kevin, an 11-year-old English boy who is ignored by his parents and they just want to buy next gadgets. Kevin enjoys reading about history, mainly ancient Greece. When Kevin goes to bed one night a Medieval Knight on horseback jumps out from his wardrobe and through his wall. This takes him by surprise and wants to see if it happens again. During the second night six dwarfs come out from his wardrobe and are being chased. Kevin goes with them and find out they have a map to all the holes in the universe which gives them the chance to time travel. Kevin also finds out that they are thieves, planning on robbing historical figures of their riches, a plot that was later used in Futurama Bender's Big Score. As well, the dwarfs were being chased by the Superme Being, i.e. God. As well the group were being watched by the Evil One, who wants to use the map to re-make the universe in his own image.The Monty Phyton team have one hell of an imagine, coming up with brilliant ideas. Time Bandits wouldn't have been made in Hollywood. It is a visual treat and is a funny film. It has visual jokes and clever lines. The performances by the dwarfs were excellent, and Cleese's and Palin's cameos were a nice extra. Sean Connery was also well casted as King Agamemnon when Kevin was in Accient Greece. The film also uses its themes of religion and time travel to it limits which was needed. Terry Giliam did an excellent job directing, and he has done brilliant films from Monty Phyton and the Holy Grail, Brazil and Twelve Monkeys.Time Bandits is a smart family film, with elements for Monty Phyton fans to enjoy. 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Anyone know about music in Mycenea?","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits remains one of my all time favorites. One of the many thing about it which have fascinated me from the very first viewing occurs during the scene when our band of miscreant mini-buskers appear in ancient Mycenea at a feast commemorating Agamemnon's adopting our reluctant time-traveling character, Kevin. The joy-riding time and space janitors this time are disguised in costumes that convey the feeling of ancient Mycenaean/Grecian design particularly well. In addition to the fantastic costume and set design, the scene is accompanied by the music of a small troupe of musicians who seem to be playing archaic instruments, and furthermore, the tune itself I've found unforgettable and wonder if anyone knows anything about it or the musical director/composer. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Time Bandits","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I heard of this on a countdown programme and thought it was going to be quite good, and it almost was. I did trail off in a few moments, but it didn't ruin it. Directed by ex-Monty Python member Terry Gilliam (Brazil, The Fisher King) this is quite a good family film. Basically schoolboy Kevin accompanies a group of time travelling outlaw dwarfs through many astonishing time sequences. There is a good bunch of (many British) stars including John Cleese as Robin Hood, Sir Sean Connery (and they didn't expect him to say yes) as King Agamemnon (also plays a Fireman when Kevin goes back home), Shelley Duvall as Dame Pansy/Pansy, Katherine Helmond as Mrs. Ogre, Sir Ian Holm as Napoleon, Michael Palin as Vincent, Ralph Richardson as Supreme Being, Peter Vaughan as Winston the Ogre, David Warner as Evil Genius and Jim Broadbent as Compere. The dwarfs are Randall (David Rappaport), Fidgit (Star Wars' R2-D2 Kenny Baker), Strutter (Malcolm Dixon), Og (Mike Edmonds), Wally (Jack Purvis) and Vermin (Tiny Ross). It was number 69 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Good! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Dark Comedy","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Rubbing off on the energy of Monty Python is this bizarre, dark, but ultimately entertaining adventure about a boy and six dwarf-bandits traveling across time. Aside being a wholly brilliant movie with its gritty yet campy atmosphere and one of my favorite appearances by Sean Connery since his Bond days it's a movie that makes you go What the ****!? Every time you watch it. What's so great about this film is that despite its pretty bizarre nature it is incredibly uplifting to watch.Interesting concept combined with brilliant execution. One of the best films ever made. "}{"Title":"Very cute!","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my favorite works by Terry Gilliam. I was very disappointed with Brothers Grimm because of the awful animal cruelty throughout the movie, and I therefore felt reluctant to see this one. But this movie, both funny and again very cute, was a masterpiece.Ian Holm's portrayal as Emperor Napolean was very funny, despite the fact that he had a French accent that resembled more Spanish. John Cleese's portrayal as Robin Hood was however absolutely flawless.An excellent movie for children and lovers of adventures through time. I found this movie very loose and clean, with some clever humor backing it up. Excellent choice of actors and characters.I urge you to see this movie! "},{"Title":"Triumph of Imagination and Creativity","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There are some really visually amazing movies. They do not have a good story, they are not that rich with special effects, but they are so unreal and beautiful that despite all their bad parts, they just grow on you.Time Bandits - is one of this movies. A great imagination by Terry Gilliam and ex-Python Michael Palin, who wrote the script to this modern fairy tale with satiric sparkles in it.Of course, this movie is great for kids. They'll love it for its imagination, that drives away from the real world to fantasy. But still there are a lot of smart jokes or even not jokes in it. Adults will possibly love this movie too, if they are at least have a 1 millimeter in the head, that is still owned by a child. Because it's very nice to see main actors jumping off from one historical period to another, meeting some wonderful people.I loved jokes in this movie. It starts from credits. You see 'John Cleese', 'Sean Connery' and etc in the list but ... none of them is a main character, and all of them are appearing for a very brief period of time in the movie. For John Cleese (who is playing Robin Hood) it's just 2-3 minutes. For Sean Connery a bit more, but still not enough to put him into starting credits, ignoring all the Real small actors. That's a joke, as far as i see. Next joke are parents. It's not even a joke, it's a satire on the modern technology and television. I love the part when the TV showman asks a question the name of what famous movie star begins with an 'S'?. The biggest laugh i've head was without doubt The Most Fabulous object in the world. What IS it - you'd better find out yourself, but i find it the most satiric and yet real part of the movie. The Supreme Being part is great.But Time Bandits wouldn't be a great movie without terrific acting. So here we go. Ian Holm as Napoleon is fantastic. His obsession with him being so small is great played. The most wonderful character in the movie. Robin Hood by John Cleese is the best Cameo in the movie. GREAT part. Sean Connery ... well i never liked him, but still he plays good in Time Bandits despite all the new movies with him. Michael Palin is fantastic. I must have fruit scene ... uh. Better see it. And of course the Evil and Supreme Being. They all deserve their 5 out 5. Or 10 out of 10. Doesn't matter.The last part is coming. The movie itself. It's meaning if it has one. Well, this one doesn't try to show us the meaning of life, but still asks a few questions. Mainly about god, television, a little social stuff and some history things. The main part in Time Bandits isn't the meaning of it all though. It's the visuals. Lacking of special effects is completely replaced by the great vision of Terry Gilliam. Fantasy is all the way around. The Fortress of Ultimate Darkness is one of the greatest sets i've ever seen. Madness, creativity and imagination - that's the plot of the movie. Terry Gilliam has a great vision, though a bit distorted and not for everyone, but still it deserves to be seen.Time Bandits is some sort of an easy-going, simple fairy tail with some satiric and philosophical things deep inside. You will lose nothing if you won't notice them. It's not about this things, but it's about a journey to an unknown, an adventure in the deepest part of your imagination. Great Movie.Oh and by the way, produced by George Harrison. And he wrote a song to Time Bandits. So, The Beatles fans - go and see it as well. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Journey For All Time","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is one of Terry Gilliam's classics. In it, a young English boy winds up tagging along with a group of dwarfs going on a time-traveling crime spree. It's a fabulous ride that takes an interesting view of history, and even wanders outside the universe of the real world. Some famous folks come in for historical cameos Ian Holm as Napoleon, Sean Connery as Agamemnon, and John Cleese does a very funny performance as a classy Robin Hood. In true Gilliam form, the fantasy element is strong, bringing in God and the Devil, and the magical Time of Legends. Time Bandits is another piece for the viewer's funny bone and imagination. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite childhood memories","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I first watched this film in 1981 or 1982. We had just subscribed to cable, and it appeared on heavy rotation on Showtime. I was 7 years old. British kids + midgets = a winning combination.Watching the film as an adult, I can clearly see the Monty Python connection, but back then, I had no idea that Terry Gilliam was a cohort of the MP gang. I just loved the George Harrison theme song, and the wild adventures a quiet, imaginative boy, like myself, could get into.Certain things escaped me then, Pansy! The problem! I must have fruit! Now I know what they were talking about! The action was great the cameo by Sean Connery was superb. Having recently seen Alien, watching Ian Holm as Napoleon was a trip.Stands up well even today. If you like them weird, Time Bandits does not disappoint! "},{"Title":"A Variety of Python","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Terry Gilliam, with the help from George Harrison's wallet, created a Paradise Lost landscape where Python eventually wins. The rules are broken in Time Bandits. The story is a mixture of comedy and science fiction. An interesting idea made into an interesting movie, the end result is a movie that has never been topped. John Cleese and Sean Connery star alongside Shelley Duvall and Michael Palin in a Python type movie that happens to resemble every Python film ever made. There are moments of Jabberwocky as well as Meaning of Life and Life of Brian in Time Bandits. Much like the wardrobe in Holy Grail, Time Bandits seems to borrow a little bit of all of Terry Gilliam's movies. A wonderful role by Ian Holm who plays the small role of Napoleon. This was just practice for him, as he would later go on to play the role of Napoleon again. The big stars of the movie are the 6 little characters David Rappaport, Kenny Baker, Malcolm Dixon, Mike Edmonds, Jack Purvis and Tiny Ross. The late great David Rappaport is timeless. Having been gone for over 15 years, he is the biggest link in the cast, he not only holds the movie together, he is the center piece to the entire film. Bravo little man. "},{"Title":"Daft as a brush","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  *potential spoilers ahead*If you look at it dispassionately, Time Bandits is a silly, bitty film.  But it's the quality of those bits that make it good.  Ian Holm is a Napoleon sensitive about his height.  John Cleese is a terrible polite Robin Hood.  Sean Connery is a straightforwardly heroic Agamemnon.  Peter Vaughan is a disgusting ogre.  The whole thing makes an absolute mockery of any kind of theology and is miles better than the director's later Adventures Of Baron Munchausen, which has a similar structure, and which I also like.  And it's full of dwarves fighting the embodiment of Ultimate Evil, who is the film's real secret weapon.  Dark in parts, downright absurd in others, this is a film you just can't take seriously. "},{"Title":"out of time","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd never seen this film before, but being a Terry Gilliam/Monty Python production I sort of knew what to expect. I always loved Brazil and this was a precursor to that film with the same surreal feel and strange effects (though with a lower budget). The story moved fairly quickly but the paucity of humour meant the film lacked real sparkle. Most of the performances were good notably Cleese, Connery and Rappaport, but Palin and Duvall were annoying, Duvall especially as she seemed to go overboard to impress us with her english accent. The ending was a bit predictable but otherwise there was enough going on to keep you interested but not amazed. (6/10) "},{"Title":"An ode to capitalism!","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  In this film, dwarves travel through time, chasing the greatest object in the world while being chased in turn by the Supreme Being. In the meantime, they meet a megalomaniac conquerer who compares his height to other famous generals; Robin Hood, the 13th century commie (whose minions are shown beating helpless old ladies); and an otherwise odd assortment of historical good n' plenty.Personally, I think it's a marvelously funny tribute to Horatio Alger and the myth that the little people (followed energetically by Kevin, a dreamer who represents the primarily young readership of Alger's stories) CAN get stinking rich! In that sense, Gilliam has done a wonderful job of symbolizing this journey in a smart, unpretentious way. The characters are cleverly conceived and well acted Kevin's parents are obviously preoccupied, the evil people are deliciously bad, Kevin himself overacts beautifully, and the midgets are really full of spunk. The premise is interesting and the plot occasionally roughshod, but the dialogue really propels the film, as does Gilliam's own revisionist history. Note also the frequent references to morality and free will, which seem fresh and often hilarious in this treatment.That, and it's really freakin weird. Imagine The Wizard of Oz being done with Monty Python. If you replace the munchkins with ragged and vulgar little imps and then scare Dorothy into following them down the yellow brick road, then you'll have the general idea. (By the way, there are a number of references to Oz as well, a film based on a book written about American economics during the Gilded Age. Whoa!)Maybe that's why it's one of my all-time super favorite movies! Sixty-seven stars out of a possible seventy-two. "},{"Title":"One of the best childrens movies","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film scared me as a child. In Brasil we do not get many films that are nutritional. This was terror to watch. Scary things happen to the kid and all that is good turns bad. The devil is in this movie. The scariest kids movie ever. Now that I am older I think it is a great film that I will show to my children to scare them to appreciate. "},{"Title":"From the Creators of 'Monty Python' Comes...","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSThis is the story of the ultimate battle of good and evil. Evil has plans to destroy time and space as we know it. But I'm getting way ahead of myself. Let's go back and begin at the beginning. In a small home in England, lives a family. Mom and Dad are always parked infront of the TV watching Your Money or Your Life, while their son, Kevin, reads about greek warriors. That night, a knight on a horse bursts our of the closet, rides around the room and disappears. What is it all a dream? If it was, his father had the same dream, because he burst into the room and asked what the hell was going on. The next night, Kevin decided to catch the next thing that would come out of the wardrobe. What finally did were six little people. They were, Randall the leader, Strutter, Og, Wally, Fidgit, and Vermin. They seemed to be running from someone or something. Which soon appeared it was God himself. He demanded they give back his map. But the six little people and Kevin escape. They land in 1796, Battle of Castiglione. They had plans to rob Napolean Bonapart (Ian Holm). See, these were the notorious Time Bandits. God (The Supreme Being) gave them a map of holes in time and space, time holes if you will, and ordered to have them repaired. The Bandits decided to use these time holes to get stinking rich. They rob Napolean blind and head to The Middle Ages where they meet Robin Hood (John Cleese). But then, the Supreme Being catches up to them again. Kevin escapes into a time hole that leads to the days of King Agamemnon. Life as a king's apprentice is great, until his friends find him and take him with them to 1912 the sinking of the Titanic. But watching them this whole time was evil himself, Evil (David Warner). He wanted that map so he could break free from the Fortress of UltimateDarkness. And, as soon as he has understanding of digital watches, VCRs, car telephones and computers, he shall be the Supreme Being. The Bandits and Kevin soon make it to the Fortress where Evil locks them in a cage and takes the map. They escape and split up, going into different time zones and bringing back dozens of different artillery to fight Evil. They're all no match. The Supreme Being destroys Evil then materializes into human form Sir Ralph Richardson in a business suit. Pretty soon, Kevin awakens in his bedroom. The house was on fire. He's rescued by a fireman who looks remarkably like Sean Connery. So in the end, Kevin's parents get their comuppance when they touch concentrated evil and blow up. A happy ending. Interesting movie. I'm sorry to say that some of the cast is no longer with us. Sir Ralph Richardson died in 1983. David Rappaport who played Randall, died in 1990. Jack Purvis (Wally) died in 1997 following a long illness. Tiny Ross (Vermin) is dead but I don't know when. Monty Python fans will like this movie also. In fact, all the members of Monty Python are in the movie, sans Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Graham Chapman. But it get's my recommendation. You gotta check it out!- "}{"Title":"A perfect combo","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What splendor this little movie was with its combination of time travel and midgets/dwarves.  A childhood favorite of mine, it still delights.  The absolute ridiculousness of the movie takes you from century to century, from Napolean to the Titanic.  And to top it all off, Sean Connery makes an appearance.  Unforgettable. "},{"Title":"A classic for child who hasn't grown up that much!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There are only two films that I remember that have still have memories of the hours before and after I watched the film.  Star Wars I remember afterwards driving home thinking that there were spaceships flying overhead, it was a bridge with cars driving over the top, but to a six year old it was magical and the memory still is.  The other film of course is time bandits.  Its not after the film I remember it was before, first picking it up at the library and taking it home.  I remember watching the film and thinking how wonderful it was.  To my Time Bandits is the greatest fairy tail of all, although as an adult it has become a greatest of dark comedy.  The most important thing of this film though was the change it had on my life.  This is one of the greatest films of all time and I am glad that I saw the film when I did, and not now when it may have lost some of it's magic when compared with the cgi that is around today. "},{"Title":"Zany Fun !","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A group of Midgits named Randall,Fidgit,Wally,Og,Strutter and Vermin are being challenged with the task of patching up the handiwork of a Supreme Being who was forced into creating the world in 6 days. Instead they take a map of the universe and are going all around stealing from other people they become accompanied by a classic english school boy. Now Evil is after the map so he can re-create the earth.Time Bandits is one of Terry's funniest films. With really cool special effects and a great line of characters potrayed by good actors such as John Cleese,Sean Connery,David Warner,Ian Holm and many more. This is a film that should'nt be missed. Your Bound to have a good timeI give Time Bandits a 9/10 "},{"Title":"hilarious but unfortunately not all along","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam and a few of the old Monty Python cast (John Cleese and Michael Palin), this sounded like a great chance to have a few laughs... and it was but after having seen the Life of Brian or Brazil I guess we just have to be at least a bit disappointed by TG's other movies  the man is a genius but still has his ups and downs... let's just say the movie stems from a good idea and has excellent bits but it gets a bit boring at times, still I recommend it, but don't expect too much of it. "},{"Title":"Gilliam in his most pure form...","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Time Bandits is, as I recall, Terry Gilliam's earliest independent (of the Pythons) film, and he definatley had a hand in writing it as well, and it does show.Time Bandits involves an imagintive young boy who escapes from his parents' bleak, technology-filled world and through various periods of time with a gang of disgruntled dwarves whom have stolen a map of the universe... and it's holes... from the Supreme Being. they merrily - and often by default - plunder various periods in time. in the meantime Evil Incarnate wants the map so he can rule the universe with technology.that plot outline is a oversimplification, and if that sounds as silly as it really is, you havnt seen anything yet. along the way the young Kevin encounters his various heros and idols along the way, each turning out to be a great letdown. in this manner Giliam tracks the boy's devolpment from a dreamer to a true independant.and, in a more bizzare ending, Gilliam satires technology gone awry with the boy's parents, whom are sleazy material-obsessed couch potatoes.the film is definatley worth seeing several times, but in my opinion, it is not Gilliam's finest work. it has a tendancy to fluxuate between Python-esque humour, dark satire, and imaginitive fantasy. in particulsr the entire Anchient Greece segment becomes olf very quickly, as well as the climatic battle. the highlight of this batle is it's somewhat anticlimax with the arrival of The Supreme Being, who is a side splittingly hilarious satire of what God must *really* be like.standout performances include John Cleese as the dimwitted Robin Hood and Michael Palin and Shelley Duvall as the time-traveling lovers. there are many exellent one-liners (I must have fruit!!! so this is what an invisable barrier looks like...) and the usual assortment of Gilliam trademrk visuals.while it my be a bit too silly and light for my tastes, Time Bandits is a notable inclusion in any Gilliam, fantasy, or comedy fan's collection. "},{"Title":"Fun for a time","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam directed this story of a young boy who has been whisked away by six vertically challenged individuals who just happen to be misguided employees of the Supreme Being They were bored with their lives and decided it would be fun to steal the map that shows all the imperfections in the old space-time continuum -- and jump from time to time stealing things. Well, they take poor little Kevin with them, as they tromp through his bedroom and the fun really begins. The group visits Agamemnon Napoleon and eventually has a big-time run-in with the Evil Genius.  Great initially but loses something on subsequent viewings. "},{"Title":"Another great Terry Gilliam movie","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, another great from the ex-member of Monty Python, and despite the look of the video/DVD case it's not a comedy for kids; this is a black comedy for adults.  A great fantasy with many interesting mind-bending concepts, that unfortunately dies out a bit with a Holy Grail type non-ending, otherwise it would be a definite 10. "},{"Title":"'two Terry Gilliams'","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first Terry Gilliam movie I ever saw was 'Brazil' I was thrilled for a very long time. It was so different from all the things I had seen till then. And in some ways it still is. Then I saw '12 monkeys'. There was again that very sharp and serious movie making coupled with a lots of imagination and fantasy. I was just sitting on the tip of my chair, trying to get every second carved in my memory.Then I saw 'Baron Munchausen', 'The fisher king' and now finally 'Time bandits'. I couldn't believe that it was the same person making these movies. Though 'The fisher king' was better, 'Baron Munchausen' and 'Time Bandits' just didn't touch me. They are too shallow, not really exciting, sometimes even boring. I think it's because Gilliam is trying to be too Pythonesque in these movies in a not quite genuine Monty Python way. His special way of making SFX just don't work in half serious half trying to be funny movies.There are of course some very touching or amazing moments, like the part with the giant coming out of the water or the part with Connery beating a monster like creature, but then, who could resist his very charming acting of such a simple and I'm-enjoying-life type of Agamemnon. He seems to be made for it. But I think a movie shouldn't be just a jumble of not really in a logical way connected scenes with great actors in it. I for one still need this very sharp structuring of the plot, like in '12 monkeys', that makes you have a couple of moments of clarity while moving along the story. That's what I miss in 'Time Bandits' when 'God' at the end tells that he had planned it all to test his creation, it just spoils the importance of what has happened before the whole movie. It's all just trying to be too cheerful for me.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent enough for children, exciting enough for adults...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Or some such quote from the man himself.  Terry Gilliam made abrilliant fantasy film when he crafted this movie.  I enjoyed itwhen I first saw it back in the early 80s, and I have kept it aspart of my video (then DVD)  library since that time.  As anadult, I thoroughly enjoy the juxtaposition of concepts and theimaginative use of details and  set based foreshadowing, alongwith the commentaries on modern society tangentially alludedto... as a child, I loved the midgets and the personification ofEvil.  And of course, that the hero in this rather adultadventure was a child (like Goonies did as a child... though ofcourse Goonies seems weak as an adult).  This is not Gilliam'sbest film from an objective point of view - but it is afantastic fantasy - an escape.  Don't listen to the naysayers. Time Bandits is a fantastic  "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL MOVIE","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ever since I first saw Time Bandits, I have become emotionally attached to the six midgets who star in the film.  Call me crazy, but they appealed to me.  The movie is funny, exciting, and best of all, it appeals to kids.  The whole plot is funny, and the obsession with height also helps with the humor.  The cast of Time Bandits is exceptional.  The little boy proves to be likable, the midgets as well, especially the leader Randall, played by a very gifted actor who has since passed on.  The supporting cast, consisting of Michael Palin, John Cleese, Shelley Duvall, Ralph Richardson, and others, strengthens the movie immensely.  I recommend this movie to everyone.  GO SEE IT!!! "}{"Title":"See this movie --- and any other movie you want to, dammit!!","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I love Time Bandits, I think it's by far one of the greatest family films ever made, filled with whimsy and wit and imagination and striking visuals. I advise anyone who cares about these things to watch it. You'll be delighted. And for god sake, ignore the idiots who beseech, implore, threaten, or otherwise urge you not to watch it as if they were doing you a favor! (You people know who you are.) I've noticed this trend in many user comments --- Stay away from this movie! Do not watch at any cost! Avoid this movie like the plague! If you watch this movie your gonads will shrivel and your eyes will fall out! Please help me despise this movie! Usually this advice is offered by individuals who can barely craft a coherent sentence but see it as their life's mission to drive other people away from films they don't approve of. Look guys, if you don't like a movie fine, say so, and by all means don't ever watch it again. But this fanatical urge to prevent anyone, anywhere, from ever watching any movie you don't like is nonsense, and pernicious nonsense at that (quick --- run for the dictionary!). It's not going to kill you if other people watch movies you don't like. It actually won't hurt you to be a little more open minded yourselves. And by the way, I hunted down Joe Versus the Volcano and watched it SPECIFIALLY BECAUSE everyone told me it sucked --- and it was great! Like many a good movie it was simply too subtle for most people.One more thing. I vote the word cheesy be banned from user comments. It's a useless non-criticism and its abolition would render many self-styled critics speechless, which would only be to the good.I give Time Bandits a 10. "},{"Title":"6.9?","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  i'm not going to try and convince anyone this is the best movies get.  it's not.  it's a little awkward toward the end, but then it ends with a bang and totally redeems itself.but not even a 7.0 rating?  are you joking?  this is a GOOD movie.  at the very LEAST it's a cute adventure if a little dark.  i gague the value of movies like this (sometimes).  anything with a 7.0 or better on this site is probably worth seeing.  anything below that probably requires special interest in the subject matter to be VITAL.  this movie is VITAL.  it's practically the quintessential wierdass movie.  i'm surprised, considering people's recent tolerence for quirkiness that this isn't on the top 250.tell your friends to log their high votes for this movie and put rank it where it belongs, at least among gilliam's best.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous entertainment for all ages","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  i'm 20 and I just saw Time Bandits for the first time. I've now seenalmost everything Terry Gilliam has done (except Jaberwocky) andhe is def. one of my favorite directors.Time Bandits is a beautiful piece of filmmaking. The costumes,makeup, art direction, and cinematography are outstanding.What's more? Against his perfect tapestry Gilliam has placedcharacters and a story with heart. Don't expect the over the tophumor of Monty Python. This is much more sublte. But soentertaining. Entirely appropriate for all ages old and young. I hope Gilliam some day gets to make his Don Quixote movie. "},{"Title":"Time Traveling Munchkins","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Monty Python troupe in creating Time Bandits invaded territory reserved in this day and age for Stephen Spielberg. A touch of Spielberg here would have made this film a classic which I believe it falls short of.Imagine the Wizard Of Oz combined with the television series Voyagers and you have Time Bandits. With the munchkins as the protagonists.Playing the Dorothy role is young Craig Warnock who is an appealing lad. He's a bright kid with a vivid imagination who is neglected by his parents. But one night as he's ready to go to sleep these little people crash right through his bedroom wall on a quest for the richest treasures on the earth. The munchkins have stolen a map from the Supreme Being and this allows them to time travel up and down through time and the young boy joins their caravan. Young Warnock like Meeno Peluce in Voyagers got to meet such interesting and varied folk as Agamemnon, Robin Hood, Napoleon, and even sail on the Titanic, mostly played by members of the Monty Python troupe. His best scenes however are with Sean Connery who plays Agamemnon and is ready to make Warnock the heir to Mycenae.Where there is a Supreme Being there is also a Devil and David Warner pulls out all the stops in playing him. If he hams it up a bit, remember that Time Bandits is a film seen through a child's eye and that's prone to exaggeration. Similarly the all wise Supreme Being is confidently played by Ralph Richardson.I've a feeling that when one of them got to play God, the other had to try. 1981 was also the year that Laurence Olivier played Zeus in Clash Of The Titans and depending on who heard who was playing what first, the other was probably spurred to try. I'll leave it to you to decide who was a better Supreme Being, Olivier or Richardson.The film is good, but falls short classic status. It's a Stephen Spielberg property that would have needed him to vault it into classic status. "},{"Title":"Good but not Great","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is a fantasy film that is really fun from a lot of the people behind one of the greatest TV comedies/film comedy teams, Monty Python's Flying Circus. I've seen it many times since I first saw it in college about ten years ago, and still really enjoy the fantasy aspects of the movie. It is really well done but the movie just has a few too many down points and holes to be quite as good as it could be. I would compare it to Terry Gilliam's later movie The Adventures of Baron von Munchausen because they are both fantasies that are very creative but for some reason not quite as good as they could/should be. Highlights in the movie include the cameo by John Cleese (Monty Python again!) and Sean Connery also has a good cameo. The story is about Time Bandits who use a map of the universe to travel through time and space to try to find lost treasure, and the story is suitable for almost anyone (I'd say kids 12 and older are old enough to appreciate the story). "},{"Title":"Childish but fun","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Fun and inventive and often hilarious. You can tell that Gilliam's just having fun with this, though, and then he buckled down and made Brazil. There's a real sense of childishness and frothiness to the whole thing. I mean, what's it about really? There's some stuff about technology and bureaucracy ruining imagination (themes he expanded upon later on), but this is just a fun adventure flick.But it does that really well. The Python sense of humour works wonders with history (especially loved John Cleese as Robin Hood), and there's rarely a joke that doesn't work. Still, that long sequence with Agamemnon really drags and feels quite out of place. Connery is pretty wasted in what is, essentially, a straight role with no comedic partner to play off of. And the climax, while fun, is pretty silly.As far as Gilliam goes, you could certainly do worse, but this is far from the heights of Brazil or Twelve Monkeys, or even Holy Grail. Even so, it's not a throwaway, though it occasionally feels like one. "},{"Title":"Delightful carnage","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A treat for Gilliam's or Python's fans. Occasionally the movie slows down as if it was a time to kill the animator again when Terry realized there were no animator this time, but otherwise it's well made. A welcomed breeze of fresh wind in a stagnant sea of sugary and salivating children's movies. "},{"Title":"Stitches in time...","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Before Bill & Ted and even Harry, there was...ahem...Kevin, who with his six decidedly crotchety dwarfs gets to travel back and forth through history, guarding from all-comers their precious, if dubiously acquired time-map in Terry Gilliam's entertaining fantasy. Along the way, the dumbing-down tendency of television is satirised as Gilliam and Palin as writers encourage youngsters everywhere to fore-go the dreaded box in favour of books and their own imaginations. Amen to that, but the point isn't rammed down our throats too much as director Gilliam ironically in the light of his subsequent excesses (The Adventures of Baron Munchausen fiasco springs most readily to mind) shows just how to deliver satisfying thrills and spectacle without CGI or a multi-million dollar budget in tow. The necessarily episodic story pleasingly riffs off The Wizard of Oz, right down to Kevin's was it all a dream confusion at the conclusion as real-life characters merge with those he's experienced on his travels, (although Sean Connery's fireman is first seen after the adventure's over!) and has many enjoyable set-pieces. Thus we encounter Napoleon fretting over his height with a typical Palin monologue cataloguing every other vertically challenged historical figure, Connery looks great in yet another toupee as the warrior king Agammemnon and John Cleese as a terribly polite Robin Hood. Palin himself gets a brief running cameo with Shelley Duval as unlucky lovers down the ages, with again some typically amusing and of course slightly risqué dialogue but Gilliam mixes the humour with some excellent special effects in some dramatic thrilling sequences. I'm thinking particularly of their encounter with a slumbering giant and the gang's death-defying escape from their cage at the conclusion. Being Gilliam, there is a bit of kitchen-sink excess (for example, the massed ranks of cowboys, medieval soldiers and modern military to attack David Warner's not-quite dark-enough Evil Angel) and while I'm carping, while the idea of Ralph Richardson as God might have seemed attractive on paper, the grand old man doesn't quite pull it off, seeming a trifle doddery to me. As for the little actors they're all great, fully engaged with their roles and not dwarfed (sorry!) either by their starry accompanists or outlandish sets. In fact there's something delightfully subversive and therefore naturally Pythonesque about using a bunch of dwarfs to lead off an expensive movie such as this. Spielberg wouldn't have done it this way! The young lad playing Kevin also does well even if he kept reminding me of The Wonder Years Fred Savage. In all then, a more-than-meets-the-eye family feature, all topped and tailed off with a pleasant paymaster George Harrison ditty over the end credits. "},{"Title":"A Cool Eighties Flick!","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Time Bandits is a movie that came out before I was born. I was born in 83' so I just missed the late 70's early eighties time period that I love. It seems like many movies from the eighties had midgets. This film is like having a bad acid trip that ends good. A young boy goes through time with a band of midget dwarfs and go from time period to time period through telepathic blue doors that are so fake it's awesome. I love the costumes and camera work in this movie. Movies from this time period had huge budgets and looked great. This film has John Cleese and Sean Connery when he was a younger actor. I really enjoyed this film but only wish I had some Magic Mushrooms for some fun. I swear half the film makers of this time where flower Children hippies who influenced a time period of film making that died off by the mid to late eighties as New Wave culture took over and The New Kids On The Block Bleached the decade with there Southern California Rich White Kids influence. "},{"Title":"One the best films of its kind","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" To make a film that is both fantastical and intelligent is a difficult task. This was especially difficult at the time TIME BANDITS was made as the tools of the special effects trade were rather minimal and crude. Many films of this era that manage to succeed at the fantastical part are rather stupid films (STAR WARS and EMPIRE STRIKES BACK are two of them). Many people feel that STAR WARS and its ilk are good films but they are not. They are dull and stupid stories with poor acting and ridiculous dialog. TIME BANDITS succeeds at being a highly intelligent, creative and a very entertaining film by masterfully using the special effects of the time to surpass anything (except possibly BLADERUNNER)in its execution of the fantastical. I am old enough to have seen all the STAR WARS films as well as TIME BANDITS in the theater when they were released and as a young adult I was far more impressed by TIME BANDITS than any of the STAR WARS films. Actually, I found the original STAR WARS film rather boring. The problem with STAR WARS is that it is a children's story trying to be young adult entertainment and it comes across as very awkward, immature and childish. TIME BANDITS, however, has set its target audience (like many Warner Bros. cartoons before it) squarely at children but does not talk down to them and therefore succeeds at creating a story that entertains children as well as adults. TIME BANDITS is a masterpiece of science fiction and children's cinema and should bless everyone's DVD collection. It is such a great, great film. "}{"Title":"time is on everyone's side here","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In what I believe was Terry Gilliam's directorial debut, a young boy (Craig Warnock) travels through time with several dwarfs trying to escape an evil being (David Warner). Far out, you say? Well, it doesn't pretend to be anything else. And besides, Gilliam's movies aren't exactly mainstream - think Brazil and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. This one is all about the wow factor. Whether it's the encounters with Napoleon (Ian Holm), Robin Hood (John Cleese), King Agamemnon (Sean Connery), the Titanic, or the adventures in fantasy stories, Time Bandits has something for everyone. Also starring Shelley Duvall, Katherine Helmond, Michael Palin, Ralph Richardson, and even appearances by two people who would later become famous Jim Broadbent and Warwick Davis (of the Leprechaun movies, the Harry Potter movies, and Ray). "},{"Title":"Before Brazil and Tweleve Monkeys....A film part of my childhood","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've watched this film four or five times and this film (and Explorers) were my favourite childhood films. I loved watching these films because they were the hardcore PG rating but now-a-days it would PG-13 type of film. Plus, this film and Explorers were made in the 80s. And yet this film was only aired on British TV (such as BBCs on Sundays or Saturdays) it is among the 80s family movies such as Explorers, The Goonies, Gremlins, etc. I remember this was always my favourite film and my first Gilliam film I ever saw. Becoming shocked when I saw he not only directed Brazil and 12 Monkeys as well as being one of the original Pythons. I love the ending where the parents blow up, and then we see the scientific logo appear and suddenly TIME BANDITS! PRODUCED AND DIRECTED BY TERRY GILLIAM AHAHAHAHHAHAHAHHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAH! I remanded this film more than any other film. "},{"Title":"Such a great Movie!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you like comedy, you'll love this movie. If you like fantasy, you'll love this movie. If you like history (and aren't too nitpicky about accuracy), you'll love this movie. If you like a technologically obsessed Evil, a highly intelligent and good hearted kid with materialistic and dumb parents, small guys who helped God make trees and shrubs until they got demoted for the infamous Pink Bunkadoo, a Giant, floating, supreme being and Sean Connery, you'll love this movie. The story is about a kid named Kevin who's obsessed with history and mythic legends despite the disinterest of his parents. One night, several small men come out of his closet, and push down the wall to his room, leading to. . .Italy. During the Napoleanic wars. It turns out these men, Randall (the self-proclaimed leader), Wally, Fidgit, Vermin, Stratta and Og used to work for God. When they were sent to the repairs department as punishment, they found a map with all the holes in the universe in it. They're supposed to be fixing these holes, but they figure out they can use the map to jump through time, steal things, and then jump back to before the person they robbed was even born. It's a brilliant way to get Stinkin rich!. . .or it would be, if The Supreme Being weren't chasing them. Oh, and also Evil, played delightfully by David Warner, who wants the map so he can kick the Supreme Being out and control the universe. While the bandits and Kevin are trying to avoid these two diametrically opposed forces, they run into Napolean, Robin Hood and his foul Merry Men, King Agammemnon, the Titantic, An arthritic ogre and his wife, a giant and finally find themselves in the Fortress of Ultimate Darkness. Quite simply, this is one of the most imaginative and fun movies you'll see in a long time. It's exciting, it's funny, it's even touching and it'll make you think. You haven't watched it yet??? GO RENT IT! "},{"Title":"Wild & wooly time traveling fantasy via Gilliam insanity","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" TIME BANDITS (1981) *** Craig Warnock, David Rappaport, John Cleese, Sean Connery, Shelley Duvall, Katherine Helmond, Ian Holm, Sir Ralph Richardson. Terry Gilliam directed this fun fantasy about a young English boy (Warnock) transported literally through windows of history with a game band of dwarf thieves out for outrageous fortunes and side stepping The Devil Himself (cheekily played by David Warner). Produced by Beatle George Harrison. Best line Robin Hood (Cleese) inquiring one of the bandits how long he's been robbing with the reply  Four foot one! Jolly good!! **trivia note bandits Kenny Baker and Jack Purvis respectively portrayed R2-D2 and the Chief Jawa in Star Wars. "},{"Title":"WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!! It is great! It is marvelous! It is wonderful! Sorry about that, but I really am in love. Terry Gilliam used to be my least favorite Python, but if he can do stuff like this, he's second only to Michael Palin, who, glory be, shows up in this terrific movie and has gotten over his personal problem and no longer needs his special....er....and the only thing wrong with him is the thing on the end of his nose and the hairpiece....oh my gosh! And Randall is the greatest! And Sean Connery, and whoever would have guessed that Ian Holm used to be so good looking? Anyway, whatever this is, it's great. Gilliam and Palin are talkin' loco, and I like it.  "},{"Title":"Drawn Out,if enjoyable Gilliam project.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The basic plotA nice British boy with game-show and material obsessed parents is taken by magic dwarves with a map that allows them to travel through time and steal artifacts,but a supreme spirit(who the dwarves once worked for,and whom the map belongs to)pursues them.Meanwhile,an evilish type wants the map for himself.The praiseIt is humorous ,fun and enjoyable ,as any project with Gilliam and Cleese would be.The middle plays like a series of skits and cameos as Kevin(The Boy) goes through time with the dwarves,and sees John Cleese(Robin Hood),Napoleon(Ian Holm),King Agamemnon(Sean Connery),and it also has Shelley Duvall in bit parts.The special effects are well-done and humorous,and the characters are eccentric and unconventional. The flawsMany parts are interesting as they begin and become dull as they end,as well as drawn out. The OrchestrationGeorge Harrison. "},{"Title":"Strange movie","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Time Bandits is one of those movies which I have never really understood. I understand the story line but what I don't understand is the whole point of the movie. It's such a strange early 80's flick.The movie focuses on a little boy who goes to bed one night and as usual, falls asleep. But he wakes up to find himself in another world where he is guided around by a group of dwarfs! His adventure then begins. They travel to different worlds and come across all sorts of different enviroment's and life forms. They also travel back in time to the Roman era and other historical events.The ending to this movie is pretty un-predictable, with some unusual twists.It's surprising to see John Cleese and Sean Connery in this movie. I tend to think this was one of Connery's poorer roles in a movie.But this movie does have a lot of action in it. It's more of a children's magical fairy tale kind of movie. Some parts make you watch on in interest and it doesn't have many boring scenes in it. For a early 80's movie, it's pretty good.7/10. "},{"Title":"Gilliam's dreamer Trilogy Part 1","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was the first part of former Monty Python member Terry Gilliam's dreamer trilogy, a set of films that looked at a similar male character, lost in their own little world, trying not to get crushed by the system. Time Bandits is probably the least successful of the three, possibly because there is still a strong air of Python about it. Now I like Monty Python, but that style of comedy just does not gel with this kind of film.Time Bandits is all about Kevin (Craig Warnock), a young dreamer trapped in a dull suburban life. It's only when a group of time travelling little people emerge from his wardrobe with a map stolen from god that the film really takes off. Now, that's all well and good, but the problem with Time Bandits is that two much of the film is inconsistent, Gilliam's imaginations just runs wild and the story goes from one extreme to another.There is also way too many celebrity cameos, John Cleese as Robin Hood, Ian Holm as Napoleon, Michael Palin and Shelly Duvall turn up twice. And then there's Sean Connery, who has a lengthy scene in the middle of the films as King Agamemnon. Even if it does pull it's self together in the end, the film is still flawed bacause of this.Also, for a family film, Time Bandits is unbelievably dark; with a downbeat ending to rival that Gilliam's follow up Brazil (1985). Still, it's worth watching as a great comedy/fantasy, but much like me, you'll love it when you're about ten, but as you grow up a lot of the film's power will be lost.7/10  "},{"Title":"Patchy fun","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Not one of my favorite Terry Gilliam efforts but it has some fine moments none the less.  Some parts looked like Gilliams imagination was exceeding his budget, while others are inspired visual works.  The high points of the movie come from some terrific cameos from well known faces, most notably Ralph Richardson as a very organised, very well tailored and very English (almost John Steed like) God, yes thats right GOD, and also John Cleese as an extraordinarily well mannered Robin Hood is a hoot.  Sean Connery's cameo however is surprisingly the low part of the film.7/10   Dave "},{"Title":"Decent...","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Minor SpoilersI cannot say that this movie was as magnificent as some of the reviewers have stated on this thread before but it was passable and worth spending an hour or so around with some fast forwarding. Certain parts really dragged out for far too long... The scenes with Robin Hood and the Evil were great but I have to say that the Napoleon and Agamemnon parts left much to be desired (there seemed to be a lot of uncomfortable silences &#150; of course this may have been intentional but it nonetheless led to some awkward moments...) Also, why was everybody speaking English? That was a bit puzzling but I guess it made for an easier transition to the movie screen&#133;In conclusion, the movie was worth seeing if only for the jolly good Robin Hood scene... )  "}{"Title":"Already Stolen","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.No one wants Gilliam to succeed as much as I, even over this distance of time. He has an architectural imagination, places his sophisticated humor at the metalevel, and on this project had the support of the `spiritual' Beatle. So each time I come to it, I base the experience on an overly generous acceptable of the world he creates.The story is as much about himself as anything, I suppose, with his being swept into one world after another `stealing' this and that.He has succeeded on only one project, I think - `Fear and Loathing.' Until then, he tried something beyond his grasp the notion that the world has charmingly incoherent (and funny) pockets. Or that there are hidden layers in ordinary reality that just need the right eye. Or even in Brazil, the rather common twist that of the other way around - that reality is the illusion. Only in `Fear' is this collapsed to a simple mechanism of a wholly created world in the mind of a brilliant, drug-addled madman. On that he could have finally approached the more ambitious `Don Quixote' from the other side as it were.One of the touchstones on that path is this project. Some visual imagination, but one gets the impression that none of the vignettes realized that flash of inspiration he had before his attention swooped off in another direction. The `play with' idea - always the safe haven for self-reference - is here a Punch and Judy play. I don't know whether we have to wait until he is dead before we start synthesizing his work into one huge movie of large chunks similar to the smaller chunks in each one. But if we did, that Punch and Judy play would be replaced by the larger `Munchausen' play.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"I expected more jokes!","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" TIME BANDITS was not what I really expected&#133; The first half of the movie, when they are travelling from age to age, it is nicely entertaining and funny (especially in the ages of Napoleon and Robin Wood), but the last part , the one of the fight between good and evil, in the Dark Castle was not that funny. Of course this film is not to be taken seriously, like any good Monty Python film, but this time Terry Gilliam did not an excellent work, as he did other times; at least in my point of view&#133; OK, the film is about fantasy, in measures that it even seems to be a movie for kids, but that's not the problem; the worst is that it's not as funny as I expected! If we don't count the funny parts of Napoleon and Robin Wood, the rest of the movie has almost no jokes! And that's not the mood of the Monty Python's ex-elements that enter in this film&#133; That's why I'm a bit disappointed with it. "},{"Title":"Well, this was good when I was young.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Sorry to disappoint all of you who are thinking of watching this movie, but if you are over the age of 8, then dont watch this movie. It may be a Terry Gillian movie but it is awful. Watch Willow instead. Or something else, just dont watch this as it sucks. "},{"Title":"If you liked this see 12 Monkeys & Brazil Gilliam's best","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was ok , I've seen alot better but I've seen alot worse. The low part in this movie is when Sean Connery came on . Don't get me wrong I love Connery but besides THE AVENGERS this is his worst showing . But Ralph Richardson is great as GOD , and John Cleese is perfect as Robin Hood. But Connery's performance as Agamemnon is just plain dull . If want to see director Terry Gilliam at his best rent 12 MONKEYS & BRAZIL (1985) "},{"Title":"Well, this was good when I was young.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Sorry to disappoint all of you who are thinking of watching this movie, but if you are over the age of 8, then dont watch this movie. It may be a Terry Gillian movie but it is awful. Watch Willow instead. Or something else, just dont watch this as it sucks. "},{"Title":"To this Python fan, it was an enormous let down...","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I am probably one of the largest Monty Python fans of all time. From the original BBC series, to the feature films, to the audio recordings, I enjoyed them all. I knew Time Bandits had a few Python graduates in it, yet I never sat down to watch it. When I did, I'll honestly say that it was quite a let down.The film had it's strong points, no denying it that, but I think my expectations were set too high since the Python reputation succeeded it. Plus, I was never a fan of any fantasy-esque kid flicks of the 80s when I was a child, like Labyrnth or The Neverending Story. Time Bandits followed the same common pattern, more or less. Many rave about this film, and it has somewhat of a cult following, but I'm just not charter member I suppose.The roles of Cleese and Palin were limited, Cleese to about five minutes of screen time, and Palin to about ten. Sure they shine, as always, but they had no room to move about, or steal a scene like they normally would. Time Bandits was imaginative, and thought provoking, but there is only so much you can do when an 8-year-old child is one of the heroes. Imagine the film if geared for adults (say, putting a Gilliam 12 Monkeys spin on it)...then it would constitute as being truly amazing. A great movie to watch with your kids, but not one for Python fans to sit around and view. Go get Quest For The Holy Grail instead. "},{"Title":"Watch Labyrinth instead...","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terry Gilliam Time Travel MovieWeird movie about a kid who teams up with a pack of time traveling dwarves who meet various celebrity cameos on their way through the folds of time (including John Cleese, Michael Palin--who co-wrote the script--and Sean Connery in a rather embarrassing role. Tell me Why in the world is he speaking English? You have to see the movie to understand what I mean.)Can someone say, Boring? How about, Stupid? A lot of people like this stuff, but then again, I never liked Terry Gilliam's Brazil, either. I didn't laugh a single time at either of these two motion pictures. To me, they're just weird combinations of half-full ideas and crazy worlds. This stuff just doesn't interest me at all.** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Bedtime for Bonzo","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I saw Time Bandits first at the age of four. My parents and I werevisiting their friends on Saturday night as we, and some othercouples, frequently did. The adults stayed in the dining room,discussing adult things and looking at antiques. The children(there were usually five of us all between the ages of five andtwelve) were relegated to the den where we would watch television- usually The Facts of Life or Animal Bloopers. Well, one fatefulweekend in 1985 or 1986, we watched Time Bandits on HBO. It isan experience that has stayed with me - particularly the ending ofthe film. I remember being absolutely distraught at the finale. Infact, Time Bandits upset me so much that, until a year or two ago, Irefused to watch it again.Mind you, I adore Monty Python (though not as much as certainpeople I went to college with; they started the Monty Python Hordeand re-enacted scenes from Flying Circus episodes). I still findHoly Grail and the Life of Brian (especially Brian) to be two of thefunniest movies I have ever seen. They made me guffaw when Iwas ten and they continue to do so today. My penchant for Python,then, should have led me to the work of Gilliam sans the rest. Itdid. Except, as I said, I refused to watch Time Bandits.Well, that was a regrettable decision, as Time Bandits is, to mymind, his greatest achievement (cue the boos from Brazil fans).While Brazil represents a far more ambitious and high-mindedfilm (not to diminish Bandit's thematic concerns and ambition), itnevertheless fails to fulfill my expectations; in other words, I find itan incomplete and disappointing film. Do not misunderstand - Ienjoy Brazil, think that it has brilliant moments. I just think thatultimately it falls short of its target. Time Bandits, on the other hand, sets its sights high andmanages a bullseye. Is it perfect? Not at all; Gilliam, I think, isincapable of perfection. But, unlike some of his other films - Fearand Loathing and Fisher King come to mind - Time Bandits' faultsadd to its glory rather than detract from it. The faults of TimeBandits give the movie character; they are not distracting.For me, this film represents Gilliam's most perfect integration ofsatire, fantasy, and adventure. The satire may not be as keen as inBrazil, but it's still on point, skewering consumer culture in asinventive and funny a way as Romero did in Dawn of the Dead. Thefantasy elements too - the Time of Legends and the Fortress ofUltimate Darkness - are truly amazing, prefiguring and,occasionally, one-upping the similar elements in Munchausenand Brazil. Furthermore, the adventure, which seemed incongruous in Brazil, is rollicking here, pacing the movie in a waythat prevents boredom. Time Bandits also supplies hefty doses of humor (both light-hearted and gallows) and terror. Like all great children's films(Wonka and the Wizard of Oz for instance), Time Bandits terrifies(my reaction to the film as a five year old, I think, is not atypical).The ending is nothing if not upsetting and the remainder of the filmhas moments that induce abject horror (Evil's minions still give methe creeps). Lastly, Time Bandits has my favorite Gilliam moment and,perhaps, one of my favorite moments in cinema history -Agamemnon vs. Minotaur. The battle is absolutely brilliant and theMinotaur (this may be an incorrect term but, I think, accuratelyconveys a sense of the creature/man Agamemnon faces) looksimpeccable. I cannot relate in words how exhilarating I found thatscene both as a child and now as an adult (Gilliam, it seems, hasa way with one-on-one combat scenes. Both this scene and theBlack Knight scene in Grail are stupendous). All in all, Time Bandits is an incredibly interesting and excitingmovie. If you are not familiar with the work of Terry Gilliam it iscertainly the best place to start and, for me, it's the man's bestwork. "},{"Title":"Completely Pointless","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I got this movie from the library, and saw it had a lot of actors I like in it(John Cleese, Ian Holm, Ralph Richardson, etc), so I got it and watched it. I expected Cleese to have a large role since he had first billing, I was surprised to find out that he had about five minutes of screen time, along with everyone else I liked. This movie is amazingly pointless, the characters are nobodies, the plot is non-existent, and the ending is one of the worst endings I have ever seen. There were a few funny parts, but that's about it. Stay away from this movie if you want to prevent going What? and Huh?, a lot. And if you don't want to waste your time. Ignore the people who say this is a very funny movie...it isn't. Just stay away from it at all costs...please. "},{"Title":"Almost Turned It Off","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" For some reason I just didn't like it at all and felt embarrassed about how bad it was since I bought it and watched it with my family. All of us hated it with a passion. It's a nice enough kids' movie, maybe in the year it came out. However, think about it an outdated kids' movie? What's the point? Kids do not generally like to watch such old movies anyway, and I don't see what adults are supposed to get out of this movie at all.Some kids' movies (like Mary Poppins or Wizard of Oz) can be enjoyed even now, but Time Bandits is totally outdated. For your reference, and I think applicable in this case, I also did not like Dr Strangelove or Spinal Tap at all. So, if you disagree with me on those similarly outdated movies, you might like Time Bandits.There is also a horrible case of overacting as I recall from the 'bad guys'. Think of the two stupid 'bad pirates' in the Pirates of the C. movies, except in Time Bandits they are not even remotely funny.Anyway, I warned you, that's all I can do. People that rate this movie high must have liked it from many years ago. If you have not seen it before, then don't bother watching it now. "}{"Title":"uumm, yeeeaaa","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  next to delta force the lost patrol this is the worst movie i have ever seen. I just watched it 5 minutes ago on UPN. It is complete junk, suicidal thoughts ran through my head after i realized that i had just wasted 2 hours of my life watching this. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, but Cleese is hilarious!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was absolutely horrible. It was lagging in the storyline and I was unable to connect with any of the characters. When one of the dwarfs dies, I felt no pity or sympathy or anything of the sort. I simply thought, Another one bites the dust. This movie is simply terrible.However, the small scene with John Cleese as Robin Hood is absolutely hilarious! The lines are witty, clever, and silly, not to mention the laugh-out-loud physical comedy brought upon the poor by the Not-So-Merry Men.In short, if this movie is on TV, then tape the Robin Hood scene and watch it until you can't breathe. Other than that, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Not at all funny. Just a boring fantasy movie","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is utter crap. I watched it expecting a Monty Python in the style of The Holy Grail or Life of Brian. Instead I get a fantasy movie with hardly any jokes at all. Although it actually says One of the funniest films of all time on the back I can honestly not believe that anybody could find this funny.I could respect if someone thinks even the lousiest sitcom is fun. But not this... this is just too terrible.It's basically a half decent fantasy movie being passed off as a comedy.Can't believe that John Cleese and Sean Connery (who stars in some really small roles) would lend their skills to such rubbish. "},{"Title":"Genuine kiddie stuff","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As I started watching this (only because I like Connery that much) I soon realised (after 20 minutes) that this is going to be a genuine kiddie fantasy picture that is just not made to be watched by someone like me who is already allowed to watch R - rated stuff. If you're older, stay away if you are from 1 to 7 and can read this, maybe you ought to watch this film once. If you are older beware, rather rent The Fisher King or Twelve Monkeys if you want to see a good Terry Gilliam movie.You want to know why I turned it off? Well it has bad FX, a story that is not good (dwarfs steal a map from God with which they can travel through time???) and it is obvious from the beginning that this is not going to be anything special or thrilling. There might be a few good points here, but I'm not going to watch a 118 minute film just for some points of light and a movie that is actually below average most of the time.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"OK movie ruined by social conditioning propaganda","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is funny & fun.....................IF YOU CAN OVERLOOK THE SUBTLE PROPAGANDA. Throughout the beginning of the movie, there are quite a few scenes with shooting-squad style executions, and you also see 2 figures in the movie (the comical Napoleon & the regal King) both telling their advisers to order executions. Then as it gets to the end, just WHO is the Supreme Being we've heard so much about? He's a 70year-old white guy in a suit, as if he's just come in from a day at the office. He then orders the dwarfs around like you would expect from an overbearing boss/father figure. I don't know about you, but I would never let my kids watch a movie where summary execution is a backdrop between comedy & father/son themes...something a little strange about that. But come on, do you really want to imprint some CORPORATE BOSS AS THE SUPREME BEING in the back of your child's head?? No. "},{"Title":"Rubbish Humor, Evil Parents, and Unpleasant Ending","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I Never would permanently say that i secretly HATED this film, What's the point in telling a story of some mild-mannered 11-year-old living with parents who hate him? It's not that i care that awkward British films like this one would be unreliable, the humor drives me NUTS! SERIOUSLY! Some silly Monty-Python Man directing this, i don't even CARE about it! In my opinion, this is the worst film of 1981, and i want ALL COPIES DESTROYED! BTW, John Cleese makes a great Robin Hood, i'd love to see him as Cpt. Hook during my lifetime! I'm surprisingly a big fan of Peter Pan, But above all, this film is rubbish, I Don't see why my academic mate brought it in!!! "}]