[{"Title":"The scariest Disney movie ever!","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie terrified me as a child. So I ran across it and had to buy it. I was expecting it to be horrible and cheesy as an adult, but I was wrong.This movie has some scary parts, even to adults, and I've watched hundreds of horror movies. This one still creates a few chills.The basic plot is that a family moves to a new house next to some spooky old lady. One of the daughters starts seeing weird things, like a blind-folded girl in the mirror. She also learns the spooky old-lady neighbor had a daughter that disappeared about 20 or 30 years ago. She investigates this mystery despite the scary things that happen.I promise this movie will at least give you a few chills. The creepy girl in the mirror still freaks me out. It's hard to believe this was a Disney film. "},{"Title":"72yo Bette Davis in a Disney Family Suspense-Thriller","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's an interesting contrast to experience Bette Davis in a Disney family suspense thriller--maybe the scariest Disney flick ever made. If anyone could have been more mysterious & bewitchingly secretive, I can't imagine who. I have the 1998 VHS that has a cover with a marvelous photograph of Davis on the back.Florence Engel Randall's plot in her novel, A Watcher in the Woods, goes like this The Curtis family, Helen (Carroll Baker), her husband Paul (David McCullum), & their 2 daughters, Jan (Lynn-Holly Johnson) & Ellie (Kyle Richards), rent an old English manor from it's owner, Mrs. Aylwood (Bette Davis), who lives in the guest cottage. The lady of the manor seems to be haunting, mean & eerily eccentric.Jan experiences some paranormal events immediately after moving into the manor. For one thing, she can't see her own reflection in a bedroom mirror. Then, Jan begins to strongly sense that someone is watching her in the woods. Neither Helen nor Paul are keen about the girls spending time with Mrs. Aylwood. But, as Jan becomes more scared & curious about who or what is in the woods, the pre-teen begins investigating, starting with Mrs. Aylwood.After Jan goes into Mrs. Aylwood's cottage to talk with her about the mysterious phenomena that she's noticed, the secret of the woods starts to be revealed by Mrs. Aylwood. Although she's very reluctant to talk about it, Mrs. Aylwood tells Jan the story about her pre-teen daughter's disappearance in the same woods 30 years ago.The supernatural cinematic effects are well done. Bette Davis' subdued performance as a mysterious older woman makes the show a spine-tingling thriller. The suspense builds to a climax that is not predictable. The settings are spot-on & befitting for a haunted mood.Keeping in mind that the genre of this movie is a family suspense suitable for children, I found it to be excellent. "},{"Title":"Incredible film that holds up well to age","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I was younger I saw this film for the first time and it made an impact, although with age of course the memories faded. However, when I spotted the recent release DVD of this title I had to get it. I felt compelled, and so I snatched it up. When I sat down to watch it, I was instantly drawn into a world of eerie mystery that's surprisingly well-done, especially for a film that bears the name of Disney, notorious for their sanitized, 'family-friendly' fare. This certainly wasn't anything like most of their films, and it was a welcome change. I found myself putting together the mystery a bit faster than the characters, although I was indeed thrown a curve by the ending, which was still quite impacting. The thing about it is, even the alternate endings included on the DVD are still just as impacting, each in its own way. Each one makes quite an impression, and each one resolves the story without tying up each loose end in an impossibly pat way. The 'default' ending is abrupt but poignant, whereas the others are more drawn-out and overtly horrific. But the buildup makes it so, and the buildup is absolutely faultless, especially with the inclusion of the understated and brilliant Bette Davis.I was absolutely floored by it. Watcher in the Woods is every bit as brilliant a horror film as any other much-discussed title, if not better. It's reminiscent of Lovecraft in many ways and yet gives a distinct impression of a dark, dark fairy tale. The acting is very good, the cast excellent, and the settings simple and isolated yet stunning and evocative. Every fan of film, horror fans in particular, must see The Watcher in the Woods. The DVD release is something that collectors too will enjoy, with the trailers and alternate endings cleaned and clarified for their magnificent DVD presentation. This is a film that should, and will, live in history as one of the hidden gems of film.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Petifying","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this film when I was about 7 I think and I am not joking when I say it had a profound effect upon me and many of my friends. I was terrified of the dark for years and even scared to look in the mirror in case there was someone else staring back. Quite how this film was shown at 6pm on a Tuesday has always baffled me. It was a shocking decision by the BBC and they would never get away with it now. I met a guy at university who had also been traumatised by this film and I think we bonded over it because we are still very good friends! My memories of it are quite hazy but I'm sure I started crying half way through and didn't stop until the end; would have turned it off but my 10 year old sister wanted to watch it or rather wanted to watch me cry and I was too scared to leave the room. I'm giving it a 9 for fright value. It was a good film and a good idea. "},{"Title":"Stylish visuals, but not much else","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" THE WATCHER IN THE WOODS Aspect ratio 1.751Sound format Dolby StereoAn attempt by Disney to lift itself out of the doldrums following a creative and commercial downturn in the 1970's, THE WATCHER IN THE WOODS takes its plot from a Young Adult novel by Florence Engel Randall in which an American family takes residence in a creepy old house in the English countryside. Almost immediately, the eldest daughter (former ice-skater Lynn-Holly Johnson) experiences weird visions linked to the disappearance of a teenage girl under mysterious circumstances many years before. The film has visual style to burn (cinematography and set design are especially eye-catching), and there's a couple of terrific PG-level scares, but all the technical gloss in the world can't make up for a listless pace and repetitious plot line, and Johnson's one-note performance transforms a strong, resourceful heroine into little more than a whining goody two-shoes. Worse still, co-stars Bette Davis, Carroll Baker and David McCallum are given almost nothing to do, and there's much evidence of editorial tampering during some of the opening scenes.Originally slated to conclude with an ambitious visual effects sequence, the version which premiered in 1980 was basically unfinished and led to scornful reviews which doomed it from the outset. Realizing their mistake, Disney pulled the film and reworked the ending, without the participation of several key personnel (including director John Hough!), most of whom had moved on to other projects. This revised print - running 16 minutes shorter than the 100m original - made it into theaters the following year, sporting a 1981 copyright, and is the version which has prevailed ever since. For a detailed report on Watchers troubled production history, see Paul Talbot's superb article in 'Video Watchdog' 88. "},{"Title":"The best disney film ever!","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"26 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Beating other films such as Candleshoe and Escape To Witch Mountain by far, this is the best film Disney ever produced, and I am outraged that this film does NOT get the right justice it deserves! I have enjoyed this film for years, and years, and never would I have guessed that Disney is the real villian when it comes to this chiller! Disney used to make film for adults, as well as chilldren, and now, children are so spoiled and rotten, and Disney is the rat! All Disney ever does is make rediculous films and TV shows depicting miscreants and awful characters! Back in the day, when movies were made right, Disney knew how to pack a punch! Children are clueless as far as this film is concerned, they do not know how to enjoy it, at least, not like we adults can. This movie was the film that made music box music a vary creepy thing, as Stanly Meyers brilliant score opens the film, with a slight ringing, and strings bringing out the dead still of the woods. The rest of the film is followed by great acting, good cinematography, and terrific special effects! What else an I say about this ghost story about families, alike, and different, and haunted by the lost spirit of a girl, trying to find her way home, and the angry soul, who switched places with her years ago? I LOVE this film, I will always praise it to the highest, and I weep for those who dismiss it! "},{"Title":"Kids Flick","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, it might not be the greatest movie out there, but I really enjoyed it when I was a kid.  And because of that the few times since then that I have watched it, I have held a kind of fascination with it.  But alas, my opinion is tainted by childhood.  That scary (oh so scary) scene in the fun house haunted me for a long time.  And Bette Davis, she is awesome. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but a sadly overlooked horror gem from Disney","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Along with Orca the Killer Whale and Jaws, this was among one of the first films I ever saw on video - back in about 1983, when I was three years old!I remember watching this film practically every evening and going crazy when my elder brother taped over it! I didn't see it again until I was 14 and although it didn't have the same impact, I still think it is a highly imaginative chiller.It is a shame that this film seemed doomed from the moment the cameras started rolling. To add to all the distribution problems, Bette Davis was reportedly bored rigid on set and thought Lynn-Holly Johnson was a lousy actress, often commenting on how much she'd wanted Diane Lane to star as Jan Curtis instead.The atmosphere of the film is undeniably creepy, largely thanks to the music featured in it - both the score and the tune from Mrs Aylwood's music box are first rate. Alan Hulme's brilliant cinematography is a wonder to behold. Had The Watcher in the Woods been a box-office hit, I'm sure Hulme would have been nominated for an Oscar.Johnson is not lousy (as Davis reportedly said), she is adequate in the leading role. Much better is adorable Kyle Richards (who had previously appeared in the horror film Halloween and as Alicia Sanderson Edwards in TV's Little House on the Prairie) who plays Johnson's younger sister. However, it is a shame that Davis, Carroll Baker and David McCallum are all sadly underused - the last named has hardly any screen time at all.Definitely one to see, IF you DO manage to catch it, which is unlikely - the film was never available to buy on videotape in England and has only been on TV about twice in 20 years!NOTE The film did get a fabulous special edition DVD release in 2001, with all three endings so fans of the movie could FINALLY see the deleted scenes with the alien watcher of the title! "},{"Title":"Well crafted thriller from Disney","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher In The Woods is a well crafted thriller from Walt Disney Productions.  Originally released in 1980, the film had a rather abrupt ending after which extensive credits for an Other World sequence followed. The only problem was that there wasn't any Other World sequence in the film and Disney finally admitted that the sequence wasn't finished when the film was released and hoped that no one would notice the credits!  When the film was reissued several months with the sequence (really a special effects nightmare) it only made matters worse.  Almost a year later the film was re-issued yet again with the ending that is now seen.  Through all these problems the film is still one of those rare Disney gems that, to this day, remains overlooked.  Bette Davis is well cast as Mrs. Alywood, whose daughter disappeared under mysterious circumstances 30 years earlier.  She owns a stately English manor which is rented by an American family over the summer.  The eldest daughter Jan (Lynn Holly Johnson) begins to notice strange things happening in the home and in the woods surrounding the manor. She also has an uncanny resembelence to Mrs. Alywood's daughter Karen. Slowly the pieces of Karen's disappearance fall into place and Jan along with the three townspeople that were present when Karen disappeared, try a desparate attempt to bring her back from beyond.  The film is not well suited for young children (hence its PG rating) but older kids as well as adults should enjoy it.  It's a good horror/mystery film without blood and gore. "},{"Title":"The watcher should have picked something better than these woods","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Mediocre scare flick, rather dark for a Disney film but not really very frightening. Lynn-Holly Johnson is an appallingly bad actress ruining every scene she's in. Old pros David McCallum and Carroll Baker are wasted. Poor Bette Davis is spared nothing, made to look perhaps the worst she ever did on screen except in Baby Jane where at least she was supposed to look bad. She's still the most compelling presence in the film in her brief scenes. Weak special effects and a nonsensical story don't pull the viewer in, something that's crucial in a film like this. If you enjoy chillers there are dozens of films that would do the trick far better than this blah effort. "}{"Title":"A GREAT suspense/horror film for any age","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie when i was four at my aunts house and thought it was scary. since then id forgotten about it until about or 4 months ago. my older cousin now over 20 rented it and we watched it together and it still scared both of us. this movie is a great horror movie and its not just for little kids. in fact i don't think this particular movie should be viewed by kids under 9. it is not extremely scary but more of a whats gonna happensuspense movie. some scenes in this movie are more sci-fi or mysterious. this is an especially good movie if you don't like blood or gore in scary movies. it also proves that movies can be scary without it. I still can't believe this is a Disney film. "},{"Title":"Disney Can Be Scary? When Did This Happen?","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I never knew that a Disney movie could be as scary as The Watcher In The Woods. It had to be one of the scariest movies, I have ever seen. I know this sounds really dumb because of the fact that it is a Disney movie, but I couldn't believe it myself. I think that the plot of the movie was just like any other scary movie. A little kid plays where they are not supposed to and so on. The sound track to the movie definitely intensifies the scariness too. I remember the first time I saw this movie was in fourth grade. Taken in the fact that I was in fourth grade, I thought this was the scariest movie ever. I watched it with my good friend who was also in fourth grade. We had just finished eating ice cream so we had spoons. If you could believe it, from watching this movie, a fourth grade girl bent a spoon almost in half. She was so scared; she said she needed the spoon for protection. Let me just say for the record, if you're in the mood to watch a really scary movie, Disney movies can be tossed in the bowl too. "},{"Title":"Still creepy after all these years, proof that DVD is king!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was about 6 or 7.  I made my parents watch it 3 times in a row in order for me to completely 'understand' the film because for a kid that age it's difficult to piece things together that are as complex as this plot... imagine a 7 year old watching 'The Sixth Sense'.  OY!  Now as a 26 year old veteran filmgoer I watch this film on DVD and can still appreciate what held my fascination for so long.  Sure some of the dialogue is campy and a few of the situations don't make sense (why after showing Jan the circle clue in the pond does the entity shoot her, pushing her into the water to drown?), but it is creepy and atmospheric in the extreme.  The DVD edition of this film is one of the reasons I love this format.  The two alternate endings featured here are worth the price of the disc alone!  Sure, I'm glad they didn't put them into the film since they don't fit in any way, shape or form... it's just cool to see what the original intentions of the filmmakers were back in 1980.  People complain that while Ellie was possessed by the entity in the final version she spouted too much exposition.  Not true when compared to Jan's nonsensical explanation in the alternate endings where she talks about 'negative images' and how Karen was 'suspended in time and space'.  It's just dumb.  I love the ending in the final version.  You never see the entity's 'true' form (just a pillar of light), making it creepier, and the ending makes sense (it's been sort of possessing Ellie throughout the film, so it's final takeover is justified).  Just hearing Ellie's modified voice while possessed is scarier than the alien puppet floating around on strings (it looks like the male alien  from 'Species II' mixed with a dragonfly).  And that indecipherable FX ending on the alien's home planet.. what the hell was that?  Only after reading the DVDs liner notes did I understand what was going on.Stick with the final version's ending... it's clean and fitting.  And this movie is still wonderful after all these years. "},{"Title":" What happened to your daughter?","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Lynn-Holly Johnson is stupendous as Jan in this fabulous suspense film. The remaining cast is brilliant. The costumes are trendy. One of the good flicks in the genre, The Watcher In The Woods will haunt the viewer with a chilling past. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":" Loved it! A great horror film for kids!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Watcher in the Woods is the best horror film made by Walt Disney! Perfect horror film for kids!! This movie is a great! It is a good mix of horror/sci-fi/thriller! Very good! One of the best horror films of the 80's!!! This is a perfect horror movie for kids ages 7- 10!! The plot outline was terrific! Bette Davis played a creepy and mysterious role. I loved this movie so much that I bought it! This is a great movie! I give it an A+!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"An outstanding film which serves chills to the very touch of the bone!","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Put Bette Davis in a Disney scare-fare. Add Lynn-Holly Johnson, with a plot to scream over, and you have The Watcher In the Woods. The rest of the cast is exceptional as well, and the directing by John Hough is terrific! We follow the Curtis family on the search for a new house, and when they come across the Aylwood estate, they feel that they found the perfect house, and as they say, the price is right. Once moved in, Jan Curtis(Johnson) realizes that something awful happened years ago, and now, she must find out what it is, and how to solve the mysteries involved. A watcher, is in the woods, which surrounds the house, and it watches, waiting, surrounding the family with some of the most creepiest scenes in film history! Yes, The Watcher In the Woods is a classic beyond what words can say. Every little technique used in the film brings out the most detailed chills needed. Stanly Meyers' chilling music-box theme opens the film with the most haunting forest setting ever seen. Bette Davis doesn't get any better than this, talking to the woods, knowing it is there. Lynn-Holly Johnson is a gem! She knew how to play a teen-age heroic role the right way! The rest of the film shines in all the glory it provides. One tag-line says A masterpiece Of Suspense, and they weren't kidding. This film spills an entire river of suspense with waters as chilling as ice! Why Disney shames this one, is anyones guess, but I know I love it, and many others do too! Disney can get the heck outta the kitchen, cause this film is stayin! "},{"Title":"Disney meets Lovecraft, sort of.","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher in the Woods was made at a time when Disney was getting ambitious, making PG rated films and dipping its toes into different genres; other efforts, of course, include The Black Hole, Tron, and Something Wicked This Way Comes. Co-written by Brian Clemens ('The Avengers', Captain Kronos Vampire Hunter) based on the novel by Florence Engel Randall, it tells a story with a very atmospheric feel. As others have said, it has the appeal of a fairy tale. An American family comes to live in an isolated English country estate owned by a lonely recluse, Mrs. Aylwood (screen legend Bette Davis). In no time at all, the two daughters, teen aged Jan (Lynn-Holly Johnson) and younger Ellie (Kyle Richards) are besieged by other worldly forces, and Jan realizes something must be done to resolve the case of Mrs. Aylwood's daughter Karen, who'd disappeared many years ago when she was Jan's age. Director John Hough and crew make this something worth watching with their moody and stylish presentation. Sometimes some cheesy effects get utilized, and they do tend to stick out a little too much. The reasonably compelling, and never too complicated, story does a good enough job of pulling the viewer in, along with especially strong lighting by Alan Hume and camera-work by Jack Lowin and Malcolm MacIntosh. Right from the start these individuals help to create a very weird feel to the proceedings. Carroll Baker and David McCallum don't get a lot to do as the parents, especially McCallum, but the other adults are all fine, including Richard Pasco as the frightened Tom Colley and Ian Bannen as the cantankerous John Keller. Ms. Davis is wonderful as the distraught old lady who realizes that she could finally find out the truth behind her daughters' disappearance, while Johnson, despite being appealing enough, really overdoes it in terms of her characters' hysteria. What's interesting is how many times the ending was altered during the history of this film. It was originally shown at 100 minutes, with an abrupt ending, then given an elaborate special effects based finale, then reworked again for the films' re-release the following year. The alternate endings are available on the DVD for fans to check out. It's not particularly memorable, but it's pretty enjoyable while it lasts. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Boo","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film doesn't run too often which is a shame. It is well done and provides some nice scares along the way. I recall showing this film (DVD) to some classes of sophisticated eighth graders brought up on Saw and other such gore fests; they watched and as they were drawn into the story--this film has one--they screamed as they were caught unaware by a well timed scene. This is probably one of the best Disney films as it treats the audience as if they are intelligent and capable of following a plot. The DVD has multiple endings so you can decide which you like. And you get to see a young David McCallum and watch Bette Davis steal scenes. "},{"Title":"Disney Can Actually Make a Scary Movie!","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" You know I remember when my mom brought this back from the video store at age 11 and wanting to smack her for getting this Disney excuse for a horror movie. What I wasn't expecting that night, only me and my sister home, was to be actually scared watching this. What a great supernatural mystery that was taking place and those laser blasts really made you jump! I loved that it was about American kids getting to live in this big English Manor house. Lynn-Holly Johnson looked so pretty in this movie and worked well as the oldest daughter stirring up old emotions and conflicts to solve the haunting mystery plaguing her and her younger sister.There is an awesome creepy score in this movie that just makes every scene as interesting as they are haunting and exciting.Looking over a couple of reviews I will agree that this film has been unfairly underrated. While I can't agree that it is as good as Candleshoe as one reviewer wrote, it is a really good horror film . . . From Disney Studios??? FAR OUT BABY!!! "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, Genuinely Spooky Horror Film - and Surprisingly Produced by Walt Disney!","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher In The Woods is about a family who moves into an English manor located deep in the woods. The two sisters, Jan (Lynn-Holly Johnson) and Ellie (Kyle Richards), begin to experience strange phenomenon and sense a dark presence in the woods surrounding the house and they believe that the strange caretaker of the house, Mrs. Aylwood (played by the brilliant Bette Davis) has the answer. As time goes on, the mystery begins to unravel, and Jan and Ellie must discover what happened to Mrs. Aylwood's daughter, Karen, who went missing in the woods years before, or they may become victims themselves. But what exactly is the presence in the woods? It seems to be watching them, and nobody knows what it will do next.I remember picking this film off the shelf at the local video store in my small town when I was about six or seven years old (back when I was an avid Scooby-Doo fan, which I believe triggered my love for the horror genre). My parents let me get it, thinking it would be rather harmless since it was a Disney video. Boy, were they wrong! It scared me so badly I couldn't sleep for about a week. The fact that I lived in the middle of the woods didn't help much either. The Watcher In The Woods is an eerie and entertaining little horror/mystery, that is targeted as a family film but is surprisingly subtle and genuinely creepy. Based on a novel, the story is different from your typical supernatural horror flick, with a few clichés scattered about. For the most part though, the plot is excellently crafted.There are quite a few of creepy scenes in this movie that I won't ever forget. That image of the blindfolded girl in the mirror is truly haunting, and was one of the distinct images that terrified me as a kid. In fact, every scene featuring the Karen character is downright scary. The eerie 'presence' in the woods is presented nicely, and the mystery-drenched story kept me guessing until the end. The cinematography of the surrounding forest is eerie, and the unsettling musical score adds to the atmosphere of the movie. But above all, you have to remember that this is a Disney movie! Yes, a Disney movie! It's surprising to me that Walt Disney would have been involved in a film of this type, because the themes here are extremely dark ghosts, missing persons, possession, séances - it's definitely not a film for young children at all. To this day I still find it to be a rather scary film, especially considering its PG rating and aim towards family and children.The acting in the film isn't anything remarkable, but we have Bette Davis being outstanding as usual, even though she isn't given a whole lot to work with. Lynn-Holly Johnson, our leading girl, is just alright here. She's loud, her delivery is sometimes obnoxious, and her facial expressions tend be exaggerated - but I liked her character nonetheless. Carroll Baker and David McCallum play the parents well, and Kyle Richards (who starred as the annoying little Lindsey Wallace in Carpenter's Halloween two years earlier) is good in her role as the little sister whom the watcher uses to communicate through in a handful of extremely creepy sequences. The performances, overall, do enough to hold up the film. But for me, the entire tone and atmosphere is what really makes the movie stand out.Overall, The Watcher In The Woods is a movie that I'll always hold in my heart as a classic because of the nostalgia factor and the memories it brings back from childhood. I luckily found it on DVD and couldn't help but buy it. It isn't a perfect movie, but it still is effective in its mystical eeriness and I enjoy watching it occasionally, and probably always will. I'd advise you not to show it to the younger kids though, because it might terrify them as it did to me and many others. Again, not perfect by any means, but I personally love it. It's a bit campy, but its nostalgic creepiness will always stand out. Definitely not something you would have expected from Disney, but rewarding nonetheless. 9/10. "}{"Title":"collapsing church crushes cutie","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A family moves in to a lovely country home owned by Bette Davis and immediately the older daughter (cult favorite Lynn Holly Johnson) begins to sense something evil waiting out in the woods.This classic Disney effort came at a time when the company first began courting older audiences and their nervousness about this film was evident in the original trailer that featured a warning to parents to check out the film themselves before bringing the young ones. Although a bit of an over statement this film is quite suspenseful in parts and may be a bit much for the more timid children.The story itself involves a kids game that leads to a disappearance. It has been thirty years since Bette Davis' daughter has vanished but she has begun to appear to the girl who has moved into her home. The new girl must cope with haunting visions of a blindfolded blond girl which keep showing up in different reflective surfaces (mirrors, pools of water) as well as reoccurring symbols of overlapping circles. The mystery angle makes it quite involving for children as they can try to figure out the story before the protagonist does although how the story actually works out depends entirely on which version of the film you watch. Disney continued to tinker with the film after its release and several endings are available. If you watch the excellent recent DVD you can decide which one you like for yourself as they are on it.Thanks to some strong acting, a terrific score and solid direction by the reliable John Hough you have a effective little thriller that is suitable for family viewing but you may want to watch it first for yourself, just in case. "},{"Title":"interesting, but flawed","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this was a stretch for disney at the time, and started them down the road towards such adult films as the black hole and tron. i enjoyed it and remember being very creeped out by it as a kid. it's subtle horror and creeps up on you, like a good suspense movie should.warning - spoilers follow!it's a shame they had to go back and monkey with the ending after it first premiered. if you get the dvd, you'll see the original ending shot for the film which was later removed. it shows the alien (it looks like a marionette) and a bit of the other world he lives on (i can see why it was removed - it looks like crap), after he grabs lynn holly johnson's character and vanishes. she then finds karen and comes back.the seance actually works in this version, and it gives some closure to the bette davis character and the character of the mother and the younger sister also. in the theatrical version, the seance never actually works and you have to listen to all of this stupid exposition by the posessed younger sister.and, by the way, this WASN'T bette davis' last screen appearance. it was in the wicked stepmother in 1989, many years later. she died during production, causing reshoots and restructuring of that film. "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS!*  Finally!  The ever-elusive alien makes his appearance!  *SPOILERS!*","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film when I was a kid; and, like most people, it scared me, gave me nightmares, etc.  However, I never quite got over my curiosity regarding the alternate ending that was deleted prior to its release.  I read about the bat-winged alien and the spaceship sequence in fanzines and The Psychotronic Encyclopedia of Film and, although it didn't dominate my every waking thought, I was always curious about the other endings.  Now, finally, at age 25, I get to see the alien!  I love DVDs!  I love the fact that other people wanted to see the alien too and put it out there for all of us horror/sci fi film dorks to appreciate.  I can see why the alien was considered silly and subsequently edited out.  It's shabbily animated and looks kinda like a Chinese New Years paper dragon float.  Also, the spaceship sequence is very dated by today's standards.  It's very THE BLACK HOLE meets TRON meets Atari.  HOWEVER, in relation to the re-shot ending, I think the original one was superior.  In the original version, there is a greater sense of dread leading up to the chapel sequence, courtesy of some excised dialogue in which Bette Davis cryptically warns Lynn-Holly Johnson that they are dealing with an angry, evil entity.  The scene didn't do much for me now, but if I woulda heard this when I was a kid, whoa mama! Also, there's more tension involving the mother racing to save her child, which directly mirrors the flashback sequence when Bette Davis was rushing to save HER daughter (unsuccessfully).  Cheap monster or not, cheap spaceship or not, the original ending was WAY more literate and involving and tension-filled.  It's too bad they couldn't have found a way to leave these parts in (and perhaps make the monster more convincing).  Instead, the chucked all the intensity and reshot the ending a year later with the actors looking suspiciously more mature.  Anyway, I just wanted to say how happy I am to finally see the alien monster. "},{"Title":"Dated, tame PG 'horror'","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I rented this movie last night mainly based on all of the 9 and 10-star reviews on IMDb. Seriously guys, I'm starting to lose faith in the movie-reviewing public! The positive reviews all use the same clichés (a) it's aged really well, (b) the acting is great, (c) the scenes with the girl in the mirror are really creepy, even by today's standards.Umm... no. (a) It hasn't aged well. It looks awful, the special effects are below par even for it's time considering it's Disney (it was the year after Star Wars and Jaws...), the plot is very sparse and very linear. (b) The acting is wooden at beast. The supporting cast are awful, David McCallum is underused, Bette Davis looks bored, and she was right Lynn-Holly Johnson *is* a lousy actress. (c) The scenes with the girl in the mirror are tame - it's an ordinary girl, looking all 'fuzzy' and 'ethereal'. If the people who think this is frightening ever sit down to watch Ringu or the Woman in Black, they'll probably die of fright.But the most dire thing about this movie is the plot and its conclusion. It starts out a bit like Poltergeist or Amityville, but then becomes so repetitive and simplistic that it's just boring. In those movies, you have one parent who's a sceptic, one who's worried about the kids, and the kids themselves who're possessed. In this feature, one parent is never present, and one is completely oblivious to the danger her kids are in until she sees the possession for herself, at which point she does an immediate u-turn and tries to get outta dodge. No tension or character development whatsoever.There is no real logic as to how our heroine, Jan, actually works out that the hauntings aren't caused by a ghost, but by an interdimensional being. Then there's no logic as to why she messes up trying to send said being home - by putting herself in the same position as the victim all those years ago, then surely she's destined for the same fate? Sure enough, she is - she's *that* stupid.The saving graces of this film are that it's short, and the musical score is good. Unless you're desperate to relive the dubious side of 80s cinema, however, I'd give this one a miss. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When a normal American family moves into a beautiful old English house in a wooded area, strange, paranormal appearances befall them in this interesting twist to the well-known haunted-house tale. Their daughter Jan sees, and daughter Ellie hears, the voice of a young teenage girl who mysteriously disappeared during a total solar eclipse decades before.Seems this is linked to the disappearance of Bette Davis' daughter decades ago. Creepy horror film was notoriously re-edited time after time and the ending was changed three times, but the results are almost seamless. Film's detriment is Lynn Holly Johnson's wide eyed acting.I saw this movie when I was in fourth grade and never forgot it. I can still remember shots from the movie but I never encountered it again and actually thought it was called Something in the woods. Well I decided to just satisfy my curiosity and when I laid eyes on this page I knew it was the one.Rated PG for Violence. "},{"Title":"still creepy...","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've been watching Watcher probably since it came out and I still get creeped out! It is a great movie that is best at night with a friend who has never seen it... Bette Davis' character is as creepy as the plot. I can't say that growing older has changed my reaction to the film no matter how many times I've watched it because while I know what is next, I still get goosebumps. While simple it is endearing-reminiscent of old school Disney style. It was most likely focused on the younger audience when it came out and is still appropriate for the tweenies, but nostalgia and a little appreciation for the art of the intent of the movie makes it a favorite on my list of movies. "},{"Title":"Beautiful & Spiritual 80s Dark Fantasy!","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a major lover of all things eighties, I was shocked when I recently heard of this movie in comparison with Escape To Witch Mountain, one movie which I'd seen as a child and was wanting to see again now, as an adult. But I'd never even HEARD of The Watcher In The Woods, so after seeing the many glowing reviews, I was determined to download it and see it as soon as humanly possible.I just finished watching this excellently crafted movie from 1980 and must say, it REALLY stands the test of time. Though it actually feels set in the mid-Seventies (probably was filmed around 1978, which fits), it really holds up incredibly well close to thirty years later. It started off feeling quite a bit like a horror film, then started moving into territory closer to that of the recent gem Pan's Labyrinth, introducing a decidedly magical element that really got under my skin, and stayed there for the remainder of the movie.I totally agree with narnerbee's review stating that Disney really doesn't make films like this anymore. It's a shame, too, because they SHOULD. The way the world is these days, a little magic and spiritual feel injected into their movies could really help things and bring back some of the long-lost feeling of beauty and wonder in our lives. Though I never managed to see this film as a child, I can't help but imagine what a major influence this would've been on me if I HAD seen it back then. It's really a great movie, and it's only a shame that Disney has wandered so far away from their original path of actively and passionately exploring our imaginations.Fortunately we still have plenty of creative geniuses out there like Guillermo del Toro, Terry Gilliam, Darren Aronofsky and others who determinedly follow their hearts and continue to create stunningly passionate visions that simply and powerfully resonate within our souls. The Watcher In The Woods is one such vision, and although I wouldn't go so far as to call it a MASTERPIECE, it's definitely a great piece of movie-making history, and one which I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to any fans of dark fantasy or magical fiction.  Peace - Love - Unity - Respect  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Piece Of Film","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh yeah! This movie is in my Films To Save If The World Blows Up Archive Capsule! It is an instant classic! I want the car that Jan's family has in this movie. It'z great. Let me tell ya. This movie has quotes that my sister and me still use to this day, even though we saw it years ago. Just listen to the quality dialogue when you watch this gem. It'll stick with ya. Even though my sister and me consider this movie a comedy (because we laugh at it so much), it is still very eerie!  You'll love it if you like those cult classic movies. Like Attack of the killer tomatoes or Die blackula die!. It is worth seeing, you will laugh you boody off! It's great!!!!! (10 stars!) "},{"Title":"an excellent movie","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen The Watcher in the Woods a couple times now, and I think it's a great movie.  I can see where it may scare smaller children, but it shouldn't be avoided if you're older.  I know many people think that Disney doesn't make good movies, but they have some excellent films.  I love all their movies, but this one stands out.  Disney does pretty good for PG rated sci-fi/horror fliks.  Something Wicked This Way Comes, The Black Hole, and The Black Cauldron are also excellent films in this genre.  All in all, The Watcher in the Woods is a great movie that, I think, everyone should see. "},{"Title":"I still remembered it..... 20-odd years later!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I actually remember seeing The Watcher in the Woods in the theatre when it came out (I think I was about 8 or 9 years old).  I remember enjoying it then.Over my lifetime, for some reason, the title of this movie has popped into my head from time to time, and I always wondered if it existed anywhere on video, as I would have loved to see it again.  As an adult, this past year, I was able to watch it on video, and strangely, I liked it as much now as I did as a child.It was, I believe, unique in concept (as far as how the story developed), but definitely too horror-like for a child to properly comprehend.  I would have to say this movie is memorable... I still remembered it twenty-odd years later.I would recommend it as good viewing (for pre-teens perhaps?) if you like `cheesy' horror films.  Although now outdated, the sounds and effects are still effective in adding to the story.  The acting is reasonably good, and it was fairly well cast.Overall, I'd give it, even now, a 7 or 8 out of 10!  Leave it to Disney to make a movie enjoyable for all ages, that will be enjoyed for years and years.   "}{"Title":"A BIG let down!","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie because it had Bette Davis in it. Her part is very small. As for the movie overall, the acting is bad and the script is worse. This was certainly a low point for Disney. I rented this movie from Netflix and the first disc was damaged and would not play. I should have let it go at that, but I ordered another disc. I would not waste your time watching this movie. Oh, I suppose if I were ten again and watching it when it came out in 1980 maybe I would have liked it, but I seriously doubt it. They are few times when I jumped at some cheap bangs and such, but that was closest that I came to actually being scared. The cover of the box was well down though! LOL "},{"Title":"Weak Effort but not all bad","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can see why kids like this film and can even understand why adults who saw it as a child could be sentimental for it. But if you are over 14 and haven't seen it, I think you would be pretty disappointed. First off, the acting. Bette Davis and David McCallum are good, the rest are pretty bad although Kyle Richards gets a pass due to her age and her creepy performance in the original ending. The special effects are weak even for that period. The storyline is very weak as you can see every setup and turn coming a mile off (Narek indeed, the overlapping circles). So what was good? The directing - the pacing of the film is perfect - and it does reasonably hold your interest by revealing little bits and pieces are regular intervals. The cinematography is also good and the music. The sets were well chosen.But, and here come the spoilers, the biggest problem is that it doesn't make any sense whatsoever. Bette Davis will only rent to the right people which means a family that has a daughter who looks like her lost daughter. And she talks to the entity in the woods about whether this is what it wants (I guess you can accept that she's somewhat psychic). Even though Bette has no idea why she should have someone like this around (you think it would be painful). Then there are all the scenes where the entity seems to be trying to hurt Jan (e.g. at the pond, on the bridge). How does three kids doing some club initiation open an interdimensional wormhole? Or is that just the biggest coincidence in the world (lightning and the eclipse and the ceremony)? If so, why do they have to do it again - what does it really accomplish? Why does breaking the circle matter? Why was Karen frozen but the entity could move around in our world? If the entity was just trying to prevent Jan was leaving so she could be at the ceremony, why would they be in danger at the bridge? And the motorcycle accident scene - yet another giant coincidence or is Jan the girl most likely to die in freak accidents? Sorry folks, just way too many huh? moments in this to make it watchable.And the alternate endings are horrible. Stick with the original (84 minute version) as at least it leaves you with a sense of wonder. "},{"Title":"Good ,creepy ghost tale","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Bette Davis is top billed in this movie but admirers of the screen legend should take note that her role -and those of other adult stars ,David McCallum and Carroll Baker-is little more than an extended cameo -and that the main dramatic weight and screen time is handed over to younger performers ,notably Lynn -Holly Johnson . Davis plays a widow who earns a living renting out her lavishly appointed English country house to well to do visitors .The family this time around is headed by a composer (McCallum ) his children's author wife (Baker ) and two young daughters ..It is not long before the elder daughter (Johnson )begins to experience a sense of unease as there seems to be a ghostly presence in the woodlands on the estate -a presence linked to the mysterious disappearance many years earlier of Davis' daughter . The movie is not violent and the mood is not one of overt horror but a subtle building up of tension and unease culminating in a climax in an abandoned church where an attempt is made to make contact with the long vanished child . Well judged directiuon from John Hough and neat cameos from veteran stage actors Ian Bannen and Richard Pascoe help make this a neat and atmospheric tale .  "},{"Title":"Still a great movie","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wow i saw this movie many years ago when I was just a young lad and played out in the vast prairies of Ohio. We would always go to this old barn out by our school and wow it looks just like the chapel in this super movie!! Lol anyway, wowiezowowie I think I'm Karen b/c i always wear a blindfold. Lol j/k! Also I am blond.Anywayz, I first saw this movie when I was just a little girl. I was so scared I couldn't venture into the vast Ohion prairies anymore for at least a year afterwards. I especially think that in comparison to The Black Hole and Tron, this movie was far superior, altho it was made previously, it clearly set the stage for these box office smashes in later years. The cinematography is brilliant, especially the opening sequence. *Spoiler* Wow that tree in the beginning sure scared me back when I first saw it I would always bury my face deep into the couch and ask my sister to tell me when it was over!! *Spoiler*So in summation, The Watcher in the Woods is a truly enjoyable experience that is fun for all ages and leave you wanting more. Verily, it will set the stage for all of our lives as we progress onward into the 21st century.  "},{"Title":"Genuinely suspenseful and scary","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie as a kid and loved it.  Later in college I watched it again, and to my amazement, still loved it.  The actors do a great and convincing job especially Bette Davis and the two daughters.  if you want to watch a scary film that has a great plot and a story so complex that each time you watch it you notice new things, this is for you. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An all-American family (mom Carroll Baker, dad David McCallum and daughters Lynn-Holly Johnson and Kyle Richards) move into a beautiful estate in Britain watched over by the houses owner (Bette Davis).  But Johnson feels something watching her from the woods surrounding the house and little sister Richards is acting VERY strange.  And how about Johnson looking just like Davis' daughter that disappeared 30 years ago?Weird hybrid of ghost story and sci-fi from Disney.  This was one of their failed attempts to make PG films in the 70s and 80s.  This movie isn't totally horrible--it's well-directed with some very creepy scenes--the forest scenes are spooky and atmospheric and there is a very scary hall of mirrors sequence.  The main problem with this is that the final explanation of what's going on makes no sense and Johnson is a lousy actress.  Also father McCallum disappears completely halfway through and the ending (which Disney changed THREE times) is an absolute mess.So, it's OK but (sadly) doesn't hold up.   "},{"Title":"a rather good film!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was about 7 or so, and although most of it was above both my sister and me, it nevertheless gave us a good scare, and became one of our favorite movies.  I decided to pop it in the vcr recently during a wave of childhood movie nostalgia, and what I found was an intriguing movie.  Although this movie is one I would consider to be a sentimental favorite, there is some cheezy dialogue, and numerous plot holes (what exactly IS the watcher in the woods?).  The movie leaves the watcher with more than one unanswered question, but it is indeed conducive to a good scare!  A highlight of the movie is Bette Davis, in her last on-screen appearance as the lonely neighbor.  I recommend this movie to those who are open to a movie that is not perfect, but in its own way very delightful. A must see! "},{"Title":"Disney Horror Mess","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A family with two daughters moves into an English country house. Things start to get weird when both girls are contacted by a presence from the woods. Does it have anything to do with the mysterious disappearance of the homeowner's daughter years before? Well, of course it does! Or there wouldn't be a movie. And as it is, there isn't much of a movie anyway. I tried to be forgiving since it's a Disney pic from the 70s (the studio's creative low point), but there's only so much a girl can bear. Too many plot contrivances, plus the final twist at the end is so ridiculous I won't even try to go into it. And really, HORRIBLE accidents keep nearly befalling my teenage daughter and I'm gonna just stay at the lovely home? Probably not. Bette Davis and most of the cast are okay but Kyle Richards is just screechy and annoying as the little sister. And there's a special place in the annals of bad acting reserved for Lynn-Holly Johnson. Had she not been so terrible, I could have probably enjoyed this one a little more. "},{"Title":"Creepy happenings in the woods","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have seen The Watcher In the Woods just the once and found it very creepy. Disney decided to make a movie more of a horror nature and this is the result.An American family move into an English house in the middle of some woods and it turns out to be haunted, as do the woods. The house is owned by an elderly widow, Mrs Aylwood, who is rather creepy herself. The family's two daughters hear and see strange things, including the voice of a teenage girl who disappeared many years ago during a solar eclipse. This girl turns out to be Mrs Aylwood's daughter. She appears during another eclipse towards the end...This movie is very creepy in parts and is not recommended for younger children.The Watcher In the Woods has an excellent cast Bette Davis (The Petrified Forest, Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?) as Mrs Aylwood, Bond girl Lynn-Holly Johnson (For Your Eyes Only), Man From UNCLE actor David McCallum, Ian Bannen and Eleanor Summerfield. Good acting from all, especially Bette Davis.The Watcher In the Woods is certainly worth seeing, especially for fans of ghost stories.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"9 stars. Really deserves it.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't even born when this movie came out, but I saw it for the first time when I was nine and it turned into one of my favorite movies.I think that the most amazing thing in this movie is the music... even if the movie is not scary the opening titles music gave me goosebumps.Holly Johnson gives a wonderful performance as Jan what happened to this girl? I dont recall any other film where she starred.If you see now the end sequence you'll find it very obvious but remember that this movie was filmed on 1979/1980 so they had wonderful special effects for the time being.I rate this movie with a 9, it was awesome. "}{"Title":"Something awful happened here......","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When a normal American family move into a beautiful old English house in a wooded area, strange, paranormal appearances befall them. Their daughter Jan sees, and daughter Ellie hears, the voice of a young teenage girl who mysteriously disappeared during a total solar eclipse decades before.....The early eighties saw Disney go through a dark period with their live action films. Now, there are two kinds of dark. There is Condorman dark, and if you've see that abomination, you'll know the dark I'm referring to. And then there is the blatant darkness of Something Wicked This Way Comes, and this little curiosity piece that went into the abyss for a few years, before being released in eighty one.And it's easy to see why Disney had so many problems with its release. Firstly, it's not very scary, we just see a lot of blue lights flashing. And secondly, Davis aside, it's not very good either.We get the majority of the film with the girl from For Your Eyes Only, and one of those putrid housewives of Beverly somewhere, either listening or hearing strange things.Add a strange Wicker Man vibe to the locals, and you have this strange hodge podge of a film, too sinister for children, too silly for adults.So it's only worth watching to see Davis in a role where she does nothing else but think about paying her bills.It's not terrible, it looks good, and the house and the fun fair scene are quite creepy, but it's not surprising that the film is very difficult to find. "},{"Title":"Not that scary, but family and kids appropriate","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" So this one is not that scary... It's more mystery and family and it's made by Disney so this can be watched by anyone... Mostly... So story is about family that moved to a county home and they suddenly experience some strange happenings(or you can call it paranormal). Story follows mostly two sisters(Jan and Ellie) while their parents are not big part of the whole story... So after some time they stumble across Mrs. Aylwood who is typical character(antagonist) that everybody should be scared of... But she is not... Jan suddenly realize what is that but then latter she connect that with Mrs. Aylwood... But lets just stop there and talk about acting a bit. So their performances are average i think that there are few scenes where they act like really out of place so different and better... Even when movie introduces you to other characters(Mary,Tom,John) they still act average... But move came out 1980 and feels so much like movie from 1970s(but that makes sense)... So lets continue with the story... Jan finds out what happened to her daughter and tries to convict them to perform ritual again! They had their secret society! After whole that trouble between and before they finally performed ritual and Mrs. Aylwood's daughter is back and that is the end! Well there is not that much of the watcher in the woods its just that format and you constantly have that camera angle from woods and places that should convict you that something is watching you! it works but after sometime it gets boring with... So here it is The watcher in the woods!!! You should watch it! It's experience on its own! "},{"Title":"Curious but muddled Disney thriller...","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Florence Engel Randall's book A Watcher in the Woods becomes abysmal, dumbed-down entry in Grand Guignol territory by the Disney people, an unusually bland ghost story offering special effects galore but nobody to care about. Young girl's spirit haunts an isolated manor, with Bette Davis doing just-OK work as a spooky neighbor who helps the new residents unravel the mystery. Supporting players Carroll Baker and Lynn-Holly Johnson are acceptable, but the film's major set-pieces, designed for chills, fail to come off due to pedestrian handling. This is a thriller made by people who don't understand the genre, although the production values are up to Disney's high standards. Film is hurt overall by post-production tinkering; the finale, reworked twice due to poor audience reactions, is simply unsatisfactory. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A suspenseful Disney mystery!","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remembered watching this movie's trailer in a Walt Disney and You special preview of programs that is shown in numerous Disney cartoon collection videos. The movie looked creepy and I thought it was out-of-character for Disney to make these type of movies. But, I grew to be a fan of mysteries and thrillers and this movie was pretty impressive.Based on the novel by Florence Engel Randall, The Watcher in the Woods is about an American family who moves into an old English house in the woods. There, daughter Jan Curtis (Lynn-Holly Johnson) experiences paranormal activities in the woods and suspects it has to do with the daughter of the house's owner, Mrs. Aylwood (Bette Davis), who disappeared years ago.It's a good old-fashion supernatural tale with built-up suspense throughout the film, from Jan first sensing the abnormality of the woods to the apparition images of Mrs. Aylwood's daughter. The well-paced plot kept the movie exciting and attention-grabbing, helped by the well-acted cast, especially that of movie icon Bette Davis. But, I would have liked to see her and actors Carroll Baker, David McCallum and Benedict Taylor utilized more; too much attention was centered around Lynn-Holly and child actress Kyle Richards. The special effects might appear dated, but it still fits in the movie and contributed to the overall eerie feel of the woods and the missing girl. There is also a bit of unpredictability in the film, especially when the church scenes were first introduced. Therefore, what you get is not another cliché ghost movie.There is an alternative ending to the film and I myself prefer that one over the original one, but,give yourself a bonus and watch the alternative climax after watching the movie and judge for yourself )Overall, it's a captivating mystery supernatural film that, for a Disney film, keeps you intrigued at its creepiness and horror elements.Grade A- "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" maybe not the best thriller/horror. but a charming one. for the presence of the unique Bette Davis. for the story. maybe, for the errors. a Disney film who could be interesting example of a good adaptation. for high delicacy, for the tension and for message. for the science of detail. and, sure, for remember a lost period in which a music box was important for search the truth. the grace to present the events is the lead virtue. and it does it special for the mixture of atmosphere from 80's with the scent of Gothic stories. a film for teenagers, it is useful for adults. because, very sentimental, it use the horror rules in wise manner. "},{"Title":"Shadowly Presence","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The woods to me can be one of the creepiest places to be because you never really know what's hidden out there.This film is another underrated and forgotten gem. I'll admit discovering that Disney made a horror film was unreal to me, I felt this was great because it really showed that Disney was starting to take chances they were starting to take the next step. It's a shame Disney didn't make more horror films, I really would of liked to of seen them.The film seems like a lost anthology tale for the TV show Are you Afraid of the Dark because like with that show this is a horror film for the family film genre which I think is really cool since we really don't have that many. It is a very tricky feet trying to mix both the horror and family genre, but this film I feel is one done right because it's able to successful balance out both without watering itself down.I really like the production value and even cinematography of the film which I think have some memorable visuals; I really liked how the film used the forest locale, the use of light and shadow which made the woods a character in itself as it emits a sense of mystery and menace. I even like the ruined chapel location which almost looks like part of a level in the video game Castlevania which looked spooky from it's Gothic feel and structure and amount of darkness that emitted almost a creepy feeling. Or even the viewpoint of the Watcher which adds to the creep factor because you not sure what this thing or entity is about to do, even thought it's not doing anything now you know it will soon.Music is solid, though not memorable which to me is one of the weak points of the film, I wish this film had a more memorable score but still it was good enough to give the film the right moodiness it has.I really like the story, it's not really a ghost story there really isn't a ghost per say it's more of a psychic mystery thriller, which I think is cool since we don't get nearly enough of those in the horror genre. The suspense is solid, yeah it's a slow burn but I don't mind because as the film gets further things start to escalate. You really have a creepy and disorienting feeling throughout the film because your not entirely sure what's going to happen next or even what all this is leading up to. The mystery I think is very good, it has a great amount of intrigue, there are clues but they're not obvious, we can see them but we can't entirely decipher their meaning or know how they really go together; and I like that feeling it really makes it feel like a real mystery, causing us to think and figure things out. Characters I think are pretty solid from the adult characters mainly Mrs. Aylwood played by Bette Davis one of her last roles. She is pretty much that mysterious wise women on the side of road character but I really like how you actually kind feel for her, as we see throughout the years she has been plagued by this mystery of not knowing what happened to her daughter which is a terrible feeling and in a way just motives you to want the protagonists to solve the mystery and win.And I like both the young female protagonists. Kyle Richards is solid as Elle Curtis and on a side note this actress played Linsey in John Carpenter's Halloween which is cool since that's one of my favorite horror films and that's two horror films in a row for the actress which isn't bad. Anyway, I like that she's not some stereotypical annoying little sister but she a sweet girl, she has a bit of charisma, loves dogs, despite young she's not totally naive she does exercise some intelligence.Lynn Holy Johnson I also thought was solid/decent as Jan Curtis, her character is solid, she takes charge, cares for her little sister; there's a good back and forth between both of them, and I like that she's very open doesn't dismiss what's happening as things shes just seeing. Both the sisters are psychics but don't entirely know it or have no idea how to control it, each of them have the ability but it works different. For Elle it's mainly in hearing, she is able to hear voices from a distance or pick up sounds no others can hear, much like with a dog that can hear certain frequencies. Jan it's sight, where she can see images for a certain amount of time and occur at different times.This makes both sympathetic because their in the same boat as us, their struggling to figure out what in the hell is going on, why this is all happening to them. There are some memorable images like one scene which was creepy was Jan putting up a mirror and then when she looks at it again she doesn't see her reflection. But for me the best scene was in the mirror maze when we see Jan suddenly see multiple images of a girl, blind folded and from her lip movements is constantly saying help me.What also makes this films stand out are two of it's endings. I personally really liked the original ending they choice for the film it felt right and well balanced, though I even liked the alternate ending which I thought good let alone even stranger, I won't say what it is you just have to see both for yourself.Like any sight in the woods is worth a watch.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Intriguing And Spooky Tale From Disney's Glory Days","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Who is the watcher the woods? That's the question put forth by the intriguing and often overlooked film The Watcher in the Woods. Directed by John Hough, it's a movie from Disney's glory years and while it may not be quite as good as say Escape to Witch Mountain-also directed by Hough-the film does manage to weave a story that includes mystery, suspense, and magic that only the old school Disney can produce. In other words, it's the type of movie Disney hasn't made in years. Set in the seemly untouched English country side-a land rife with tales of strange occurrences-the story begins when Jan Curtis (the underrated Lynn-Holly Johnson) and her family move into large, old house owned by a reclusive woman named Mrs. Aylwood (the legendary Bette Davis). It doesn't take long for Jan and her little sister (the adorable Kyle Richards from Halloween and who guest stared many times on Little House on the Prarie ) to realize that there are some strange forces at work and it all leads back to the strange disappearance of Mrs. Aylwood's daughter, Karen. What happened to Karen during that strange ritual carried out by her friends? Is Karen trapped somehow, somewhere? Is she the watcher in the woods or is it, something else? And what does all this have to do with the upcoming equinox? It's these questions and the effective techniques used by the filmmakers that make The Watcher what it is. Granted, the movie does have its faults, such as the fact that Jan's dad (the charming David McCallum) seems to disappear halfway through the film and a few inconsistencies with the story ( I suspect this may be due to having to re shoot new endings after the original failed to please target audiences. You can see the original endings on the DVD). But the film more than makes up for this with the chemistry between Johnson and Richards, the performance of the late, great Bette Davis who ,although in her seventies at this point, still had it as well as effective music that manages to be both haunting and beautiful. It's a type of movie that you wish Disney still made. Sure, every now and then Disney might turn out a good one like Wreck It Ralph(when they're not buying every entertainment franchise known to man!). But there can be no question that the glory days of rich story telling from Disney are over, probably forever now that the accountants run the show. Luckily, the movie is on DVD-the only way you can see it now a days since I've never seen it on TV before-so I implore you find it and seek it out the answers to The Watcher in the Woods. Also starring Carroll Baker. "},{"Title":"Excellent Disney, Excellent Sci Fi/Horror","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" when Disney made 'WITW', they were investigating the genres of Sci Fi and horror, and like the studio's other attempts, 'Something Wicked', 'The Black Hole' and 'Tron', this was all relatively new for them. it's always been asserted that most of these attempts failed but i disagree. i think they are some of the most strikingly original ventures in the Burbank studio's history.the most criticized of these films is 'Watcher'. because of the difficulty in approaching the ending it's been said the whole film is a muddle. to the contrary it's unique and original as well as being true to the Disney family formula despite it's spooky premise. and it's very well directed by Disney director John Hough who directed the original 'Witch Mountain' films.'WITW' is a good, eerie supernatural thriller that is suitable for the whole family. there is no sex, violence or profanity. it is also filled with Disney's particular brand of imagination.interesting note; the movie features some motocross sequences for young people. who would've ever figured they had motocross in England. "},{"Title":"Decent...if you are into this sort of thing.","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have very little interest in movies about the supernatural. Subjects like ESP and other psychic powers just don't interest me. You should keep that in mind, as I am sure this had an impact on my enjoyment of the movie. So why did I watch it? Bette Davis. It's one of the only films she made that I have never seen--this one and Return to Witch Mountain--both of which are considered kids' films. However, I noticed that at least in the case of Watcher in the Woods, it has appeal for all ages and isn't just another Disney family film. No, it has a bit more of an edge and apparently was a deliberate attempt by the studio to branch into PG-rated films for the first time--with this film and The Black Hole (a film I really disliked). Apparently, pre-screenings for Watcher were not good, so the studio decided to release The Black Hole first--though in hindsight, I think Watcher was a much better and less 'kiddie' oriented.The story begins with a family moving to a home in England. Almost immediately, weird things start happening involving the oldest daughter. She starts having what appear to be spooky visions--and they are quite frightening and also sometimes warn her of impending disasters (more than once saving her life). Soon, her little sister starts hearing things--and all this is too coincidental not to mean something is seriously wrong. See the film to find out what happens next.All in all, a mildly diverting film but one that didn't have a huge impact on me. It's not bad--but lacks scary qualities that might have made it better--like the film sometimes pulled its punches. Still, it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"What Did Happen To Bette's Daughter?","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Watcher In The Woods marks the Disney Studios only venture into the horror film genre. Bearing in mind that it is the Magic Kingdom that is producing this film there are going to be certain parameters that have to be observed. Ultimately the edge that horror films have to have is lost because you know there will be a happy ending with Disney involved.Your average American family the Curtises have come to the United Kingdom to work and have rented an English country estate, the kind that abound in all those old murder mysteries. Husband David McCallum, Wife Carroll Baker, and daughters Lynn-Holly Johnson and Kyle Richards move into the estate while the owner from whom they rent, Bette Davis lives in the guest house. The usual noises and things that go bump in the night start happening and also an apparition of a young girl around Johnson's age keeps appearing for Johnson. As it turns out years ago during some kind of witchcraft ceremony some of the local kids were participating in, Bette Davis's daughter simply vanished. The same kids who were participants in that event have grown up to be Frances Cuka, Richard Pasco, and Ian Bannen. They've no desire to relive painful memories, but Johnson wants these visitations ended once and for all.Of course Bette Davis heads the cast list, but she has surprisingly little to do here and she's in a role that's not going to require her to chew the scenery. She's not the center of this film despite the billing.Although the cast performs well and there are some nice touches in the film, ultimately The Watcher In The Woods will never rank as a great horror film. Disney just does not do this kind of film well. In fact the DVD I have gives to alternate endings, both of which I found superior to the minor key ending this one has. "}{"Title":"The woods are alive with the sound of eeriness","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's not exactly that The Watcher In The Woods let me down. I mean, I knew beforehand that it's a Walt Disney horror film, so it's safe to say that it's not aimed at die-hard horror fans. In other words, nobody dies or even gets hurt in this flick, and above all things, it's got an extremely irritating happy end that's quite the head-scratcher too. At least they didn't glue on a sappy happy epilogue where everybody is happy, smiling and sitting in the garden drinking orange-juice or something. Other than that, it's well made and adequately directed by John Hough. It's a bit hard to imagine that this is the same Hough who made American Gothic (1987) and Incubus (1981), the latter being a favorite of mine. These films are much darker and disturbing. I must say, however, that The Watcher In The Woods movie is pretty good in what it wants to be a horror-flick for kids. A (girl) friend of mine even recommended it to me because it scared her stiff as a child. And I can understand this. Some scenes are downright scary, the woods look creepy and Bette Davis could scare the bee-jeebies out of every little kid just by looking at it. The plot, mildly intriguing but very unoriginal, is extremely predictable and you'll always be one step ahead of this movie. This movie might very well be a total yawn-fest for nowadays late teenagers and early twenty-somethings. But it might still be very much fun (nostalgia-wise) for young parents who saw it as a kid (and can now watch it with their own kids). It's really meant to scare children and succeeds in such a way. For that, I can only appreciate it. I think The Watcher In The Woods would make a very good double bill with Lady In White (1988). Watch them in this order, as the latter is also the better film. That one's not really aimed at kids, so it gets a bit more serious and creepier. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Gothic Horror, Disney Style","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A Gothic horror film without the horror, is how my beloved Psychotronic Encyclopedia describes the 1980 Disney offering The Watcher in the Woods, and although that accusation does have a ring of truth, an entertaining time can certainly still be had here. In the film, an American family comprised of two young daughters and their folks rents out an impressive mansion in the British countryside, and the two girls soon realize that some strange presence is attempting to make contact with them. Could it be the ghost of Karen Aylwood, who had vanished from the mansion almost 30 years before? An interesting setup, but the film, great as it may be to look at, is, sadly, a mixed bag at best. Lynn-Holly Johnson, who I'd only seen previously as a bratty Olympic hopeful in the 1981 Bond outing For Your Eyes Only, is quite good in the lead as the older, detectivelike daughter, almost coming off like a Hayley Mills for a new generation. Playing her parents, the great Carroll Baker and former U.N.C.L.E. agent David McCallum are given too little to do in smaller roles, while the most formidable actress of Hollywood's Golden Age, Bette Davis, playing Mrs. Aylwood, the mysterious owner of the imposing pile, fails somehow to convince as a British matron. Perhaps worst of all, the film's ending is a rushed and incoherent mess that never adequately explains away all the assorted mishegas that had come before. (The picture's two previously filmed--and scrapped--endings, included as extras on this DVD, show that the usually dependable screenwriter Brian Clemens had no small run of difficulties in wrapping this story up!) Still, the picture somehow manages to please, mainly due to Johnson's sweet portrayal and some fabulous cinematography. (How great this film must have looked on the big screen!) And with that Disney imprimatur, need I even mention that this is one horror flick eminently suitable for watching with the kiddies? Indeed, they'll probably wind up liking it even more than Mom and Pops! "},{"Title":"The Watcher is still worth watching","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not many people know that Disney once made a horror film. Sort of...Historically, the majority of Disney's live-action movies have been comedies and fantasy films, all intended for a family audience. Well known examples include MARY POPPINS, BEDKNOBS AND BROOMSTICKS, SON OF FLUBBER, THE SHAGGY DOG, ONE OF OUR DINOSAURS IS MISSING, the HERBIE movies, etc. However, in the late Seventies and early Eighties, the House of Mouse flirted with making slightly more serious and darker family films. The spy/action thriller THE London CONNECTION, sci-fi bandwagon jumper THE BLACK HOLE, the WITCH MOUNTAIN series, and the surprisingly bleak and gritty Depression-era road movie THE JOURNEY OF NATTY GANN were produced during this period. Which brings us to THE WATCHER IN THE WOODS.Based on a novel published in 1976, WATCHER was filmed in England and tells the story of an American family who move into a country cottage and make the acquaintance of their elderly next door neighbour, played by Bette Davis. The oldest of the family's two daughters (portrayed by teenage professional ice skater turned actress Lynn-Holly Johnson) starts to notice some strange events in the surrounding woods (lights and unexplained sounds) which swiftly escalate into a series of un-nerving visions and seemingly paranormal phenomenon. Johnson comes to believe that these events are connected to Davis's daughter, who vanished without trace several decades earlier. It eventually transpires that an occult ritual carried out by the local children as a dare during a solar eclipse caused a portal to open to another dimension. Davis's daughter was sucked through, while an alien creature was deposited here, and both have been trapped ever since. With another eclipse fast approaching, the phenomenon are the creature's attempts to persuade Johnson and the original children (now middle-aged and still traumatised to varying degrees by their friend's disappearance) to re-create the events of that night, so that the creature can return to it's own dimension and rescue Davis's daughter.Unfortunately, having agreed to make a dark, supernatural movie, Disney then appeared to chicken out, and the shoot was apparently interrupted by many heated arguments between the producer and various Disney executives, with the latter calling for the material to be softened and made lighter. To make matters worse, Disney also decided to bring the films release date forward, to capitalise on the 50th anniversary of Bette Davis's first movie. As a result, WATCHER's climax, a fifteen minute long special effects sequence in which Johnson and the creature travel into the other dimension and discover Davis's daughter, unaged and in held in suspended animation inside a wrecked spaceship, couldn't be completed in time. Disney decided to leave this sequence unfinished and instead substituted a six minute long ending in which the creature and Johnson both vanish, with the latter promptly returning with Davis's daughter a few seconds later, without any proper explanation of what just happened or where Davis' daughter has been for all those years. Upon the film's release in 1980, audiences found the ending too confusing, so Disney swiftly yanked WATCHER out of cinemas and re-released it in 1981 with yet another ending, in which the creature is just a pillar of light, and Johnson remains in our world, with Davis's daughter simply re-appearing out of thin air. It is this 'official' version of the film that has been subsequently shown on TV and was released on VHS.A few years ago, Anchor Bay hoped to release a Director's Cut of WATCHER on DVD, with the previously-unseen 15 minute original ending restored, but after much interference from Disney, the DVD (sadly only available on Region 1) eventually featured the 1981 'official' version of the movie, with the original ending and the 1980-release ending included as extras. The 1980 ending can be seen on YouTube, and although the creature is clearly an elaborate puppet, it's still bloody creepy and genuinely otherworldly. "},{"Title":"This movie was scary for a 7 year old","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was seven and for six years after that I could not go in my backyard because my house is surrounded by woods.  I would have nightmares and panic attacks when I would see or even think about the woods. To this day I am still a little scared to be in the woods alone or at night.  As far as the movie being good, if its intent was to scare people, I guess it did its job.  I'm still a little too freaked to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Something Wicked This Way Comes is SO much better then this!","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" i saw this only once when i was a kid. i vaguely remembered it, all i remember is a girl with a blindfold and a church. so many years later, my mom saw this on DVD and picked it up, thinking we might enjoy it. we had recently seen something wicked this way comes, another movie i vaguely remembered as a child, which was really scary and excellent film, especially for Disney, and was very dark, and we thought watcher would be in the same vein as wicked, since they were only made a few years apart. but it was definitely not. it was far worse! the ending with the alien thing or whatever, and some explanation of an aternate reality totally killed it for me. holly Lynn Johnson, though definitely a cutie, was REALLY bad acting. like, annoyingly bad. the story seemed to take forever to pick up, i didn't understand. Davis was not very good either. nothing stood out. i was especially disappointed that it wasn't a ghost story in the end, but some kinda scifi plot with switching the bodies back and forth because of some kind of weird chant the kids did in the chapel. didn't get it at all, and it got WAY too scifi. i thought the whole time it would be something supernatural. just lame. something wicked this way comes which came out a few years later was FAR Superior, genuinely scary, great acting, and just all around a better film from Disney studios. "},{"Title":"Not for kids, really. But if you are over 15 then listen if","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not for kids, really. But if you are over 15 then listen if you dare just the soundtrack. For 18 and upThis is thriller. (lll) "},{"Title":"Exquisite cinematography, despite a plodding plotline","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Bette Davis is the reason most of us will ever watch this movie, but her scenes are only half the reason we'll remember it down the road.  While her performance certainly adds needed energy to this dreary little tale -- despite the onset of her glassy-eyed, skeletal period near the end there -- I think you'll be quite impressed with the cinematographic work put into the film.  It has a spooky, if unscary, premise, which would have fallen flat on its face without the many quick cuts and interesting camera angles with which the eye is treated.  Worth watching.  Hint Whenever you see (a) a dog or (b) either parent, feel free to fast-forward.  You'll thank me. "},{"Title":"The Title Just Seems To Call Out To You...","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Remember Seeing This Movie Sitting On The Video Selves And The Title Just Calling Out To Me... I Love Movies With This Sorta Campy Style Title... It Just Makes It All The More Easier To Like... When I Watched It I Found It To Be A Pretty Good Movie... However I Do Think Bette Davis Was Semi Wasted...They Could Have Given Her A Bigger Part... But Oh Well... It All Worked Out Good... I Hear The End Of This Movie Was Re-worked Several Times To Get It Just Right... I Like The End Of It Now.. But It Would Have Been Fun To See The Others I Think...This Movie Could Have Easily Been Longer.. And Been Just As Good... And Dealt With More Chills Easily... I Really Enjoy Movies Like This Though.. I Wish In The Future There Would Be More Of Them... Cause They All Seem To Get Cheesier And Cheesier....  "},{"Title":"Bette Davis can scare anyone...","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing this as a kid and being completely freaked out. I thought it was one of the scariest movies at the time. They even had Betty Davis star in it. When that woman got older, she was freaky all by herself. Now that I am in my 30's, I realize that it had to be the worst acting that I have ever seen. At the time, for a Disney movie, it was pretty scary for a little kid. I was freaked out to look in a mirror for days in fear I would see someone lost in another world trying to get out. It was an attempt by Disney to be scary and mysterious. The effects were awful, actors timing in scenes was awful, and there were visible flaws in the filming. It served it's purpose for me as a kid. It scared me and now instilled a childhood memory for me. I probably will pass it along to my kids someday. "},{"Title":"Scary for kids, not for adults","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I honestly rented this DVD because David McCallum was in it. All the actors are good. It is too bad Mr. McCallum left in the middle of the picture. The script leaves a bit to be desired. It isn't frightening at all to adults. I can see however that this might be frightening to children.  Keep the younger kids away from it. The ending is just as frustrating as a bad ending can be. "}{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have loved this movie since I was about 13 and I still enjoy it now that I'm almost 21.  It was very well done but there is one thing that bothers me.  I don't really understand what the thing from the other dimension is. They never really went into a lot of detail with that.  Karen didn't even talk at the end.  Other than that it was great. "},{"Title":"Dark Disney.","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a movie I'll always remember as one of the ones that sparked my interest for the horror genre, and yet, I only saw it just now from start to finish for the very first time. There's a nice (albeit totally irrelevant) story behind that. Back in my grade school years, it was tradition for the entire class to watch a movie on the Fridays before each major school holiday. After enduring multiple gentle Disney movies, like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Robin Hood and Mary freaking Poppins, our second grade teacher suggested to watch a slightly more mature and serious film, this being The Watcher in the Woods. Personally I was very enthusiast, but several of my wimpy classmates got too scared during the opening credits already and the teacher decided it would be better to turn it off. Darn soft kids! The atmospheric and unsettling opening sequences (showing images of a forest guided by remotely eerie music) were exactly what fascinated me, and I'm sure these brief images contributed a lot to my current obsession with everything that involves horror. For some reason I never saw it again until now, nearly 20 years later, and that's quite a shame because The Watcher in the Woods is a movie you're supposed to see at young age. It's primarily a fantasy film, and those are far more appropriate for child-audiences because their imagination is far more vivid and the substantial defects are easier to overlook. These are two fundamentally required characteristics when watching the movie, by the way. You need to have a vivid imagination and complete the story in your own mind (because the script is full of holes and suffered from drastic re-writes) and you definitely need to look past a lot of shortcomings. It's basically an ordinary supernaturally themed mystery, but obviously without shocking death sequences and complex undertones because it's a Disney film. The model Curtis family moves into an ancient English countryside mansion bordering on an immense forest. The owner, the peculiarly behaving Mrs. Aylwood, is very strict regarding her tenants, but she welcomes the Curtis family because the teenage daughter Jan reminds her of her own daughter Karen, who inexplicably disappeared nearly 30 years ago. Almost promptly, the youngest girl Ellie starts hearing silent voices and Jan notices a frightening presence as if someone's constantly watching her from within the woods. Jan develops the impression that Mrs. Aylwood daughter might still be around and that her spirits is trapped in the woods. The finished product clearly suffers under the massive amount of re-edits, re-shoots and re-writes of the script. It looks as if the creators realized at a certain point that the movie was too sentimental and/or not suspenseful enough, so the quickly added improperly elaborated hints towards alternate dimensions, solar eclipses and bizarre initiation rites. The last 15-20 minutes are a messy hodgepodge of ideas and, eventually, you're left to your own devices to copy and paste the conclusion together. The Watcher in the Woods is at its most effective when talented director John Hough uncannily trolleys his camera through the thick and sinister woods, or when Bette Davis gives a one-woman-show as the intriguing Mrs. Aylwood. The music is excellent and the special effects showcased during the finale are guaranteed to astound young viewers with a healthy interest in the macabre. "},{"Title":"Please help is this the movie......","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I was younger, I remember watching a scary movie on TV. This one scene stays in my mind and I can't figure out what movie it was. I was hoping it was/is The Watcher in the Woods. The scene I remember is where a girl looks through a dirty window of a little cabin or shed (in the woods) and see's a mannequin(s) at a table?????? After seeing it I remember feeling very dizzy and having Vertigo. So maybe I was just dreaming this. But maybe someone remembers a movie with this scene in it. Any help would be great. This is driving me crazy! If anyone knows what movie it might be,please let me know. It would have been the 70's or early 80's. Thanks! "},{"Title":"Do Not Be Misled","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes, don't think that this is another roll-your-eyes turkey replete with bad acting and ridiculous clichés. I admit I was skeptical that this film would be much more than an 'Eight Is Enough' mystery adventure when I first signed it out from my local library!! Imagine my shock - yes, shock - when I found myself plunging into an eerie, completely off the wall, occult story which held me straight through to the end! Just what the heck is that light-force thing in those woods and the phantom breezes? Why the heck is that old lady weirding out on the older daughter and could that daughter possibly be linked to her own daughter's disappearance? Why is everyone else weirded out by the looks of this older daughter. And who the heck is POSSESSING the younger daughter? We got cracking windows, mysterious words written backwards, and a doll-turned-oracle warning of imminent deaths. This all goes far beyond what you would consider 'normal' mystery for 1980. Even a contemporary horror would likely not give you as much 'weirding out' - this is as best as I can describe it. The movie was not necessarily SCARY so much as it was DISTURBING. Bottom line is that I was impressed with it for being other than what I assumed it would be. "},{"Title":"Good thriller, too scary for kids...","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this when I was like, eight and most of it was over my head... I didn't remember the ending.  When I watched it again today, I could definitely see why an eight year old couldn't retain it, but it was a pretty good movie.  Most of the lines were corny, but what's to be expected, really?  A classic horror tale of a lost daughter and, 30 years later, another girl's struggle to help her(or her ghost!).  The eerie sounds, visions, and possession definitely add to this movie! "},{"Title":"Silly, but fun...","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was certainly one better of the lame Disney attempts to drag itself into the 20th century (after Midnight Madness, The Last Flight of Noah's Ark, The Black Hole, and The Devil and Max Devlin)--but it can hardly be called a great movie.  The cinematography is great (Alan Hume who also shot Return of the Jedi and many other great looking films), though, and I wished it had been released in a widescreen format on laserdisc.  All corny-ness aside, my biggest problem with the film is Lynn Holly Johnston's constant age changing act due to extensive re-shoots after the film previewed poorly.  The only good thing about the year-long delay was that it was replaced by Mary Poppins in its very last theatrical release--and my first viewing.  Practically perfect in every way. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A family moves into an old mansion, but it appears the house and surrounding woods are haunted after strange occurrences and people become possessed. Seems this is linked to the disappearance of Bette Davis' daughter decades ago. Creepy horror film was notoriously re-edited time after time and the ending was changed three times, but the results are almost seamless. Film's detriment is Lynn Holly Johnson's wide eyed acting.Rated PG; Violence. "},{"Title":"I hope one day someone makes a real horror out of this","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's a pretty hard movie to rate. Since it's from Disney I was prepared that it would not be too scary and it was going to have a happy ending. Indeed that proved to be the case. The story was simple but interesting enough to hold my attention for the whole duration. The problem however is that the actions become rather repetitive. It is always the eldest sister Jan who gets to see images from the girl that got lost 30 years ago after what seemed an innocent game. And it's her youngest sister Ellie that acts as some kind of medium giving Jan hints about what to do. So yeah that starts about 10 minutes in and continues for over an hour. Along the way we meet a few other characters but it all remains vague. Also the ending left me with an empty feeling, wondering what that entity was and where the lost girl had been all this time. Where was it and what did it do on earth and why did it come here in the first place? I thought the acting from anyone was rather wooden as if they were going through the motions. It's not that Lynn-Holly Johnson didn't try but there was little given to make something decent from it. Too bad a great actress like Bette Davis had so little to do. "},{"Title":"entertaining movie ..","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  warning spoilers below...if you havent seen the alternate endings that come with the dvd version, you are really missing out. i dont know why they didnt use the second alternate ending ... it is so awesome. the jim hensonesc alien creature comes out during the seance, folds its wings around jan, they disappear, and then jan flies through space and finds karen frozen in this force field thing, she saves her, and then both girls get transported back to the chapel. you really should check it out! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was in fourth grade and never forgot it. I can still remember shots from the movie but I never encountered it again and actually thought it was called Something in the woods. Well I decided to just satisfy my curiosity and when I laid eyes on this page I knew it was the one.From what I remember, this movie is extremely scary and it gave me a horrible fear of the woods. The music is eery and the camera shots are something you'd expect in a serial killer movie, but even worse. I guess I should have seen it again before commenting here, lol, but it's really screwed up and I definitely don't recommend you show it to young children.Damn you Disney damn you. "}{"Title":"spooked, and probably not good for young kids","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing trailers for this film on the Disney movies my family rented when I was a kid (I was born in 1973). They creeped me out, the images of the watcher, and I would, if I recall, fast forward through it!Now in 2002, I've finally seen the movie. A local video store had it in their horror section, not the children's section, which may be a good decision. (The store owner said it was one of his favorite horror movies!) There are a number of ghost story clichés. However, I actually jumped a couple times, and got a lot of chills and goosebumps throughout. The image of Karen is decidedly spooky, though I wouldn't count this film now as among my own favorites. The ending is - odd (read what Maltin wrote about it).Some of the camera-work in the woods, and in the bridge scene made me wonder if Raimi had this film in mind when he made Evil Dead....Beautiful photography, and a pretty effective score, I thought. "},{"Title":"Don't show this to kids!!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time when I was 8 and, to put my response in a few words, it scarred me for quite some time. The images presented in this film, particularly those dealing with mirrors, are not suitable for children, and can even be creepy for adults. My advice after having seen this film, and been sincerely freaked out by it, many a time is to not watch it unless you want to experience a scary feeling for at least an hour afterwards. "},{"Title":"Scary enough for kids.....but boring for adults","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I was in grade 3, I remember having a movie day in the school gymnasium. The movies they were going to show, were The Wiz, and The Watcher in the Woods. I still remember having to get my parents to sign a permission slip to allow me to watch The Watcher in the Woods, and for good reason! This film gave me nightmares when I was a child. Here we are, 25 years later, and out of nostalgia, I rented this film. Unfortunately, it is not as scary as I remembered.This film, based on a novel, tells the story of an American family, moving into an English manor. Not soon after moving in, the daughters realize that there are strange things happening in the woods surrounding the house.Again, this film was very scary for me when I was a child, and I could still see that happening with children these days. I would not recommend this film for young viewers. The special effects do not live up to today's standards, and the script is lacking something. Also, not to give anything away, but the ending leaves something much to be desired. No, that's an understatement, the ending plainly sucked! I am kind of disappointed. After all the memories I had of this movie, it is just another cheap film in Disney's live action repertoire.4/10 "},{"Title":"Doomed Disney Horror Project.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a strange attempt by Disney to make a Horror Film that everyone can enjoy. Such a project was doomed from the outset, Horror Films can never be all things to all people, and Disney should have known better. THE WATCHER IN THE WOODS has since sunk into total obscurity and is widely regarded as a total failure. A while back I actually viewed the film. It is obvious that Disney were keen to make a film that could be of the same appeal to an adult audience as it would have to children. It fails on both counts. Few younger children will understand the plot and Adults will be bored by what is essentially a rip off of THE HAUNTING, THE EXORCIST, AMITYVILLE and the other Supernatural Chillers of the period, sanitised for children. As a Horror Film this is a Wash Out, the film is only occasionally creepy, there is no blood or gore and no effective shocks. Not of much appeal to anyone really but good use of locations and solid Disney production values prevent this from being a complete stinker. Of possible cult potential. The film has never been available on Video in England, but I am sure it would make a tremendous DVD. If THE WATCHER IN THE WOODS was ever released on Video or DVD in England I would probably still buy it despite of the way I have criticised it in this review. My Rating - 5 Out Of 10    "},{"Title":"Disney Tries Their Hand at Horror","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Watcher in the Woods, The (1980) ** (out of 4)Disney's attempt at a horror movie had all sorts of problems during production, including various endings shot and when the film was finally released it bombed at the box office, which for some reason had the studio go back and re-edit it some more. What's left is pretty bland stuff. A family moves into an old, creepy house where the oldest daughter (Lynn Holly Johnson) begins to see visions of a young girl named Karen who mysteriously disappeared years earlier. Turns out this is the daughter of the home owner (Bette Davis). Some extremely bad performance, bad special effects and a poor screenplay make this a rather unpleasant film even though there are some redeeming qualities. We might as well start with the bad stuff first. The performances are beyond bad here and I times I couldn't help but wonder if they accidentally used an outtake instead of real footage. Carroll Baker and David McCallum play the parents and I thought both overacted something terrible. Kyle Richards plays the youngest sister and she isn't all that impressive either. Johnson is decent in her role and carries the film just fine even though the screenplay doesn't do her too many favors. As for Davis, she is pretty fun in the movie, although I certainly wouldn't call this one of her best performances. She gives us a few nice facial gestures, which will have one reminded of her early days with those great eyes and dazes off into space. The special effects from start to finish are quite laughable and the ones at the end will have you scratching your head. The screenplay is all over the place but I'm not sure if I'd put too much blame on the writers as it's clear the film has had a lot of tampering with and this includes the multiple endings with two of them appearing on the DVD. Outside of seeing Davis, other items that work here is a nice music score and director Hough's ability to build up some atmosphere. The highlight of the film is a scene where the oldest daughter falls into a pond and gets trapped. There are a few good camera shots but that's about it. While watching the film one can't help but think of THE SHINING, which was released the same year. "},{"Title":"Disney, really?","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Curtis family move into a splendid looking old English house on the edge of the woods. Shortly after their arrival, the two daughters, Jan & Ellie start to see and hear unworldly things, could it have something to do with the disappearance of a young girl many years ago?.Forget that this is a Disney production from the very off. That the film fails to capitalise on some effective moments, and an intriguing story, has nothing to do with any sort of Disney soft soap wedging. The Watcher In The Woods, beset by re-shoots and a director change post production, works very well as a mystery chiller until its ending baffles and infuriates in equal measure. The set up is your usual standard fare, spooky house, batty old lady Bette Davis in one of her last mainstream roles, homely sisters ripe for some eerie pestering and of course some dirty mackintosh wearing simpleton out in the woods, and by Jove it really works well as a by the numbers what's in the dark closet thriller. Whilst credit has to be given to the writers for managing to hold the viewers for 75 minutes of mysterious intrigue, but then there is the flipping ending. Lurching from horror to cheap sci-fi pretentiousness could have been forgiven if it wasn't covered in a shambled glue, with the whole thing smacking of someone clearly out of horror ideas, it's such a shame that the build up is let down so badly by this tragically misguided misstep.My advice is to watch it and switch off at the 75 minute mark, trust me on this, you wont die wondering what happens, you honestly will be better off using your own imagination. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Watcher wouldn't watch this...","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this film & I'm very disappointed. I remember when this film was released & all the so-called mystery, suspense & hype that Disney tried to muster up to make this film seem good. Unfortunately, they failed big time. This film is a rip-off of other films we horror fans have seen before.It tells the story of a family that move to a very isolated manor house in the English countryside. As time goes on (very slowly I might add), the two girls are being haunted. Bette Davis plays the owner of the house & she lives in the cottage just opposite the house. She had a daughter that disappeared & the teenage daughter of the new tenant seeks to find out how & why. Well, girlfriend should have asked me why Davis' daughter in the movie knew just had bad this film is. Everything in this movie is a let down-even the climax doesn't help it. Not only that but Holly Johnson is one of the worst teenage actresses I've ever seen. Her nagging & yelling alone started making me wish the Watcher or anybody would take her away! Oh, to all Bette Davis fans out there Do not rent or buy this film! Instead, wait for it to come on TV. Poor Bette, this is one of the worst films she did later in her career. I liked her in Burnt Offerings. As a matter of fact, see that instead of this bomb. This egg was rotten from the beginning. Even the script was bad! My advice to Disney Studios is simply this NO MORE HORROR MOVIES!  "},{"Title":"Another boring thriller","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My wife and I both like thrillers.   So when I saw this one yesterday on one of the premium channels with good reviews we taped it and watched it today.   It was the same haunted house boring movie that I've seen over and over.   I just wasted 90 min. of my life watching another B movie. I give it 2 stars out of 10.     "},{"Title":"could have been good.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was looking through a box of tapes a friend gave me for a good horror flick to fall asleep too. I saw the box and it was obviously horror so I popped it in, I was expecting something like Friday the 13th or The Evil Dead.Then I saw the Disney logo ) I decided to give it a chance since I was too tired to get up and find another tape.Not bad, I really expected any Disney horror movie to be total trash but it really wasn't terrible. It try's to hard to be for all audiences though. It ends up being a movie without an audience. It is too cheesy for horror fans and too scary for younger kids. If they marketed it at an older audience, and made it a little darker and scarier, I'm sure it would be great. As it stands now, it has too much disney cheese.I give it a D+. "},{"Title":"Too Scary for Kids","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was shown this movie at a Day Care Center when I was 5 years old and it scared the crap out of me.  To this day, (I'm 20 now) I have horrible dreams about this movie.For a kid over 10, its great, but for anyone younger, I would never recommend it. I happened to see this again on TNT and my mother was horrified that they showed this movie to my brother and I as children.  My brother was as scared as I was.The music alone is a large enough hint that it's not a movie for younger children... "}{"Title":"Good grief, this flick is BAD","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm aware of the rocky history of Watcher, and I can DEFINITELY see why Disney finally reshot the original horrible ending a year later.Lynn-Holly Johnson acts about as convincingly as your average high school cheerleader, and Bette Davis is totally wasted. The plot is ridiculous, and while Hume's cinematography has a nice sheen to it, the direction of the shots often destroys the composition. The moving POV camera becomes annoying - a little bit of that goes a LONG way. And WHOSE POV is it, anyway?WHO is watching in the woods? If Karen is trapped, how can she haunt anyone? Is her keeper the haunter?One plus is Benedict Taylor as Mike - he also has a great role in the 1974 version of The Turn of the Screw.Fortunately, the 1981 reshoots replaced Karen in the final shots.......the first actress to fill the roll looks like a boy in a white wig (in what are now the alternative endings, though actually the originals in 1980). Well, she isn't completely replaced - the only 1981 Karen reshoots were apparently for the final scene, leaving the first Karen in several early shots. Neither actress gets a credit in the final 1981 version.And, NO, this was NOT BD's last role, not by a long shot.Worth watching for its troubled back-story, and as an example of Disney's floundering decisions at that point in its history. Those early PG flicks must have seemed daring within the studio boardrooms, but keep in mind that this was the same year as the original Amityville Horror. "},{"Title":"Uhhhh...","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I was in fifth grade, our teacher showed us The Watcher in the Woods for Halloween. She said that it was an acceptable horror movie because it didn't have any violence.Be that as it may, the movie could have been a lot more, even without violence. The whole idea of a family going to an old dark house where unexplainable things happen does seem a little bit hackneyed. Bette Davis, as the mother of the girl who disappeared thirty years earlier, seems to be channeling her roles in What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? and Hush, Hush, Sweet Charlotte, with a soft demeanor and eerie gaze.The movie isn't outright pathetic. The scenes where the disappeared girl's likeness appears are actually pretty intense. Unfortunately, most people in the movie have little more to do than look befuddled every time something strange happens.Passable, but it could have been better. "},{"Title":"Lacking Disney 'horror' film","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm fairly sure I haven't seen a Disney movie since my age hit double figures; and I never really had any intention of doing so, but I didn't do my research before getting myself a copy of this film and it became the first in years. The Watcher in the Woods is clearly aimed at children and while it's still a horror story; there's very little 'horror' involved and anyone experienced in this genre is likely to find it rather lacking; myself included. The base of the plot has figured in many other horror movies before and after this one and simply focuses on a family that moves into a haunted house. The Curtis family have moved from America to the English countryside and taken up residence in an old house in the woods. It's not long before the family is plagued by strange occurrences and after a little investigating, they discover that the daughter of a local, Mrs Aylwood, died in mysterious circumstances and the eldest of the two daughters comes to believe it is her ghost behind the haunting.The film does actually have a fairly strong horror backbone. Director John Hough knows his way around this sort of film, having directed a handful of notable entries including the excellent 'Twins of Evil' for Hammer studios in 1971. His direction is actually one of the few assured things about this film; although it suffers in that area from various re-shoots and edits. The standout name in the cast belongs to the great Bette Davis, although she is not as impressive as she was in the likes of Whatever Happened to Baby Jane. There's also a role for Carroll Baker, whom cult fans may recognise from a handful of Italian films in the late sixties and early seventies. The main problem with the film is the plot; it's just too 'by the numbers' and lacking in surprises and it just gives the film an overall lacklustre feel. Some of the shots inside the forest are eerie and it's never completely boring; but its very tame stuff indeed. The ending is frenzied and silly too. Overall, this might appeal to kids or people that enjoyed it when they were a kid; but I doubt there are many adults who could sit through and enjoy this film now. "},{"Title":"Dreadful movie","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I picked up this movie because of the cast. A Disney made picture with Bette Davis, Carroll Baker, Ian Bannen . . . It just had to be good! I can get past the set up of the wholesome family moving in to an old English estate complete with a forest that appears to be haunted. It was fitting that Miss Davis would play the creepy caretaker/neighbor. It was perfect for the notion of a horror film. Given that the leads were kids, it seemed right that the parents would be written as inept twits. What I can't get past is the completely predictable script, the wooden performances by everyone except Ian Bannen (even he was bad, but better than the rest) and the laughable ending.I understand there was a struggle to get the film to the theaters and that the end was shot a couple of times even after the end of principle filming. I found the alternate endings on the DVD just as awful as the one that made it to the theaters.I love campy horror films but I can't recommend this one at all. It is just a snorer from start to finish. "}]