[{"Title":"Grand Guignol revived for the eighties...","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"65 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Over one century ago (1897 to be exact) in the dingy back streets of Montmartre, Paris, an eccentric ex-secretary to a Police commissioner named Oscar Metenier, opened the Theatre du Grand Guignol. For 65 years, groups of performers staged one-act plays that depicted graphic scenes of murder, mutilation and torture. Famous works by authors such as Charles Dickens and James Hadley Chase were adapted for Grand Guignol and made into, some might say, horrific gore-laden masterpieces. People's morbid curiosities kept the shows ever popular, all the way up until the Nazis invaded France during World War II. Perhaps because the French population was experiencing true horrors of their own, the urge to see such events portrayed on stage, quite obviously became a lot less alluring. The theatre never recovered, and it finally closed its doors for the last time in 1962. William Lustig's Maniac is basically Grand Guignol for the cinematic audiences of the eighties. A movie that viewers of a quainter disposition will describe as depraved, demoralising and redundantly mean spirited, while others have touted its story telling as artistic, ballsy and daring. Although its often labelled as a formulaic stalk and slash offering, it is actually a member of the sub, sub-genre that differentiates itself from the Halloween and Friday the 13th created format. Along with Nightmares in a Damaged Brain, Mardi Gras Massacre, and Don't go in the House; Maniac offers something refreshing, by giving the killer characterisation and making him more than just a loony in a mask with a machete.The plot portrays the life of Frank Zito, an insane and stammering psychological mess of a man, with more than a few severe problems upstairs. His story unravels around his decent into madness, which stems from his seclusion and isolation from the outside world. He is a lonely, redoubtable character, with no friends or companionship; he's just alone with his fragmented mind to torment him. His desperation to feel accepted by civilisation results in him creating his own 'family' from female mannequins. To add realism to their beings and to make them as human-like as could be possible, he furnishes their heads with the scalps of women that he butchers remorselessly. In the first ten minutes, an unfortunate prostitute is ruthlessly slaughtered for no apparent reason, and the misogyny continues all the way through the movie; as nurses, models and innocent bystanders are gorily slain for nothing more than the misfortune of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. The creepiest thing about these murders, is the fact that Zito has no apparent understanding of the results of his actions. He reads headlines, which describe the feelings of a city left in fear by his spate of madness and he watches news updates that inform us of the aftermath of his bloodthirsty rein. But his reaction is non-existent; he shows no knowledge of any wrongdoing, almost like he is unaware that he commits such atrocities. His mental downfall takes a U-turn, when he meets up with Anna D'Antoni (Caroline Munro) a photographer that attracts his attention for the first time when she snaps him wondering through a park. We finally get to see a thoroughly different side to his character, - a romantic, insecure personality that's been buried beneath years of self-inflicted misery and emotional torture. There is a constant battle between two separate personalities that rages inside Zito's mind however, and Anna's fate depends upon whether the good or evil side emerges victoriously...The opening sequence stays true to its stalk and slash counterparts; as the masked, heavy breathing Zito kills a loving couple on a beach. Lustig describes the scene as a homage to Jaws, only this time the monster is out of the sea and on land, thus explaining the beach setting. It's a well-handled commencement, with Savini adding the magic that he is most reputed for; and Robert Lindsay's competent photography creates energy that prevails throughout the whole movie. Although body count material is introduced without any characterisation or development, it can be argued that the story resolves around Zito; and to him, victims are only objects or playthings anyway. I have always considered Bill Lustig to be a highly underrated filmmaker. Maniac Cop was yet another great movie, although I would consider this to be one of his best - probably because he was relatively unknown when he worked it. The parts that were filmed inside the killer's flat are shot in complete silence, which effectively adds to the feeling of seclusion and abandonment. It's like the viewer is inside the character's apartment, but also inside his own remote world, where his loneliness has degenerated into an unrelenting insanity. It's added moments like these that make Maniac all the more creepy. The subway scene adds some awe-inspiring suspense, as Frank stalks a nurse through the station. Lustig does well to keep the atmosphere tense and the viewer is always aware that something is about to happen, meaning there is never any allowance for comfort in the fact that any of the characters will escape to safety. He also manages at least two effective jump-scares, the final Carrie-esque jolt being particularly memorable. Jay Chattaway provides a superb score to accompany the visuals, and Lorenzo Marinelli's editing is equally impressive.Although you could never call Joe Spinnell a fantastic dramatic performer by any of his pre-Maniac work, Frank Zito (named as a nod to Joseph Zito the director of The Prowler and friend to Lustig and Savini) was undoubtedly the part he was put on this planet to play. It's a convincing performance that allowed the actor to immerse himself deep into something that he had researched thoroughly and accurately, giving his character a vivid portrait of realism that was necessary to create the child's nightmare-like quality that the movie possesses. Spinnell is Maniac and Maniac is Spinnell, there's no doubt about it; it was his signature role. It's impossible to imagine another character actor fitting the bill so perfectly. Not only does he play the part; he also looks and sounds it too. He wasn't the only one that hit a career high under Lustig's direction though; the ever-adorable Caroline Munro gave her most realistic portrayal too. Her star had just reached its zenith in 1980, before she became a scream queen in less memorable flicks such as Slaughter High and Faceless, which would supplement her income, well into motherhood. This also offered a chance to break away from the bikini-clad bimbo roles that she had been given up until that point; and it gave her the chance to try something a little different. I strongly respect her refusal to do any nudity, which cost a further contract with Hammer in the early seventies. It takes a strong women to reject such offers for the sake of her modesty, and Munro proved that she was just that; and her career strengthened because of it. It's worth noting that the pair were reunited two years later for Fanatic (aka The Last Horror Film), which lacked the gritty edge and invitingly sleazy surroundings of its predecessor, but attempted to cash-in on the fame that Lustig's film had earned from its gruesome reputation.Maniac was filmed on super 16 mm and like the best slashers from this period, it was shot for the most miniscule of budgets ('under a million dollars'). A lot of the on-location work was staged illegally, without any insurance or authorised permission. Lustig anecdotes about the exploding head scene (no less than Tom Savini's, by the way), where they had to fire a shotgun through the windscreen of a car and then make a quick getaway, before the Police arrived to investigate the gunshot! Munro was given only one-day to rehearse the script before starting work, due to replacing Dario Argento's wife of the time, Daria Nicolodi. Admittedly, it does seem pretty strange that a woman with a name as Italian as Anna D' Antoni, would be played by an English Rose; but she does a good enough job and is truly a sight to behold. Many, MANY countries rejected this movie on the grounds of its unnecessary violence towards women; including the censors here in the UK, who made sure to add it to the DPP list almost immediately. The Philippines' board of film review was so outraged by what they discovered that they told the producers to take it to Satan instead of their country, and went on to describe it as 'unentertaining' and 'unfit for Human consumption'! Of course, knowledge of those monstrosities, only made it seem all the more curious to youngsters that had heard such tales of unruly degradation, and were eager to check it out for themselves; thus earning it a massive cult following. Upon release, it became immensely popular, although it was heavily criticised for its brutal violence. Spinnell said that the blood was never on screen long enough for his creation to be considered too gruesome. He lied; - there are parts of the movie that are limitlessly gory and blood-soaked. You'll find decapitations scalpings and dismemberment, - if you can name a gory way to slaughter a female, then you'll find it somewhere in here. Maniac is one of the only video-nasties that have managed to retain its shock factor, even after twenty-four years!I saw an edited copy of this in the mid-nineties and was unimpressed. Perhaps my attentions were elsewhere or I was expecting something more? I can't be sure, but last night, watching it once again for this review, I found myself captivated. There are flaws, yes for certain. It's unlikely that a beauty as striking, as Anna would give the time of day to a misfit like Zito in the first place, and the end sequence is a little bizarre to say the least. But all niggles are forgiven when you acknowledge the effort that has been put into making this production as realistically as they possibly could. Credit has to be given to Spinnell for believing in the project and his dedication and research into serial killers deserves recognition. I haven't yet seen Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, although I'm told that the two movies have a great deal in common, so I'm after a copy right now. Maniac has earned itself another fan, and I believe that it deserves to be seen. There has never been, and probably never will be, another movie so depraved and disturbing; so grab a copy whilst you've got the chance. It's an innovative and daring take on the standard slasher genre, which succeeds because it is just that.  "},{"Title":"What's a good son to do???","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Poor Frank. As a child, Momma was a mean hooker who used to lock him in the closet while she turned tricks. She loved those men and their money more than she ever did her own son. How's a sweet & innocent child to recover? Kill em all!! That's how!! As an adult, Frank Zito now wanders the lonely streets of New York nightly, looking out for his next victim. Whether it' a hooker, a cheating spouse, a snooty model, or just someone out and about in the late night hour, Frank's M.O. is always the same  Kill em, Scalp em, take their head of hair home, and nail it onto one of the several female mannequins around his scummy apartment. Good boy Frank! Now Frankie doesn't have to be lonely anymore. He has a department store full of victims around his apartment, all to himself! They will never leave, and will be kept always by Frank. This guy has a lot of heart, and it shows.Maniac isn't the fastest paced movie, but it has some of the most awesome graphic violence that 80's horror produced (thank you Tom Savini!). The late Joe Spinell (who also co-wrote) is simply irresistible as Frank Zito. He's terrifying, childish, maniacal, and downright lovable as the crazed New York madman.Maniac is gritty, dark, horrifying, and directed in many parts as a documentary film, allowing the viewer to see things through Franks eyes. You feel like your right along for the ride with this fine gent!It's a beauty of a horror film, one not to be forgotten after the credits roll. "},{"Title":"An interesting Flick","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is one of those hard to define flicks. Although, it would seem easy to lump this into one category because of the subject matter, this is actually a hard movie to categorize. It is not really a horror film and not really a slasher. Sure, it has its typical slasher suspense scenes with the random girl running and hiding from the killer and the gory moments are all there, but, there is something about this movie that separates itself from most of the others of its genre. This, in my opinion, is typical of Tom Savini special effects flicks from the early 80's. The grittiness, disturbing nature of most of those films will never be duplicated. And I am not talking about flicks like Creepshow or Day of the Dead (although, that one is disturbing), I am talking about films like Friday the 13th, The Prowler, The Burning, and Nightmare in a Damaged Brain (even though Savini said he never worked on that flick it certainly looks like his style).Maniac is simply about a man named Frank (played very well by actor Joe Spinell) who was tormented by his mother when he was very young. As a result of this, he grew up to be a sick person who murders woman, scalps them, and uses their hair to nail on to a collection of mannequins. He ends up falling in love with a woman named Anna (Caroline Munro), and when he sees her he seems to be a normal fellow. This all leads up to an interesting climax.Now, the storyline is rather simple but the movie is suspenseful enough to hold your interest. I will admit, the first 40 minutes were a bit slow, but once when the story starts going more into Franks behavior when he is by himself and then when he acts towards Anna, things start picking up.Of course, Savini's gore scenes are excellent just like the rest of his stuff. We get to see Savini in the movie himself in a rather famous scene where he gets his brains splattered all over the inside of a car. Though, as a gore fan myself, this is definitely not the goriest flick I have seen. But after listening to the cast and director talk about the movie, I don't think it was meant to be. Joe Spinell himself said that the flick wasn't as violent as a Hershell Gordan Lewis film but was meant to be more realistic and shocking. So, when watching this movie it is important to know this instead of going into the movie expecting a real gore-fest.I enjoyed this movie, but that is just me. Many people don't like this movie, but if you haven't seen it yet this is for you to decide. I just hope this review helps out. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Claustrophobic gorefest with a bad reputation.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  William Lustig's MANIAC wasn't a critical hit in 1980, but it garnered the attention of horror fans in its gory homicidal story. It was a low-budget film with some disturbing violence which many people deemed misogynist (TOTAL BULLS**T) because he kills off women here. It's good to notice two of the best murders happen to the fellas too (Tom Savini  gets it the worst obviously). But that aside, MANIAC is neither the best horror film of all time or most enjoyable, but damn is it intense.Joe Spinell is absolutely strong in his portrayal of Frank Zito, a real man who has a nasty habit of slaughtering random individuals, mostly female ones so he can dress up mannequins with their scalped hair and clothes. This guy isn't Michael or Jason when he bleeds, he feels pain. And because he feels guilty a bit over the tragic death of his abusive mother, he feels the urge to murder. Frank falls in love with Anna (Caroline Munro), a photographer who is unaware of Frank's dirty deeds, until Frank sets his unrested demon upon her in the end. The ending is bizarre, and the love story subplot feels a tad unsuitable (although the restaurant scene sets up some exposition, including the knowledge of Frank's mom being killed in an auto wreck). But when the gory carnage sets in, its realistic and graphic. Most other gore flicks seem timid.The DVD version from ANCHOR BAY is a keeper, with audio commentary, a documentary on the late Spinell, the obligatory trailers/TV ads, a radio interview pitting the Spinell, Lustig and Munro against a DJ who roasts the film despite not seeing it, and some more angry comments from the critics in a Gallery of Outrage. Tin box version contains the moody and effective Jay Chattaway film score on CD. "},{"Title":"Excellent make-up FX and claustrophobic atmosphere.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'd first like to applaud Tom Savini for his work here; MANIAC contains some of the most realistic and unrestrained gore fx I've seen; possibly THE best up until the time of its release. Anyone who says that horror film make-up men (and women) don't deserve to be called artists is an idiot. Here you get explicitly bloody murders and scalpings, plus a show-stopper head-being-blown-off-with-shotgun murder and a man being ripped apart nightmare and it all looks pretty damn convincing to me.Aside from the effects, director William Lustig does an OK job with color schemes (especially considering the budget) and the grimy, sleazy underbelly of New York is brilliantly exploited to give this film a truly nihilistic and seedy feel. The film itself, I thought, was scary, disturbing, intense and even suspenseful in parts (the subway sequence was especially well handled), which is how it should be. Reliable character actor Joe Spinell (from TAXI DRIVER, THE GODFATHER, etc.) also offers an effective performance as the sweaty, overweight, emotionally- scarred killer.On the down side, a plot would have been nice and it's unforgivable to waste British actress Caroline Munro on such a poorly scripted nothing role. Her beauty, charm and smile light up the screen and could have been better harnessed to counteract the ugliness on hand. Anyway, the film at least provokes some kind of reaction from its audience. Seeing a few of my squeamish female friends appalled and horrified by the film made it well worth the watch to me! "},{"Title":"Gory as hell no-holds-barred slasher flick.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is one of the most visceral examples of the horror genre.Along with Romano Scavolini's Nightmare(1981)it is one of the most disturbing horror films ever made.The killings presented here are cold-blooded,extremely brutal and gory.Maniac in its almost pornographic depiction of violence makes any Friday the 13th film look tame.Joe Spinell is perfect as a maniac killer Frank Zito,who graphically murders and scalps his victims.Caroline Munro(Kronos,Slaughter High)is really hot as a young fashion photographer.The gore effects made by Tom Savini are simply spectacular-the head explosion scene has to be one of the most amazing moments in cinematic history.The amount of gore splashed in this sequence is incredible.The direction by William Lustig(Maniac Cop series,The Violation of Claudia)is well-handled,the acting is fairly convincing and the atmosphere is really ugly and disturbing.Definitely one to avoid if you're politically correct,but if you like confrontional stuff you can't miss it.10 out of 10.See it now! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Horror Films of All TIME!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  From the amazing performance of Joe Spinell to the Brutal Make-up FX of Tom Savini, this is perhaps the mother of all Horror Slasher Flicks...Written to be Jaws on Land...this film captures to wonderful vibe on New York City in the late 70's  "},{"Title":"Classic slice of early 80s gore.","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Co-written by, and starring Joe Spinell, 'Maniac' is a grim, bloody and horrific journey into the world of a psychotic murderer. Spinell gives a bravura performance as Frank, a deeply disturbed individual haunted by childhood memories of his mistreatment at the hands of his mother.As a result of his lousy upbringing, Frank is now a first-class loony tune; he slaughters women (although the occasional man gets in his way and ends up dead too) and removes their scalps, taking them home to place upon the mannequins that he keeps in his apartment.When Frank has his picture taken in a park by photographer Anna (played by the gorgeous Caroline Munro), he tracks her down and almost manages to pass for normal for a while, wining and dining the sexy snapper and being quite charming. But it's not long before the real Frank emerges, and has a go at adding Anna to his long line of victims.The direction by William Lustig, whilst not exceptional, does the job it was supposed to do; the film never drags and there are one or two edge-of-your-seat moments and a couple of nifty scares.'Maniac's gory death sequences, by legendary horror make-up legend Tom Savini, are real showstoppers, and include ultra-realistic scalpings, amazing exploding heads and vicious bloody stabbings. The majority of Savini's work on the film is stunning, with only the final decapitation being less than perfect.'Maniac' is a great example of low-budget 80s splatter and will appeal to all those who enjoy their horror down and dirty with buckets of gore. "},{"Title":"Maniacal For Sure.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is one of the few horror movies that I have seen that actually got under my skin a little. It made me feel uncomfortable while I watched what was happening on screen, and very few movies have ever done that to me. The movie follows a psychotic murderer as he wanders the streets of New York City, in cheap restaurants, rundown apartment complexes, and subway stations, searching for his next victims, each of them savagely murdered.The plot for this movie may not seem very scary, but the way the movie is crafted is genuinely grisly and really made me feel uncomfortable. Rather than going from the victim's point of view as they are slashed to pieces (like most horror movies tend to do), this movie rather focuses on the actual killer himself. We learn about the abuse that he suffered as a small child at the hands of his domineering mother, which is presumably the reason he's become a murderer, taking out his own personal revenge on other people. The one thing about this movie that was so interesting was how the audience got to enter the mind of the killer, so to speak. Joe Spinell gave an excellent performance as the maniac in this movie, he portrayed a tormented human very well. There are some very grisly murders throughout the movie, all of which are fairly gruesome. But the most disturbing aspect to the film was the sense of psychosis that the killer is experiencing.Maniac is surely similar to Psycho, which makes me wonder whether or not the writers of this film were basing the plot on the real life serial killer Ed Gein, who also grew up with an abusive mother and suffered psychological problems later on as an adult, which ultimately drove him to grave-robbing and murder. There are some striking similarities between the story of this film and Ed Gein's life.Overall, Maniac is one grisly, nasty movie. It displays the psychological torment that many real-life serial killers suffer from and does a good job at it, leaving it's audience uncomfortable in their seats. And from what I have seen, not many movies do that. 7/10. "},{"Title":"He's a Maniac, Maaaaaniac!","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This one's a sick flick. If Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer and The New York Ripper chugged beer till they were sick(er), they would probably puke up Maniac. Mmmm, nice image, huh? Well, get used to it, cause if you're watching Maniac, you'll be seeing plenty of sick sh*t. You might wanna even skip the Suds & Buds. This one will kill your buzz and if you watch it with friends, they might expect an apology afterwards.So, Frank Zito (an absolutely nutty Joe Spinell) has Mommy issues. A lot of guys do... they just don't handle them the way Frank does. He destroys women (and a couple guy who were unfortunate to be involved with the women Frank had his eye on). He's a creepy dude alright. You see, he has this thing for scalps. And as most girls are rather attached to theirs (chortle), he's gotta take them. So he stalks young ladies till he finds a window of opportunity and then gets down to business.This is pretty much what Frank does with his life, till one day he meets a photographer named Anna. For some reason, Frank tries to play it normal with her (2 guesses how this turns out). He wines and dines her, all the while letting her keep possession of her scalp like a perfect gentleman. Things go swimmingly till Frank decides it would be nice to take Anna to pay his Mother's grave a visit. Frank kinda loses his grip and tries to get familiar with Anna's scalp. Anna thinks the date is over and flees accordingly, leaving Frank to stumble home to his rat-hole apartment and have a total psychotic breakdown and a happy ending is enjoyed by none.... except Anna's scalp.OK, so Maniac is not a date movie. This is that special kind of horror movie that exists to make you regret watching it, in the sense the it leaves one feeling kinda depressed and dirty afterwards (like the other 2 movies I mentioned at the start). Let me state right now that I don't think it's wicked cool that Frank has it in for women. I have nothing but love and respect for women (my Mom is a woman). But this isn't a nice movie.Actually, it's a very ugly and mean spirited movie. So why the good rating? Cause I can appreciate ugly, mean spirited movies. I mean, this IS a horror movie, right? This isn't mainstream Hollywood horror, like The Grudge or Final Destenation, where the idea is to put pretty people in precarious positions. This is low budget '80s sleaze. This is from an era when horror movies wanted to make you uncomfortable. And it does just that.The Good Joe Spinell (who also wrote the screenplay) is, uhhh, very convincing. As are the effects, handled by the one and only Tom Savini. Speaking of Tom, he has a cameo in one scene as a disco dude taking a lady down to the docks for a little rub and tug... till Frank shows up and blows his head off (one of my all-time fave gore effects, really, ya gotta see it). Some of the other effects are almost too much to bear.... which is a good thing? Seriously, if you're looking for a fun horror movie to watch, don't even bother with this. But, if you know what you're in for and you're still down, Maniac is nasty and truly horrifying.The Not So Good See ugly, mean spirited, nasty. Some people (about 99.9%) will wonder how and why this ever got made. As I mentioned above, some of the effects are really harsh. The first time we see Frank scalp a girl, it's really quite unsettling, to the point where if you don't dig stuff like this, you might feel sick. It could be labeled misogynistic and irresponsible but, I'm of the mind that if you watch this and think it's OK to scalp women, your screws were loosening already. Don't blame movies, music or books for f'd up people. "}{"Title":"Excellent Exploit/Slasher...","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Gave this one a watch after not having seen it in a few years - and it still remains probably my favorite psycho/slasher-style film. There's a good balance of atmosphere with the brutal violence that makes MANIAC a twisted classic...Frank is a messed-up guy that has a big mommy-fetish. He goes around stabbing and scalping local New York girls to provide wigs for the mannequins that he lays around his apartment and talks to. He handles himself pretty well socially when he's not stabbing people and even goes on a few dates with one broad, that is...until he tries to choke her. Finally, Frank's delusions get the better of him...MANIAC is a rare film amongst the typical 80's slasher trash, as you actually get a look into his (warped) mind. Some of the scenes of him talking to his mannequins are straight-up creepy, and the way that he is shown to sometimes be a very pleasant guy is in strong conflict with his twisted tendencies, which is a refreshing way to write his character. There's a good bit of the red stuff for the gore-heads out there, including several stabbings, a couple of scalpings, a gory dream sequence where Franks arm is chopped off and his head is pulled off, and of course, the infamous shotgun-head-blast. The level of violence plus a little nudity (including a bit of brief full-frontal) makes MANIAC an excellent choice for sleaze, gore, and exploit fans. Definitely Recommended - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Glory days of 42nd St. - wish I could have been there","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*While most movies are made to appeal to a generally wide audience, Maniac felt like it was made for a very specific audience The guys who would wander into the movie theaters of Times Square. I wish I could have been there in the late 70's and early 80's. Those were the golden years for exploitation movie fans. Maniac hit the nail on the head. It set out to make a sicko movie as realistic as possible and succeeded.Joe Spinell is the Maniac. He is the movie. We watch him be a sicko. He hunts and kills numerous women and couples throughout New York. There are a lot of gory scenes. Every stalking scene has a sufficient payoff of blood and guts. Joe wants to remember his women so he scalps them and nails them to the various mannequins he has in his apartment. Seems the Maniac has mommy abandonment issues. He tries to work it out through stalking and slashing pretty girls.One reality problem I had with this flick was the instant attraction Caroline Munro, a very hot babe, has to the unbelievably foul Maniac. I didn't buy it for a second. Surely a hot photographer wouldn't waste her time with the portly, slimy Maniac. He fit the part of a psycho killer but being a ladies man was just too crazy.Aside from that, Maniac is a great slasher movie. Granted, Joe Spinell is not the prettiest face to look at for 90 minutes. Also, hearing him whine and act loopy can get a tad tedious. But overall he plays one of the more memorable movie sickos. The filmmakers wanted to show the ugly and nasty side of murder and Maniac delivers.Two last thoughts, I loved that song that was playing while the models were dancing. Going to the showdown...' Also, I thought one of the nurses looked familiar. Scanning the credits, it was indeed Sharon Mitchell. I always get a kick out of seeing porn stars in normal movies, (non-porn).  "},{"Title":"How low can you go?","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I can't say that Maniac isn't an interesting movie.  It presents itself as an exploration of the mind of a madman in much the same way that the 1934 Maniac did and with about as much candor (which is to say none at all). Maniac is undeniably a classic of its type an early-80's slasher/splatter movie stripped down to its absolute essence. It's probably the purest, the cruellest and the most corrupt example of the genre ever to exist on film. In fact, it exaggerates the cliches and easy criticisms of the genre to such an outrageous extent that it often seems more like a straw-man set up to deconstruct the mechanics of slasher movies than an example of the real thing.  But don't be fooled.  Although Maniac pretends to assume a sort of artistic gravity and a seriousness of intent, it's a Hershell Gordon Lewis movie at heart.The film itself consists of almost nothing more than a prolonged series of suspense-building set-ups, each of which climaxes in a beautifully executed and lovingly presented piece of state-of-the-art special makeup gore.  The special effects makeup, by George Romero regular Tom Savini, is truly spectacular.  A scalping presented early in the film and a shotgun blast to the head presented later are especially memorable.  Tom is even allowed a small part in the film, which culminates in probably the finest exploding-head effect ever presented on film (for the special makeup fan, it is truly gratifying to see this master craftsman allowed to execute himself in such a fitting manner).  More than anything else, it is the gore which has earned the film what little fame (or infamy) it can be said to possess.All that said, Maniac remains an extremely troubling film.  Many of the comments posted here mention its cheapness, a description based largely, I suspect, on the poor treatment the film has usually received in it's home video presentations.  But as made abundantly clear in its recent repackaging as a remastered, widescreen, director's cut fan item, Maniac is anfairly well-crafted film.  Its pacing is deliberately austere, and it very effectively generates an atmosphere of grimy, claustrophobic tension.  In its technical finesse and industrial chill, Maniac resembles a George Romero movie made by Brian DePalma.  Each shot appears to have been carefully framed, and the cinematography is generally fine, occasionally even excellent.  In many respects it's an accomplished piece of filmmaking, especially when measured against slasher/splatter exploitation movies as a genre.  The harsh and grating soundtrack, which borrows heavily from the John Carpenter school of minimal synth arpeggios, is probably the film's weakest point technically, but only if you ignore the acting.In the title role, writer/star Joe Spinell turns in an amazingly overblown and dull-witted depiction of a man at war with his own demons.  (Don't get your hopes up, though.  It's not even good for camp laffs.)  The character wobbles back and forth between raving, drooling monsterhood, and everyday-joe-ness without justifying the transitions or making either state really credible.  Many writers seem to argue for the validity of the central performance, and, measured against films like Friday the 13th, Maniac may seem like a reasonable and nuanced portrait of mental instability.  In any broader context, however, the performance is absolutely atrocious. Furthermore, the script insists that we accept the villain as a professional artist, rather than the janitor or plumber he in every resembles.  The supporting parts are equally underdeveloped and wooden, drawing clear attention to the fact that character development is not of much interest to the filmmakers.Joe's performance would be bad enough if the filmmakers didn't insist on placing him in the middle of almost every single shot.  Maniac never strays outside the killer's view.  There is no pursuit, no detection, no good guys at all.  We (the audience) know the victims only as the killer knows them.  They exist only as fodder for their own exquisitely rendered death scenes.  Which gives the movie a certain purity and simplicity, but exacerbates a repulsive sort of audience dynamic.  The killer is the only real identification point in the movie.  We see much of the action in straight point-of-view.  Which could be said to draw attention to the viewer's complicity with the spectacle, but this is clearly not the filmmaker's intent.  Instead we are forced to INDENTIFY with the killer. We wait on the edge of our seats for the explosions of blood and agony just as he does.Fundamentally, Maniac isn't really interested in much besides the depiction of violence and pain.  Violence and pain appear not as mechanisms by which the audience can be manipulated, but as simple ends in themselves. Maniac is the purest expression of the dominant 80's violence as pornography horror film aesthetic.  It delivers extremely strong levels of brutal violence early, to set up audience expectations, and continues to bring the gore throughout its running time.  Its very capably handled suspense sequences are based not on the classic will the bad thing happen? tension, but on a more modern how will the bad thing be presented? tension.  And that's all well and good.  Grand guignol is a big part of the function of the contemporary horror film.  As an audience, we know what's gonna happen, we just agonize over (and at the same time anticipate) the precise congruence of knife and girl that will finish the scene.  What makes Maniac so dispicable is the black haze of cruelty and lust that rises off the whole thing.  The film's basic misogyny and frustrated desire are so fundamental to its nature that it seems almost pointless to mention or criticize them.It's this pitiless, leering quality that makes the movie so uncomfortable to watch or enjoy in any traditional sense.  With many Italian Zombie/Cannibal films of the same era (most notably Ruggereo Deodato's The House at the Edge of the Park and Cannibal Holocaust) it shares a quality of prurient moralism that is extremely queasy at heart.  The film seems to glower down on the atrocities it presents with a sort of cold puritanism, but ultimately cannot conceal the glee and fetishized sexuality in it's gaze.  What's more, it seems totally unaware that such issues might even be considered (unlike Cannibal Holocaust which exploits issues of viewer culpability for cheap effect).*  Maniac is an extremely self-conscious movie that remains, somehow, utterly unaware of its own psychodynamics.  An ugly, witless and nearly inhuman piece of work.* For reference, see Man Bites Dog, which exploits viewer culpability to great effect.*** caveat ***I admit that these criticisms will seem tediously familiar to anyone who has followed the progress of the horror film over the past thirty years. These are not new arguments and perhaps not interesting ones.  Please keep in mind, though, that this review was written by someone who LOVES horror movies and gore flicks, but who f***ing loathes slasher movies and the depiction of suffering for entertainment's sake.  Most horror fans probably wouldn't find Maniac as distasteful as I did.   I'm not arguing that movies make people kill.  I don't hate horror movies.  I don't hate gore.  I just hate this movie.  "},{"Title":"A Grand Guignol Masterpiece","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is hands down the best Grindhouse potboiler ever produced. Even today, 29 years after its release, Joe Spinell's performance as the deranged Frank Zito stands out as the most effective, nausea inducing rendition of a serial killer in cinema history. William Lustig's direction stands out as superb; his visual style perfectly complements the dark, seamy subject matter. By dwelling on the dark shadows and filthy corners of Zito's den of horrors, we slowly come to the realization that the isolated apartment - all but devoid of any reminder that a world exists beyond the blood spattered walls - symbolizes the flayed mind of Zito himself. Unlike most of today's horrors, not a single aspect was arbitrary - each enhanced the story in some way.Note how the film begins on a beach, with Zito's pov as he closes in on the lovers resembling that of the shark in Jaws. Or the almost unbearable tension during the stalking of Rita scene, and how Jay Chattaway's drones reach into your guts and tug on your intestines. If Halloween was a masterpiece of framing, Maniac was a tour-de-force of the use of sound. The set-pieces remain the most brutally nihilistic ever captured in an American release. The excesses of Saw and Hostel pale in comparison to the marriage of aesthetic and subject matter in Lustig's film. The site of an obese, sweaty, pockmarked Spinell scalping the corpse of a victim is almost as disturbing as what we might guess he does to the mannequins he nails the scalps to, when the camera is off.Almost 30 years later, Maniac remains the gold standard for brutal, exploitation cinema. "},{"Title":"The best horror movie you will ever see","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Really, this has ruined me on horror movies for life. I first picked this up at Big Lots of all places (they also had Opera, Sleepaway Camp, and a Sex Pistols documentary there -- at BIG LOTS -- all uncut and for $5 on VHS... does that make any sense?!) out of curiosity about 6 years ago and it just completely blew my mind into little chunks, kind of like an exploded head shot with a shotgun. I'll never be the same. To me, nothing can compare to this.The atmosphere, the gore, the pacing, the music, the acting, everything about this film coalesces to create a dramatic, suspenseful, depressing, and endlessly fascinating entertainment experience. I love the sleazy New York locales, the strange and uncomfortable voiceovers, the dirty and dilapidated apartment building where the maniac lives... really, I've seen this film probably more than any other film I can think of, and I can't think of a single flaw.So, I recommend this above any horror/slasher/gore film I can think of. But be warned that it'll probably ruin you for life; you'll probably never find a better horror movie than this. "},{"Title":"creepy little NY film","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Okay, first of all this movie was shot in New York and there's something I find fascinating about the look of films shot in NY in the 70's or 80's. The movie itself is decent but not great. It has a good look and feel to it and I like Joe Spinell in it. Joe plays Frank, a photographer, who misses his dead mother despite being mistreated by her as a child. He begins killing women at night and keeping parts from the bodies. I however didn't find the relationship he had with the model he stalked all too believable. It has some good scenes and is still a good watch for slasher fans and fans like me of gritty New York City in the 70's and 80's. "},{"Title":"Pure heavy metal!!!!!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is one of my favorite stalker movies. This must be one of the best stalker movie in the world and then we dont forget Lucio Fulcis New York ripper thats also is a masterpiece as maniac. Again i must give almost all credit to the master Tom Savini for his great special FX, and for Joe Spinellis high class accting. Joe Spinell is so creeping in maniac, that i can promise you if i had meet that man i had run the other way. "},{"Title":"promising concept but poorly done","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maniac takes a path that few films dare, by allowing us to sympathize with the killer, and presenting him as the protagonist of the film.  Indeed, for the first half hour, the film creates a shockingly claustrophobic scenario, in which Frank is the only real character in the film, and the others are all introduced to serve merely as his victims.  This structure makes for some powerful viewing, because Frank's worldview is so claustrophobic and stifling that we almost literally feel his isolation weighing down upon us.The film loses its power when it creates a semi-traditonal love interest for Frank.  Inevitably, this opens up the film, by allowing us to assume a perspective other than Frank's at various times throughout the remainder of the film.  Though this does come as a sort of emotional relief for the viewer, it also diminishes most of the tension that the stellar first half hour so completely creates.Were it not for this cop-out, Maniac would be one of those rare films that, while being nearly unwatchably upsetting, is also a brilliantly moving film.  Indeed, many of the camera angles used, as well as Spinell's terrific performance lend this film more credibility than it deserves. In summary, the film starts out as emotionally raw and brutal as Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, or Peeping Tom, but about half way through the film it relents and becomes more generic slasher fare.  All serious analysis aside, however, Savii's work on this film has to be seen to be believed.  Gorehounds can't afford to miss it.  "},{"Title":"Scalping at it's finest","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The late Joe Spinell plays the seedy Frank Zito. A serial killer who kills various women and uses their scalps to decorate the mannequins that are displayed in his apartment. Zito doesn't need no stinkin' interior decorator. Spinell finally got a staring role since his bit parts in the Rocky movies. Spinell also helped put this movie together. As a kid I was fascinated by the movie poster advertising the film. I was only about 7. I loved horror movies and when my dad tried to take me to see this film I was not allowed in due to the NC-17 type rating. A year or so later when the film came to video I was finally able to see it. I was not disappointed. Tom Savini did a wonderful job on the gory effects which this movie has plenty of. As far as horror movies go this one will give you the most bang for your buck. These were the days when horror movies were horror movies. Today everything is censored. Maniac has plenty of surprises, unexpected twists, a chilling climax, all without the censorship of an R rating. The DVD version is filled with extras including deleted scenes, trailers, interviews and promotional footage for  the  unfortunately never released sequel. This is a movie that I will always enjoy and is  tailor-made for a good scare. Joe Spinell made the most of his 15 minutes. May he rest in `Pieces'  "},{"Title":"A difficult one to rate but overall I liked it.","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is set in New York City where psychotic loner Frank Zito (Joe Spinell, also executive producer & co-writer) has snapped after spending too much time in his seedy apartment, he now regularly goes out & viciously murders people & in particular young women. You see Frank has a big problem with women & resents them so he kills them, simple. Besides killing them he scalps them & places the scalp on a store window mannequin inside his apartment & he has amassed quite a collection. He then falls for sexy photographer Anna D'Antoni (Caroline Munro) but the fact that he is a brutal serial killer of women is sure to cause problems in the relationship eventually...This notorious 80's sleazy gore flick was directed by William Lustig (surely the man who has directed the most films with the word 'Maniac' in the title since he also directed all the Maniac Cop trilogy) who has a small cameo at the start as he plays the hotel manager & if we are all totally honest Maniac would be virtually unknown & almost certainly have disappeared into obscurity if it were not for the aforementioned gory & sometimes disturbing special make-up effects courtesy of the main man Tom Savini who also plays the dude who gets his head blown off to save having to mould another fake head presumably since Savini had a fake head of himself lying around anyway. Maniac was a difficult film for me to rate & judge & I am still not sure whether I should give it a six or seven out of ten, on the one hand you have one of the most threadbare films I have ever seen with virtually no plot whatsoever yet it's undeniably effective & those gore effects are just terrific if your into that sort of thing which I am. There are no character's beyond Frank & Anna who barely features anyway, Frank has the whole Psycho (1960) thing going on as he has been left mentally scared by his late abusive Mother just like Norman Bates & as such has a misogynistic attitude towards women & likes to kill & scalp them in his spare time. That's the whole plot. Seriously beyond a shallow relationship between Frank & Anna & his killing if women nothing else happens in Maniac, nothing. At just under 90 odd minutes the pace is alright, there's enough gore & horror to satisfy the exploitation crowd & it is oddly watchable but when all said & done there's just not enough to it to justify 90 minutes of most people's time.The film definitely has a sleazy, seedy feel & atmosphere to it, those graffiti covered toilets in that New York subway are enough to give anyone nightmares. I wouldn't have liked to take a crap in one of those late at night that's for sure! The whole 80's New York feel is there too which adds a lot & it is generally well made although a bit basic. The one real stand-out feature of Maniac has to be the gore effects, from scalping's to slit throats, from sliced throats to stabbings, from chopped off arms to heads being pulled off & the infamous scene in which a guy has his head blown off from point blank range by a shotgun. Good stuff & the effects by Savini are up to his usual high standards. There's a tight, claustrophobic atmosphere to the film & it can be unsettling at times, the surprisingly suspenseful chase through the subway as Frank stalks the nurse is particularly well shot & put together in this regard.Apparently shot on a low $350,000 budget the real life New York locations really help sell the film, the production values are alright if basic & the special make-up effects are better than perhaps the film deserves. Also to keep costs down several porn actresses were hired to play the female roles rather than proper actor's. The acting is pretty good actually, again maybe better than the film deserves. I think Caroline Munro was cast after her husband put some money into the film & adds a touch of English glamour I suppose.Maniac is a film that doesn't sound too promising as it's merely a collection of women being killed by some fat guy but it has a certain compelling atmosphere & the memorable gore effects really are showstoppers at times. So, shall I give it a six or a seven? I'll tell you what I will sit on the fence & give it a six & a half. A planned sequel Maniac 2 Mr. Robbie (1989) had a ten minute promo reel shot but the film was never made after Joe Spinell's death. "}{"Title":"Just plain awful!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  There's nothing redeeming I can find in this sick, depressing slasher flick. Unless you're a diehard fan of Tom Savini (who did the effects makeup) or you have no love for the human race, avoid this movie like the plague. "},{"Title":"Maniac","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This low budget romp through the American nightmare is not really a slasher film, though it does see a maniac running around murdering people for no apparent, or perhaps that should be no rational, motive. This guy is eclectic if nothing else he murders men as well as women, and he uses both weapons and his hands. Maniac is set in New York, and as crime buffs may know, a few years earlier a bloke name Berkowitz was running around doing essentially the same thing, though the Son of Sam was positively normal compared with this guy. So what is his problem?It appears to be something to do with his late mother, that and the fact that eventually he attacks the wrong damsel, who gives as good as she gets and then some. It is likely this film was intended as a quasi-serious exploration of madness, but with gore for the sake of it and absent a proper plot, it is nothing more nor less than yet more outpourings of a sick mind, most probably that of its New York born director William Lustig. "},{"Title":"I warned you not to go out tonight!","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is quite possibly the best film depicting a serial killer, the story is about a serial killer who goes out onto the streets of New York city each and every night looking for his next victim, first stalking them and when the time is right making his move. The killer (played by Joe Spinell) is very disturbed and unlike most horror films of the times it goes into the background of why he is the way he is, showing the reasons why people turn into such monsters. The character has deep hatred for women and most of his victims are indeed women,(except in the scene where a couple are making out in a car and one of the most sickest and brilliantly done killings occurs) the story also follows him during the day when he is not killing anyone, this lets you see just how insane he is, by the way he is so normal around people and even gets a girlfriend, but when he is alone just how sick his mind gets.There is a lot of scenes that would make even the veteran horror fans stomach churn. Banned in the UK ever since it was made (way back in 1980), as it was the last film to star the great Joe Spinell (who died shortly after its release) and he was very proud of it.I will leave you with the words of the late Joe Spinell I don't even think of Maniac as a Horror Movie, the horrible thing is that people like this really existOverall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Lustig, Savini and Spinell and assorted female actresses... a golden bloody bunch!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" After a pretty long time, I wanted to try this one again to see if it would stand the test of time - it did. The story is pretty simple and the dramatic side of things (especially plot-wise) is not all too strong, but 'Maniac' is superior in gore and (New York) atmosphere, and the crazy lead, played by Joe Spinell, is just about perfect.Straight away, William Lustig presents us with a dark-blueish opening on a beach, where our killer begins his bloody rampage. There are no cops here trying to solve the case, we are to simply make do with the actions and psychotic ramblings of a deeply troubled man (mommy issues), on the prowl for the perfect wig to fit on a new mannequin. Each kill scene is a classic, Spinell seems to just 'become' the crazy man with a knack for fooling some of his victims perfectly, and in the end we are presented with a fantastic apotheosis - and thn the cops come along.Very fine piece of exploitation cult - 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Gene Siskel missed the point of this movie","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Now I would like to start off this review by addressing the fact that Gene Siskel walked out on this movie during the infamous shotgun blast movie saying that there was no way the movie could redeem itself. He missed the point of this movie because he just wrote it off as a generic slasher movie when it really isn't and he walked out too early as the movie did redeem itself. This is a movie about a serial killer who's psychologically and emotionally scarred as he has voices in his head and whenever he kills someone he always regrets it later on. It was a really different idea for a movie at the time and I think they executed it very well. Joe Spinelli plays the role of the killer very well and Tom Savini's gore effects in this movie are great as always. It's not a perfect movie as it does drag on in certain moments, but it's still a horror classic in my book and as much as I love Siskel and Ebert I think that Gene Siskel missed the point of this movie due to walking out on it so early. "},{"Title":"Classic 80's Slasher is one to Savor","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" With its off the charts creep factor and brutal violence, the low budget 1980 slasher Maniac was an early classic in a decade of memorable horror films. What makes this film so utterly disturbing is the performance by Joe Spinell as Frank aka the Maniac. His homely look and doughy physique gives him a very relatable everyman kind of quality. He walks besides you on the street and is unnoticeable in a crowd, but he is completely and utterly insane.Frank Zito lives in a small apartment with a bunch of female mannequins which he dresses up with his victims clothes. As a final touch he scalps his victims and nails the bloody matted hair to the bald mannequins. The creepiest element of the movie is its use of sound. We constantly hear Franks heavy breathing like some obscene phone call. His rambling thoughts are played as a voice-over on a number of scenes. You are literally in the mind of a killer.Like a lot of movie madmen Frank has serious mommy issues. His mother was a prostitute who brought numerous men into there apartment to conduct her business. Frank was also beaten and abused as a child. When is mother dies suddenly in a car accident, it sends Frank over the edge into a madness he will never come back from. His victims are primarily prostitutes who he gleefully strangles and scalps. One day in the park he meets Anna, a fashion photographer, who shows and interest in him. He sees Ana as his one last shot at a normal life. He is a perfect charming gentleman around her, but how long can this last? Apparently not for long as he dispatches one of her models while she's taking a bath in her unlocked apartment. Talk about making it easy for him.The special effects were done by the legendary Tom Savini who has the bizarre job of making his own head explode. He has a small acting part in the film credited as Disco Boy along with Disco Girl are making out in a parked car when the Maniac starts peeping. He eventually hops on to the hood and shoots him point blank in the face with a shotgun. Savini's head explodes in a gruesome slow motion scene that foreshadows a scene to come in Cronenberg's film Scanners. Unable the control the crazy beast within Frank loses Anna and falls into a sort of death spiral.Maniac is truly a carnival of insanity all the up to the gory end. "},{"Title":"Soliloquies of the knife","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Horror is most purely about the violent impulse that surges from behind the eyes, the mist it creates; a story can be anything. Here it's the simplest story, man goes crazy in the big city, unable to contain the impulse, the whole seen through his mist. There's a trauma that haunts him we find out, his cramped apartment is the mind then that fixates on memory and dwells among the fragments. The walls are lined with old photos of women, mannequins are scattered around; objects of a dead representation that he hoards unable to let go. Quite a bit more of that story is explained to us later on, not much interesting; Freudian stuff about a mother, a vengeful child who never grew. But there's nothing we can't know by just seeing him pace up and down in his apartment, muttering to himself.There's later a human connection to a photographer girl who snaps a picture of him one day in the park. The scenario is completely forced, a stranger and complete weirdo knocks on her door one day and they're best friends within minutes. It's something a weirdo much like the character would imagine (or write about). But it's an opportunity to get closer to the real source, put our finger on the pulse; she a photographer who also freezes life into image but she's able to let go of it and share it in the open, while it just drives him to madness. We see her fuss with her models during a shoot much like he does with his gruesome mannequins; but her fiction has life, playfulness. There's of course the violence, though it doesn't cut like perhaps it did then. It's still bloody and vivid. But what makes it powerful in its niche is the air of desperation around it, the whole film an internal monologue carving its garbled madness on the body of the night. New York looks suitably barren, from the time before the makeover when people would walk down streets as bleak as in this film to see movies like it in dingy fleapit cinemas down 42nd street. The film is from that time when horror could still unsettle with the thought that somewhere in the same city, deranged souls very much like the character skulked around with a camera having horrible thoughts like this. "},{"Title":"My favourite slasher movie","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" (83%) This is likely to get my vote for the greatest slasher movie ever made. It has a very poor image, mainly due to critics over the years claiming it to be more or less worse than Hitler. It is violent, but then it is about a murderer, so what did you expect? Joe Spinell is really damn good playing this very sick, yet very believable killer. The part of this movie that sets it aside from the rest of the pack for me is when Spinell's character forms a relationship with a female photographer that's handled in a completely real and genuine way, mainly thanks to the decent script and good performances, as it then soon becomes clear that this guy is much more than just a brainless, on the loose madman, but something much more dangerous. The stalking scenes in the subway are some of the most intense parts of any movie I've ever seen that along with everything else help make this a highlight amongst all 70's and 80's slasher horrors. A grimy classic. "},{"Title":"Certainly one of the cult classics of the 1980's.","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Frank Zito (The late Joe Spinell) is a crazed serial killer, who kills innocent woman and then he scalps them for his mannequins. Then he tries to have an normal relationship with an high-classed photographer (Caroline Murno). But in the disturbing mind of Frank... nothing is normal for him.Directed by William Lustig (Maniac Cop, Relentless, Vigilante) made an gruesome effective horror film with some moments of gore and black comedy. One of the reasons why Maniac is memorable for over the years is Spinell's strong performance. Which he also wrote the story, co-wrote the screenplay and he is one of the producers as well. Tom Savini created the special make-up effects and he gives himself an memorable death scene. It is the third act of Maniac falls apart and some viewers will wish, it had an better conclusion. That's the only real flaw in the movie.The DVD from Blue Underground... it is the same from the Anchor Bay DVD. DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine DTS 6.1 Expanded Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1 EX). DVD has an fascinating documentary titled The Joe Spinell Story with interviews with his close friends, an intriguing audio commentary by the filmmakers, an hidden feature and more. Maniac is certainly an film worth seeing, it is not for everyone. It is only an matter of personal taste, who knew that the Oscar-Winning filmmaker William Friedkin enjoyed this film! Certainly worth an look. Effective creepy score by Jay Chattaway (Missing in Action, Silver Bullet, TV's Star TrekEnterprise). (*** *****). "},{"Title":"Brutal Classic.","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Joe Spinell fantastic as Frank Zito, a twisted woman-hating serial killer stalking the streets of New York. This was banned for many years, but it's far superior to the standard video nasty - it's extremely creepy, dark and menacing. There are some particularly gruesome scenes, and a guest appearance by the films special effects maestro Tom Savini. Savini himself suffers a brutal and stomach-turning death. In fact, the movies macabre ending reminded me of the end of Romero's Day Of The Dead. The opening 30 minutes or so of this movie are brutal and the violence is unremitting. We're shown Frank stalking the women of New York City and dispensing of them (and sometimes their boyfriends) in the most brutal way. Just when you feel Frank is becoming a pointless cheap character in a slasher movie the pace slows and we see Frank befriending a female photographer, and we are allowed a glimpse of Frank's human and quite charming side. It doesn't last long tho as Frank is on a mission to rid the world of women in revenge for the abuse and neglect he suffered as a child from his Mother. Perhaps the most disturbing part of the movie for me wasn't the killings, as brutal as they are, but Frank's home life. He lives in a run down apartment and has filled it with mannequins, who are his companions. Spinell is superb as the twisted and damaged Frank, chatting to his companions as he nails the scalps of his victims to the plastic heads of his only friends. Excellent movie, Spinell is awesome and the effects are surprisingly good considering the age and obvious low budget of the movie. Savini did a wonderful job, the scene where his head is blown to pieces by Frank's shotgun is amazingly realistic. The score is also very effective, and adds to the menacing tone. Maniac is far superior to the frankly ridiculous Hannibal The Cannibal movies that receive all the plaudits. Maniac is sadly a forgotten classic. "}{"Title":"Not enough exploitation","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I think is near excellent.But i have to say that there's not enough exploitation.Naked hot women is always welcome and a plus, but in here you won't find them.Also there are quite a few key scenes that i wish were more explicit the stabbings needed more violence and detail in the FX.Also, the doll that Savini used as looked-alike that receives the shot in the head, is made obvious by the fact that it doesn't look at the maniac holding the shotgun, it just look straight ahead, at the horizon, without expression..like a doll.Also the ending(Spoiler Warning) when the maniac open his eyes is a negation of the seriousness of the movie, and put it in the silliness realm of Friday The 13th flicks. On a side note, there was a whole chase scene of one victim that High Tension rip off from this (homage i think it's called now!).But don't get me wrong, i loved Haute Tension, in fact, it's one of my favorites movies.There you have a movie with realistic looking FXs. I know Maniac was made in 1980, but i have to say my opinion cause i think no one has said it isn't violent and sleazy enough. On the plus side, the main character is well defined and comes up as a real person. Still, the good points out-weight the bad ones, so i give it an 8 out of 10 maniacs on the loose. "},{"Title":"I told you not to go out!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  In short, this is what years of slasher pics amounted  to. This movie is the apex of the slasher genre, although it's not without it's problems. The gore is WAY over the top, and people who aren't into extreme graphic violence should stay well away. This movie is about as mean-spirited as they come, and throws in a heapin' helpin' of the freakin' bizarre. It will remain a classic for years to come.When you've gotten bored with the likes of Friday 13th and the like, take it to the next level with Maniac!6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Gore Glory Galore","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD .... One the most brutal slashers ever made, offending feminist rights groups all over America upon it initial release. The grim subject matter of Maniac can be anticipated by glancing at the DVD box. It depicts a man from the waist down, there's a woman's severed head in one hand, a bloody knife in the other and a bulge in his jeans between them. Could this be a romantic comedy? I think not. Directed by William Lustig, who later went on to direct the exploitation action flick, Vigilante, before achieving success with the Maniac Cop thrillers and featuring realistic make up from gore maestro, Tom Savini, Maniac is not a feel good movie either.Joseph Zito (a nod towards the director of The Prowler, 1981, and Friday the 13th IV, 1984) is a very twisted and confused individual. Abused by his mother when he was a child, Joe now seeks revenge on the nubile females populace of New York City. The best murder sequence involves Savini having his head blow clean off in slow gory motion, so it's not all about being misogynist. At home, keeps a load of female mannequins on which he pins his female victims scalps. One day he meets a lovely photographer (Munro) who reminds him of his mother. Turning on the charm, to her he seems like a half decent bloke. They become friends but it isn't long before he's twitching, stalking her model friend and trying to kill her too&#133;The acting from Spinell, who died in 1989, is both frightening and sympathetic. No longer in the gangster role he was most associated with (The Godfather, Rocky..etc.) There are scenes where he poetically raves aloud in his room, displaying two separate conflicting characters. One saying &#150; `I warned you not to go out tonight,' the other `I didn't mean it, those people are crazy.' His co-star, Munro returned with Spinell to star in The Last Horror Film in 1983 before appearing regularly on the UK TV game show, 321 with Ted Rogers.A Maniac II was planned before Spinell's death, but only the promotional reel was finished.This Anchor Bay DVD has many special features, including a documentary on Spinell that has some great footage of him with Spielberg on the day of the 1977 Academy Award Nominations. Spielberg looses the best director Oscar for Jaws and Spinell begins to rant and complain a radio interview with Lustig and Spinell and a load of theatrical trailers. The commentary, also featuring Tom Savini, is also appealing for those with a soft spot for this film. "},{"Title":"Depressing, but interesting","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  One of the best serial killer / slasher movies.  The director manages to keep the atmosphere depressing from beginning to end, without any relief. Good acting by Joe Spinell, who also wrote the story.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A very disgusting Maniac","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Joe Spinell (who also wrote and produced) plays a pychopathic killer who prowls New York City to prey on defenseless women and graphically kills them and scalps them so he can attach the hair on his mannequins.  Caroline Munro (Slaughter High) is one of his unlucky targets with whom he happens to be in love.  Tom Savini's noteworthy special makeup effects are really gruesome and awful.  Skip this disgustingly gory trash.  My evaluation (no stars). "},{"Title":"Big Rotten Apple","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Frank Zitto wades through the grime encrusted streets of NY city in search of nubile flesh in his unending quest to work out some mommy issues....Bill (Blue Underground) Lustig's mad killer piece has a sleazy taste and attitude that's impossible to redo post-Giuliani. A crude, rude, repugnant slice of celluloid that's brutally effective in transgressing the decorum of good taste, yet as narrative the ultra-gory Maniac comes up short. Weakly written, it's a string of slaughters punctuated by ad-libbing and a strangely affecting relationship with a beautiful fashion photographer (Caroline Munroe) that Frank grows a twisted affection for & that seems to belong to a different movie. As a character piece though, Maniac is definitely a sort of sub-Taxi Driver riff with its voyeur's peek into Frank's Swiss cheese mind which sure is one greasy, squalid rat hole that you feel with *every* soiled inch. When not displaying some pretty young thang's insides, Lustig has the audience down in the gutter with Frank, witness to every pathetic whimper and fixation this greasy looking pack rat can conceive. Early on we glimpse some scars adorning his chest and a picture of mommy is glimpsed, but that's as far as we're allowed to wade into Frank's motivations, the rantings and clutter of his abode suggest a much deeper story than the audience is privy to.This is such an ugly, ugly film The dirt and filth of that bygone era of 42 st. NY,NY abounds throughout the hour and half were saddled with this crazed momma's boy, and when its all up, the sense of soiled disturbance sticks with you, adhering to the cracks & crevices of your body like spoiled lint. It's not even just the settings, its Spinell's disturbed mutterings & asides that put you in that zone of total puke mouth. The guy's an alien, so far from any kind of norm you have the same reaction you'd get from a particularly large spider. And through these lovably distorted lenses, New York City has never seemed lonelier, more suffocating, more damned. 70's urban angst really highlights modern life in that special heart-warming way. No doubt about it- the ugliness here has real purity. And it's this pure rot that's worth the price of admission, because its the perfect opposite to the spit shone, anti-septic fare you'd catch in the Di$ney-fied, post-facelift 42. Street of today. It's not attractive (not in the typical matine sense) but damn if that's not a distinctive charming characteristic all its own. Movies that make you feel like taking a shower after should be treasured; it won't go away fast like some pre-chewed, airbrushed Hollywood floater. Disgusting & hard to digest in all the right ways, even despite the plethora of other problems riddling it. The ending is simply a totally hair-raising gross-out, letting the director go whole hog since the victim is the scalper himself. A truly fitting conclusion to a demented slice-o-life, matching the kookiness of the killer......had Bill resisted leaving an open- ended, he's-still-alive PEEKABOO Clich SHOT!Joe Spinell, as it's already been said elsewhere, really embodies this character with his pock-marked face and hefty bulk. This is no dashing demento ala Patrick Bateman; this is a seedy down-to-earth malcontent, his exterior mirroring the turmoil inside. I can even understand the small following for this character-actor after watching MANIAC. It sure was a surprise seeing him later opposite Stallone in ROCKY 1 & 2.One seriously foul gust of air for aficionados, a grunge classic & a great double bill with Ferrara's DRILLER KILLER which has the same 70's urban trash ambiance and mad NY hero "},{"Title":"A different kind of slasher","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" If you have never heard anything about Maniac, you will most probably suggest it's just another one of the undetermined amount of slashers. I was in the same situation until I realized Maniac is quite unusual.Serial killer stalks and kills women he has never met before. The motive is too complex and needs a wider explanation, but it is connected with the killer's past and to be more specific - his mother.As a slasher fan, I allow myself to separate the sub-genre to more sub-genres. Slashers containing mystery. Slashers containing gore. And slashers containing the villain as the main character. The maniac is in fact a person called Frank Zito. His appearance doesn't give out his sick desires of raping and killing a female, being advised by a dummy, Frank sees as the best person to share with. If we look deep into the movie, we might claim that the dummy is a symbolism of Frank's lost heart. The life he never managed to find after his childhood has been erased by an evil woman, he had no choice, but to love and subordinate. That dummy turns out to be his best and only friend in a world full of contradictions. The dummy is a character. Some might say it ain't that deep, but believe me - not all slashers are the same although it's nearly impossible to find the differences between them. In some means, Maniac recreates invisible shades of character study elements. The main character is not running away from the knife -he is holding it. If it wasn't for the gore, Maniac might have been a solid drama. One name just needs to be mentioned - Tom Savini. There are no words, capable of describing his achievements in the art of make-up. Maniac is one of his very first movies and the gore is indeed very graphic and impressive for 1980. Death scenes in horror movies are rarely realistic, but when they are, Tom Savini's name is always involved. I doubt slashed throat has looked cooler before Maniac. You know how late 70s slasher give very few details on the death scene itself, cutting most of its on screen gore, showing mainly the consequences. Savini manages to show more, making the movie gorier. Of course, the level of realism goes down on the expense of a bloody tale with more guts and even revulsion if you believe the movie so to speak. To be honest, Maniac is not as gory, as it seems from its gruesome poster, but you will definitely notice the different approach towards the rather dramatic violence and the exaggerated brutality.Maniac is one of the better horrors of 80s, making us believe slasher is unique and unpredictable in its own universe. I've never thought I'd be deep in thought while watching that specific sub-genre. Tom Savini's amazing make-up, cool death scenes and a colorful main character create a world of horror, you will definitely enjoy. "},{"Title":"Classic horror movie with disturbing scenes!!!","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac (1980) is a very hard hitting/disturbing movie about a seriously deranged man called Frank who had a terrible childhood and now lives in New York City.Frank is a terrible messed up individual and with the voices in his head controlling his actions, he stalks and slaughters young women!!! One day in a park Frank meets a photographer (Caroline Munro) a gorgeous woman she is, he starts to get involved with her romantically, but that doesn't stop his maniac killing spree!!!! This film is notorious and was banned for years, you can understand it because it's very realistic and creepy and has some brutal gore scenes, i rate this movie one of the best of it's kind, all horror movie buffs past and present should see this or OWN it, classic stuff!!! Be sure to get the UNRATED R1 version, the UK R2 version has 2 minutes of cuts. "},{"Title":"Maniac Still Controversial After 25+ Years!","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I gotta say this is one excellent slasher-film, and the finest one ever directed-by Bill Lustig (honcho of the superb Blue Underground). This was a one-time deal Joe Spinell's masterful-performance, his insightful-research into serial-killers, an unbelievable score by Jay Chattaway, excellent cinematography and direction, and-on-and-on. If you love to be scared, if you love atmospherics in cinema, and if you just like gore--you will be rewarded-in-spades by this film. I could do a plot-synopsis for you, but that would ruin it for the virgins. Experience a horror-film the way it is ALWAYS meant to be, which is a surprise. Let someone who gets-paid do a synopsis!! Their place in reviews is literary and unnecessary, and seem written solely for people who have already seen the film (?)!What many critics of the film don't get is this is what a murderer can really be like. Joe Spinell did his research ably, and found an amazing-insight into what motivates some of these human-monsters. Often, it's simply extreme child-abuse, as we learn Spinell's Frank Zito was locked-away in a closet by his mother, often after enduring cigarettes being stubbed-out on his chest. I have personally worked-with children who have had this done-to them, and it is more-prevalent than one would care to know. What does years of this type-of-abuse do to a human-being? Some actually are able to move-on, but then...there are other reactions. Monsters--after-all--are created. Perhaps this is one reason some brayed so-loudly, like a homophobic-preacher who later gets-caught soliciting male-hustlers. And-so, I can understand why women get-angry at this film, but I think it's misdirected. They should hate people who abuse-children, not the makers and exhibitors of a film that portrays it. And yes, Joe Spinell had deep-feelings about expressing all this in-making this film, and why we are still debating it today.Perhaps what irritates me the most is the complete-disregard that there are a number of male-characters who are murdered in this film--down-the-memory-hole, and ignored, since they don't fit a political-agenda. Shame. It's so easy to point-the-finger in Puritan-America, and it was so sadly-obvious upon the release of this great slasher. There are so-many shots in this film that look so damned good! It has atmosphere-for-miles, and I love it. I pity the main-character, and like his victims, is in hell. It is a sad story that expresses the horror the killer experiences, too, as Frank Zito vomits after the first-murder. He wishes it would all end. Does it? You'll have to watch the film, end-to-end. In-character, Bill Lustig produced the DVD-version for Anchor Bay through his Blue Underground production-company. Bill has been a busy-boy the last 10+ years making dozens of B-films and grindhouse-fare available to us cultists. The Maniac DVD is wonderful, and if you bought the tin-version, it contains the soundtrack CD too! The transfer is luminous, considering the film was shot on high-grade 16mm. You would never know it. Love you, Joe. Miss you. Sleep-well.PS There is the added-bonus that so-many hate this film! Priceless. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Hmmm. What can I say? I had seen this film quite a while ago and remembered it as pretty sick and scary. But actually after having watched it again just now I found it quite boring and not half as gory as I thought it would be after having read some of the comments on imdb.The film is about a man (Frank Zito) who walks/drives through New York City and kills people, mostly women, scalps them and puts the scalps on manikins he keeps in his room. That's basically it. There is no plot and no characterization, and only near the end you realize why Zito kills all these women. All other people are only introduced into the movie to get killed after a short while. You really don't care about any of the characters in this film so after a while I found myself just waiting for the next murder scene. Also maybe the DVD I watched was cut (it was the UK version) because you do not really see much of the murders. Well, you see something, but usually you just see when Zito starts cutting the victims with his razor and that's it. I thought this was supposed to be a violent and gory slasher film?The scene I liked best was the subway scene. Of course you know the woman will be killed, but you do not know how and when. That makes it quite suspenseful (actually the only suspense throughout the whole movie).The effects (by FX maestro Tom Savini) are quite good, and the scene where Zito shoots Tom Savini's character is fantastic. But the pacing is quite slow (in that it is a typical film from the eighties). In fact, the film is dragging quite a bit. And the music, well, I wouldn't call it that. It's basically just some noise generated on a synthesizer.So what can I tell you? If you like horror/slasher films from the eighties, it is okay to watch, but if you decide not to watch it, you won't miss anything.  "}{"Title":"Undeniably creepy and effective","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" One of the video nasties in the eighties concerns a maniac who's stalking the streets and killing people in some very nasty ways.The plot in Maniac ain't nothing' to write home about but the flick delivers in many other ways. Director William Lustig isn't exactly a cinematic genius but he knows his slashers and can better convey a very sick mind than most of his contemporaries. That aspect of the film is aided heavily with a (all too) convincing performance from excellent character actor Joe Spinell, who here creates a genuinely creepy and disturbing character. The Maniac has a mother obsession, not unlike Norman Bates in Psycho but here it's depicted in such a sleazy and unrelenting manner that I must admit; it does creep you out at times. The talks with the mannequins, his outbursts while killing some victims and of course the dress up of his girls; well, it's all creepy moments.Time has done little to diminish the film's gory highlights. Although not the complete gore fest some have made it out to be, a few sequences do shock even today, the shotgun to the head scene still looks quite shocking.The gritty look and feel of the film add immensely to it's unpleasantness and I seriously doubt many people enjoy the film as such. It's well crafted considering it's low budget origins and director Lustig knows a thing or two about milking scenes out of all their worth and delivering on them. The nurse stalking sequence goes on very long but maintains a high amount of suspense I thought, using well the location, music and some nifty POV shots; very well done indeed.Main stream film critics will never get films like these. I will admit that Maniac is one of the sicker puppies out there; it's not a cinematic masterpiece, some elements in the script should have been used for toilet paper but it's one of the better examinations into the world and mind of a very twisted individual, it's got very effective set pieces, strong visuals and a good central performance. Maniac is undeniably a creepy viewing experience and unsettling, and that's what it's aiming at. "},{"Title":"A classic and sleazy slasher","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Frank Zito has a problem. He can't seen to go out and have a nice time without killing some woman or the occasional man. He sees a woman, thinks of his abusive mother, and suddenly he has to kill someone.Frank, played by Joe Spinell, is the main (and insane) character as well as the killer in Maniac. Spinell performs some of the best acting I've ever seen. Everyone else is mediocre at best. A testament to Spinell's acting ability is that he somehow manages to make you feel sorry for him (the killer) as well as his victims. Frank talks to himself a lot during the scenes between kills and these conversations with himself are both clever and haunting.Maniac has some really infamous scenes including an ending that really freaked me out the first time I watched it. The shotgun scene is extremely well done but not as disturbing as some of the other death scenes.I recommend this to all Horror fans but more specifically of the gore hound variety. If nothing else Maniac is worth a watch for Joe Spinell's magnificent performance. I can't praise it highly enough. A definite classic. "},{"Title":"Underrated Exploitation Horror Classic","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I recently had the thrill of seeing the assault on the senses that is MANIAC on the big screen, at a horror triple feature in rural New Jersey.  It was a remastered print, looking perhaps even better than it did during its original theatrical run.  I've always appreciated this movie, but to see it in a theater is to realize what a true masterpiece it is.MANIAC is a gut-wrenching horror movie.  It is similar in many ways to the more critically acclaimed Hannibal Lecter series, which it predates by at least six or seven years.  Whereas MANHUNTER and SILENCE OF THE LAMBS concentrate on the FBI's search for the killer, MANIAC concentrates solely on the killer himself, and the living Hell he goes through with every murder he commits.As portrayed by veteran character actor Joe Spinnel, Frank Zito is a pathetic, tortured, tragic character who manages to be sympathetic even as he's blowing people's heads off.  He is a man who has been driven to madness by abuse as a child, a man who is terrified of women.  He doesn't hate women, he actually loves and admires them.  But he is frightened of them, and the only way he can feel safe is if they are unable to hurt him. Thus, his method of killing is to scalp his female victims, and place their hair on his mannequins, which are representations of unconditional and unending affection.  They will never leave him, never abuse him, and never hurt him.But Frank is not totally unaware of the horror he creates.  There is a real part of his psyche that sees what he is doing, and is just as horrified as his victims.  A scene in which he murders a prostitute, after which he vomits and cries apologetically over her body is particularly harrowing. Even as he breaks out his razor to cut off her hair, he can barely bring himself to look at what he's doing.  Unlike TAXI DRIVER's self-absorbed Travis Bickle, Frank hates himself, and wishes nothing more than to be able to stop killing people.Soon, however, Frank becomes entranced by a beautiful photographer (Caroline Munro), and is determined to have a real relationship with her.  She likes him, and not in that patronizing puppy dog way, but because he is mysterious and strange, and therefore intriguing.  But the sadistic disciplinary methods of his mother prove once again to make Frank's wish an impossibility.While MANIAC is not quite as serious as James McNaughton's brilliant (and far more disturbing) HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER, it is more than just a sleazy exploitation film.  Spinnel's performance is superb, and William Lustig's moody, oppressive direction creates a sense of Hell on Earth, using such seedy locations as the subway and a parking lot beneath the Verrazano bridge to convey the sense that horror can occur in dark shadows and sublevels, as life goes busily on just around the corner.Tom Savini's outlandishly gruesome effects have won this movie most of its notoriety, but they serve more than just to make the movie into a freakshow. They portray the brutal result of Frank's rage in all their blood-drenched horror.MANIAC is a very good movie, and a classic of the horror/exploitation genre, well worth reconsideration.  How movies such as SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, SEVEN and TAXI DRIVER can be so enthusiastically praised while this movie is almost universally condemned is beyond me. "},{"Title":"This sucked","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I had the misfortune of watching this movie the other night.  With all of the reviews, and hype, that I read here and at other sites, I was positive that I was in a for a no-holds-barred, tear 'em up, grind 'em, blood feast.  I was sorely disappointed.In watching Maniac,  I found the movie to be excrutiatingly boring.  I like to gauge the value of a movie by the way the effect it has on me.  If it has a profound effect on me, and has me thinking about particular scenes days after watching the film, then I know that it was a success.  Maniac simply did not have this affect on me. The acting was atrocious, the horror was not that gruesome, and it was just plain stupid.  The ending was so abrupt.  This movie was not nearly as diabolical or sinister as, One False Move, Henry  Portrait of a Serial Killer, or Confessions of a Serial Killer. Those films were brilliantly produced, scripted, and acted.The only thing maniacal about this film is that it has been embraced so warmly by horror fans.I give it a rating of 1 star. "},{"Title":"Spinell's Moment.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac (1980) Dir William Lustig / Cast Joe Spinell, Caroline Munro, Abigail Clayton, Kelly Piper, Rita Montone Graphic and disturbing horror film with a title that examines the psychology and mindset of the mentally insane. Joe Spinell is an ominous presence with eyes full of intensity and a trail of scalped females. He plays Frank Zito and his apartment is decorated with an assortment of mannequins topped with scalped hair nailed to their heads. A shrine exists with candles and a picture of his mother where he wails in anguish with memories of abuse. To answer this pain he stalks women by night hoping to find the best hair piece. Caroline Munro beautifies the film as a photographer whom Zito makes contact with. His ability to approach and communicate with her becomes a curios element in the film. After a gruesome yet effect start, structure is repetitious with a pointless sequence involving Kelly Piper as a brainless nurse who manages to corner herself in a subway washroom before having a knife lunged into her back. Among other victims are Abigail Clayton as a model who was being photographed by Munro and eyed by Zito. Rita Montone plays a hooker strangled by Zito. With graphic effects by Tom Savini and William Lustig giving eerie paranoia in Zito's apartment where reality is overcome with mannequins taking the form of the victims and issuing a grisly consequence. Score 7  / 10 "},{"Title":"It isn't easy being a maniac","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maintaining a stable relationship with a glamorous photographer proves difficult for a recluse who murders and scalps women on the side in this iconic horror film. While 'Maniac' might sound like a black comedy from the outset, everything is handled in a dark, dramatic manner so that we always feel for the killer's tormented soul, his yearning for stability and inability to control his urges. His psychology leaves a bit to be desired (the film is hazy regarding the mother issues driving him to kill) but Joe Spinell is solid in the lead role and there are several great graphic moments - like a head blown off through a windshield - that resonate due to Tom Savini's expert makeup effects. The film does not offer a whole lot in the way of suspense since we know that each of Spinell's victims WILL meet a grisly demise, but as a pure thriller, it is totally engaging. Jay Chattaway's score is utterly atmospheric and the film is held together by a constant sense of doom and paranoia even when the storyline sometimes seems like a mere excuse for one brutal murder after another. The relationship between Spinell and the photographer (played by Caroline Munro) is intriguing too. There seems to be a bit of a Travis Bickle/Betsy element to it; amazement comes from how well Spinell can be pretend to be normal, with us as viewers just waiting for Munro to catch on. The film might have been better received in its day had more focus been given to this angle over the grisly slayings, but the film still does well with a preservation agenda as Spinell waxes poetic about the power of a photograph to keep one forever. "},{"Title":"Could Have Used More Suspense","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Abused as a child, a psychopath named Frank Zito (Joe Spinell) relieves his sexual frustration and anger by killing women and then taking their scalps which he displays on mannequins in his apartment. Although he disdains his actions immediately after killing them he continues to do so under the belief that he will eventually meet the right woman and only then will he be able to stop. Then one day he sees a young photographer named Anna D'Antoni (Caroline Munroe) and the idea suddenly dawns on him that she may hold the key to his problems. Anyway, rather than reveal any more of this movie I will just say that I was mildly disappointed by the fact that so much of it centered on the mental turmoil surrounding Frank Zito when there were several other characters which could have used more character development. For example, in one particular scene there was a nurse (played by Kelly Piper) who appears and then after a moderately suspenseful chase scene is killed. Now, while it was a decent scene, it could have been better if some effort was made to allow the audience to identify a bit more with the victim. Same thing with all of the other characters. Likewise, although the afore-mentioned scene contained some suspense the absence of it from the rest of the movie was quite noticeable. In short, while this movie wasn't terribly bad it could have used some improvement and I have rated it accordingly. Slightly below average. "},{"Title":"An eerie, effective slasher that takes its time and develops its main character very well.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Falling eyes-first into the provocatively dark poster-art for William Lustig's controversial 'Maniac,' one may suspect it's mostly jump-scares and over-the-top gore that will sustain the viewer throughout their experience, and while there are certainly elements of both woven into the picture (well-done in their executions, to the filmmakers' credit), it's the psychological nature of its voyeuristic suspense by way of its troubled antagonist that really sets this movie apart from the worn-down slasher film we have all come to expect with genre favorites such as 'Friday the 13th' and 'Halloween.' This is a story at its core that can easily permeate any one of our realities, and that, in-and-of itself, is sobering; it is only its production that we can admit to being fictitious. Along the way, we are of no mistake in recognizing how this accurate portrayal of evil is as real as any monster we are able to conjure or confront via our own imaginations, and certainly more dangerous.Joe Spinell bravely and aptly conducts an amazing and harrowing performance as Frank Zito, a deeply-disturbed man who cannot conquer his impulses to commit murder or disconnect himself from his poisoned childhood. The character is incredulously tender as he is terrible, and Spinell brings a humanity to the performance I've rarely witnessed in these sorts of films. If director William Lustig, through atmospheric and seedy direction, brings us to the forefront of the frenzied terror of Frank's street-combing atrocities, it is Spinell's performance that reminds us that we are not experiencing a typical slasher film, but one of which is much more deeply rooted somewhere in our subconscious - a place we may feel uneasy in visiting. While certainly diseased, there's a human nature to be found in Frank Zito; he wants to stop, he knows the differences of right and wrong, only he's constantly left ill-fated, along with that of his victims, by his own damaged decisions.This film is not an easy watch, and perhaps it's not for everyone, but if one is willing to take a close glimpse at how deeply tragic life can be on both sides of the scream, I cannot recommend 'Maniac' enough. It's creepy, it's accurate, it's almost surreal in its telling of the monsters who live among us. It's not a perfect film by any means; in fact, my main quibble is in regard to the relationship between Frank and his photographer love interest played by Caroline Munro. Their chemistry, while great, could have stood for a greater dynamic between the two as the film went along. However, it's a rather small loss in contrast to what we do get a brilliant lead performance, spot-on direction, a terrifically aiding, musical score by synth-based composer, Jay Chattaway, fantastic special effects by the one and only, Tom Savini (Dawn of the Dead), and a resonating remembrance of just how rarely these things all come together to produce such a memorably important Horror film.DVD and Blu-ray distributor, Blue Underground, released the film back in 2010 in a 30th Anniversary Edition, and it's a real treat, featuring commentaries, interviews with the stars, and the excellent 'The Joe Spinell Story,' documenting the late-actor's life and times. It's a must-own for any fan of the genre, or those of us who just love great films despite the labels attached to it. "},{"Title":"An uderrated horror classic.","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The original maniac is a definite underrated horror classic for me. Made on a shoe string budget in a time when violent slasher films were plentiful and frequent maniac manages to stand out with it's excessive gory moments and disturbing plot. The shotgun head exploding scene is brilliantly done, another tip of the cap to Tom Savini for that and Joe Spinell is perfectly cast as the aforementioned maniac of the title. This film is definitely better than the remake with Elijah Wood and you can see the influence of the Italian Giallo thrillers in it. Probably one of the most visceral and best horror films of the 80's and makes for quite uncomfortable viewing at times. Definitely one to watch for horror hounds like me. "},{"Title":"Don't miss it","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of a few movies that really made me feel uncomfortable to see (and that doesn't happen often). It is something about the whole atmosphere that is so dark and disturbing. Another thing that also makes it so disturbing is the way we follow the killer's thoughts in the movie. Joe Spinell plays Frank perfectly. The effects are amazing and there's plenty of gore too. The only thing I can complain about is how much the ending reminded me of Carrie with the hand coming out of the grave. Otherwise it's great and I definitely recommend it for horror, gore fans. "}{"Title":"A Film For Sickos Who Desire Slaughter Where Minimal Plot Gets In The Way","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac, for me, is an illustration of why it's probably a bad idea to make decisions about movie purchases near the end of an all-nighter. Using part of a modest inheritance, I've bought more than a 100 Blu-rays from Amazon in the last 3 months.These films fall into all categories, from historical epics to sci-fi and horror. Recently retired, it's nice to be able to take the time to really enjoy being a movie addict. But the putrid, mostly plot less Maniac is easily the lowest bottom feeder that I've wasted my time on, over those last 3 months. The writer of the 1st user review on this site mentioned not having seen HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer, but hearing that it and Maniac had much in common. Let's clear up that nonsense right now. The only thing that the 2 films have in common is that they both feature characters who commit multiple murders. Martin Scorsese praised the skill with which Henry was made, calling it the best first film by a director that he had seen in 10 years. Rest assured that Mr Scorsese would have the opposite sort of opinion regarding Maniac, but fortunately he is not likely to waste his time on such pathetic, poorly made, garbage. BTW, gore does not phase me, but what is even more gross than the bloodletting in Maniac, is the film's gross stupidity. On the other hand, because it's made with such skill, the equally low budget Henry is far more chilling and unnerving than anything that transpires in Maniac. Maniac is basically for those who get their jollies watching a knife slowly cutting across a victim's forehead as the film's killer scalps a woman. I would not be at all surprised to learn that those who truly enjoy Maniac have some homicidal tendencies of their own. It's also not surprising to learn that Maniac's star, Joe Spinell, is known to have done a lot of drinking & drugging prior to acting in the film. That may provide some explanation (if no good excuse) for how someone can go from the heights of the first 2 Godfather films to the bottom level of putrid crap that is exemplified by Maniac. On one of the extra features that accompanies Maniac, on Blu-ray, it's mentioned that director William Lustig was trying to create something in the vein of the original Halloween. Well, sorry Bill, unfortunately, your effort only ended up yielding one of the ultimate examples of Crapping on the bed. "},{"Title":"Tom Savini's Effects Opus","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The beginning of the 80s saw a glut of slasher films being released on the public. Many of these were, naturally, holiday-themed films playing off the success of HALLOWEEN. Then, there were the grimier slashers films, often bordering on exploitation, sometimes known as Splatter films for their rampant blood and gore. Make no mistake, this movie falls firmly into that category, but it is, in my opinion, the best of that bunch and stands out above a pack of forgettable movies.One of the first things that really stands out to me is the dirtiness of the film, on several levels. Taken literally, the movie was shot on 16 mm film, which lends itself well to a feeling of being someone's nasty little home movie. The background of a pre-cleaned up New York City plays into this as well. This is almost a perfect snapshot document of what the city felt like in 1980. The dirtiness, also, applies, of course, to the subject matter. These aren't the typically elaborate, fantasized killings of a Jason Voorhees movie, where the viewer is left with a certain naughty glee. These are brutal killings done to terrified women in real world situations. The result of all of this is a feeling that you are watching something you shouldn't be.This certainly translates into Joe Spinnell's character as well. Again making a connection to the more popular slasher films, we don't have an anti-hero here. This isn't some comic book slasher cracking one-liners while dispensing teens in fun ways. Much like HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER, this is a true psychopath who feels like a fully fleshed character. You might see this guy pop up on an A&E documentary about violent crime. That, to me, adds to the gritty realism of this movie. Lustig pushes that further by making the villain the main character. Unlike a traditional slasher where we follow a final girl while she brings us through the story, this movie focuses squarely on Spinnell's maniac and brings us the world through his eyes.Of course, all of this would not have made this film such an underground legend were it not for the incredible effects of Tom Savini. At this time, TS was the undisputed master in horror efx and was making a killing (get it) pumping out effects for slasher movies. This might be his absolute best work, though. The shotgun scene and the final climax are phenomenal work that still hold up pretty well 35 years later. Even the simple efx like the scalpings are done well and look real. Again, this adds to the illusion of the movie for me. This isn't a Fulci or Romero movie with candy colored gore and over-the- top efx. All of it adds to this feeling of watching a snuff film.If you're a fan of stuff like LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT or the aforementioned HENRY, this movie is definitely up your alley. "},{"Title":"Good Horror/Slasher Film!","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Joe Spinell and Caroline Munro star in this 1980 horror film. This takes place in New York and Spinell (Rocky) plays Frank Zito, a mentally disturbed guy who has been traumatized since childhood because his mother abused him. He goes on a murder spree killing women and removes their scalps, placing them on mannequins in his apartment to preserve their youthful beauty. Munro (The Spy Who Loved Me) plays photographer, Anna D'Antoni whom he gets to know and she eventually learns he's ill. The late, Spinell is great in this because he's not only creepy, but you feel a little sympathy toward his character. Tom Savini not only does great with the make-up effects as usual, but also appears as a victim with an elaborate death scene, The director, William Lustig also appears as a motel clerk and Jay Chattaway's score is chilling. If you're into horror/slasher films, this is a good one. "},{"Title":"Maniac breaks the Horror-trend","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" With the remake due for release soon here in Australia, I took the opportunity to see the original classic as I have had never seen it myself. Seeing the trailers and reading some really positive reviews on IMDb, I knew what I could be expecting for an 80's Slasher flick... and surprisingly it delivered more than I expected!Manaic tells the story of Frank Zito (a nod to director Joseph Zito, as he had worked with Tom Savini in his films) an overweight, lonesome, psychopathic but clam at times serial killer that stalks women in New York, scalping their hair for his collection of mannequins. I won't say too much to spoil it but the plot is actually good, suspenseful and full-on graphic.The acting is great, the music is chilling but its Tom Savini's Visual gore effects that's worth the watch, this is by far the best 80's gore I've seen since The Prowler (I've only seen recently for the first time) and Cannibal Holocaust. Savini's appearance in Maniac is a favorite of mine and his character's death is well-worth a golden moment in horror.Overall, its a dark, gritty slasher ride with brains and a great leading character. I am certainly now looking forward to see if the 'remake' will serve justice to this classic. "},{"Title":"The Title is Self-Explanatory..","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is a early 80's slasher film that has received notorious reputation by the mainstream critics. It's a fairly nasty film with some truly brutal and gory moments but dismiss it as a vile, repulsive trash is just wrong. This film is a cut above the rest slasher films and pretty much ranks up with the best like Nightmare on Elm Street. The main reasons being the excellent performances, top notch direction and surprisingly good script as well the superb effects from Tom Savini.Joe Spinell wrote and starred as the titular maniac Frank Zito. He does a fantastic job playing the character. When he is alone he plays the traumatized manchild and gives you the creeps. But when he meets Caroline Munro character he plays it like a normal person, being all charismatic and cool. It's a wonderful performance and he manages to be both very cruel and brutal and also pathetic at the same time. Caroline Munro plays the survivor photographer and she is wonderful. She has a fantastic chemistry with Joe Spinell and in the few scenes you see her, she leaves a great impression. It simply shows that she isn't just a pretty face but can act too. The rest of the cast mainly consist of victims and they are decent but that's because the film doesn't really spend all that much time on anyone else but the killer.The direction by William Lustig is very good. He manages to capture the dirty, gritty look of the early 80's America very well. It's well shot and the scenes of killer doing his nasty work is very well executed. The score perfectly works together with the direction and gives the film a really good atmosphere of dread and unease. The visual effects by Tom Savini are very impressive for the surprisingly small budget they had. Also it's only 90's minutes long so it never really overstays it welcome and never wastes your time with pointless in irrelevant subplots or side characters. Unlike I Saw the Devil, Maniac knows that it's a horror film and doesn't pretend that it has something more to it.If I had to point out some problems, then the most obvious one was the ending. It's the classic slasher film ending where the killer is not really that dead. I didn't like the fact that they needed to go for the most obvious ending in the world. Could have done something more clever than that. Also could have used more of Caroline Munro, since she was so good in the film.Maniac is very good slasher film that's made by people who knew what they were doing. It's very well acted and has some really tense and brutal scenes. If you want to see very good 80's slasher film, Maniac is as good as it gets. It's much better than those horrible Friday the 13th, Sleepaway Camps, Silent Night Deadly Nights and other horrible wastes of time. "},{"Title":"A vicious little gem","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is a hard movie to like. It's ugly, brutal, grimy, slow paced and has scenes which make you feel really dirty. But it has the B-movie feel which helps a lot. The gritty realism given by director William Lustig(Maniac Cop) is effective. Tom Savini's gore is perfect and as realistic as it could get. But the star of the movie is Joe Spinell(RIP) who wrote this movie and played the hero, Frank.Frank is an amazingly damaged individual. He is a vicious, remorseless killer but apparently has the emotional maturity of a child. Joe Spinell must have gone into some really dark and disturbing area for researching this role because it's a fantastic performance. I daresay, it's Oscar worthy. But because of the low-budget nature of the film and the fact that there was too much gore, Spinell didn't even get a Golden Globe Nod. It's so uncomfortable to watch Frank's horrible apartment and his pathetic living that it's a welcome sight to see beautiful, sweet Caroline Munro. The film has a remarkable scene(apart from the exploding head scene) where a nurse is stalked in a subway station. It's a masterpiece of escalating suspense and tension. The conclusion is foregone but the way the conclusion is reached is fantastic.Ultimately, the movie is not perfect with some dull, repetitive scenes and unnecessary scenes which are obvious padding. But there is one perfect thing about this movie and it is Joe Spinell. Do watch it if you like Grindhouse-style movies and like your horror in-your-face. "},{"Title":"Hardcore 80's.","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" With a film centering on subjects and acts such as this film offers, I usually hate it no matter what, but I don't hate this film which is weird. It's not great, but is has some interesting moments, but in the end it is some trashy stuff.This film stands out from most slashers mainly because the killer is the main character, we see his face, and he talks. Like a real life human being. I wouldn't say thats a good thing, because he is realistic and suffering from real mental health issues, a little different than Jason don't ya think. The story kind of reminds me of Ed Gein. For a 1980's film, it is really graphic, more so than Friday the 13th. And it linger's on the blood shed for awhile, most notable when a certain someone gets his head blown off with a shotgun, even the nudity is stronger than Friday the 13th, man this makes Friday look less hardcore, but not by much. The ending must have been really shocking back then, it was sick and graphic.This a different type of horror film, it's more of a Bio on the killer and his thoughts/actions. Only watch it if your interested, films like this require a certain taste. "},{"Title":"Terrifying film and a great showcase for Joe Spinell show his talents","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The remake is coming this year, Elijah Wood will be playing the title role despite my reluctance in seeing him playing such a disturbingly bad character, so with all that in mind I don't think it'll be a shocking, gory and debated film as the original made in 1980 was. There's a slightly chance of being a good film and definitely with a larger audience this had and that's it. Maniac was an indie film that surpassed its limits, was quite a hit in its time, provoked heated reactions from female groups who were very vocal about this kind of film. And more presented in a leading role a familiar face from the 1970's of whom we've seen in films like The Godfather and Rocky, character actor Joe Spinell, and this was the perfect project for him to show his acting skills, haunting us with a memorable performance proving that he could be a main star. Fine, it's an underground movie in a way but those who love horror films definitely know this and probably love it more than I do.Frank Zito, the character played by Spinell, is one of those raised in the Norman Bates tradition. Traumatic past involving his mother leads him to brutally killing women all around and for brief moments we might think all he wants is to have a regular relationship with somebody to cut him loose from his loneliness in a small apartment filled with dolls made -la Frankenstein mode, the only company he has to talk with in between delusional moments, hearing voices. If the crimes committed by Zito are far more shocking and disgusting than the ones perpetrated by the monstrous character from Hitchcock film, so does the pity we can feel for this lonely man. It's tough to watch him cutting, butchering his victims (the most infamous sequence involves him shooting a man with a shotgun, blasting his head. So infamous that made Gene Siskel walked out of the theater, write about it saying that after this scene there was nothing worth watching in there) but it's also tough to see him again and again, having those one sided talks with the dolls, making plans, trying to get rid of such destructive killing instinct, promising to not make them come out again. Will Sposito find his way out of his endless list of crimes that are terrorizing New York City? He deserves to die or be condemned for all of his actions? Make your choice.Despite its thoughtful positions, Maniac is nothing less than a slasher film. And a frightening one. William Lustig directed very impressive scenes even for today's somewhat repressive standards. Forget about the already mentioned shotgun scene (really, I've seen worst). The subway bathroom sequence has to be one of the most terrifying scenes ever written where the female victim hides in the bathroom trying to escape from the killer. She's alone (despite the goofy introduction where we can note some people on the train before she runs), night time, New York wasn't much of a safe place in the 1980's, she's scared as hell. For one moment, there's only her breathing to be heard. She thought she escaped, relief, then...BAM! Out of the blue he strikes again. Gotta be real senseless to not feel anything during this scene.The major problem this movie has comes in the second act with a sudden and unexplained introduction to a love affair attempt, some sort of redemption to the main character meeting this artist. As far as we know he doesn't have the skills to pick up a woman. His victims are women he sees on the streets, in one case it was a prostitute he paid for, but most of the time is a random choice. Out of the blue, he says he's an artist and wants to get involved in what this female artist is doing, then they're romantically linked. What? Not only was absurd but slowed down the movie, almost becoming something unwatchable. A good/bad thing about Maniac was its several similarities with Taxi Driver (funny, because Spinell played Travis Bickle's boss in there). Lonely and dysfunctional characters trying to break out from their little worlds in the middle of the cold and distant New York, both main characters are at their breaking points where killing seems to be only solution. Visually speaking both films are semi-documental in their capture of the sleazy ambiance of NY, crowds moving through the night and all. One minor trivia note the famous song Maniac by Michael Sembello, Oscar nominated for Flashdance was composed to be used in this film. Can you believe it? It suited better in Adrian Lyne's film, that's for sure. Putting aside the many problems of it, Maniac is the perfect project for someone who try to made his way into Hollywood in a greater way and who's that? Joe Spinell. Not only he acts in the movie but he participated in the production and the movie's script and that's the way not much famous actors must try to succeed in the business instead of just getting small roles in big productions. Write and produce your own films, maybe you'll get recognized for that. Billy Bob Thornton succeed it with his Sling Blade. Spinell almost got there. It's a memorable and terrific performance but his career didn't take off so much because he only got offered similar roles as the one he plays here, and he had to get back to the supporting roles. Regardless of that, he makes his stand in Maniac and kudos to that. He's brilliant, scary and amazing in playing such a pitiful and horrendous character. I can't say it entertained me. It terrified me and that was the real purpose of the movie. So, it's a good movie for getting its job done. Thumbs Up for that! 6/10 "},{"Title":"Satisfying","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie hits on most marks that a horror movie should. The killer is somewhat memorable and spinnell most definitely does a great job coming of as a maniac, i truly believed he was crazy. Also there are some great kill scenes and two in particular were extra gory. Toss in a set of token titays and a creepy room full of altered mannequins and you've got yourself a pretty damn good horror movie. The only problem i had with this movie is it doesn't go far enough in establishing its own identity. It comes close but doesn't really differentiaite itself from the pack enough to become a favourite for me. It is definitely undeniably above average and a great watch but it isn't a true classic for me. still good stuff and gory enough to keep me satisfied. "},{"Title":"maniac","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Instead of copy and pasting the plot I'm going to go straight to the review, this movie is interesting yet stupid. Now the reason I am calling this film stupid is simply because the same thing is repeated throughout the movie but it is still watchable. It is kind of cheesy though because when the maniac kills people he makes really funny looking faces even though he's trying to look scary, it's hard to think that a man who talks to mannequins and makes those kind of faces and acts how he acts is a killer so it's a mixed bag. Horror, thriller, crime, comedy. This movie is a mix bag. I honestly don't know what to rate this movie as it's hard to even put into words but if you're going to watch this, grab some friends and have yourself a good laugh or at least wait until the 2012 remake with Elijah Wood comes out. "}{"Title":"He's a maniac,a maniac!","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Since seeing a clip of the film in Adam Simon's brilliant documentary The American Nightmare,I have been extremely keen on watching this very brutal-looking Slasher.And although this great film does have a huge Slasher element,director William Lustig's gritty filming style makes the film clearly stand out from the 80's Slasher pack.The plotWith having never gotten over the mental and physical abuse the his late mother put him through as a child,Frank Zito sits alone in his small flat,spending days on end talking to mannequins,who he imagins are not accepting his pleas that this time he will be a good boy.On the few occasions when Frank leaves the flat to pay a visit to the great outdoors,he instantly gets obsessed with any beautiful woman that gets in his sight,due to the girls causing a switch to go off in Zito's head,which turns him into a murdering psychopath!.After ripping the scalp off of his last victim, (which has now been nailed onto one of the mannequins head)Frank runs into a photography called Anna D'Antoni,who,unlike any of the other girls actually talks to Frank very kindly.Suspected that he may have found someone special,Zito does everything to stop the switch from going off on Anna,for as long as possible... View on the film Due to most of the film focusing on just Frank Zito,the movie needed an actor who could make it look that Frank could switch at any moment,and thanks to the tremendous performance of Joe Spinell (who also co-wrote the film,with C.A. Rosenberg)is a target that the film achieves.For the scenes in Zito's flat,Spinell stops the scenes from falling into an explanation intermission,by breaking the fourth wall,and delivering his conversations to the mannequins with a strong menace.Looking at the murder scenes that take place outside the flat,Spinell has to be praised for making Frank look like an unstoppable psycho killer,the along with the still highly impressive practical effects of Tom Savini make the film one excellent nasty shocker.Although it does have to be said that the screenplay of the film is fairly straight forward,director William Lustig gives the film a style which most directors would have stayed miles away from,with Lustig always having the camera close to Frank,which makes the film look like a deeply disturbing,gritty fake documentary, and gives the film a huge amount of extra of intensity,due to Lustig never letting the camera or the audience hide their face during Zito's extremely aggressive killings. Final view on the film A fantastic ,almost fake documentary Slasher film,that still packs a knock-out punch thanks to Spinell's aggressive performance,still- stunning special make up effects from Savini and gritty directing from Lustig. "},{"Title":"There's no way you can possess someone forever. Even in a photograph, there's no way.","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Frank (Joe Spinel, who was Willie Cicci in Godfather films, and Tony Gazzo in Rocky films) plays a man who was mistreated by his mother, who is now dead. He spends his time killing girls to repossess her. He believes she is talking to him throughout the movie. He is one very messed up individual.While this is a typical grindhouse film, it is not a typical slasher film. There are only a scene or two that really ramp up the blood and gore, and one of them involves him (in his twisted mind, of course).Make-up and special effects master Tom Savini (Day of the Dead, Dawn of the Dead) is in the movie in one scene that is really over the top. This, and the previously mentioned scene are the only two that are really gory - be warned.I never figured out why Anna (Carolyn Munro) started going with Frank, but he even turned on her in the end.A story of the psychological damage done by bad parenting. Probably the story of every serial killer known.Your 1980s grindhouse education is not complete without this film. "},{"Title":"One of the modern horror greats!","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is, hands down, one of the greatest horror films of the 20th Century. Scary, brutal, realistic, and although Written and Starring the late-great character actor Joe Spinell (Rocky / The Godfather 2) who puts in a genuine frighteningly realistic performance in the title role. Very loosely, but based on the real-life Son of Sam murders. Directed by William Lustig, who took the source material and created a slasher film that really has come to define that sub-genre. Lastly; Hat's off to 70's and 80's special effects guru Tom Savini who accomplished two of his greats gore gags in this one. This is one film that should be in your top 20 horror films to see before you die list. "},{"Title":"Maniac.. A violent film...","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I found Maniac to be a very violent horror film. It is about a man called Frank who misses his mother, who was killed in a car accident years before. She was abusive to him, and made money selling her body, but Frank still misses her. He tries to keep her from leaving him, and reform her evil ways, by killing young women and putting their scalps on mannequins which he displays around his apartment. A photographer Anna takes a picture of him in the park, and he befriends her. Is she the one he's been looking for or just another mother for him I found this to be a very disturbing film. This film was banned all over the world, for the graphic violence in the movie "},{"Title":"Hey, he warned you not to go out tonight...","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Let's just come right out with it this film is ugly, misanthropic, and not at all fun to watch. In other words, William Lustig perfectly captured what he was setting out to create. Your enjoyment of Maniac will depend solely on how comfortable you are watching a largely plot-less series of brutal and unflinching murder sequences and dwelling inside the mind of one of the most depraved killers to ever grace a film screen.I don't know if I can defend this film as art, as I'm not sure it was ever intended to be viewed as such. What I can tell you is that those who were appalled by what they deemed a misogynistic undercurrent are grossly misinformed, and clearly missing whatever point the film has. Frank Zito, our titular Maniac, doesn't hate women, and neither do the makers of this film. In fact, the main impetus for Zito's horrendous deeds seems to be the unrequited love feelings he has for a never-named woman who spurned him. It's also worth noting that not only does Frank also kill men throughout his spree, but also the most savage and violent murder in the film is inflicted upon a male victim.Say what you will about Joe Spinell's uber-sleazy portrayal of Zito, but no one can argue that it isn't an unforgettable performance. Though the film spends very little time exploring the psychology behind Frank's handiwork, Spinell executes (sorry, bad pun) his performance in a serious and thoughtful way, which strikes a fine ironic balance with the frenzied and senseless killing that goes along with that. Most of his dialogue comes in the form of post-homicide monologues in which he articulates his muddled thoughts either to himself or to the scalp-adorned mannequins that litter his dingy apartment, but Spinell makes these scenes alarmingly real. He never elicits sympathy, even in his most despairing moments as a tortured-soul torturer, but Spinell fights hard, and wins, at presenting his Maniac as a multi-dimensional monster.Of course, a big selling point for this film is the presence of Tom Savini's effects, which are surprisingly uneven in spots, but overall as excellent as you'd expect. A few clunkers, like an obviously rubber knife that wobbles against the skin during a scalping scene, reveal that the maestro was still developing his chops. But the close-range shotgun blast to the head is among Savini's best and most stomach-churning set-pieces.Watching with today's eyes, when anything can be accomplished with CGI (that stands for Cheating with Generated Images, by the way), I'm not sure how impactful the splatter in films like Maniac still is. But when you consider that everything you're seeing on the screen is actually happening (in a simulated sense, of course), there's no denying the master craftsmanship that goes into Savini's work, and his ability to divert your attention away from his magician's tricks remains unparalleled. During the grand guignol denouement, when Frank's victims apparently come back to life and get their revenge by literally tearing him to pieces, we are obviously aware that the clunky severed head being yanked from Spinell's torso is a dummy. But, these are special EFFECTS, and surrounded by the sea of carnage and ripping hands, we are presented with the image of a man's head being torn from his body in bold and graphic detail. In terms of the quiver of revulsion the scene evokes, the effect is no less spectacular because we know it isn't real.Those who are aware of exactly what Maniac is, and still want to see it, definitely need to do so, because the film's vision is essayed about as perfectly as you could hope for. Those who dismiss a film like Maniac because it glorifies violence are dead wrong. There's nothing glamorous about the butchery on display in Maniac, and actually, this film does more than most to present violence as an ugly and decidedly uncharming business. Though somewhat sexual in nature, Zito's crimes are not titillating, they are horrific and brutal abominations, and the film never tries to portray them as anything but.Granted, Maniac isn't for everyone, and I want to stress again that this film is not pleasant, popcorn-chomping escapist fare. This is a very dark and very gritty visit with a madman, and perhaps its most inviting proposition is that we don't have to stay long. But, despite plot familiarities and a glut of slasher fare surrounding it, there is not another film like Maniac. For better or worse, it earns every bit of infamy it has. "},{"Title":"Not to be confused with the nice song of the same name.","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Split down the middle, this schizoid film is a repertoire of what can be deemed both a slasher and splatter movie. We have seen the typical slasher film stars such as Michael Myers (Halloween - 1978), Jason Voorhees (Friday the 13th - 1980) and Freddy Krueger (Nightmare on Elm Street - 1984). These fantasy stalkers' work well on their own, but, when combined with the added ingredient of the Splatter genre, buckets of blood and missing limbs abundant, the pace suddenly becomes more shocking, more degrading and with blood-letting by the bucket loads to whet the appetite.Films such as the English Hammer Film Productions of the sixties and seventies, Intolerance (1916), Night of the Living Dead (1968), The Evil Dead (1981) and of course, Peter Lord of the Rings Jackson's ultra-gore fest and blackest of comedies Braindead (1992) are all fine examples of the splatter label.Throughout his carrier, Joe Spinell (1936 - 1989) had performed in possibly some of the greatest movies within the last forty years The Godfather, Pt's I & II, Rocky I & II, Farewell, My Lovely (1975) and Taxi Driver (1976). It is here, in his personal work via his attributes of starring, screenplay writing, story and Executive Producer that this 1980's classic slasher / splatter film Maniac came to represent one of the most disturbing and shocking serial killers on screen since Norman Bates back in the early sixties.A hater of women, or more to the point a man who has had the misfortune to be the miss-interpreter of women, and with a deep seated hatred fuelled by his mother, this is a mind that has taken upon itself to reek havoc, vengeance and inherited blame onto his victims. A disturbed mind has to also reside in the physical, and we see Frank Zito coming home after a bad night out in his tiny one room apartment, a shrine to all things female and childlike. Dirty, broken and caged dolls sit aside centrefolds pinned onto the wall; framed pictures of his childhood are hung next to religious images, female mannequins that are dressed in his victims' attire, their scalped hair and their blood. Tainted masks and images of death are a constant reminder of a mind in turmoil, a shrine to the female gender and madness in all respects.Unlike the Bates Motel where we see our killer roaming free to explore his weakness, Zito's roaming ground is the streets of the seedier side of New York City. There is evil, too, that is condensed into the tiny environment of his apartment that has the spectator tight up and in the thick of it all. Alienating as it first appears, director William Lustig and Joe Spinell has our leading man talking only to himself and the mannequins that he has made in the image of Woman that are the testament to his morbid indifference. Spurned on by a grizzly, haunting and excellent score, both electronic and musical, by Jay Chattaway (Maniac Cop - 1988, Star Trek The Next Generation - 1987 / 94 etc), this is a fine signature tune, both her own and Zito's, that helps delve only deeper into the confusion of this primal scream. Mr. Carpenter would be pleased.What is surprising with this narrative is the capability of Frank Zito to totally change persona, a doppelganger of social skill, intellect and wit, switching sides and crossing the line, to fully exploit the new arena he finds himself. Befriending unknowing fashion photographer Anna D'Antoni (Caroline Munro The Golden Voyage of Sinbad, 1974 and The Spy Who Loved Me, 1977), with her photos of women laid across her wall. There are comparisons, as Zito would believe, to her artistic works of preservation, via the photograph, of life, the life of woman and Zito's still life of his work, his preservation of life via the mutilation, destruction and the dressing of his ladies the mannequins. He quickly claims his prize, he quickly slides back into the abyss and the sense is set for a mental explosion of paranoia hell.Robert Lindsay, the films cinematographer and camera operator, has an eye for the suspenseful, with beautiful shots of atmosphere, it is also with Jay Chattaway's ear, Tom Savini's hands and the imagination of the late Joe Spinell that Maniac is a film that both terrorises and amazes. This, being the heart of a good film, such as Maniac, with confliction and schism from start to finish, this will, literally, make the hairs stand on the back of your neck. "},{"Title":"This 1980 movie called Maniac should provide plenty of entertainment for slasher fans","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Having just seen a 1934 movie called Maniac, I next decided to check on YouTube and watch the 1980 movie of the same name directed by one William Lustig. This one stars Joe Spinell as Frank Zito, a serial killer who lives alone in his apartment with many blood-drenched mannequins. His monologues are always addressed to his late mother who punished him constantly by sending him to the closet. Among his victims are a hooker, a nurse, a model, and horror effects master Tom Savini (though it's really him who shoots his dummy's head through the front windshield!). Also appearing is Caroline Munro as photographer Anna D'Antoni who shot a candid Frank at Central Park so Frank takes an interest in her. Having loved Ms. Munro in The Spy Who Loved Me, I was very worried for her safety here. You'll have to see for yourself if she survives. I watched two long explicit trailers on YouTube of this movie to see if I wanted to be exposed to all that gore. Having watched the whole thing, the plot takes a while but the killings, while maybe a little gratuitous, were still entertainingly filmed. The end with the dolls ganging up on Frank especially so. So for horror buffs who don't mind so much gore, I highly recommend Maniac (1980). "},{"Title":"A good but tad overrated 80's slasher","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was looking forward to seeing this much talked about and revered 1980 horror film. Partly because I love a dark, gritty slasher and partly because I love Tom Savini's work. Well, I finally got around to watching it and I feel a tad disappointed. This is because I went in with very high expectations and that always leads to disappointment. It wasn't as gory as many people led on and it did drag in places but other than that it was a good movie.Joe Spinell is Frank Zito, a guy with mother issues and a serious problem. He likes to go out and violently kill and scalp women so he can decorate his mannequins. That is the plot in a nutshell and really, for a slasher that is all you need, a basis for setting up some gory murders. And when they happen, they are definitely bloody (of particular note is an awesome exploding head sequence). Tom Savini did a damn good job with this movie.Joe Spinell's gritty and excellent performance is also worth praising. He does an extremely good job and carries the movie very well. The score is quite creepy and there are a few scenes that are actually quite scary and there is one scene (a stalking scene set in a subway) that is very well done and is one of the most intense scenes in all of the horror movies I have seen.If you love gory, dirty, sleazy 80's movies or slashers this is not to be missed.3/5 "},{"Title":"An excellent Film","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" For the budget this film was made on it is an absolute masterpiece and probably Joe Spinell's greatest performance. He perfectly capture's the disturbed mindset of a man capable of anything. This is also a perfect example of the Genius that is Tom Savini a man who is a living legend in the special effects business. If your a fan of gore then you can do no better than this movie. Even the simplest kills are a feast for the eyes. When watching this movie you can truly tell that everyone involved was absolutely devoted to making this movie a great piece of art. In short , If you are a fan of disturbing slasher films then Maniac is definitely for you. "},{"Title":"Underated, down beat, psycopath film!!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Just viewed the Anchor bay DVD of this having never seen it before, just heard of it's reputation. I was surprised to find an atmospheric, low key, down beat explotation horror. The acting, bar Joe Spinell is average but it is directed with a certain low budget style with good effects by the king Tom Savini. Music is also resonably good and helps to add tension to certain key scenes. In my opinion it is no more distasteful/disturbing than the Jason and Freddy horror's and although Frank Zito's victims are only women his motive is that his mum neglected and tortured him as a child and he see's her in his victims. The bad thing's are the poorly developed friendship between Catherine Munro's photographer and there should have been a flashback to his childhood to further prove his madness and maniacal nature. 7 out of 10 for this genre. "}{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says about this movie, because basically it is a masterpiece. Regardless if your for or against woman brutality, it is a wonderfully made movie. This movie captures the inner most thoughts of a madman, and how and why he feels the way he does towards women. Its not just another eighties slasher of a nut running around hacking up teen girls (although i do enjoy those). This movie has a lot of depth, and is true to reality, such as Berkowitz case, in which inspired the film. Ussually, i would define slasher films as low budget, bad acting, small plot, and lots of gore.  This film is all the opposite, besides the gore. I dont even know if i could catorgorize this film as a slasher, its just that good. After listening to the music score on CD, i even became more fascinated by the film. I dont think there will ever be a score like it, besides Halloween. Watch this, NOW!! "},{"Title":"Bloody good!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Seen on VHS only, but was impressed. I like films from Argento or Fulci but even Lustigs (Lustig is the german word for funny) film comes close to them both. I like Spinells acting very much. The guy looks like he can kill as easy as he does it in the film! The best scene of course is when Zito jumps on the car and blew away the head of the guy! Nice Make Up/Special Effects from Tom Savini! Watch MANIAC! "},{"Title":"Grim psychological suspense film with buckets of gore","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Joe Spinell makes one of the most effective movie psychos I've ever seen.  We are immediately sympathetic for and terrified by Frank Zito, a severely disturbed middle-aged man with a mother complex.  The score is one of the most memorably eerie, haunting soundtracks ever.  I'd love to own it.  There is a lot of atmosphere here, mainly because of the Mario Bava-like set pieces of Frank's tiny New York apartment.  If you have a weak stomach you probably won't make it through the first 2 minutes of this film, which opens with a brutal double murder on the beach.  The only thing I didn't particularly care for about this film was the cliched and silly scene towards the end where the skeletal hands of Frank's mother pop out of her grave and grab him - it sort of cheapens an otherwise flawed but fine psychological suspense film.  See it, they don't make them like this anymore.  My score 6/10 "},{"Title":"Pure shockn roll!!!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  No doubt Maniac is one of the most effective thrillers ever made about psycho slashers. Although its too surface to be a real portrait about a weird man as we have seen it impressively in Henry(the film that comes closest to Maniac is Nightmare (in a damaged brain) in my opinion..!), William Lustigs slasher does not being stingy with suspense and shock values!Joe Spinell, who also wrote the script and had some supporting roles in mainstream productions like Rocky or The Godfather is giving the most memorable performance of his career with playing the mentally disturbed serial killer Frank Zito, who was tortured physical as well as psychical by his dominating mother, a woman that used to earn money by selling her body.In the next 90 minutes nearly all the persons who cross Franks way have to die violent deaths first there is that couple on the beach, followed by a street hooker and a second couple which becomes murdered after having nightly sex in the mans car. A pretty nurse and a photo model are the last victims before total insanity takes control over Frank Zitos mind...Maniac contains a galore of brutality that will satisfy every gorehound, like the scalping of a prostitute, an exploding head and the final nightmare-sequence when all his victims take bloody revenge. The gore is interrupted by some monologues or the hinted love affair to a photographer played by the former Bond-girl Caroline Munro.Okay, sometimes this flick stays quite undecided if it wants to be a splatter movie, a serial killer-thriller or a drama, you will even find  some unconscious humor here and there. Nevertheless Maniac is pretty entertaining from beginning till the end, shocking and disturbing! Its the best film director William Lustig ever made and a must-see for every real horror fan!!! "},{"Title":"Maniac traces the steps of a maternally fixated, lady-scalping serial killer as he stalks his victims in the streets of New York City.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Finally a cool movie ! I decided to rent this movie after hearing good word about it on the net. VERY cool gore scenes. My personal favorite is this one scene where make up artist, Tom Savini, gets his head blown off by a two barrel shot gun at point blank range. That was one heck of a scene!I found the entire movie entertaining and was anticipating the killer's next murder through every moment of the film. There were some tense scenes where you wonder if the girl's going to get away or not. I didn't find the movie very scary though. The acting is excellent, especially towards Joe Spinell, who played the killer.He truly is a maniac and it's evident while watching the film. It's very weird how he scalps his victims and places their scalps on mannequins. Reminded me a little of Leatherface from 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.' This is one of the best slasher films I've seen, and it's good to see that it has NO teenagers at all. Very rare when it comes to a slasher movie.I was lucky enough to rent the digitally remastered collector's edition, because I got to see footage for the sequel and a deleted scene. Each death scene was different from one another. It wasn't just stabs in the chest or stomach. I was a little confused at why he would kill people and take their scalps, but it made sense after a while. I also found it interesting as to why he does what he does. I was expecting a lot more towards the end, but it still didn't end too bad. One of my other favorite scenes is towards the end. I definitely recommend this movie to all you slasher and gore fans. "},{"Title":"Precusor to HPOASK","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  There are some eerie similarites between Frank Zito(Maniac) and Henry(HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer).  One, both have the appearence of being nice and normal.  Two, Frank and Henry kill in a methodical and random fashion.  Three, each were traumatized during childhood when living under an emotionally abrusive mother.  Four, Frank and Henry are convincing in hiding their true self under a clouded facade.Maniac(1980) was absolutely influenced by the films of Dario Argento and Mario Bava.  This was William Lustig's tribute to the two cult Italian horror movie makers.  The mario Bava feature that provided the main chunk of inspiration for Maniac(1980) is Hatchet for the Honeymoon(1969).  Other Bava films that influenced Maniac(1980) are Blood & Black Lace(1964), A Bay of Blood(1971), and Baron Blood(1972).  Argento influences are The Bird with the Crystal Plumage(1969), Four Flies on Grey Velvet(1971), Deep Red(1975), and Suspiria(1977).An enormous amount of research was done on serial killers by the actor and the director.  This research paid off because it leads to the main actor giving a realistic and terrifying performance.  Joe Spinell had never before or after play a film character with such conviction.  He was the best actor for the role of Frank Zito.  This was because he gave a lot of his energy in a role that many actors wouldn't touch.The portrayal of Frank Zito is so realisticly presented to the point of putting a chill in someone's back.  Frank Zito is a combination of many infamous serial killers from the 20th Century.  The serial killer here is not an iconic horror figure like Michael, Freddy, or Jason.  One film that manages to out do this movie in its realistic portrayal of a serial killer is HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer(1986).  The killer in Maniac(1980) makes Hannibal Lector look harmless and tame.Maniac(1980) stood out from other American horror films because of its grisley and gruesome murder scenes.  What makes these scenes daring are the lack of sugar coating and more empharsis of the ugliness of murder. The murder in the subway restroom recalls a similar scene from 4 Flies on Grey Velvet(1971).  These scenes were controversial due to their disguisting and sleezy nature.  The make up effects for Maniac(1980)were done with outstanding results by Rob Bottin and Tom Savini.The tour de force moment comes in the infamous head exploding scene.  The best head exploding effect from an non SCIFI or Zombie pic.  Tom Savini did a much better job for this sort of effect here than he did on Dawn of the Dead(1978).  One of two films in 1980 that included a Savini effect where someone uses their head(the other being Friday the 13th).  This effect would appear in a later slasher pic called The Prowler(1981).William Lustig would redo Maniac in the late 1980s as Relentless(1989). After all, Relentless(1989) is nothing but a cleaned up version of Maniac(1980).  The murder scenes in Relentless(1989) are toned down.  The latter takes a distanced apporach because its not a psycho portrait like the former.  Judd Nelson never manages to reach the realistic and scary level of Joe Spinell as Frank Zito.Maniac(1980) interestingly enough is the closet thing in movies to there being a faithful adaptation to an Edgar Allen Poe horror short story without being based on one.  The narrator like in Poe's horror stories is deranged and insane.  The narrator of Maniac(1980) is a lot like the insane narrators of BERENICE, THE BLACK CAT, TELL TALE HEART, & WILLIAM WILSON.  Definitely has the macabre and melencoly style of Edgar Allen Poe.  No film has captured the atmosphere and psychological decay of Edgar Allen Poe more visually faithful than Maniac(1980).The scene that takes the cake as the most bloody and messy is the death fantasy of Frank.  The dead in the film's nightmarish sequence come bac from beyond to gain the ultimate revenge.  This is the other best death scene in the film.  Inspired by the final scene in Baron Blood(1972) where all the Baron's victims comes back to get even with him.  This sequence would be ripped off in Don't Go in the House(1981).Helped by dazzling cinematography and fantastic film score.  The scene in the car with Tom Savini and Hyla Marrow is inspired by Torso(1972). Maniac(1980) would pave the road for movies like Ms. 45(1981), Nightmare in a Damaged Brain(1981), & New York Ripper(1982).  A film that kicks at the psyche and shocks the highest human emotion.  Maniac(1980) is in my opinion the masterpiece of William Lustig. "},{"Title":"Classic gore/slasher flick","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Joe Spinnell as a schizophrenic, crazed madman gives a sense of reality and truth to this gory and violent slasher.  He attacks women and steals their scalps, created to the bloody effect by Tom Savini, who also stars as an unfortunate boyfriend who falls victim to the murderer(quite a murder scene).  This one is very, very violent and gory, but has become a cult classic due to its bizarre nature. Recommended for gore fans. "},{"Title":"A great slasher/horror flick","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maniac is so disturbing and sadistic that it's so fun to watch. Joe Spinnel (Willie Cheechee from the godfather movies) is the slasher as he kills sexy young women and scalps them then puts their scalps on his set of female mannequins in his apartment as a hobby. It's an unusual hobby I must say.Best scene Spinnel walks onto the hood of a parked car and blows a guy's head off with a shotgun at close range.The end makes it a horror flick when all of the mannequins come to life and tear Spinnel apart in an after-life revenge activity that is ultimately satisfying.  "},{"Title":"Splatter University","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  That's where T. Savini must have learned his craft.  This movie has it dripping, pouring, running, and splattering all over the place.  Tom also gets what must have been the ultimate thrill for a special effects guy and get to blow up his own head in a movie.  As had been said before, this movie tried to break the trend of unremorseful killers with a remorseful killer who could not control himself.  This part of the movie does not work the best in my opinion, but the special effects were great. (check out the scalping from the victim's point of the victim).A semi-horror classic of sorts. It was kind of imitated in Pieces (1981). "},{"Title":"Video nasty #1","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I consider this to be the ultimate video nasty of all time. Set in New York City and starring the late great sleazball Joe Spinell who plays Frank Zito a schitzo/sicko maniac who kills women, along with their boyfriends whom get in his way, he then scalps the women and uses their hair and clothes to dress up female department store maniquins that he keeps in his tiny apartment. This one is really sick. Even gore fans may find it overwhelming with the almost nonstop killings which where done by the famed SFX splatter wizard Tom Savini (who has a cameo role as one of the victims.) Although Spinell is plausable as the creep who takes to the dark, garbage ridden, winter-cold streets to look for victims to take out his misogyinst rage steming apparently from his late mother, that does not mean that one has to watch him or care about what makes him tic.The only reason to see this is to watch the excellent and most realistic killings on film (stabings, throat cuttings, a garotting, a head blown apart by a shotgun blast, a slow scalping, a head ripped off, etc.) But most people will by understandibly repelled by the tone. It's a movie about a maniac for maniacs. Consider yourself warned.Contents Seven killings, abundant blood, explicit mayhem, one nude scene of Gail Lawrence taking an all-too-brief bath, lots of psychotic ramblings and interior monologues, a much-nastier-than-usual slasher flick. "}{"Title":"Actually made me change my mind.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I must admit ,the second time I watched this film I saw it a new light, although the movie still has its obvious flaws (Some of the girls here are totally stupid-Two girls start talking about the killer on the loose, then one girl offers the other girl a ride home the girl turns her down!!!! Duh hello!!! There's a killer on the loose!!!Now the good points There's not another horror movie like it. Period. Even Friday the 13th looks like a bunch of garbage when it comes to this movie. Ludwig does a superb job of giving us insight into the mind of a serial killer.I actually have the Collector's Edition of the tape which features footage from Maniac 2 Mister Robbie!!!! which was never finished due to Spinell's death.Ill briefly describe the footage and plot of Mister Robbie. In Maniac 2, Joe or Frank as he is known, plays a vigilante/killer. He kills people who are mean to  children. In one scene, he is reading a letter from a kid who had hot water spilled on him!!!!Then in the next scene, Frank confronts the child abuser and puts his head in boiling pot!!!! Wow.Few people have seen this footage and it certainly would have been a great horror film.So second time is the charm. Tom Savini actually grew to profit of the film, even when he wanted nothing to do with it. "},{"Title":"Mine-iac","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Joe Spinell wrote and starred in this very raw horror movie.  There is no putsing around here, the killer begins the killing spree from the beginning and doesn't often take rests inbetween executions.  Joe Spinell's only starring role was this, and it is his most memorable one.  20 years ago this movie was banned and unappreciated for the most part.  Even gore master Tom Savini (who did the gore in this film) disowned this film, saying that it was his most sick work ever.  This movie was slapped with an X rating and was not distributed very well, not to mention the friday the 13th series were ruling the horror sections in these times.  However, that was then, now suddenly it seems that there has become a renoticing of Maniac.  It has hit the lime light and more and more people are going to rent this once disowned video.  As the taste for horror feels a rebirth movies that were once overlooked (primarily because of how gruesome they were) will not be missed out, Maniac is a prime example of that.  The acting in this movie is just decent, nothing more!  Joe Spinell is said to have done an excellent job but I don't agree, his acting was not very polished for this type of a role.  Otherwise he would have been great for the role.  The atmosphere is very strong, dark, and even a bit depressing.  The gore fx were fabulous.  You are going to be astounded by the work that Tom Savini does on himself when his head literally get annihilate via double barrel  shotgun.  Supposedly a sequel was being produced named Mr. Robbie.  But Joe Spinell died before the movie could be completed and it was never finished.  Before this movie Joe Spinell was virtually only to be seen in small roles in gangster movies, but after this movie he was taken up for some horror movies, that's certainly where his interest was.  If you're a slasher/psycho-film fan, you should definitely see this very daring movie. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant but effective","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Repellent, if surprisingly professionally made, and marketed slightly misleadingly as a slasher film (it certainly has more than its share of graphic violence, however), this oddity was apparently a labor of love for Joe Spinell, who wrote it and appears in every scene. However, Spinell's rather overwrought attempt at a serious portrait of a disturbed man is offset by the fetishistic, almost pornographic, display of nasty violence in excruciatingly realistic detail. Easy to dismiss (and this film has inspired visceral negative reactions in many viewers), but it's a capably made exercise, despite its questionable content. "},{"Title":"Psychosis Can Be A Roller Coaster -- Sometimes.","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is a very disturbing movie depicting a lone schizoid psychotic impelled to murder women one by one. After he murders them he scalps them and uses their hair for his collection of mannequins. These murder scenes are performed with lewd gusto and sometimes exceeds melodramatic violence with its use of gore. The director makes an effort at portraying the killer's psychological structure. In a few scenes we hear the maniac's hallucinations asking him `why do you do these things,' and a few scenes depict him as somewhat conscious and fearful of his demons. However, the film does not pursue these themes and, unfortunately, we are made to hate the murder for who he is.Nevertheless, the film was made at a time when mental illness was overlooked,and in addition, this is a horror movie and not a drama where these issues are questioned --- a la, Henry; Portrait Of A Serial Killer. 	On the contrary, Maniac can be an entertaining film, once the viewer relinquishes its disturbing topics. Maniac was made on a low budget and this gives the film a suspenseful ambiance. The film has fun with misogyny, sometimes sticking it in the face of the viewers while scorning us at the same time. My favorite scene is the Bunuelian hallucinatory sequence, where rotting mannequins attack the title character, thus (somewhat) recapitulating the film. 	Maniac is one of those films where we shouldn't care one bit; in other words, it's a bomb. Moreover, once the viewer has immersed into it he/she will forget the pitfalls and have fun &#150; i.e. a roller coaster ride. However, for those who are offended by graphic violence and psychological stereotyping, stay away from The Maniac.   "},{"Title":"Great psycho-drama with great special effects","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was amazed at how well actor Joe Spinell portrays the character Frank. First, he looks so mentally screwed up; the next second he looks completely normal. You can see what Frank went through in his past without there being much disclosed about it. A 5 second scene of him looking at himself in the mirror and looking at the scars on his body, quietly but shockingly reveal his abused and tortured childhood.  I give 10 out of 10 to his acting. This film also has one of the best head exploding scenes (as good as that in Cronenberg's Scanners). So another 10 out of 10 to Tom Savini's special effects.  The best part of this film is that we can relate to the main character very easily. Because while other slasher movies tend to only show the hand and feet of the killer, we are exposed to a perfect character study from the very first minute. He cries, he regrets, he smiles, he talks smart talk, he looks innocent, he looks like an average person on the bus. I highly recommend this film. Plus, it is a pretty good horror film too.  "},{"Title":"Gore galore","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If you're looking for gore; this is the film you want to see. Joe Spinnel plays the killer wonderfully in this blood soaked gore-fest. It's unfortunate that he died of a heart attack in 1989 before finishing work on what was rumoured to be Maniac 2. "},{"Title":"True Gore Fest","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maniac is a superb treat for those who love gore mixed with a disturbing storyline. Very gritty no holds barred look at the way serial killers stalk their victims under city nights. Tom Savini tops off this film with his master special effects. This film would have to be on my top 5 goriest of all time. Truly Sick!! "},{"Title":"GOOD PERFORMANCE BY JOE SPINELL!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  MANIAC is a great movie. MANIAC is the story of Frank Zito (Joe Spinell), a psychopath who randomly murders women, scalps them, and takes their clothes and then uses their scalps and clothes to dress up his mannequins. He does this because his now-deceased mother abused him as a child. He believes that he can preserve her memory through his mannequins, which can never abandon him like his mother did. The MANIAC looks very similar to David Berkowitz and his moaning and panting makes it feel like him. After every killing he starts moaning.The MANIAC is almost the only character in this film and Joe Spinell he portrays him very well. You really think he is a maniac. One scene will stay in my mind for a long time and that's the one were he has a shotgun and he jumps up on the front of the car and fires the gun through the front, and you see the driver's head explode and pieces go everywhere even on his girlfriend. (like the pulp fiction scene, but you actually see the head exploding) "},{"Title":"A Stunning Performance by Spinell","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The 1980 horror film MANIAC is a cult classic, one of the most gruesome films of its time. Universally trashed by elitist film critics, MANIAC is the story of Frank Zito (Joe Spinell), a psychopath who randomly murders women, scalps them, and then uses their scalps to dress up his mannequins. Apparently, he does this because his now-deceased mother abused him as a child. He believes that he can preserve her memory through his mannequins, which can never abandon him like his mother did.The late Spinell (who also co-produced and co-wrote the script) gives a standout performance as Frank, comparable to Tony Curtis' portrayal of Albert DeSalvo in THE BOSTON STRANGLER. Spinell was an excellent actor who appeared in some of the best and biggest films of the 1970s, such as THE GODFATHER, ROCKY, and TAXI DRIVER. Unfortunately, he was relegated to supporting roles in such films. His strong acting ability lifts MANIAC far above the average slasher flick. MANIAC also boasts good direction, as William Lustig gives a chilling representation of Frank's miserable life in his filming of Frank's claustrophobic apartment. And of course, MANIAC boasts some of Tom Savini's most gruesome special effects. However, MANIAC is not without flaws, the most obvious flaw being the ridiculous actions taken by the two police officers at the end of the movie, which weakens an otherwise solid film.It must be noted that MANIAC is definitely not a film for all tastes. Non-horror fans and fans of fluff horror such as SCREAM will probably find little to like about this film. It is unrelentingly dark and negative, without heroes and happy endings. However, fans of gore and fans of character study thrillers such as HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER and PEEPING TOM should definitely give MANIAC a look.*** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Odd, disturbing psychodrama","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maniac is a truly fascinating film. It's unceasingly grim, brutal and sick. It relies a lot on some very cliched set-ups. But at the same timke is completely original and I don't believe I've seen another film like it. Joe Spinell is very creepy and his monologues are perfect studies in dementia. He sounds and looks like Berkowitz.(Although the killer's psychological quirks are much more like Dahmer than Berkowitz.) But it's not perfect though. The ending is rteally derivative and cheesy and I was personally annoyed by the lack of consistency in how the killer killed his victims and the ridiculous explanatory part.  "}{"Title":"Delirious New York","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If you come out of Spike Lee's SUMMER OF SAM feeling a letdown, there are two other New York movies that much more vividly capture the panic of the city during the Son of Sam's spree in the summer of '77. Abel Ferrara's FEAR CITY, not quite a good movie, at least has a Bickle-ish frenzy and delirium that's right on; and there's this sicko platter of cold cuts, the first movie of the talented, then-25-year-old William Lustig, a Son of Sam exploitation picture that seems to perfectly capture the clammy smell and taste of cold sweat.Joe Spinell, the Berkowitz manque of this Times Square programmer, was a sort of neighborhood version of Karloff's Frankenstein a huge, darkly glowering, pitted-faced, scary-looking guy who, in the films of Coppola and Friedkin, always suggested the soulfulness inside grim button men and cops. Here, his Son of Sam is a sort of melancholy Bluebeard who beats his head with remorse after every killing. Spinell was a marvellous actor who died young and probably would have had a nineties renaissance; Lustig captures the soot and the soiled wallpaper, the atmosphere that you makes you guiltily feel that the Berkowitz story was the quintessence of New York noir. This may be (with the Larry Cohen-scripted MANIAC COP) Lustig's best picture; it seems more like an Abel Ferrara version of the Berkowitz story than the one Ferrara actually made. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 23","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" 23. MANIAC (horror, 1980) A killer stalks the streets of New York City. He brutally kills women and takes their scalps as souvenirs. The Maniac (Joe Spinell) uses the scalps to put on mannequins he has all over his dingy, claustrophobic apartment. His fixation with these lifeless puppets is the only real link between him and the outside world. He nonetheless meets, on a friendly basis, a beautiful photographer (Caroline Munro). Just when you think he has reformed, the maniac turns against her in a psychotic rage.Critique A truly gruesome, sick picture makes others of its kind pale in comparison. The film creates a terribly real, decadent look of what evil beings are really up to. The locales of rubbish infected alleyways, deserted parks, stations and so on is truly nerve-wracking, and dutifully reflects the Maniacs' mind-set.This study into the mind of a serial killer is given 'weight' by Joe Spinell's considerable performance. His sweaty, sex-obsessed pervert can't help himself from committing such horrid murders. After each kill he laments and moans for not being able to sedate his sick urges. Like others of his ilk, he suffers constant mental disillusions and schizophrenic breaks. Further prove of the fantasy world they built around them which enables them to function. Film is very disturbing even when it's trying to follow a linear-dramatic tone, and definitely not for the faint minded. "},{"Title":"Separated from the standard slashers by realism and a sense of filth","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Released during the flood of slasher films after the successes of Halloween (1978) and Friday the 13th (1980), this grittier, New York-set film, is closer to a character study (like the proceeding, and superior Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer (1986)), than the more fantastical killers of most stalk and slash fare. Frank Zito (Joe Spinell) represents the lone killer, preying on young, vulnerable (and incredibly stupid) women, and procures their scalps to dress his flat-mates. He has many of the character traits of previous screen villains of this ilk, such as Norman Bates - Frank clearly has a mummy complex that manifests itself through audio flashbacks, illustrating a youth cradled with violence. Frank's raison d'etre here is quite simple, if slightly unnerving. He seems to be attempting to reconstruct the image of his mother onto these fibre-glass entities.The story was written by Spinell himself (a man who could previously be seen in such classics as The Godfather (1972), Taxi Driver and Rocky (both 1976)), and his performance is fantastically sweaty and creepy. Being set in the grim New York, it is impossible to separate it from the real life killings of David Berkowitz (more commonly known as Son of Sam), and one scene particularly highlights these murders as an influence. A disco couple sit in a parked car (the male is played by Tom Savini, who also created the gruesome special effects), copping off, when a shotgun fires and Savini's head explodes to bloody effect.What differentiates this from much of the films in the saturated sub- genre market is its realism, and sense of filth. But besides the more horrific elements, it even manages both pathos and even some very black humour. In the scenes in Frank's flat, he talks incessantly to the mannequins, and this becomes his downfall in an absurdist, paranoid finale. But perhaps what the film mostly left me with, was that 20th century society creates these kind of monsters due to isolation. We are continuously separating ourselves from the idea of community, locking ourselves within walls and minds. Perhaps a lesson should be learnt from the damaging effects of our capitalist consumer society.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!! So happy that it's been re-released","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is a classic. I love it. Great actors, such as Joe Spinell, and the kind of slasher film that I always live for. Spinell plays the character Frank Zito, and by the way, Spinell also co-wrote the script, I believe. If you're not familiar with Spinell, just look at his credits Godfathers 1 and 2, Rocky 1 and 2, Taxi Driver, Night Shift, Vigilante, need I say more? By the way, he was also in Married to the Mob, but his scenes were deleted. Oh, special effects by Tom Savini... legendary horror special effects guy Creepshow, Dawn of the Dead, Friday the 13th. You get the point. So this movie is definitely put out by some heavyweights. I don't know why it never got the acclaim it deserves, but I do know there's been a re-release of the DVD in blue ray, so look for it. "},{"Title":"Has good gore & some chilling moments, but little else.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The late JOE SPINELL stars as a psychopathic killer who roams New York mutilating both men & women in grisly fashion, collecting their scalps to put on the mannequins he has in his ugly apartment. MANIAC is a film that's well held up with slasher fans & loathed by critics, now usually I'm with the fans when it comes to horror films that are ridiculed by big shot critics, however this time I side with both, let me explain, what's good (why I side with the fans & not the critics) is the films great gore effects footage, done none other than the master of make-up artists TOM SAVINI (In a lot of horror film fans eyes if you didn't have Savini doing the effects work during the 1980's slasher boom, it wasn't really a true horror film) the gore here is brutal, raw & realistic including the hard to watch scalping scene seen near the beginning of the film & the infamous shotgun blast that blows Tom Savini's characters head to pieces, the film also sports other things absent in many films of the 1980's, suspense! & believe you me, there are quiet a few chilling suspenseful moments, my favorite being the scene in the subway where the killer is chasing a nurse who is all by herself & the films shrill & chilling music score which is especially effective in the films opening & ending. The New York back drop served the film very well & the last twenty minutes are both brutal, suspenseful & terrifying, I also liked the idea of the filmmakers decisions to explore the killers private life rather than having him just be a cardboard cut out serial killer that is so prevalent in many horror films, this one allows the viewer to sit back & get into the killers mind & universe, however it's now time for the bad (Where I agree with the big shot critics), despite the killer's character, all the other characters are merely slasher fodder, characters who merely exist in the film in order to be cut to pieces by the maniac & little else & after the films chilling opening & the odd part here & there until it reaches it's chilling & grisly climax, the film really has no place to go or have any real story to tell, with the only real recommendation being the gore effects & odd moments of chilling suspense. Well acted & surprisingly well directed, MANIAC is both a hit & miss, in other words if it's gore you crave & suspense see it, if your looking for a story with more meat on it's bones rather than the usual body count film, pass it on. The supposed sequel that followed was nothing more than a ten minute short film called MANIAC 2, directed by the same director who made COMBAT SHOCK.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Demented Shocker With An Exceptional Lead","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" William Lustig's Maniac of 1980 is an immensely scary and genuinely disturbing slasher flick with an ingenious and totally demented leading performance by the late Joe Spinell. It may not have the most complex plot, but the film is exceptional in its sheer insanity and shocking nature, and Spinell's performance makes it a must-see. Frank Zito (Joe Spinell)is homicidal maniac with schizophrenic moods, who stalks and brutally murders young women in abominable ways, in order to handle the loss of his abusive prostitute mother. When Frank meets beautiful photographer Anna (Caroline Munro), however, he adores her and the two befriend. Frank is torn between affection for Anna and his homicidal mother complex and perversions... Joe Spinell's performance as Frank Zito is brilliant, it is for sure not the usual standard that an actor gives such a weird, creepy and yet believable picture of insanity and the urge to kill. The supporting cast includes gore icon Tom Savini in a small role.Maniac may not have the best plot, and the killer's motivations may not be the most original, but it is a movie that is able to shock like hardly another. The murders are depicted in a very gruesome, and disturbing manner, and 'shocking' sure is a word to describe this movie. Gore and brutality, however, are not the only reasons to watch Maniac. This movie may lack in some departments, and it sure contains some logical inconsistencies, but it is definitely suspenseful and scary as hell. All said, Maniac is an a dark and disturbing shocker capable of scaring the hell out of the viewer. The exceptionally demented leading performance by Joe Spinell alone makes Maniac a shocking experience that should not be missed by a Horror fan! "},{"Title":"things I learnt from Maniac","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Cigarette burns make man boobs look even more unattractive.The most effective way to keep a hairpiece in place is with a hammer and nail.If a big fat sweaty bloke jumps on the bonnet of your car wearing a hat and pointing a shotgun at you, duck!Always accept lifts from porn stars.Women find fat sweaty weirdos who turn up at their door looking for photos of themselves highly desirable.Going to the Showdown rocks! A person will look shocked once they've had their head pulled off.When cops discover a dead body they nonchalantly leave, quietly closing the door behind them. Rita knew! "},{"Title":"Savani Delivers, Lustig does not","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" ***May Contain Spoilers*** For the most part I found this movie to be forum for Tom Savani's remarkable work in special effects. Also his cameo in this movie is pretty cool. The scenes that stick out in this movie are definitely the ones that show gruesome gore and showed off his artistry. Actually the best special effects scene is when Tom is killed by the maniac.The movie starts off strong. There are a string of murders by the maniac. No rhyme or reason; just good old fashion senseless killing. Though I'm not a real big fan of Bill Lustig's Maniac Cop series, this movie is perhaps is his best. The story takes place in Long Island, NY. The maniac is an overweight New Yorker of Italian descent named Frank Zito. His lunacy is best exemplified by his obsession and love of female mannequins. He talks to them and dresses them up in different apparel and body parts obtained from his victims.Sounds really good huh? Wrong. The premise was good, but Lustig's direction caused the movie to lag. The parts where he tried to develop some type of plot was scattered and really didn't fit together. For example, the maniac starts dating some photographer. How he comes to meet and really like this girl is a question. How this woman sees anything at all in this lonely, portly man is just unbelievable. I don't know where Lustig wanted to go with this angle. Apparently neither did he because the ending was quite abrupt and unexpected. On top of that it was just stupid. Out of nowhere, the maniac attempts to kill his photographer date. From there, it's too dumb to put type out.The story revolved around the maniac. His feelings, his motivations, and his perceptions were center of the plot. That is where Lustig went wrong. Joe Zpinnel plays Frank Zito. His acting is really bad. He had way too many lines in this movie. The maniac ruined the movie because it was a lame character played by an awful actor. Lustig should have left the maniac as a mysterious figure. He should not have shown his face or given him any lines. A focused emphasis on the brutality of the murders and a cleaned up the ending would have given this movie a much better rating in my book.Overall this movie is worth only 1 watch if you've never seen it. Tom Savini's special effects are worth a second look.5.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Top of the Food Chain","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" An absolute stunner. Spinell hand-crafted this first-person account of a berserk damage-case prowling for women to abuse. No one chases him, he is never in any danger of being caught, thus leaving him trapped in his dementia but confident that he will complete his mission. Unbelievably gory and artfully disturbing with some obvious low-budget drawbacks, but it plays much more serious and believable than it may have possibly intended to be. Spinell never got the mainstream attention he deserved, though he broke into a number of big pictures (Rocky, Taxi Driver, Godfather II), he was possibly too much of a distracting force on camera. He puts his all into this personal project that he created the story for and gave himself one of his few starring roles in. Spinell rages and quivers straight through this one, so sweaty that you swear you can smell him as victim after victim are BRUTALLY murdered in continuously original ways. Uncomfortably bizarre and bloody, you've never seen an 80's slasher quite like it. Scores have tried to imitate it, ripping it off easily as few have seen or heard of this one. Tom Savini's astonishing make-up FX are more startling when they scream up at you out of a no-budget acid-trip like this , and his cameo is absolutely unforgettable. A small blood-soaked masterpiece of psychosis, murder and sexual exploitation. "},{"Title":"An honest review on Maniac.  (may contain spoilers)","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is an awesome film. The gore looks so realistic and gruesome. The acting is good for this type of film. Joe Spinell does a great job playing the serial killer. They did a good job with the suspense in the film. There were lots of killings to keep you gore hounds entertained. But there is more to this film. This film isn't only a horror movie but it's a serious horror film. I know that might sound weird but this film is actually pretty scary. This is a very realistic film. Do not watch this unless your really used to the gore in horror films. Don't get me wrong here this isn't the perfect hard core horror film. There's some flaws to it not many but some. One of them is how boring it can be at times. That's about it but watch this film if you feel that your ready to. This film didn't bother me any but it maybe to much for some of you delicate types. Well this is a great film so I'll rate it a 9/10 stars. "}{"Title":"Gloriously putrid slasher","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  MANIAC is to sleaze what George Bush is to lies.It's the real deal and superstar Joe Spinell delivers a career-best performance as sicko adult, ex-abused child Frank Zito.Director William Lustig surrounds Spinell in grime and shadows. His apartment, which is filled with broken mannequins and trinkets, is a textbook of putrid production design.Tom Savini's gore effects are unapologetically showcased and pushed screen violence to a level it has been retreating from ever since (IRREVERSIBLE excepted). The storyline, referred to by Lustig as Jaws on Land, is infantile and cliched, but you can't help but love Spinell for his amazing dedication to this character. He oozes every miscreant quality we love characters like this for and never sabotages his Oscar-worthy performance with a nod or a wink. Just as Dennis Hopper WAS Frank Booth in BLUE VELVET, Joe IS Frank Zito.Jay Chattaway's score must be singled out here because it's a revelation, especially the title theme played over a camera pan of the killer's apartment.Caroline Munro as Mr. Zito's love interest is a tough pill to swallow, but Spinell did work on the script, so we can forgive him this flight of fantasy.Superb cinema.   "},{"Title":"Damn what a wasted effort...","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a complete waste of good, suspensive acting, great Tom Savini's special-gore-effects, and quite a fresh for these times idea. The thing which makes this film crappy is boring, irritating and much too simple plot. Plot? Come on! The movie is about a serial killer, but the following scenes we see are just murders one-by-one, though shown with much atmosphere, suspense and gore-like-blood-and-guts-everywhere style, it's too boring and simply stupid. The movie lacks a plot of for example a cop, or journalist who follows the maniac's trail. Don't be fooled by the fact that later from the same director we had brilliant Maniac Cop series. This movie sucks and it isn't worth seeing just for the marvelous blowing head scene. Avoid it - 2/10. "},{"Title":"There's something wrong with us, something very, very wrong with us...","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  (*1/2 out of *****)Joe Spinell plays the title character, an overweight sicko with an Oedipus Complex who pretty much kills off everyone he comes into contact with in progressively violent manners.  All this exploitative drek has to offer is one gratuitously gory murder scene after another, with little plot, characterization, or style whatsoever.  Tom Savini's gore and makeup effects are first-rate (especially the death-by-shotgun scene) if you're into that kinda thing.  I'm not a total prude, but I like slasher movies that offer a little more than just blood and guts, and this one doesn't deliver.  Honestly, there's something perverse and misogynistic about unredeeming violence of this sort.  Caroline Munro plays a pretty photographer who strikes up an implausible relationship with head-scalper/doll fetishist Spinell.Lowlight  One victim is tied to her bed, stabbed, and then scalped in a graphic scene that I did not have fun watching (even drunk). "},{"Title":"Definitely Worth Watching","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maniac is one of the greatest slasher movies ever made. The story is basically about serial killer Frank Zito and his tormented mind. Joe Spinell did a excellent job writing and portraying Zito, the special effects, done by master Tom Savini, are top notch. One of the great things about this movie is you get to see things from the killer's point of view and you actually start to feel sympathy for Frank towards the end of the movie. If you like blood, gore, and logic then Maniac is a great choice. Highly Recommended!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I picked up the DVD of this film and was very disappointing. This film has been built up as a must see of the genre but lustig can't direct and the film is lacking in any suspense whatsoever apart from one chase scene. I found myself bored silly and quite annoyed with Joe Spinell's whining, wheezing villain. On a positive note, the make up is pretty good and the documentary about spinell is entertaining but the main film is inept. "},{"Title":"Then BEST slasher film ever made!!!!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  OK, I wanted to say the greatest horror film ever made but that remains The Exorcist...However, This is the darkest, coolest slasher/horror film EVER!!!! For gore, fear and the all time greatest Lunatic ever created...Watch it and you will agree...Simply a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"One of the most brutal slasher films ever","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"    Maniac is a pretty infamous film. Most critics trashed the film when it came out over 20 years ago  because of the film's subject alone, a woman hating psychopath who kills women and keeps their scalps as trophies. The whole movie centers around the killer. In the average slasher film you watch as an outsider as the victims are stalked and killed. In Maniac you join the killer on his rampage. The film is very daring and politically incorrect. Again I must praise the films of the 70's-80's of this kind for being so daring and cutting edge. The film will leave you with a bitter taste in your mouth and could easily shatter your mind. Joe Spinelli's acting is excellent as the killer Frank Zito. The score is haunting and the screenplay is outstanding. Overall Maniac is a overlooked masterpiece. Definatly not for children or anyone with an impressionable mind!!! It is very violent and can scar a person for life if they are not used to extreme cinema. Even the poster artwork is excellent and brutal. You know what you are in store for when the poster shows from the waist down someone with a bloody knife holding a womans scalp.  Watch this and than after watch Blair Witch and you will agree with me that most critics are out of their mind's for not realizing this film as a brilliant production and Blair Witch is an over rated piece of junk. It takes a real fan of the genre to appreciate Maniac. It's not everyone's cup of tea, but if your like me and love brutal no holds barred horror films, Maniac is amazing. It is a toss up as to which movie is more brutal , Scavolini's Nightmare or Lustig's Maniac. Both are brilliant. "},{"Title":"Sex Pervert Goes Nuts in Red Light Manhattan","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie really isn't so hot. The man who wrote and directed it, stars in it. If anyone reading this knows the adult film star Ron Jeremy, they will know what the star of Maniac looks like. The movie has good pacing at first. But, it quickly disintegrates leaving the viewer confused. The killer goes from being very socially impotent and believable to outward and existential. It just doesn't make sense. Whereas he's originally sullen, he suddenly becomes social and normal. It just ruins itself. Bad movie. The guy should be ashamed of it. "},{"Title":"No wonder it was remade...","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw the remake before I saw this one (which I know is considered taboo to some of my fellow movie lovers) but, after going back to watch where the remake came from, it's no surprise this one was remade because I found it boring and pretty uninspired for a horror movie.Joe Spinell doesn't come off as a crazy dude with mommy issues who kills woman all willy-nilly as he just looks lifeless through most of the film. Furthermore, he doesn't look like a serial killer but more like a person that has a sheet of paper that states he's not allowed within 500 feet of any schools or playgrounds. Sometimes having a serial killer that doesn't LOOK like he'd be a serial killer can work for a film but Spinell just didn't work for me in this one.The film has some decent gore going on with it (Tom Savini's death especially) but it's not enough to save it from itself as the story is pretty bland and feels like it never truly gets moving. And that's not even factoring in the weak performances.All I can say is that the remake did a far better job of making a horror film that was unsettling and disturbing. "},{"Title":"Reality in a damaged brain","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Now, here's a rare treat for the entire family. One of the essential Horror classics of the 1980's. Maniac is a part of the elite, so to speak. This gruesome masterpiece is right up there with. Basket Case and Silent Night, Deadly Night. To say which one of those three are superior would be a matter of opinion, but I believe that anyone who's seen this movie would agree, that as far as pure terror goes, Maniac puts them all to shame.A dismal story about a lonely, miserable man named Frank. This guy suffered a traumatizing childhood, at the hands of his abusive (now deceased mother. Frank has plunged head first into a world of hate, obsession, and insanity. Stabbing, shooting and strangling anyone he can find, seems to be the only logical way of dealing with the past, or the present, for that matter. A hopeless case of a man being pushed to the breaking point, long before the age of reason. Like so many others, Frank Zito never stood a chance. This is just about as dark of a story as you're going to find. Some of you may or may not be aware of a similar, lesser-known slasher that often gets compared to Maniac, called Nightmare In A Damaged Brain. Also essential 80's Horror. Somewhat overrated, but only compared to Maniac, but definitely still worth a look. Maniac, on the other hand, delivers on every level, especially the fright factor. This is what true Horror looks like. Some years later, the director of Troma's Combat Shock attempted a sequel, which was never completed due to the unfortunate death of the maniac himself, Joe Spinell. A terrible blow to the world of Horror. Spinell will be remembered , not as that guy from Rocky and Rocky 2, but rather as that crazy, wild-eyed maniac that blew Tom Savini's head off. 9/10 "}{"Title":"S10 Reviews Maniac (1980)","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This uncompromising slasher classic stars the late, great Joe Spinell as the titular title character. Frank Zito is a mild mannered apartment attendant by day but at night he terrorizes the Big Apple with his gruesome murders. Spinell's Zito is very much in the same vein as Norman Bates. He was raised by a cruel and domineering mother. In fact under closer scrutiny the film bares much in common with Hitchcock's Psycho masterpiece. But unlike Psycho, Maniac delivers on the bloody goods. Tom Savini's effects and the overall tone of the film brought a lot of controversy in the early eighties, particularly by women's groups who saw this as a massive blight on the women's lib movement. The film is what it is and never compromises. It delivers on a shoestring as intensity many bigger films could only wish for. Not to mention it has the lovely Caroline Munro. "},{"Title":"Total CRAP!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I hate to say this about ANY horror flick but this is utter CRAP! Good thing it was not released in October because I think I would faint! This totally piece of junk horror flick was released in December (maybe thats why its crap) , I seen it at the video store - Ive seen almost all the horror they had except this one and I thought I'd give this one a try. What a waste of money! Its gory , but its ridiculous gory. Im totally not impressed with Joe Spinelli - who the heck is he anyways? I hope his other films are okay because this one is at the top of my 'Worst Horror Films Ive Ever Sat Through List'. PEACE P.S. sorry Joe....  "},{"Title":"Depressing, stupid and sick","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  What a whiny movie this is!  Literally, the Maniac whines and moans like a wounded animal.  I'm sorry, I felt no sympathy for him.  I also didn't feel that any of these women would have let him in their lives.  The shotgun scene on the roof of the car is probably legendary for pure gore fans (I am not one).  Even so, this movie is a real downer and a real whiner.  Watch at your own risk (of wasting your time).  It is sick, depressing and stupid. "},{"Title":"The Mannequin Maniac","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Going into Maniac I knew that it's supposed to be somewhat of a classic of 80s horror and that Tom Savini had his hands in the production. I can now say that it is indeed one of the better 80s horror movies and a huge reason is because of Tom Savini.The movie is about a guy named Frank who is a greasy, overweight, ugly-looking maniac. He's gone completely nuts over the years (Ive heard from another review it was from war....which I don't remember from the movie) and is totally obsessed with dressing up mannequins. Well he's mostly obsessed with scalping women and nailing the newly scalped hair to his mannequins which he keeps in his little apartment. The movie is pretty much about him trying to deal with and succeed in his maniac ways.The movie shines in three areas. I would first say the largest reason for it's success and popularity is the great effects for the death scenes. Tom Savini did a great job with this...possibly his best work. Secondly, the dude who plays Frank, Joe Spinell, does a pretty nice job playing his part. It's not that Joe is a great actor...definitely the best in the movie, but it's just the way he looks. Some people just have mannerisms when they speak or how they look that just make them stand out in a unique way. And when Joe plays a maniac, he seems to shine. He's a strange looking guy who's playing a strange character, and strangely it works. Strange huh? Thirdly the movie produced two great scenes that seriously delivered some nice suspense. One being in a subway and the other occurring at the end of the movie in his apartment. I hear about how this film had great effects, but I feel these scenes are under-appreciated a little. I can take a guess and say that Haute Tension definitely appreciated the bathroom/subway scene.Maniac is definitely a treat for the average horror fan. It has a weird, gritty style that some may or may not like, great special effects which all fans of horror will love, and a memorable maniac played by the late, great Joe Spinell. RIP. 7.5 outta 10 "},{"Title":"Maniac with man boobs","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" What can I say about this awful film, rather a lot. we start with a murder on a beach of a couple, the musical score itself is terrible droning on and on.The killer then returns to his dirty room with his only friends female mannequins! He talks to them and puts scalps of his female kills on their head WEIRDO.Frank is his name and he has terrible breathing problems or asthma as this is all you can hear throughout the film and it really got on my nerves.He seems to have to kill women because he cannot make relationships with them and you have his abusive mother to blame for this which stems from his childhood.He kills a hooker, model, couple in a car and a nurse. He befriends a photographer and then tries to kill her too but she gets away.How Frank can catch anyone is a laugh he's overweight with man boobs and wearing his puffed up jacket he looks ridiculous.The ending is just as weird. he goes to his room and then imagines all the people he has killed attacking him in his bed and pulling his head off! When the police find him Frank is dead but he's stabbed himself.This film is not worth watching with the awful sounds of the actors breathing tones and musical background, the bad acting of all the cast, just forget it unless you like background noise and bad acting. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Distasteful","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I am afraid..yes, afraid...after watching this film that an incredible bad taste has been left in my mouth.  I have read all the reviews and, pardon me for saying, am amazed how many people enjoy watching one fat, sleazy serial killer gutting, garroting, scalping, shooting, knifing, and weezing his way through this entire film.  Because that really is ALL that happens!  Lots of blood.  Lots of gore.  No story beyond that.  Maniac killer Frank Zito kills one person after another and finally the film ends.  We get no real explanation for his mental condition other than his mother use to lock him in closets as a kid.  Wow!  I did not know closed spaces made people into such destructive killers.  Missed that in my psych course.  The production values are very good.  The acting is even pretty good.  Joe Spinell plays a distasteful person with real flair.  He wrote this crap as well.  Director William Lustig directs and shows that he knows what he is doing behind the camera, creating some very terrifying chase scenes, particularly the one in the empty subway station.  The film just is too sick in its execution and purpose.  I don't mind some blood and gore if it aids a suspenseful story with a real plot, but I just am not into seeing one senseless murder after another.  Look at the other reviews.  They do not praise this film for its storytelling.  They mention things like  It has the best exploding head scene ever in a film.  Well folks, if your criteria for a good film is over-expanded body parts, you need look no farther than Mr. Spinell's magnus opus here.  But if you want something a little more textured, a little more refined, a little more entertaining....skip this piece of women-hating tripe.  The film also stars the beautiful Caroline Munro...wish we had seen more of her...literally and figuratively.  She was the only real bright spot in this for me. "},{"Title":"One of the better serial killer films","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Frank Zito (Joe Spinell) has mommy issues from child abuse, kills beautiful young woman, and scalps them as a result of his childhood trauma. In all honesty I don't think this is as disturbing as others make it out to be. It is very nihilistic, and it's not a pleasant film, but I've seen a hell of a lot worse, and I've seen TONS of horror movies. The gritty atmosphere in New York City definitely serves this movie well. I also thought the stalk sequences were very good. It has three really memorable ones. One involves a fairly lengthy cemetery chase between Frank & Anna (Caroline Munro) and another is a great chase through the subway as Frank follows a nurse. I did question as to why the nurse turns down a ride from her friend when she knows perfectly well a serial killer is on the loose. It seemed rather moronic to me, but that's a minor carp. My favorite might just be the well shot opening. It takes place on a beach in a dream sequence from Frank. I don't know why I liked it so much, but it was extremely creepy to me. The suspense is here in spades, and you're never fully comfortable while viewing this movie. The first half is better than the second half. The first half gives us a chance to get into the mind of how twisted Frank is. The second half plummets a little bit. The romance between Spinell & Caroline Munro is rather mundane to say the least, and it felt a bit otiose to me. How am I supposed to believe that a gorgeous beauty like Caroline Munro would fall in love with an overweight guy like Joe Spinell? It felt quite artificial to me, and they lacked chemistry. The gore delivers in a huge way. We get slit throats, women are scalped in graphic detail, stabbings. Tom Savini gets his head blown off from a shotgun. (One of the best head explosions you'll ever see. It's disturbingly realistic) A head is ripped off, and more. This baby is pretty harsh with some great effects. Joe Spinell is chilling here. He's essentially the whole film. He's in almost every scene, and his character of Frank is vividly depicted. He's completely unhinged, and he creeped me right out. He's just a nut-case with mommy issues, and you can't help but fear him. The way he taunts his victims for a few seconds before commencing a killing, and just the little things made him that effective. What's scarier is despite that the romance between him & Munro fell flat there is nothing abnormal about him in the romance scenes. He seems like a genuine person with charm to spare, major credit to Spinell for showing a bit of a human side in those scenes. I did feel his inner monologue got to be a bit much at times, and the fact that he wipes a kiss from Munro away from his cheek had me baffled. Why would you do that with such a gorgeous woman like her? I digress. This is Spinell's movie, and he gives a performance you won't forget. Caroline Munro is rather wooden in scenes, but she has a bit of a natural, English charm I couldn't help but like. It's not a great performance, but when you look as good as her, it doesn't really matter. Tom Savini has a cameo, and it's actually quite a hoot. He has a classic mustache as well. The acting is actually a strong point, aside from Munro. Everyone is quite competent. The ending bothered me a little bit. It's clearly there to set up the purported sequel, which never commenced. I felt they should have done a bit of a chase sequence, with authorities flagging down Spinell. They chose an anti-climatic ending, and it's definitely disappointing. Final Thoughts I've seen this quite a few times, and it always manages to be an effective film. It's not perfect, and not for everybody, but I like it quite a bit. Well worth a watch 7/10 "},{"Title":"Lead actor, viewer's saviour in this schlock","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac does have it's moments, I'll give you that, but they're ones that come from shock, not surprise, and I'm talking in regards to some of the sick violence. On the original back video cover, five out of six still are reprehensibly violent, some sicko's will find it a let down in the private viewing session. The violence is not continuous. The one true blessing about this film, is it's star, Joe Spinelli in such a creepily realistic and virtuoso performance (just look at the madness in his eyes). As an abused kid, Frank now an adult, is truly psychotic. He has conversations as if he's someone else talking to the real Frank, one of his many mannequins. He kills people whether lone couples on beaches, or he'll even pop onto their bonet and blow their heads away, in one explosively violent scene. He takes the victim's scalps and puts them on the heads of his mannequins. This is one sick puppy. On the happy side, he meets a beautiful photographer, where we can't see the attraction. Why would someone like her go out with someone who looks like him? Cause she's lonely and desperate. We so much want Frank, to quit the killings after meeting her, but after being veteran viewer of this type of schlock, we know the much inevitable, with an also I told you so after ending. But there's not enough meat to the story, as in a lot of these cheesy 80 horrors, where we don't go far into the character, or his background to care. It's brief formula of storytelling here, is what sinks this movie that could of been much better. It's almost over, before it begins, the writer here, taking the lazy way out, and when learning of his remake, may'be this one can better the original. One can only hope. "},{"Title":"I thought it was decent gory movie","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I had to see this before remakes come out next Week in The UK (Not seen the remake Advertised at all in UK!)I had to see this before remakes come out next Week in The UK (Not seen the remake Advertised at all in UK!) I do long review in the morning, I Really enjoyed this movie, As some cool tense moment in this movie, there was some really good nasty gory moments, which I really liked His one hell of A Maniac!, Bloody movie, I Don't thing is aged that well, there some dated stuff in the movie but really minor, Which really dosn't really affect the movie. The acting was really good from the whole castI give this movie 6 out of 10 good movie "},{"Title":"Best headshot scene in movie history","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie was pretty good. I don't think the guy is either manic OR schizo, he appears to just be deranged but the labels have a scary stigma to them so they get used a lot in horror movies. The gore is good, the killing is pretty realistic and you get a feel for the main character that you just don't get with other films of this sort. Even though most people think this over was over the top, I still think it could had gone further. I've come up with more sick and extreme things in my head that I'd like to see in a movie. Like torturing and killing children in front of their parents or vise versa or a combination of both, a crackhead gone insane putting a live baby in the oven, Russian roulette in someones anoos, caving someones face in with repeated fire extinguisher smashings, throwing someone down and breaking their elbows by placing your knee on their arm and pulling their wrist up backwards and then throwing them in a pool and watching them drown, I could go on and on for days.This movie was still pretty good, though. "}{"Title":"Worthwhile for gorehounds but a mixed bag for everyone else","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is a gory, sleazy and misogynist slice of grindhouse from right out of some dumpy theater on 42nd street circa 1980. The film is worthwhile for a few reasons, especially the gory kills and FX by Tom Savini - look for Tom as disco boy getting his head exploded by a shotgun blast! Fans of grainy exploitation cinema and depictions of old school New York are going to love this pic, too. - this would make a terrific triple feature along with Driller Killer. I've got to admire how horror films back in the hayday of the 70s to early 80s were so distasteful. Maniac just couldn't get made today. The synth soundtrack isn't so bad, either.On the downside though, the acting is really awful, especially Joe Spinell as the schizophrenic killer. Some of his dialogue with 'mother' is so bad that it's cringeworthy. Obviously, you've not going to find master thespian's in films of this kind but because Maniac aspires to be more than raw exploitation the terrible acting really shines through. The direction is perfunctory and yeah, this film is wildly misogynist in that most of the entertainment value comes from watching women in various states of arousal and/or undress meet a messy demise. I'm all right with that but Maniac is not for all viewers. It is, however, an absolute must watch for fans of old school exploitation / horror. "},{"Title":"better than I thought, worse than I wanted","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I really give this movie a 6.5, so I decided to give it a 6. IT was a fun movie to watch. Once again, get a group of friends together and put this in. The story itself is slightly a rip off of psycho, which isn't a bad thing. This is also a pretty straight forward plot. It has a killer ending, and some surprisingly good special effects. If you see this in the video store, pick it up and give it a try, if you don't see it, don't stress yourself. I am sure you can watch the best scene on youtube anyways. 1 last thing I wanted to say is that the main character is actually very believable, and played his part almost too well! "},{"Title":"Maniac Strikes Again!","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Although Maniac Cop is my favorite, this is Bill Lustig's strongest genre effort. To put it simply, Maniac is Joe Spinell acting his ass off. If you're a fan of Spinell (the second highest paid actor on the Godfather, believe it or not) this is a must-see. Not only is this one of his few leading roles, but he co-wrote the script and produced it. So this was his baby. And he placed that baby into the not yet tested but very capable hands of William Lustig. The story follows a disturbed man who is killing women because of the way his mother treated him as a child. Yes, there are obvious shades of Psycho here. But it's not a complete rip-off. And I can't stress enough the caliber of the acting in this one. It's not your standard slasher humdrum. This is Joe freakin' Spinell, god of character actors, doing his thing. Did I mention Caroline Munro co-stars? If you need further cause to check it out, Tom Savini is dishing out the gore in this one. He blows up his own head in this flick and that must have been a bit surreal. Maniac is not without flaws (closure anyone?), but it's a pretty cool character study and exploitation fans should revel in it. Keep an eye out for director Lustig as a sleazy hotel manager. "},{"Title":"What Travis Bickel would be had he not become a hero.","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The references to Taxi Driver are apparent in this way better than average slasher/horror film, and it's not hard to imagine this as the alternate ending of sorts. Joe Spinell was always great as a mob enforcer, until he actually speaks with his rather light-toned voice, for he has the looks and bearing. However, here his childlike and very articulate voice is a superb counterpoint to his murderous personality. It highlights the considerable differences in his schizoid character, and this same voice is apparently what allows attractive women to feel comfortable around him, for certainly his appearance isn't compelling. It's hard to think of any other performer being able to carry this part so well, though the relatively unknown actor, Bo Brundin, had a similar role in Headless Eyes, and made it uniquely his. Unfortunately, Spinell's life was too short and his roles too far between. Thankfully he had the chance to show his considerable talents here. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Savini effects on a so-so film","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I gave Maniac a 6 out of 10 based mostly on the special makeup effects of Tom Savini. Savini has used his experience as a war correspondent to create some of the most realistic looking effects ever put to film. From scalping's to stabbings to a shotgun blast to the head, Savini owns this film with his mondo gore. Joe Spinell is okay as psycho Frank Zito but Caroline Munro is wasted in her role as his love interest Anna. Zito talks to himself nonstop, lending the position of schizophrenia to his character and he murders out of a guilt complex. He kills and then scalps women who remind him of his abusive mother and then nails the scalps to mannequins. Many call the film misogynistic since many of the victims are women, but the fact is that Zito does kill a couple of men along the way as well. After what is a fairly straight forward slasher film, the ending will leave you scratching your head with the surreality of Zito's vision coming to life. The women he has killed and scalped come back for him and perform some justice. the ending leaves way for a sequel which never materialized since Spinell died before it could be made. "},{"Title":"Very good movie, I'm ashamed I hadn't found it earlier.","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" So it's about three in the morning and on IFC there's some movie called Maniac. Thinking it would be some kind of thriller I tuned in because it had only been on for five minutes and I knew I wouldn't have missed much. Boy was I surprised by what I saw. The gore, the violence and the psychological aspect just fell to together so well I felt like I was a moron for not knowing about this long, long ago. This film is a very good example of the good ol' days of horror films BEFORE computers were introduced and ruined it. Definitely a must see for big fans of the old horror stuff. Besides...it's Tom Savini, come on. The shotgun blast through the window sent chills down my spine. GO WATCH IT NOW. "},{"Title":"Good, raw slasher","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is a gem most do not talk about much n the same vain as many of the classics. However, I must say, I wish there were film such as Maniac released today, rather then the soft superficial horror films of today. Joe Spinel was awesome, and even though he played an insane killer in this movie, he still had an appeal of humanity underneath. The effect of Tom Savini were superb, and quite realistic and disturbing, even today. It had a raw vibe to it that you just don't see in todays films. Now the remakes are rated PG-13 and have teeny-boppers in them, that look like they're acting out Downy commercials rather then truly acting out the horror of the scene. I'm not talking about exploitation rip-offs either, just true to the vision films with a premise and something to say. "},{"Title":"And we are not talking about Michael Sembello!","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" In 'Maniac''s DVD audio commentary by director William Lustig, Lustig says that someone suggested he make a 'Jaws' on land. The infamous 'Maniac' is Lustig's attempt to do just that. Which is why, according the director, the opening double murder unfolds on a wintry, windswept beach. This is a highly controversial and much-maligned film, featuring some of the most intense gore ever committed to film. Special effects makeup infant terrible Tom Savini really cuts loose on this one, serving up scalpings, stabbings, evisceration, and - most memorably - an exceedingly graphic shotgun murder. The victim in the shotgun dispatch scene, credited as Disco Boy, is played by none other than Tom Savini, in a cameo. So, in a sense, Savini kills himself... paging Doctor Freud! Great to see scream queen Caroline Munro in this one; I am hoping to track down another stalk 'n' slash horror she made with 'Maniac' star Joe Spinell entitled 'The Last Horror Film'.'Maniac' stars Joe Spinell as Frank Zito, a deranged serial killer with mother issues, who stalks the streets of New York by night, committing some very grisly murders. He becomes romantically entangled with Caroline Munro's character, a fashion model. In his excellent book 'Terror on Tape', James O'Neill observes that this plot development is contrived - surely such an alluring and beautiful woman would not deign to become involved with such a sweaty, drooling, overweight slob. Good point.Tom Savini really shines on this one, if 'shines' is the right word! Like his horrific makeup work on 'The Burning' and 'Day of the Dead', 'Maniac' showcases some of his most extreme stuff. Without his invaluable contribution, this film would probably just be an obscure yawnfest. The thing that really disturbs about 'Maniac' is the fact that, like the critically-acclaimed Australian serial killer horror flick 'Wolf Creek', it is very realistic. The storyline is quite believable, with the exception of the homage to 'Carrie' and the ending.Another thing Lustig reveals upon the DVD's director's commentary is the fact that a sequel, written by Spinell, commenced shooting but was abandoned upon Spinell's death. This extras-laden DVD release features a great documentary about Spinell, 'The Joe Spinell Story'. I have the Anchor Bay DVD release, but a big shout-out to Australia's Umbrella Entertainment for putting out a PAL-format DVD with all the extras offered by the Anchor Bay copy. "},{"Title":"A journey into the world of a very mentally sick man's mind!","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" First of all, I couldn't disagree more with people comparing this brutal insight into a madman's mind with other slasher movies. This is no ordinary slasher, there is nothing exciting or fun in this movie at all. No goofy, inventive killings, just rawness and pure suffering. From the very start, when we hear this sicko moan disgustingly and after a while slits a young woman's throat, we know that this is no ordinary horror movie. Definitely not for all tastes.Throughout the movie the killings are very raw, graphic and basic to its nature and there is also a very morbid tone that encloses the whole movie.But there are also moments with genuine good atmosphere, like when a woman is chased down into a desolate subway station. This part is expertly made I think, really frightening. That's also what makes this movie so difficult to rate. I mean, I love excitement, tension and slasher movies. But this one is different. This one is bestiality in its rawest form, not fun, just disturbing and repugnant. I think what offended me most was that we are supposed to feel pity for this very disturbed man. Only God can forgive such things.What makes me recommend this movie anyway is that it offers some insight into a crazed man's world and that makes it somewhat interesting to watch. Although this could have been done with greater finesse and better taste I suppose the impact would have been less convincing.A last warning although this movie isn't shock-filled with killings and there are far more disgusting movies produced, this isn't an easy movie to watch. Not only because of the brutal killings but also because it forces you to take part of this madman's rampage and hear him talking to you in a very disturbing way. If you have had or have some kind of mental illness like depression or feel that you may loose the grip on reality any moment or have a weak mind then don't see this movie because it's very straightforward and can make you think strange thoughts. "},{"Title":"Out of  sight out of mind!","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** Probably the only leading part in Joe Spinell film career Maniac ranks right up there with the best Hollywood horror/slashers movies of the the 1970's and 1980's. Having been abused by his mother when he was a young boy Frank Zito, Joe Spinell, grows up a mental cripple in regard to relating with women and takes it out on them for his mothers mistreatment of him. Locking young Frank in a closet while she had men come over to party and have sex with her left the young boy deeply disturbed and resentful since he could not get the love that he so desperately needed and wanted from his mom at that young and impressionable age. There's also a number of strong hints in the movie that Frank later murdered his mother. Now grown up Frank is out to avenge what happened to him as a boy by savagely murdering young women all around New York City and scalping them to keep their hair as trophies. What makes the movie Maniac so unique to all the other slasher movies like it is that it shows the insane and murderous Frank as as man who can't control his actions. Not a mindless monster who kills without a single thought or care in the world but just the animal instinct of self-preservation,in order to survive and to kill again. Frank goes on a rampage, much like the infamous Son of Sam, in New York murdering over a half dozen people most of them young and attractive women. It just happened that he got to meet pretty fashion photographer Anna D'Antoni, Caroline Munro, when she took his photo in Central Park.Finding her name and address on her tote-bag Franks calls her to see if she can give him a copy of his photo and both, Frank & Anna, are attracted to each other at first sight. Telling Anna that he's an artist Frank is invited to a fashion shoot that Anna is conducting in mid-town Manhattan. It's there where he meets model Rita, Gail Lawrence, and later breaks into her apartment brutally murdering her. It's that last killing that brings Frank to the point of a mental breakdown which ends with him unsuccessfully trying to murder Anna, at his mothers grave in a Queens cemetery, and ending up getting all that's been coming to him for so long in the movie.Graphic violence and unspeakable mutilations and dismemberment's makes Maniac almost unwatchable at times. Horror special effects master Tom Savlni is at his best with some of the most horrific scenes ever in a slasher/horror film. Savlni is also in the movie, as well as porno actress Sharon Mitchell, playing one of Frank Zito's victims who, together with his girlfriend, gets his head blown off with a shotgun blast in a deserted lovers lane. That scene is very much like the real life Son of Sam's last two victims, under the Vranzano-Narrows bridge.Frank's murder spree ranges from the sleazy midtown hotel where he picks up a hooker and strangles her to the beach where he slices up an unsuspecting couple spending a night together on the sands. Frank also goes underground in the New York Subway system where he stalks a young nurse on an empty subway platform, then into a deserted public mens room, and runs her through with a two foot bayonet. 1980 was a very good year for actor Joe Spinell by being in a total of nine motion pictures but it was Maniac that really made an impact with the public and made him one of the most terrifying, and in some ways sympathetic, villains ever to be seen in a motion picture. "}{"Title":"Maniac one of the best horror flicks of all time","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" When my friend Colin suggested that we rent the movie maniac I wasn't expecting much. Then I saw that Joe Spinell was playing the main character. Joe has a knack for being typecast as a mafia henchman, and has been in the first two Godfathers and in the first Rocky. Joe's acting ability has you thinking that maybe he really is a killer. His body also complements the role, a fat, aging New Yorker with man breasts and knife scars. Once I started to watch this masterpiece of pre-digital gore, I realized that Joe was an excellent choice for this role. This movie has very little dialog, and it helps to intensify the relationship between the viewer and the main character. The director has Frank Vito doing many of the little things that are necessary for a successful serial killer. I really love the scenes where Frank does something and its translated on camera very subtly. Such as the scene in central park where Frank quickly grabs a female photographers address. Also when he is stalking a model from the photo shoot, he subtly feels on the door locks. All these little things add to the mood of this picture. The movie really begins to get under your skin. By the time you get to the end your just glad that the bastard is dead. "},{"Title":"Now this is horror","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is horror. Gory, unrelenting, uncomfortable and disturbing.A slimy, overweight serial killer with a hate-on for women stalks the bowels of New York city preying on unsuspecting ladies out past the witching hour. After nastily dispatching them, he collects their scalps to nail to his mannequin collection. 'course there are some serious mother-son issues at play here. While not the most original idea, Maniac uses strong performances (the late Joe Spinell being the obvious stand-out), graphic gore (some of Tom Savini's most gruesome work) and unshakable ugliness to spin one of the most horrific of horror yarns I've seen. As mentioned, the gore is plentiful. Scalpings, stabbings, slit throats, head rippings, and arguably the best head explosion put to film will easily satisfy the gore hounds. But, beyond these great moments lies the films greatness. The icky-factor. Throughout, one can't escape the uncomfortable feeling of an unsensitized film willing to to go too far (imagine Last House on the Left without the stupid humour scenes to break the tension). The gore, ickiness and dread ultimately climax in a finale that has been tattooed on my brain since first viewing some in the 80's. While some may not be as rattled as i, those who find those blank face mannequins creepy should be warned, "},{"Title":"One of the Most Disturbing Movies of All Time","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie will freak the hell out of you.  It so sleazy and dirty and depraved and gross,  you'll wish you could give your brain a rinse after subjecting yourself to it!  I really like  this movie, because more than any other serial killer movie of its era, it goes into the  reason why serial killers exist and do what they do.  They were abused as children.  So,  on the one hand, this movie is a great watch if you are interested in serial killers, and its  a great watch if you just love sleazy gore.  This film was definitely 'ahead' of its time,  pun intended!!!  9/10 "},{"Title":"Spinell did well...","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  There is something imposing and ominous about William Lustig's Maniac. Like Taxi Driver before it - the atmosphere is that of sleaze, degradation, filth, and cynicism. It's somewhat vague as to what Frank Zito's motif is in this film; his influence; his problems. We are offered several scenes when he muses to himself and several 'mannequins'. The great element here is that he lacks coherency, the viewer is made to piece together what little they can gather. Joe Spinell really shines through during these scenes, in fact; it's a great performance all-round. He alludes to the fact that his mother was killed in a car accident and that she may have been a prostitute but given Frank's obvious psychosis we question whether he is being honest or not. One thing is for sure; he is a seriously (emphasis on SERIOUSLY) troubled individual yet he is capable of showing a more humane and tender side&#133;such as when he befriends a photographer named Anna (played by the incredibly beautiful Caroline Munro). You almost yearn for Frank to follow this humane path as he clearly has manners and graces. Some may argue that this is just his way of getting to know his victim better, though.For gore-hounds this film really cannot fail to impress what with its (lurid and gut-wrenching) scalping, garrotting, and a full-on shotgun wound to a victim's head. Savini obviously came up trumps again. I'd consider myself a hardened fan of most horror/exploitation flicks and even the violence here managed to shock me (...a little).The soundtrack is apt and vaguely reminiscent of Walter Hill's The Warriors with it's rich synth sounds and tension-building bites. The film succeeds most when Frank is stalking his victims - scenes are drawn out at great length and create some genuinely tense moments. The only downside of this; by the time we're down to our third stalking it tends to drag almost to the point of dreary monotony we know the victim will die and as this has happened previously why drag it out for such a protracted length of time? I personally cannot think of a film of this sub-genre that builds up quite the same tension as this. In closing I can understand why this film would be frowned upon by the more conservative among us. For horror/thriller fans (especially of this era) it really is a minor gem and highly recommended. Joe Spinell did well.  "},{"Title":"makes you think","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is extremely gory. I don't know if i rented the unrated version or not. But gore fans should check it out. The lead characters problem is women in general. He kills them for his satisfaction and cuts their scalp off. Pretty interesting stuff. Creative death scenes. It makes you think of what really goes on inside of a psycho paths mind. "},{"Title":"'hair today and gone tomorrow' or 'keep your hair on mate!'.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  this is a gruesome horror flick about some bloke who goes around killing women and then casually scalping their hair off so he can put them on his mannequins. charming! hair raising stuff indeed. by the way; as well as performing this deplorable marketing campaign he was also a client...  "},{"Title":"Another Fulci interpretation beware!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Here's another of the video nasties of the early 80's. Maniac narrates the story of a fat, psychotic, mummy-child. Monologues are held with an imaginary voice, probably his mother, that orders him to punish women. So it happens. The movie was banned in several countries for showing scalpings of a woman and other cruelties. But, and every horror fan should remember that, violence without a function is not hard or shocking, it's boring. And that's what I felt when watching this movie. I felt bored. Maniac simply is the story of a loser, trying to compensate this with nasty murders and some surgery (although made by Tom Savini are not state-of-the art, but I guess the guys we're finally out of money for this smuck-movie). In the Netherlands, everybody is allowed (from 16 on) to watch this garbage. The Dutch know that that kind of nonsense cannot harm any normal people. As to its misogynic contents forget about it. Long- drawn-out scenes of a woman being hunted down to the subway, finally being stabbed (sense?). And, the filmmakers should be sued for torturing the audience) again and again the fat, filthy face of the Maniac talking to his mother.In a nutshell this movie is a shame and a waste of celluloid used, but it cannot count as a real and good horror movie. Give me the trashcan, I'll do the rest. "},{"Title":"Pretty messed up","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  *SOME SPOILERS*Maniac has earned a reputation as one of the most notorious slashers of the blood-drenched 1980's. Even for a film of its genre, the gore level is quite extreme, far beyond anything seen in a Friday the 13th movie. Given the highly negative critical reaction it received (not to mention the simple fact that it's a slasher), it is astounding that this thing actually played on the Sundance circuit. It boggles the mind. Nonetheless, it's not as awful as the reviews would have you believe. Director William Lustig and star Joe Spinell actually seem to be trying to make it into something more than just a generic slasher flick. An attempt is made to humanize the killer, and demonstrate that his present mental condition is the consequence of psychological abuse inflicted up him by his mother (Psycho, anyone? They don't quite succeed, but they have earned my grudging respect for trying, and for having the nerve to go this far. Although it fails as a psychological study, there's no denying that it impacts the viewer. Even if you despise the film, it's impossible to be totally indifferent to it.Admittedly, Spinell himself is actually quite good, given the circumstances. He lends a degree of credibility to the lurid content, and actually evokes a bit of sympathy for his character, which was certainly no easy task. However, one wishes that this brave performance was expended on a much better script, a situation for which he bears partial responsibility. His rambling, pointless monologues have achieved a degree of infamy comparable to the film's extreme violence. However, he actually manages to make it a bit more tolerable, but all this is just damage control; by rights the film should be much worse than it is.The fact of the matter is that the movie didn't need to be so violent. They should have focused on the psychological aspects, and expended the effort into trying to come to a better understanding of the main character. However, that would not have been as commercial. The public wanted gore, and they got it. I suspect that Tom Savini had a good time doing the gore effects. In Manaic's most gruesome scene, he gets his own head blown off, and the camera hugs the gory details to death. I bet this was the moment he was waiting for since beginning his career. Also, the hallucination at the end must be seen to be believed.Directorially, the film is pretty crude at times, especially during the gore scenes. Lustig goes to a lot of trouble to shove as much blood in our faces as he can during the relatively brief running time. Here is an irony the strongest segment is the subway sequence, not unlike the concurrent Dressed to Kill. This is the only part of the film that truly works; it generates genuine suspense without throwing in any gore, at least not until Spinell pounces upon his quarry. The filmmakers should have regarded this as a sign to reconsider their approach.** (out of ****)Released by Analysis Film Corp. "},{"Title":"disturbing","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" i don't know what's more disturbing, the character in question or the fact that i didn't hate this movie... it's not an enjoyable film, because Joe Spinell portrays a fairly realistic 'maniac'... This sense of reality makes the bloodshed more than a little difficult to handle after awhile... my only real problem with the movie was that the filmmakers didn't seem to have a real sense of direction with the movie... if they played it for pure camp effect, it wouldn't have been difficult to watch, and it may have turned out to be a decent 'fun' horror movie... the shifting between 'real' madness and camp effect made the movie difficult to appreciate.. one minute you think you're watching psycho and then it shifts gears into a typical genre slasher flick, only to switch back and forth throughout the rest of the movie with no real purpose... that said, overall i give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Savini wanted his name removed from the credits .","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The critic who tried to defend the film, failed to mention (as that would hurt his case), that Tom Savini, actually wanted his name removed from the credits (The Film had caught the eye of Several Film Ratings committee who quickly had it banned in many places and several scenes cut)I did enjoy though getting Savini getting his head blown off. LOL. No one can do it like him.A mediocre actor, Savini does some effective effects which onlyenliven the violence and sick twisted world of a serial killer.Even more violent than Friday the 13th (which Savini also did the effects). So that in itself is saying something, what that something is I dont know.Only recommended for horror fans who like to see extreme violence to its extent. "}{"Title":"I Warned You Not To Go Out to the Movies Tonight","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I consider this one of those rare movies that actually lives up to its hype. It works better if you're familiar with grindhouse type movies, as it utilizes the tabloid language of those kind of films. It speaks to jaded horror fans and borderline sociopaths alike, a geek show that wants to go so far into nihilism and ultraviolence that you never forget it. Maniac! is all this and less. It is cheap, filmed in an almost blurry, fuzzed-out palette of images and colors. It inhabits dreary locations like a deserted subway station, a claustrophobic apartment, the sleazier areas of an overcrowded city. It is even more strange because it encourages you to identify with the title character; he is not a monster that appears to drive the story forward, he is the main character.Joe Spinell is disturbingly convincing as Frank Zito, pathetic loser by day, pathetic murderer by night. He tortures and mutilates women, revealing glimpses of the abuse he suffered as a child at the hands of his mother. He tries to carry on a normal relationship with a pretty photographer played by Caroline Munro, but we know his attempts to become a decent person will prove fruitless. Perhaps astonishing for a movie that makes such a point of being gory, Maniac! understands suspense, too, and the stalking sequences are frequently nerve wracking. The images of death in the film are disturbing, some of FX artist Tom Savini's best work, even if a decapitated head that figures into the climax isn't quite realistic enough. By the time the film is over, we have been assaulted by such a constant series of vile images that it's hard not to feel...something. Can you even call a movie like this good? In this case, you just have to know what you're in for. Not too long ago, I saw a wretched film called Chaos that similarly dwelled on images of torture and mutilation, without any of the surrealistic touches that this film features. Chaos was pornography, only memorable because of its lunkheaded, seemingly sincere attempt to be shocking. Maniac! is effortlessly disturbing, a disgusting, pulpy mess that proves that it understands effective film-making, and wants to be deranged anyway. You gotta admire that. "},{"Title":"The Henry before Henry","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This ultra low-budget gore-fest reminds me a lot of Henry, Portrait of a Serial Killer.  Except it's about 1000 times better.Back in 1980 to about 1983 it seemed as if slasher flicks were being produced by the dozens.  Maniac is one of the few that actually stands out as being anywhere near good.  Now it's to my understanding that most people hate this movie.  I really can't see why since Joe Spinell's performance is dangerously good and the direction by Bill Lustig is just as swell.  And then, to top it all off the atmosphere is so thick you could cut it with a chainsaw!  Really, the suspense never lets up.  Lustig is able to keep things moving along nicely with perfect pacing, and virtually no boring parts. Despite the fact that there isn't a real engaging story line, the look into the life of Joe Spinell's character is very interesting (although a bit depressing in a way). Now for you gore-hounds out there trust me, you won't be let down.  The gore fx are superbly done by none other than the (in)famous Tom Savini, and is probably some of his best work to date.  The shotgun scene is a true highlight in slasher film history (right next to the raft massacre in The Burning).  A nasty grim movie to be sure. Two thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Ok, but nothing special","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  An ok film,(again banned in the UK).  The acting is not up to scratch and the film loses its way near the end.The film has a couple of original scenes, like the shotgun killing scene which works really well.  Although you can see the dummy face painted on a pumpkin (or something like one) but the film was made on a shoe string budget so what do you expect.Ok but nothing startling and certainly not banned material, i wish the British Board of Control would give us a break and stop banning 20 year old films! "},{"Title":"Unwatchable Garbage Unless You're a Sadist","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" One of the more disreputable of the slasher fad which glutted the horror market in the 80s was Maniac. It was made for people who like to watch young women murdered on screen. The morals of the audience for this type of 'entertainment' is far scarier than anything captured on screen. It's snuff 'lite' for sadists and about as far removed from a serious attempt at horror film making as it gets. The plot concerns itself with the summary execution of numerous women who are sexually exploited then scalped by a geek played by Joe Spinell who also wrote the disgusting screenplay. In an ironic twist, Spinell himself died after slipping in his shower and slicing open his own scalp. You live by the sword, you die by the sword. "},{"Title":"Undeniably powerful urban horror.","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" William Lustig's grim, gritty, and gory movie, controversial over 30 years ago and still very potent today, was a real labour of love for co-writer / co-producer / star Joe Spinell, who'd already proved his worth as a top notch character actor in movies like The Godfather (his first), Rocky, and Taxi Driver. Maniac is tops of its kind, a story of a very troubled loner, Frank Zito (Spinell) who suffered a traumatic childhood due to a an abusive and slutty mother, and who as an adult takes out his angst on various unlucky young women, whom he scalps after butchering them. A gorgeous photographer, Anna D'Antoni (the ever radiant Caroline Munro) may help to change his mind about women, and then again, maybe she won't. Lustig's little movie gets off to a solid and unnerving start with its beach sequence, which is sort of a nod to Jaws. It deserves a lot of credit for its unflinching approach to its story of madness in an urban jungle; Tom Savini supplies the memorable makeup effects, all of them shown in nice and juicy detail. He even gets in on the act by playing one of the victims. In fact, in that sequence, he's both getting killed and standing in for Spinell as his head blows up REAL good. Spinell, a talented man who left us much too soon, took his role extremely seriously and did extensive research into serial killers, in particular Henry Lee Lucas. Moreover, he sensed more than anybody that he, Lustig, and company, were truly making something special - and, of course, he was right. While it may not be totally credible that Munro's upbeat photographer would be so taken with this not particularly handsome stranger, her presence does give it something extra. (The story is that Dario Argento collaborator Daria Nicolodi was originally to play the part (hence the Italian name), but the scheduling couldn't be worked out; when Munro's then-husband Judd Hamilton made a substantial contribution to the budget, he did it under the condition that Munro get the female lead.) The seedy feel of the proceedings is only enhanced by the cinematography of Robert Lindsay and the music of Jay Chattaway, a fine and under-rated composer. It's full of glum, yet compelling you-can't-look-away sequences including the opening, the one with the disco boy and girl, the murder of the hooker, Zito's terrorizing of Anna's friend Rita (Abigail Clayton, one of several porn actresses among the cast), the stalking of the nurse, and the final bit of business in Zito's room. There is some undeniable suspense here, and some genuinely effective shock moments. What Lustig was shooting for in the end was to create something truly disturbing, and at this he succeeds tremendously. Whether one loathes Maniac or derives any sort of entertainment from it, one thing is certain they don't soon forget it. P.S. Look for the decapitated Mrs. Voorhees body from Friday the 13th making a cameo at the conclusion. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Definitely for fans of hard gore","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The movie begins like just about every slasher movie of the 1980's with a couple of teens getting hot and heavy, then end up being fodder for a ruthless serial killer. But then unlike other movies of this type instead of the camera directing it's attention on a young teen cast, the camera immediately focuses on the killer instead played brilliantly by Joe Spinnell.Firstly I wouldn't really call this a slasher movie, as it is far deeper than any movie of this calibre has to offer. It's not quite straight giallo either, as the mystery of the film isn't who is committing the murders--we find that out by the opening credits. The mystery is really why. It's also very intelligently written and terrifying. Instead we get to see one of the most realistic portrayals of a serial killer I can hope to see and it's also rather creepy and unsettling, especially when he scalps his victims and takes the hair back to his home to put on his rather morbid collection of mannequins which I found quite interesting and purely hard to watch at the same time.Spinell's portrayal of Frank Zito is a refreshingly non-comical depiction of someone who's completely psycho, but he can still can hold it together enough to wander amongst the rest of us sane people in order to find his next victim. Which is rather unnerving, he's definitely the guy peoples mothers warn us about, like never talk to strangers, which really does prey on my and everybody else's fears. And like us and a lot of other people, the victims in this movie also thinks the same that it will never happen to them, but it does.The sublot which I also liked is when Anna played by Caroline Munro comes into it and she and Frank strike up a relationship, this shows his effort at attempting a normal life, but we all know that will never happen.The effects in this movie were also pure class, even though done on a small scale budget, which doesn't show at all and I was truly amazed at the realism they were able to achieve with what looked like a fairly small budget. The murder, and subsequent scalping, of each victim is authentic looking and intense, all done by the genius that is Tom Savini who also has a small but memorable scene as one of the murder victims.All in all a must see for all hard core horror/slasher fans. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac (1980) **** (out of 4) William Lustig's disturbing, bleak and at time disgusting tale of a serial killer (Joe Spinell) who kills women (and men) due to being abused by his mother as a child. If anyone has read any of my reviews the past couple years then they'll know that I'm a big fan of this movie, which I feel is one of the best horror films of the decade and it's certainly got a lot more going for it than your typical slasher film of the era. I'm not sure if Lustig and Spinell really had a message to say about child abuse or if the film is pure exploitation with outrageous death scenes but to me both items mix well. The violence and gore, by Tom Savini, are outstanding and really stand out among any death scene from any movie. The violence is brutal and at times hard to watch but on the other hand you do have the elements of child abuse and how it plays a role on the main character played by Spinell. His performance is right on the mark and really delivers the character. The first couple times I watched this film I simply wrote it off as a non-stop gore film but with each new viewing I really start to appreciate it more. This film certainly isn't for everyone. "},{"Title":"Oh my gore!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is another one of those films that takes a peek at insanity, with loads of gore thrown in. I didn't enjoy it as much as I expected, simply because when the man is talking to himself it all gets a little confusing, and you're left trying to figure what he's on about. But I suppose that's what insanity is like - it makes sense to the person experiencing it, but not to other people. The death scenes are very well done, as you would expect with Tom Savini doing the special effects. There is one very tense moment that I liked where the woman is being chased into a block of toilets. It's very well done and is the sort of thing you'd expect from a Halloween film. I liked the graveyard scenes too, simply because graveyards are spooky and belong in horror films.Overall, I would call it slightly above average. Interesting enough to watch, but is not one of the best horror films around. "},{"Title":"Pretty overrated film to me","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is among the early 80's slasher movies, and is a pretty overrated movie.**SPOILERS**The women of New York are being slaughtered viciously, and it is the handiwork of Frank Zito, (Joe Spinell) who has a favorite towards prostitutes. After killing several and then scalping them to use for his mannequins, which he collects, he dresses them with the hair of women after he's scalped them. After several more killings get the cops on his trail, Frank decides to cool off for awhile. While waiting around, he bumps into Anna D'Antoni, (Caroline Munroe) a lovely model who he makes a quick connection with. After becoming friends with her pretty quickly, he finds that her friends have the perfect hair for his new mannequins, and begins stalking them around New York City while keeping his relationship with Anna.The Good News When this one came out, it was during the time when the horror films were getting very violent. Zombie 2, Dawn of the Dead and Friday the 13th was all released very rapidly in succession of each other, and this one belongs in that gore-filled category. We don't get a lot of gore, since this falls in the sub-category that Hellraiser belongs in every single wound is like cutting through an important artery in the body. We get a slit throat, a knife through the chest, a brutal strangulation, one hell of a decapitation and the infamous head-explosion that I think beats out the similar scene from Dawn quite easily. Such a mess was created that I'm shocked the scene wasn't ever removed from prints here in the US, as the MPAA rarely lets scenes like that go out to the public. Savini did a truly wonderful job on the effects here, and they rate with his finest work. The decapitation is quite easily the highlight, as it comes out of nowhere and becomes a feast on the eyes to behold. It is long as well, which only adds to the gruesome-ness of the scene. That may sound strange, but believe me; the scene will make sense when you see it. Even the stalking scenes are quite good. The attack in the subway station comes as a great example. He sees his intended victim get off the train, waits for her to be alone, and then comes after her, letting her know what he wants and lets her get away, then begins chasing after her in the subway system. She locks herself in the bathroom, and she hears him wander through, then leave. Relieved, she goes out and checks herself before leaving, and he strikes when she's looking at herself in the mirror.The Bad News This movie focuses on the killer more than the victims he goes after, so it can become a pain if you like it the other way around. Frank also isn't one of the more fascinating serial killers in cinema history, so it can become boring if you're not in the right mind-frame. This is the real crime of the movie. There are long stretches between kill scenes where you are just begging for something to happen, and all we get is watching Frank wander around looking for nothing. I really don't like watching too many movies where the main focuses is on some old guy who keeps a part of his victims around and talks to them. That really loses the dread in the killer, since it looks ridiculous and we laugh at him now, or it's a trait that isn't very accurately represented throughout the whole movie and leads to many inconsistencies. Here, it is the former. It doesn't really invoke terror when a man scalps women to use their hair to dress up mannequins, then he begins talking to then while he's administering the hair to the mannequin. That looks silly to me, but it could've been terrifying back then. I never even really fancy these types of films, so that's another strike against it, but keep this in mind it doesn't have a cult following for nothing.The Final Verdict It focuses more on the killer than the targets, which is a tough job to do. Every new and then, though, I wanted to shift focus and get onto someone else because there are parts that can become a chore to sit through. It might be hard for gore-hounds to sit through this one because the gore comes in spurts, but there are worse films to waste your time with. Tough call.Rated R Extreme Graphic Violence, Brief frontal-full Nudity, and Language "},{"Title":"My Good God!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm working here in Venice Beach and was about to head out to enjoy the sunset. Was strapping on my roller blades with the IFC channel on while I was lacing up. This movie Maniac JUST happened to start and I was absolutely GLUED to the screen. I am a horror movie fan, but I find the horror movies from the 70's and early 80's fascinating. At any rate, I was so impressed by the pure gore with barely a CHANCE of a love story. BRILLIANT I must say. I'm not sure I would watch it again.. and I hope the shotgun scene doesn't find it's way into my dreams, but DAMN!!! That was a PROPER good old fashioned slasher film! Jason, Mike Meyers, chainsaw-guy and Freddy... eat your hearts out!!!!... But enjoy the continued success.. ;)Needless to say, I didn't go roller blading.. I did, however, drink a six pack of beer. "}{"Title":"an atmospheric classic","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" OK so, this a movie you can't help but like (respect) in a morbid, bittersweet kind of way. It's a one-of-a-kind slasher that you watch and feel like you have to take a shower afterward. But the craftsmanship of this movie are not to be denied. Joe Spinell is awesome in his portrayal of the disturbed street-ridden maniac. the effects were uncompromising, and to this day, very realistic. The subway stalking scene is cool, very suspenseful. It's a bit of a shame that Joe Spinell wasn't featured in more films like he was in Maniac. It was definitely one of those characters he was born to play. Truly disturbing classic, but one to see for sure! "},{"Title":"A treat for horror, slasher, giallo fans","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Amusingly gory, sometimes suspenseful maniac killer after women film.  Guy with serious Oedipal complex slays females and turns them into mannequins, killing one after another till he meets sleek, sexy, lesbian photographer Caroline Munroe (70s sex goddess!).  She proves too much for him in the graveyard and his end is truly wonderful. Well-staged but with mostly poor acting (also looks postdubbed). "},{"Title":"Lots of gore -- but this film is more","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I confess that my original reason for wanting to  see this slasher flick was to get a firsthand look  at the gore that gave it a no one under 17  admitted status..  (I don't believe it was ever  given an official MPAA rating.)  Well, I wasn't  disappointed.  This guy doesn't just kill women.   He scalps them and takes their hair and clothes  home with him to dress up his collection of  department store dummies.  For a change of pace,  he blows one fellow's head off with a shotgun.I was surprised to discover there was much more to  MANIAC than the gruesome murders.  Other slasher  movies I've seen focus on the plight of the victims  and portray the killer as little more than a mindless  agent of destruction.  In contrast, MANIAC focuses  on the title character, Frank Zito, giving us a grand  tour of his sick, twisted inner world.  We learn that  Frank is not angry, and sadistic, but rather tortured  and tormented.MANIAC begins in standard slasher movie fashion.   A couple who has presumably been having sex on the  beach -- and I don't mean the drink -- proceeds to  git it, one after the other, when the guy leaves  the girl alone.  This is all accompanied by the  expected stingers and bass growls in the incidental music.But then we have an abrupt change of pace -- a cut  to Frank's terrified face, as he springs bolt upright  in bed and screams.  Contrary to expectations, the  main title music is melancholy and even lyrical.  (BTW, the composer, Jay Chattaway, went on to do  music for STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION and the  other new  STAR TREK series that followed.)  During the opening titles, we see the scars on  Frank's body, and get our first look at his  apartment, which features an elaborate shrine  to his mother, along with a combination of child's  toys, weapons, and bloody department store dummies.We spend a lot of time in Frank's apartment during  this movie, and we're party to numerous tearful  arguments he's having with an imaginary adversary,  who we learn is his late mother.  Eventually, we  deduce that his mother was a prostitute who both  abused him, and neglected him in favor of her clients. We learn that Frank's motive for dressing up those  dummies with his victims' hair and clothes is to  try and keep them forever so they can't abandon him  like his mother did.  Joe Spinell -- who also had a  major hand in the writing -- does an impressive job  of portraying a tormented, anguished soul, rather  than a one-dimensional killing machine.Alas, while MANIAC stands above all those other  slasher movies, it isn't totally without problems.   The biggest one for me was the lengthy sequence  involving the nurse.  You could argue that this  is one of the few truly scary, suspenseful sections  of the movie, but I felt it broke the mood by  taking the focus away from Frank, and for ten  minutes, made MANIAC look like just any other slasher movie. Then there's Frank's relationship with Anna.   I liked the idea of his trying to have a normal  relationship, and his evil self making this  impossible, but I had trouble believing that  a classy, British lady like Anna would go for  Frank -- at least so quickly.  (In fact, it's my  understanding that the director's cut of MANIAC  omits the date scene, although it's included in  the DVD edition I got.)  While we're about it, I had trouble believing that  Frank wouldn't have gotten caught sooner -- after  dispatching the hooker in the St. James Hotel, in  fact.  Several people saw him check in with her, and  presumably saw him leave alone.  Once her mutilated  body was found, wouldn't they have put two and two together?But hey, this was supposed to be a positive review.   I include these details only to keep it from being  a MINDLESS positive review.  Despite its flaws,  MANIAC deserves to stand apart from the zillions  of other slasher movies that came out of the late  70s and early 80s, because MANIAC doesn't look like  it was produced with a rubber-stamp.One final thought.  MANIAC makes an interesting  companion piece to TAXI DRIVER (which also includes  a brief appearance by Spinnel).  Both movies take  place in the same dark, hopeless, hellish New York  City, and create an atmosphere so similar to each  other that you can almost picture Travis picking  Frank up in his cab, then commenting later on the  strange parcels Frank was carrying.                     "},{"Title":"Gruesome horror classic of the 80's!","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Frank Zito ( Joe Spinell) is a troubled schizophrenic man in the seedy streets of New York City for he was once a child abused by his hooker mother who would punish him whenever he would do something bad. Now that his mom has died, he decides to take his inner anger out at nighttime, he butchers innocent women and some men then scalps them so he can keep their scalps for his collection. He falls for a lovely photographer (Caroline Munro), but could he keep his secret for long enough? A dark, grisly and sleazy slasher horror drama from William Lusting who later made the popular independent DVD company Blue Underground, this film caused quite a stir back in 1980 as it was protested as Woman hating garbage by some people but was a hit that has became a now cult classic of it's kind. The performances are very good here especially the legendary Joe Spinell himself whom made some appearances in Taxi Driver and Godfather 1 & 2 and Tom Savini's realistically gory make-up effects are effective, this movie isn't for everyone as it maybe a down-and-out grueling flick that may disturb some folks.Also recommended I Spit on Your Grave, High Tension, Last House on The Left, Re-Animator, Wolf Creek, Nightmare on Elm Street series, Friday The 13th series, Freddy Vs. Jason, Cannibal Ferox, Scanners, The New York Ripper, Caligula, House on The Edge of the Park, Urban Legend, Jungle Holocaust ( a.k.a. Last Cannibal World), Leon The Professional, Sin City,  The Hills Have Eyes (1977 and 2006), The Texas Chainsaw Massacre series & 2003 remake, The Evil Dead, From Dusk Till Dawn, Perfect Blue, An American Werewolf in London, Riki-Oh The Story of Ricky, Kill Bill, Scream 1 & 2, Beyond The Darkess Buio Omega, Men Behind The Sun, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, Ichi The Killer, Deep Red, Inferno, City of the Living Dead ( a.k.a. Gates of Hell), House By The Cemetery, Phenomena, Eaten Alive! ( 1980), Cannibal Apocalypse, Alone in The Dark ( 1982), Cry-Wolf, Hostel, Blood Sucking Freaks, Demons, Basket Case, The Toxic Avenger, Happy Birthday to Me, Sleepaway Camp, Bloody Birthday, Terror Train, The Beyond, Terror Firmer, Street Trash, Pieces, Mountain of the Cannibal God, Flesh for Frakenstein, Reservoir Dogs, and Cannibal Holocaust. "},{"Title":"Horribly misunderstood","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Back in a time before Horror films became uninspired, self-referential teen oriented crap, William Lustig directed this sick little number about a psychopath, Frank (played superbly by the late, lamented Joe Spinell) brutal murdering various young women (and some guys) to get in good with his long deceased mother who abuse him as a boy. There isn't that much humor in this film thankfully and it's played straight for the most part. At the time of the film's release it seemed like everyone and their mother hated the film with a passion, which is a shame since the movie is horribly misunderstood and is actually a rather good film if you're a true horror fan. Perhaps Henry Portrait of a Killer is a better movie, but I still like this one as well. Mamby Pamby Scream fans need not apply.My Grade B+ Anchor Bay Limited Edition DVD Extras Commentary by Director William Lustig, Editor Lorenzo Marinelli, Luke Walter and Tom Savini; 49 minute The Joe Spinell Story documentary; 19 minute radio interview with William Lustig, Joe Spinell & Caroline Munro; Stills and Poster Gallery; Newspaper Reviews lambasting the film 5 radio spots; 7 Theatrical Trailers; and 9 TV-Spots & a music cd of the movie's scoreEaster Egg Find the hidden X in the first page of the extras section for an audio snippet of William Friedkin praising the film "},{"Title":"Extremely suspenseful, sleazy, and absolutely disgusting","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was curious to see this because of all the controversy surrounding it. After watching this, I can plainly see why it is talked about so much. This is, by far, one of the sleaziest and most sickening and disturbing films I've ever seen. The film traces a psychotic serial killer as he stalks women and then kills them before scalping them and using their scalps for his collection of mannequins in his rotting apartment. Joe Spinnell's performance as the psycho. He seems to be channeling some sort of TAXI DRIVER version of Ed Gein. Joe Spinnell plays the part of a wacko perfectly sinister and disgusting. He blew my mind. The tone of the film is so nasty and cruel. The music is appropriately creepy and eerily memorable and beautiful. The gore effects in this movie, while realistic, are extremely horrific and truly disgusting. Some scenes in this film become so disturbing and so claustrophobic that it really makes you want to take a shower. The most talked about of all the gore effects is the car scene, which I won't give away suffix to say that it's brilliant. The ending has some special effects that look like they were recycled from a scene in Day of the Dead, though it was made prior to that. All of these scenes are truly horrific and extremely disturbing to watch, not only in the realism, but in the scummy feel of the film as a whole. There's a lot of sweat, screaming, shrieking, crying, and bleating, both from the killer and his victim. It's one of the most unpleasant films ever made. Overall, this film is very trashy, exploitative, and extremely disturbing. This film is definitely worth seeing for gorehounds and horror fans. It is an all too effective piece of film-making that will likely be forever remembered in the years to come. "},{"Title":"Why was this banned for such a long time?","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  William Lustig's infamous shocker MANIAC attempts to outdo Scorsese's TAXI DRIVER in providing an even more morbid and disturbing character study of a crazed loner and his warped dealings with the world, but succeeds only in being repellent. It reminded me of the dismal Kent Bateman / Henri Pachard stinkbomb HEADLESS EYES, only with better (okay, much better) production values, an admittedly excellent central performance by a bloated and sweating Spinell and Tom Savini's uniformly effective special effects. Aside of a few tense moments and the aforementioned bouts of gore, this film is a relentlessly ugly grope through the sewer ducts of humanity and offers very little in the way of entertainment. Oddly, it was banned for years in Britain, when far more offensive fare (including Pasolini's SALO, in which people are force-fed excrement) escaped the censor's wrath by virtue of being art. MANIAC may not be art, but at least it's honest in its sleazy ambitions and true to its grisly intentions, right through to the rather silly trick ending. "},{"Title":"Pure Crap","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've always been a fan of low-budget 80's horror flicks, and I've seen my fair share of crap, but this film really defines the word.A  homicidal maniac who had childhood issues with his now dead mother goes on a murdering spree, killing and mutilating random women, and nailing their scalps to mannequins in his house. That's pretty much the gist of it. No real plot, storyline, or point. The heroine who stops him (kind of), isn't even introduced until the last fifteen minutes of the film, making it impossible for the viewer to even care what happens. The acting is awful, the script minimal (thank God).You'll be amazed at how bad cheap horror can really be, and even more amazed at how this movie ever was made in the first place. "},{"Title":"Wow...bad but super atmosphere....","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Just got this movie on DVD and I must say I really felt weird after watching it! Joe Spinell does a great job and the f/x is very well, too but somehow the movie was boring. Sure the killing scenes were excellent and the plot was ok but there was too much between and no tension was built up. It is really funny one way I think it was a really bad movie but if you think about it a really strange feeling overcomes when recapturing the pictures of it. So I guess the movie may not be as good as nowaday`s Blockbuster Movies, but no movie today made me think afterward`s so much about it. Love it or leave it! "},{"Title":"William Lustig Pulls No Punches In This Hard-Hitting Horror Film","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A psychotic man (Joe Spinell), troubled by his childhood abuse, loose in New York City, kills young women and takes their scalps as trophies. Will he find the perfect woman in photographer Anna, and end his killing spree?This is director William Lustig's masterpiece. He seems to have an obsession with Maniac films (he later made Maniac Cop, Maniac Cop II and Maniac Cop III) but this is really the only one that is in nay way a true horror film with any sort of disturbing imagery. Did Lustig go soft after he finished this film, or just fall under the spell of Sam Raimi? Maniac is what I would call the Hollywood version of Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. Unlike most stalker or slasher films, we do not follow the victims so much as we follow the killer, giving him a human side that makes him all the more real and terrifying. While there is no forgiving a man who wantonly murders, we cannot help but pity him on some level for his mental illness. This is what separates Henry or Maniac from Jason Voorhees.The Tom Savini headshot was also very nice. Many of the scenes are quite memorable (such as the prostitute who is killed without even having her clothes removed), but I think the forceful elimination of Savini really takes the cake. It is not on the level of say Scanners but it definitely will get you a little excited.I think this movie is well worth seeing. I think it was one of those films that was supposed to be too graphic for the average viewer, and there certainly is a level of nastiness to it. But nothing a good horror buff will not find enjoyable. And if at first you are unsure, keep watching -- the second half really outdoes the first by a mile! "}{"Title":"gory, unsympathetic slasher flick","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I picked this movie up on VHS for ten dollars after hearing about it on several horror forums. I'm not sure what to make of it really, but i can't say it was a bad slasher flick.Maniac is slightly predictable and mostly realistic, which is pretty much the norm with serial killer movies. What sets this film apart is the disturbing lack of pathos a viewer will feel for the killer. The directer makes no attempt for sympathy for the maniac; he is a dirty scumbag with little charisma, his killings are terrible, and you want to see him get his. There is moderate suspense, plenty of blood (courtesy of Tom Savini, who makes a cameo as a sexually frustrated man who get his head blown off his shoulders), and the dialog isn't too bad.This is not a classic, but it isn't generic, and it has a style of its own. Horror fans should see it. "},{"Title":"Sleaze festival.","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Joe Spinell has a field day with this role. He could act better than a lot of the NYC grads, he just didn't have the looks.But those looks worked for him here.The title pretty much tells you what this is. Serial killer in New York. Hookers are victims. Mother complex. Insane man talks to himself while he kills. No mysteries here.A lot of horror fans didn't like this one for some reason. They found it too much of a downer. The 'darkness' of the film gets to people I guess.My one complaint is that it moved to slow. The atmosphere was there. Argento was an obvious influence. But a little more energy might have helped. "},{"Title":"William Lustig's Maniac","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac (1980) was Joe Spinell's attempt to emulate his idol and friend Sylvester Stallone and make a movie in a similar vein as Rocky. He was proud to produce a movie that would have his name in the title (Joe Spinell's Maniac). He even co-wrote the screenplay and was one of the executive producers on the film.Joe Spinell stars as the title character. He portrays a psychopath who has a haunted past. Unable to control his homicidal tendencies, he walks the streets looking for victims. When he's not hunting women, he organizes the trophies that he takes away from his victims in art pieces. One day whilst stalking a woman, he meets a fashion photographer whom he befriends. But since he's a nut job and he can't control himself, the fashion photographer (Caroline Munro) soon witnesses first hand how crazy of a person he is and flees from his grasp.Frustrated and licking his wounds, he goes back home and all of his past victims come back to life and rip him apart like a pack of wild dogs. All of his screaming and carrying on alert the police. When they come into his hovel, they spot him alone. He was a victim of his own hands. Joe Spinell put everything into this movie. He imagined that this movie would be a huge box office success. The director William Lustig managed to hire Tom Savini to do the special effects. Savini did an excellent job in designing some of the most realistic gory set pieces in this movie. William Lustig himself also has to be commended for making a film like this on a small budget with his unique style of directing.This movie is about as far from mainstream film making as you can get. The film is catered for the midnight movie crowds and not everyone will enjoy this interesting film. This was Joe Spinell's labor of love. A few years later he tried to make a sequel but due to financial problems and Spinell's grave health issues, it never got past a short promo reel that was made to attract investors.Check out The Last Horror Film. It's a pseudo sequel of sorts featuring Joe Spinell. Caroline Munro and Joe Spinell's mom!Strongly recommended! "},{"Title":"Gritty and unpleasant, quite well done.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Difficult to watch at times, but since we're dealing with serial killers here, you could say the film hits the mark. At the foundation of Maniac is a very well shot depiction of a cold(literally and otherwise) and lonely urban environment. This is most apparent in the NY subway scenes. Even after 24 years Maniac doesn't have too many dated or unintentionally campy moments. It's gritty and disturbing. One of the better shot in NY horror films without a doubt. The 80's synth soundtrack is awesome. Simple, dark and drawn out synth lines help further develop the grim mood of Maniac. The make-up effects are top shelf, as viewers are treated to some primetime Tom Savini skills. A vicious but undeniably effective and well crafted film.  "},{"Title":"Depressing, shocking, gruesome, but great Maniac","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Maniac is a very depressing, but also a very good movie. Obviously it isn't a movie for the masses and a lot of people wouldn't agree with me. For this it is too slow and much to violent. For a sub audience (mainly horror freaks) the movie is a feast The special effects from make up wizard Tom Savini are some of the best ever and they're used effectively in the few gore scenes. The story about a psychopath is set in an ugly and cold New York City. It is closely focused on the depressing life of the main character played by the late Joe Spinell (who also contributed to the screenplay). This might make the movie even more unbearable to some viewers. We can follow him to a prostitute who he kills and we can see in close-up how he cuts off her scalp which he takes back to his apartment to put it on one of the dummies he has stored in there. Then he meets a woman (b-movie star Caroline Munro) and it seems that he's even falling in love. But you know that it won't go well... The end of the movie might give you nightmares! Great work by William Lustig and Joe Spinell with excellent effects by Tom Savini I'm one of the sub audience and I'll give this movie a 8/10. "},{"Title":"The King of Slasher Flicks!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  What other horror films outs there can compete with representing the entire genre of slasher movies than Maniac. In many scenes, the film captured true horror. The gritty directing and acting in Maniac alone make it a classic. Add Tom Savini's magic and you got yourself a movie that will withstand the test of time for generations to come.  "},{"Title":"Plenty for gore fans, but not much else","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" MANIAC Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby StereoWilliam Lustig's urban horror film doesn't offer much of a plot, and not much of anything else, either. It's more of a character study than a narrative, focusing on a deeply disturbed apartment superintendent (Joe Spinell at his sweatiest) who murders people - mostly women - in an attempt to exorcise the demons of his unhappy childhood when he was tortured and abused by his mother. Lustig casts pseudonymous female porn stars as victims and then proceeds to wallow in sleaze and misogyny until the film becomes almost too much to bear. In one of the most disturbing scenes in the picture, Spinell ties a terrified woman to her bed and runs a knife blade down her chest before stabbing her, and the victim's dying expression is almost orgasmic. Elsewhere, the beautiful Caroline Munro is wasted as a fashion photographer who dates Spinell during his more lucid moments, while Spinell himself makes for a very uninteresting psycho. Tom Savini's celebrated gore effects are gruesome but unconvincing, and though the storyline seems torn from recent headlines (it was partially inspired by the 'Son of Sam' killings which rocked New York in the 1970s), there doesn't seem to be any discernible point to the proceedings. "},{"Title":"dull and boring","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" let me just say if you're a horror fan you can skip this one. I bought it on DVD having never seen it and after seeing it I really wish I hadn't. Joe spinell is a pretty decent actor in this film but the material just stinks. The film follows the life of a schitzophrenic serial killer(Spinell)as he terrorizes the streets of New York city looking for innocent woman to kill. There is really few good things to say about this film if any. The suspense and the tension is lacking,there isn't much of a story or plot. Throughout most of the film we see Spinell talking to his manicans and dressing them up, which involves him putting womans bloody scalps on their heads.Overall the film turned out to be a disappointment. I give it 4/10 "},{"Title":"Difficult movie to rate","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Frank Zito (Joe Spinell) is a sick man. He was abused by his mother as a child (not shown) and saw her selling her body to men. He lives alone in an apartment with mannequins (who he talks to) and goes out periodically and kills people. He also scalps some of the women and nails their scalps to the mannequins heads.As you can see this is NOT for everybody. This movie has won a lot of notoriety for its extreme violence--there are throat slashings, strangulation, scalpings, stabbings and a show stopper in which a man's head is blown to little bits (shown in slow motion and by three different camera angles). The film never flinches from the violence and though the violence is VERY bloody and gruesome, that's only a small portion of the film. This is basically a character study of Zito and his sickness. Spinell was an excellent actor and really makes you understand and (somewhat) care for Zito.Still, it's far from a perfect film.Caroline Munro is introduced as a love interest halfway through the film. That's kind of silly. For one thing, she's an extremely beautiful young woman--she's seriously going to fall for overweight, unattractive Zito? And Munro isn't much of an actress. Also the stalking sequences of victims in here go on forever--one sequence where he follows a nurse seems to never end. It gets dull. The low budget hurts too. And the grim tone and over the top murders really wears one down after a while. Pretty lousy ending too.Still, I didn't hate it. I do applaud a director who will go completely over the edge to make a film. But this is only for horror fans and those who can stand extreme gore.I'm giving it a 7--mostly for Spinell's acting...and the violence. "},{"Title":"An exploitation milestone. Misunderstood and worthwhile.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  'Maniac' is a movie that still divides audiences after twenty years. Presented as a horror movie, specifically a slasher, it then makes many uncomfortable with its unrelenting nihilism, and lack of humour. It takes the sordid subject matter much more seriously than most similar movies, and doesn't bother with thrills or entertainment. This makes it difficult to dismiss it as just another gore movie. The film has quite a unique feel to me, sort of a cross between 'The Driller Killer' and 'Deranged', and is much grimmer and darker than subsequent William Lustig exploitation classics like 'Vigilante' and the 'Maniac Cop' trilogy. Joe Spinell, best know as a character actor in movies like 'Taxi Driver', 'The Ninth Configuration' and 'The Godfather', co-wrote and co-produced, and gives the performance of his life as Frank Zito, easily one of the creepiest and least palatable killers in movie history. 'Maniac' is completely his show, though former Bond girl Caroline Munro (Franco's 'Faceless') is very good as Zito's unexpected love interest, and buffs will get a kick out of seeing Tom Savini ('Dawn Of The Dead'), also responsible for the gruesome effects. 'Maniac' is not an easy movie to watch, and not really something you say you enjoy, but it's an exploitation milestone, and recommended for fans of extreme cinema. "}{"Title":"Ranks with 'I Spit On Your Grave'","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  How does garbage like this get made? While violence is real, this is just a series of brutal and dumb killings. I would hate to see someone get suckered into paying money to rent a movie that delights in showing graphic detail of innocent women being slaughtered. So why did I rent it? Blockbuster had a rent one get one free coupon. Guess which one was free.  "},{"Title":"Tom Savini is the only true star of this movie !!","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Except for a few utterly nasty killings, an appealing DVD cover and title ( appealing to horror fans at least) Maniac doesn't add much to field of horror. It's a mainstream slasher that fits right into the category among much other ones when it comes to story, tension and production. Yet, it managed to build up a true cult-status over the years. It was banned in a few countries and widely announced as being disturbing and alarming, so that did well to the popularity of it. I'm not quite sure it deserves this status though. It certainly is enjoyable and indeed a must-see for horror fans but not much more than that, I think. SPOILERS AHOY !!! Well, maybe I exaggerated ... it is a bit superior than most slashers of the early 80's ( there were a lot of them back then ). Maniac had the make-up effects by Tom Savini himself !! People who're familiar with his work know that is an indicator that Maniac is filled with gorgeous violent scenes and extremely explicit gore that doesn't leave much to the imagination. For instance, the explosion of a human head ( by a gunshot ) is showed in a detailed way and in slow motion !! Mr. Savini also has a delicious small role in the movie - he's credited as disco boy and he gets to say the funniest and most memorable quote of the whole movie... the story is rather random like I already said. The maniac of the title is a middle-aged man suffering from a lot of childhood trauma's and he can't help killing innocent young women. The term Maniac is the least you can say about him because he collect the scalpels of the women and tries to put together the image of his mother...Pretty disturbed, indeed. It's pretty sad and pathetic to hear a 40 year old man moaning about his mommy all the time. Above all this, he constantly breathes real heavy and he makes the most annoying noises. The acting is awful...Especially the leading character is bad. I mean real bad !! Joe Spinell plays this role and he wrote the story himself as well. He should have left it by that and give someone else the opportunity to act. The use of music and creepy tunes and sounds is good and some scenes are really scary...In the same very scary scenes there's a good creepy atmosphere which gets build up real slow.  So yeah, overall Maniac is a good movie but certainly a bit overrated and silly. Recommended if your heart and stomach can handle it !!  "},{"Title":"Spare me from the  filthy sewers of sane mind - and I mean filth!","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" And despite the characterization, the film-makers guilty of this sleazy, trashy and gory crime can't plead insanity, either. Poor Caroline Munro is long way from her Hammer films Dracula AD 1972 or Captain Kronos - Vampire hunter and Joe Spinell has left trashy and sleazy artsiness of Taxi driver to play a mentally ill killer, sympathetic although his actions are truly disgusting. The duo meets and befriends (shades of Peeping Tom) but the disgusting disease in the killer's brain may put the sweet heroine in danger... Wholesome cleanliness and beauty is not the name of the game, while gore effects by Tom Savini star with Caroline and Joe. "},{"Title":"This is horrible!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" So I've heard so much about this film from the gore, to the violence to the gore and the violence, haha. God. The people who've seen this film have obviously lived under rocks for the last filmic century. No I do not demand exploitation, but when all of these people yammer on about the extreme nature of this film, you would expect something that delivers. NO. The film is cheap. Cheap blood, cheap gore, and CHEAP! Goddammit! I was seriously upset, because this film has made peoples list of most horrific Com'on. Anyone who seriously loves horror should NEVER place their own breath with the title of this film. Maniac is an unacceptable mess. I love horror, from Texas Chainsaw, Flesh, Psycho. These films deliver more visceral punch than the tiny sigh that Maniac produced. "},{"Title":"Not as shocking as it thinks...but still worth watching","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Maniac is often touted as being one of the most brutal and nasty films around; and maybe it was twenty five years ago (if we're talking American cinema only), but having seen lots of brutal and nasty films; this really isn't all that bad. If you see Tom Savini's name on a list of the cast and crew, you can guarantee that there'll be some bloody gore; and this film doesn't disappoint in that respect. Savini's make-up is grotty and visceral, but the film just doesn't shock in the way it obviously wants to. Wanton violence is one way to shock and audience, but if you want your film to leave a lasting impression on the viewer; there must be a frightening idea behind it all. The idea of a maniac stalking and killing people is frightening without doubt...but we've seen it all before. The plot does offer a good base for lots of savagery. It's not original in the slightest, and merely follows a 'maniac', who spends his spare time murdering women. However, he doesn't just do it for enjoyment - as this man has major psychological problems. They say talking to yourself is the first sign of madness; and it looks like Frank Zito passed that one long ago! Writer Joe Spinell takes the lead role, and isn't all that good. He looks like a man with major psychological problems; but he doesn't look like someone capable of brutally butchering people. Spinell just doesn't have the right look about him; he looks too nice. Of course, I realise that anyone can be a psycho... The rest of the cast aren't given a chance to make a lasting impression, and it's only Tom Savini that really stands out among the support cast; but that's more because he has a memorable face than through acting prowess. The murder scenes are generally good, with Spinell getting to have fun scalping women before killing them. The best scene for me, however, was the one that sees the maniac kill a couple in a car with a shotgun. I'd even go as far as to say that's the only truly memorable scene featuring in this film. William Lustig, who seems to enjoy directing films with the word 'maniac' in the title, directs Maniac. Maniac Cop 1 and 2, however, are better films than this. Don't get me wrong, I don't dislike this movie...but if you want shocking violence and gore; this isn't the best place to get it. "},{"Title":"Maniac snooze.","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Okay, let's weigh what this movie does right and what this movie does wrong. I'm seeing a tilted scale coming. Anyway, what it does right, the effects. The effects are very impressive considering it was 1980. What it does wrong, everything else. The story follows Frank around like it was Frank Zito! This is your life! This Frank Zito is carrying the movie, basically alone, we watch him sleep, we watch him stalk victims, he see him kill (of course.) But it's all about him. We learn nothing about his victims, there's no connection to the victims, nothing tying them together, one's a nurse, one's a hooker. His pattern doesn't make any sense, where are the Police during all this? Where's the Police Detective going, this pattern doesn't make any sense? When there is a serial killer, there is Policeman scratching his head. Where is the press? Where are the reporters calling this guy THE SCALPER or THE HEADHUNTER. That's the only pattern, him scalping them. Where are the forensics looking for fingerprints or the coroner, this movies leaves a whole lot out which makes it terribly boring and uninteresting. Frank Zito is not interesting enough of a character to carry the movie alone. If you just want to see a bloody gore fest with no substance or story, then I recommend MANIAC, but if you want story, not just a gory sleeping pill then avoid it at all cost. I give it, the CRAP-O-LANTERN! "},{"Title":"1 out of 10","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Sex-obsessed, insane momma's boy Joe Spinell goes on a killing spree killling off all the trash and flith of the city, but a romance with the beautiful Caroline Munro threatens to destroy him and his sick urges that he tries to repress, but fails to.Film is undefendable on every level. Joe Spinell is a great character actor, but fails in the writing and producing department with this trashy film. And the lovely Munro is easy on the eyes, but is given nothing to do, but stand around and look pretty. By the time it reaches the ending, it ends up producing unintentional laughter instead of scaring us. A waste of time, effort, and money. Avoid Maniac at all costs.Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence, Profanity, Strong Adult Themes, Sexual Situations, and Nudity. "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh (or ten).","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I didn't have high expectations when I watched this movie the other night, certainly not where the horror aspect was concerned, but I was very surprised at how many good laughs I got out of it!The film opens with some sort of dream sequence involving the usual 80's horror cliche where a young couple are alone on a deserted beach, the boyfriend walking off to get firewood so the girl can get her throat slit by a psychopath with a razor blade. Don't worry, this horror film isn't discriminatory when it comes to its victims, the guys get it just as bad too. Her boyfriend gets his head sliced off with a wire!Cut to the present, we are introduced to our maniac, wonderfully played by Joe Spinell, waking up from a bad nightmare (or was it?), who shares his bed with a mannequin wearing a bloody scalp. Turns out our hero is nothing more than a big momma's boy who only wants to have her close to him after she kicked the bucket in a car accident a few years earlier.This is supposed to be the explanation as to why this guy goes out scalping women and stapling them to mannequins.But that isn't the reason why anyone would care to watch this movie. The REAL reason is to watch this psycho serial-killer stalking the streets of New York City at night, preying on hapless female victims who end up getting themselves in ridiculous situations with comedic timing.The first female victim is a prostitute who is choked to death. But the comedy begins with the second murder where a cheating whore and her boyfriend leave a bar and sneak off to a secluded area for a bit of slap and tickle in their parked car.You will be surprised to see Tom Savini (everyone's favorite go-to guy when it comes to over-the-top special effects and grisly make-up in 70's and 80's horror movies) making a cameo as the boyfriend (and I'm pretty sure he had something to do with his own death scene!).Our maniac shows up with a shotgun and blows ol' Tom's head off in a scene that brings back fond memories of SCANNERS, before giving his girlfriend the same treatment. Unfortunately, we don't get to see her gratuitous head exploding shot.The funniest scene involves the next victim, a nurse who gets chased by our maniac into a deserted subway. She locks herself in a toilet cubicle where she makes the most funniest faces I have EVER seen in a movie (Jim Carrey, you have met your match) as she tries to hold her breath so our maniac won't hear her. Unfortunately, the comedy comes to an abrupt end as she gets it through the chest with a dagger.There are a few more murders and a laughable subplot involving some female photographer of whom he becomes interested in. But you may as well fast forward to the end where our maniac discovers all of his mannequins (with scalps attached) coming to life where you will have the biggest laugh of your life! They all look like zombified versions of the women he butchered, seeking revenge on him in the same way they themselves were murdered.One woman's head falls off (LOL) and blood spurts out of the bloody stump like some sort of CREEPSHOW ploy to our maniac's horror, while the rest of the women struggle to remove his head from his body in a side-splitting scene that has to be seen to be believed.The ending is reminiscent to that of the ultimate trash classic PIECES, although that movie came out a few years after this one. This film bundles all the cheap elements of 80's horror trash, such as stupid female characters who scream to get killed, bumbling police detectives, hilarious dialogue and the usual round-up of male scumbag characters who add their support to the thin plot.I seriously recommend this movie if you're looking for a good laugh or two. You won't be disappointed!My Rating - 1 out of 10  "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Sex-obessed, insane momma's boy Joe Spinell goes on a killing spree killling off all the trash and flith of the city, but a romance with the beatiful Caroline Munro threatens to destroy him and his sick urges that he tries to repress, but fails to.Film is undefendable on every level. Joe Spinell is a great character actor, but fails in the writing and producing department with this trashy film. And the lovely Munro is easy on the eyes, but is given nothing to do, but stand around and look pretty. By the time it reaches the ending, it ends up producing unintentional laughter instead of scaring us. A waste of time, effort, and money. Avoid Maniac at all costs.Rated R; Extreme Graphic Vioence, Profanity, Strong Adult Themes, Sexual Situations, and Nudity. "},{"Title":"Cheap schlock.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Pure schlock, with grade-Z production values and a quite repellent climax. Basically, this a typically monotonous piece of slasher junk, but Tom Savini's convincing gore effects and a fairly tense chase scene (filmed in a curiously deserted subway station) save it from the no stars rating. "}]