[{"Title":"Highly Anticipated and Extremely Disappointing Sequel.","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The original Smokey and the Bandit was a monster of a film, finishing behind only Star Wars at the Box Office in 1977. It was one of the last movies seen by Elvis, who arranged a private viewing due to it's popularity. I myself, barely a teenager, saw it several times in the theater.Now, when a sequel was announced, we all just knew it would pick up where the first one left off and follow the gang's exploits up to Boston and back to Georgia in 48 hours with clam chowder for the Enoses. But no, the producers and writers chose to create an entirely new exploit, which is basically a rehash of the route traveled in the first, but going in the other direction and pretty much at the speed limit! First off, the Enoses could have hired anyone for a lot less money, as obviously time was not of the essence. Afterall, after they accept the job, considerable time is spent getting the Bandit back into shape! Or did the writers expect us to believe it only took one day? They may have, considering they also threw in a scene where Burt, during his rehab outruns a racehorse. And what were they thinking having Carrie marrying Junior again? Sheriff Justice said at the end of the first he wasn't giving up his pursuit of Bandit, so he didn't need this motivation, again.So, obviously, instead of a good ole' boy movie like the first, we have a cartoon with humans! See Jackie Gleason utter sombitch 6 dozen times! Hear Dom Deluise spout nonsensical Italian phrases! Watch truckers run over police cruisers with no regards to consequences (like causing lawman's death)! Become aghast at Jerry Reed turning into a tough guy life coach. Experience Burt Reynolds trying to show he has a heart! Look at Sally Field's expression of disdain for her agent! And don't miss the ending blooper reel!This was the beginning of the end for Burt as he started becoming a caricature of himself. People began to view his movies as just an excuse for Burt and his buddies to get together and party while not having to bother themselves with any strenuous acting. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As much as I liked the first movie, I find that I don't really like the second film.  While the film had it's moments, especially with Jackie Gleason as Buford T. Justice, there really wasn't much to redeem this film.Everything about the film seemed rather contrived, especially the comedy.  The comedy seemed to be forced most of the time.While I can watch the first film over and over and it never seems to get old for me, the second film wore out its welcome almost right away.  I don't know, but maybe if they hadn't tried so hard with the second film to measure up to the first film it would have been better. "},{"Title":"It needed Olivier, it Got Kramden","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" OK, I'm kidding. Hey, listen, this film is no strain to the synapses. It's another Hal Needham carwreck fest wrapped up in a really dumb plot that at times tries too hard. However, I find an odd entertainment value in this genus of southern cheese. An aging professional highway show-off, an even more annuated hick sheriff in hot pursuit, an oddly swift and resilient Trans Am, a very talented yet dumbed down leggy sidekick, a country singer turned epitomal southern truck driver, Dom Deluise, and an elephant. Add plenty of incompetent law enforcement officers and marlboro reds and you have the makings of one fine redneck cross-country chase movie. I don't know why but I actually enjoyed this. It's really about the stunts I think and when it comes to Hal Needham you never can have too many car crashes. In the spirit of Cannonball Run and the Dukes of Hazzard there is an odd appeal in watching good IL boys tear up backroads to the tune of Hank Williams and police sirens. And of course there's always a way out leaving a pile of police cruisers in the dust behind. It's an action flick and as such you shouldn't expect it to be anything other than what it is; it's just fun to watch. You may notice it does have some very talented actors so it begs the what were you thinking doing this film? question. Perhaps. But on face value it's all about the car chase. And who doesn't love a good car chase? "},{"Title":"Narcissism is hardly funny...","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Fairly dreadful sequel to Smokey and the Bandit arrived some three years later, and most of the principal players look a bit sheepish about the entire enterprise--none more so than Sally Field as Frog, the Bandit's main squeeze. In the film (and in the outtakes played at the end), Field seems edgy and defensive, which probably means she got a good look at this screenplay and felt trapped (an understandable reaction, but deadly in a comedy). Written by Jerry Belson and Brock Yates from a treatment by Michael Kane, the movie immediately gets off on the wrong foot with Field once again running out on a wedding (to Sheriff Justice's son for the second time). Seems she can't reach the Bandit, whose inflated ego and sense of self-importance has alienated all his friends. Moody, unhappy Burt Reynolds only perks up in his scenes with Dom DeLuise, but for the most part limps through these half-hearted proceedings like a celebrity on the downhill slide. Hal Needham's direction isn't any help (he's at the mercy of the woebegone script), but there is an elephant around for the occasional sight-gag--and Jackie Gleason in three roles. * from **** "},{"Title":"The Bandit and Snowman at It again","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" well the bandit and snowman are back and this time they have one hell of a big adventure. The bandit and frog have split and the bandit has became a overweight drunk.the burdette's need a crate picked up in Miami so they enlist the help of snowman who has to get bandit's ass back on track with the help of frog of course.After much exercise (including a foot race with a bunch of horses)the bandit is ready for action once again.After Breaking into the warehouse they find that the crate is huge and what inside is huge as well,a elephant. after some time on the road and a stop for gas snowman thinks the elephant is sick,and as luck would have it a ambulance has just pulled in.so they enlist the help of the doctor inside Played By Funny man Dom Deluise and the doc soon determines the elephant is pregnant.What is the bandit to due stay on course and risk the elephants life or worry about something other than money for once?Also look for a lot of cameos in this one.mel Tillis(bless his heart he sing like a bird but has a bad stuttering problem),terry bradshaw,mean joe green and don williams.Also jackie gleason is back as buford t. justice still trying to catch the bandit and look for a very funny scene where jounir can't get his zipper zipped.jackie also takes on 3 different roles in this oneThis movie could be the best sequel in the franchise so give it a watch i give it a 8 out of 10 R.I.P Jackie Gleason and Jerry Reed(The Snowman) "},{"Title":"One Truck Drivers' Opinion","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The second of a film series of three,this time our heros must take an elephant from Florida to Texas.This is the worst of the three. even though the final round up was kinda cool. Why would the snowman sleep on the ground at a rest stop,when he has a very comfortable bunk in the truck? The Bandit is a major prick in this one. If Don Williams sang a song to my woman and myself,I wouldn't disrespect the man by walking out in the middle of the song. O well, I guess even the best of us has to have a bad day. It was cool to see Ben Walton make a cameo appearance.Jerry Reed drives the GMC 18 wheeler!This is the second of three times Jerry Reed drives a truck in this series.Jerry Reed was a permanent AA list actor.There are a couple unknown actors driving indeterminable trucks during the round up.These unknown actors were also permanent A list actors.Sally Fields is hot!!!erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Blown opportunity","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Smokey and the Bandit II is a blown opportunity. I am not a big fan of sequels because they generally just repeat the same formula of the original. Here is no exception. But what bothers me is of ALL the ideas they could use they pick transporting an elephant? And why make the Bandit down on his luck? We want to see him on top of the world in the spoils of wealth from the first film. But all we get to see are he and Sally Field fighting. Jackie Gleason is good but the resurrection of some of his classic characters though nice, is totally unnecessary to the film. A big disappointment. "},{"Title":"Leftovers from Cannonball Run","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's fairly obvious that Smokey and the Bandit II was filmed directly before (or during) the making of Canonnonball Run.  Obviously they had a lot of well-known faces from the CR movie, and they had them stick around for some S&tB shots, then built a story around them as best they could.  If you look at each of the cameos, you see they have no tie to the storyline, all they have in common is Reynolds and Gleason.  If you want to see a much better Burt Reynolds / Dom Delouis movie, rent CR (it's hokey too, but not quite as bad as this).Movies like this get made all the time, where a very basic plot line is sketched out, and then the rest is filled in as the writers on the set come up with it.  When good ideas get scarce, they try to fill the gaps with gags on a common theme.  But like any good joke, it's only funny when it is at least semi-plausible.  That's what made the original Smokey and the Bandit so much fun.  But S&tB II is just TOO unbelievable to be funny any more. It might appeal to 12 year olds, but the original audience of 16-25 year olds just don't find them funny.All the negativeness of the above aside, S&tB II is still better than part III.  I didn't think it could get worse, but... "},{"Title":"More of the same sequel to an average film.","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit II starts as father & son Big Enos (Pat McCormick) & Little Enos Burdette (Paul Williams) see an opportunity to legitimise their canditateship for Governor of Texas but delivering a special crate from Miami & take it to Texas in order to impress the current Governor (John Anderson). Sounds easy & Bi & Little Enos decide to hire the Bandit (Burt Reynolds) to make the run, they agree to pay $400,000 for delivery of the crate which the Bandit can't turn down since he has become a drunk has been since his Coors beer run. Again teaming up with the Snowman (Jerry Reed) & Carrie (Sally Field) they find out that the crate contains a pregnant Elephant 7 the run won't be as easy as they first thought as Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) is on their tail all the way in pursuit...Also known under the title Smokey and the Bandit Ride Again here in the UK this was directed by Hal Needham this is your pretty average more of the same sequel to the original hit Smokey and the Bandit (1977) which I didn't like that much anyway, I can't say Smokey and the Bandit II was any better but I can't say it was any worse either. Like a lot of sequels that try to leech of the original's success Smokey and the Bandit reunites all the main character's including the Bandit, Snowman, Carrie & Sheriff Buford T. Justice along with Big & Little Enos who again hire the Bandit for some ridiculous run across states, instead of beer like the original this time around it gets even sillier with a pregnant Elephant that develops a crush on the Bandit, yeah that's the level of sophistication in this sequel. The comedy & gags are just lame with many being direct rip-offs of the original especially a lot of Sheriff Justice's lines, I really don't think I laughed once during this & if the film wasn't silly enough there's this annoying Italian doctor. The script tires to have a little more humanity this time around with it wanting us to feel sorry for the animal & the on-going more pronounced romance between the Bandit & Carrie but it's all lost in a horrible plot that is just too ridiculous for words & really unfunny comedy. At almost 100 minutes it goes on for too long as well, the pace is average with not that much actually happening & only the big showdown between the police & truckers in the desert at the end is worth watching this for. The character of the Bandit is also significantly different here, here he's a drunk burnt out depressed has been unlike the first & it's hard to warm to him or want him to succeed.A lot of the time is spent with the Elephant & it's problems rather than the driving aspect, in fact the cars seem almost secondary here until the end & that desert pile up which even then is silly & hardly makes the thing worth watching. A roller-coaster is destroyed in an OK scene but otherwise this is quite short on action. Again Sheriff Justice swears quite a lot & again the dubbed TV versions are apparently quite funny. Better made than the original the coverage of the stunts is better but still rather static. Country and Western singer Don Williams & his band make a cameo, I still thought the Country and Western soundtrack was awful though & really can't stand the stuff.Filmed mostly in Florida this has good production values as I am sure the budget was bigger than the original's but that didn't help make this any good, did it? The acting is OK< Reynolds is in cruise control, Sally Field still looks nice, Jackie Gleason is still over the top while Dom DeLuise is simply awful.Smokey and the Bandit II is much more of the same really only sillier & even less funnier than the original, the final chase in the desert is alright & it passes the time if you can see it on telly for free I suppose but otherwise there's not much here to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Just in case you missed the sign...","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" All in all, a childishly fun revisiting of the characters and story. It'll help if you're already a big fan of cowboys, big trucks, and car jumps, and, of course, the first film.A lot of drama went on behind the scenes during the shooting, and at times can be glimpsed on the screen, including Sally's and Burt's strained relationship, Jackie Gleason's health, and Hal Needham's direction.The sign in front of the church wonderfully demonstrates the level of humor throughout this movieTexarkana Reformed, United, Evangelical, Fundamental Church Of God, The Twelve Apostles And Assorted Saints "}{"Title":"Extinguished - 32%","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It's fair to be said that hairy-lipped ladies man Burt Reynolds has had something of a chequered success rate when it comes to his movies. From highlights in Boogie Nights and The Mean Machine to real clunkers like Striptease, Reynolds has never been consistent in his movies with the exception of being consistently inconsistent. Redneck rampage classic Smokey And The Bandit was one of Burt's best so it was no surprise when the predictable sequel arrives and it's a serious test of how much vehicular destruction you like in a movie. It also proves that a movie needs much more than comedic cops and smashed squad cars to make a plot.Reynolds returns as the legendary Bandit, a hero among the high-speed CB radio community. Washed up and a wreckage of a man after Carrie (Sally Field once again) leaves him, Bandit is reunited with his old buddy Snowman (Jerry Read) and Carrie in order to transport an elephant from Florida to Texas in three days. The promise of a substantial reward is apparently motive enough because I couldn't find any other reason to do this. Anyway, Bandit is tracked every mile of the way by persistent Sheriff Buford T Justice (Jackie Gleason) and his wet-behind-the-ears son (Mike Henry) and this time, he's brought a few family reinforcements...You can picture the meeting of the producers before shooting began. Let's get everything that made the first film great and double it. So we have more cars and crashes, more stunts and jumps, more trucks, a prolonged love-hate story between Field and Reynolds as well as Dom DeLuise as a slightly eccentric Italian doctor, more Buford T Justice and oh yes, even more crashes. Sadly, the mix is a mess. The film's plot veers this way and that like one of Buford's pursuits and very little ever makes sense. Coupled with a comic-book approach to the story (Burt doing a standing back-flip onto the back of the elephant?) and the first film's action gives way to simplistic and unconvincing set-pieces. Gleason easily acts everyone else off the screen, which is not good when you sympathise with the baddie of the piece while watching our crew of redneck racers with ambivalence. Come the film's climax, there is an overwhelming sense of 'deja vu' as increasingly chaotic scenes fail to impress.In truth, there wasn't much they could do with the sequel. The first, while hardly a classic itself, pretty much covered all the bases when it came to road movies so what Smokey And The Bandit 2 thought it could add to the mix remains a mystery because this film does nothing but improve your opinion of the first (if you've seen it, anyway). Like the first, this is a mildly diverting film in a just-returned-from-pub kinda way but quite frankly, you'd be better renting something else or re-watching a DVD. Stick with the first but don't touch this or the third unless you're an extremely forgiving viewer. And Reynolds really should have trimmed that moustache... "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If it wasn't for the almighty 'Star Wars' then the 1977 Box Office would have been topped by none other than 'Smokey and the Bandit' which performed equally as surprisingly. Therefore a sequel was inevitable. In fact... a sequel was the natural evolution considering how the original ended. However, what people got was a different beast all together.Instead of directly continuing from the original, we have a new tale, utilising the old characters. Only it doesn't feel particularly new, more rehashed. If it was made now, it might almost be considered a 'remake.' The 'Bandit' is back, only he's all burned out and only tempted out of his alcohol-induced retirement by the promise of a big paycheque. Again, he has to drive across country, helping his trucker chum 'Snowman' to safely get his cargo to its destination. It's basically the same story as before. Again, it uses the same route. Again, it uses the same plot device of 'Smokey' (the cop constantly pursuing Bandit) only really chasing him because his son's bride has left him &#x96; yes, again &#x96; at the altar to run off with Bandit.It all feels a little like 'rinse and repeat.' Smokey catches up with Bandit. Bandit just so happens to know someone that can help him out. They block Smokey. The Bandit escapes and then it all happens again a few scenes later.Smokey's police car also seems to get completely trashed and yet be perfectly be okay to indulge in yet another high speed chase a little way down the highway. Of course the chases scenes are fun. At the time of production, the film boasted about having the most expensive car chase ever filmed for a movie. And there is one that lives up to that titled. Only one. Much of the driving seems to be done at the correct speed limit, meaning there's a distinct lack of tension going on.Yes, the stars return. And they do add an element of fun to the movie. If you liked them the first time round you'll probably like them again this time. However, since they're doing almost exactly the same thing as you saw them do in number one, then there's little point in watching them do it all over again, right? "},{"Title":"Harmless Stupid Fun","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Big Enos Burdett (Pat McCormick) is running for Governor of Texas, and uses Bandit (Burt Reynolds) and Cledus (Jerry Reed) to transport a mysterious cargo. Cledus enlists the help of Carrie (Sally Field) who abandons Junior once again to convince a drunken Bandit to do the run. Surprise, surprise, the cargo is a giant elephant and mayhem ensues.The premise is complete nonsense. It's really a stupid setup to allow the gang to regroup and have more fun. This time they kidnap doc (Dom DeLuise) to treat the sick elephant. He adds a bit of fun that would lead to Cannonball Run. It's all harmless stupid fun.Then there's a massive cops versus truckers demolition derby. That might be worth the watch all by itself. It's a lot of joyful destruction. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Whatever happened to the Double or nothing jaunt to Boston for some clam chowder? That is what I was expecting. After all the original seemed to segueing to that end. Reynolds was just plain old goofy.Some of the scenes with Justice were even better than the original, at least until he met up with his brothers. Down hill from there. "},{"Title":"Jackie Freakin' Gleason, Baby!","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Man, you people are way too uptight about this movie. I laughed my ass off. Jackie Gleason is Gold in this movie! Easily the best line in the movie to me is when Sheriff Justice follows the Bandit into the Pittsburgh Steelers practice and asks Terry Bradshaw to help slow him down and so Bradshaw tells Mean Joe Green to tackle That Car , he gets in front of Justice's car and Justice says to him,  Get outta my way or you'll have a penalty flag hangin' outta yo ass! I'm laughing my ass off as I'm writing this, Gleason is priceless in this movie and makes it worth checking out. Gleason's one-liners are so funny! Justice on the C.B. to The Bandit Hello you handsome sombitch! Another time Hello lollipop! Just classic. The movie is whatever, but who cares. That Trans-Am is pretty cool too. "},{"Title":"What went wrong here?","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I know I've mentioned before that I wasn't even going to bother writing a review for this one, but here it is  I've always wanted to like this movie.  I really have.  Being an enormous fan of the first, and even finding some enjoyment from the third, I still can't say I like this one.  I don't know what happened here.  Everyone was back, inculding the director, they had the money to back it up, and they still couldn't get it right.  What made this film so atrocious?  Well, I have to blame it on the writers.  I also have to blame the rest of the cast for going along with it.  Seriously, when the characters behave NOTHING like they did in the original and the objective is to haul an elephant(!), you know you're in trouble.  I cringed every time Frog and the Bandit squabbled and I cringed whenever the Bandit would lose his cool and do something stupid.  I mean, what happened to the mild-mannered, likeable, laid-back country boy that we all knew and loved from the first one?  Why in the HELL did they have to make him into and alcoholic, washed-up, ego-maniac? I don't know how, but they managed to make him into one of the most unlikeable protagonists in cinematic history. There's even a ridiculous training scene where the Snowman and Frog whip the bandit back into shape to make the big run. I guess it was supposed to be funny.  I found it to be a slap in the face.   Sometimes Hollywood really has me scatching my head.  Now, for the Justices.  Two words  Good grief.  They made them even dumber than in the first, and while there are a few funny lines, it goes into overdrive and messes the whole thing up.  Another thing, Buford's Canadian cousin (I forget his name) was a disgrace.  Was he supposed to be gay?  If so, that wasn't funny either.I guess I've trashed this one enough.  On the bright side, there were a few moments that made me giggle, but I can't remember the scenes to save my life.  Please, if you consider yourself a fan of the first, avoid this one.  Save yourself a lot of disappointment.   "},{"Title":"A Wasted Effort","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When compared to it's predecessor, Smokey and the Bandit II is a complete waste of time. The film makers were fortunate enough to reunite the complete cast of the original but chose to make a live action cartoon instead of another great movie with fast cars, loose morals and entertaining characters. I would have much rather seen Bandit, Carrie and Cledus's trip to Boston to pick up some clam chowder, sans the Trans Am and rig, than see the weak effort put forth here. In some places the film is a sloppily done rehash of the original Carrie is about to marry Junior again, Buford T. is hot on the trail of the Bandit with Junior in tow as a result and the Bandit is driving alongside Cledus in a black Trans-Am. Given the situation in this movie, why was the Bandit even needed? They drive the speed limit most of the movie! Cartoonish elements missing from the original include Buford's summoning of his brothers to help him catch the Bandit, a man falling out of an ambulance in a most strange looking gurney and Sheriff Justice's car being dropped from a toll bridge, only to appear again unscathed later in the film. It seems the writer of this piece of garbage said, Let's take what worked in the original, increase its outlandishness 100 times over, add some weak one liners and throw in something for the kids while we are at it. Honestly, what minister answers a phone during a wedding ceremony? Everything that worked in part one was forgotten in part two. "},{"Title":"This was a real personal disappointment for me!","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I first seen the original Smokey and the Bandit when I was 13 when it was first released the summer of 1977 I was so in love with the first one I seen it 17 times in the theaters. I once walk in the rain to see it, I took my first date to see it and I have probably seen it 100 times on TV and Video.With all that said I think I have the right to critique the sequel. I remember waiting 3 yrs for part II, I remember hearing there might be one in 1977 and I was so excited.  Well, I remember I thought something was going wrong early in 1980 when I herd reports they wanted to call it  Smokey and the Bandit have a Baby But I was still eager to see it, I rushed to see it the first night it was released, I remember it was a packed house and I was really excited. Then it happened, while watching it I couldn't help thinking this thing was awful!It had nothing what so ever from the first one, they went for nothing but laughs, goofy plot, goofy gags, goofy jokes and transporting an elephant for $400,000 was so stupid! At first you might say, well wasn't the first like that? NO!!. Watch the first one again after watching the sequel, First - The Bandit was cool thru the whole movie, never lost his cool, never went for just a laugh, He was kinda the straight man. Even Jerry Reed (Snowman) had a really cool seen where he gets beat up (and this was a serious seen) and then runs over all the bikers bikes, that was great!! I remember the audience cheering when that happened. You even believed the Bandit and Frog really fell in love. True it had a lot of slap stick screw ball humor but that was all from the sheriff's (Buford T. Justice) character, and it was all really funny. They could have really done a lot with this movie, like in most sequels they forgot the first rule - Continue with the original story! Don't repeat it!! The trick is to make it look like one whole movie cut in half, not a remake done badly. (for more research on how Not to make a sequel see Another 48hrs) "},{"Title":"Disappointing Comedy Sequel","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Poor sequel to the highly enjoyable Smokey and the Bandit. Part two brings together the same ingredients as the first film but adds a lot of cornball slapstick and a disappointing character shift for the Bandit. Gone is the charming, slightly enigmatic Bandit. Here he's a goofy man-child.Sally Field and Jerry Reed return as well. Both do fine although Field sometimes seems like she would rather be anywhere else than in this movie. Can't blame her. She looks lovely though. Jackie Gleason is back and this time playing multiple parts. He starts out OK but quickly becomes unbearable. We also have the comically challenged Dom DeLuise. Reynolds was buddies with Dom and overlooked Dom's obvious lack of talent and got him roles in several of his movies. I've never found Dom DeLuise funny and this movie is no exception.If you're a fan of the first Smokey movie, perhaps it's best you just avoid this sequel and for the love of God, definitely avoid part 3. This movie doesn't improve upon the first in any way. Hell it doesn't even match it. It's a stinker that happens to have a decent country soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Witless rubbish","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you like to see cars being smashed up left, right and centre with no semblance of wit, logic or entertainment to be had, then this is the movie for you. The car stunts are the main attraction, sure, but this ain't exactly 'Mad Max 2'. What it is, is a cinematic junkpile, pitiful in every department and inexplicably in love with its charmless characters. Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jerry Reed and fit-to-bust sheriff Jackie Gleason are all back, and they're joined this time by Dom Deluise, creating a laugh vacuum guaranteed to suck any good jokes into it without mercy. It doesn't make any difference to this movie as there were no good jokes to begin with. A smug and annoying film that does nothing but eat up precious time you could spend ironing or cleaning the toilet. "}{"Title":"So so...","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The original Smokey and the Bandit is a classic, and it introduced us to one of Jackie Gleason's funniest incarnations, Sheriff Buford T. Justice. I've always been of the ilk that tries not to judge sequels on the originals, but in the case of Smokey and the Bandit II it's impossible.The plot is essentially the same as the first film, with the more politically-correct elephant replacing 400 cases of good ol' Coors, and for a higher stake - $320,000 more than their original run to Texarkana. While Reynolds, Field, Reed et al are entertaining and do the best with a mediocre repeat of the original plot, the true star here is Gleason. Particularly memorable is the scene where Justice and Junior stop for a toilet break and Junior announces after paying a visit, that his zipper is stuck. What happens next is hilarious, and I won't spoil it.I agree with one of the other reviews in that the original premise of the characters as defined in the original was completely ignored in this sequel, but maybe this was done on purpose. Maybe the writers felt they were giving the characters more depth. This is the downfall of the movie, that and the script...especially the inclusion of brothers Reggie and Gaylord Justice.Having said that, it's not completely awful. The saving graces are Gleason, Dom DeLuise as the leading gynaecologist (or gornocolagalist as he pronounces it) in Pompeii (population 23) on a sabbatical to the Deep South, and Mike Henry as the long suffering and equally very dim Justice Junior. The latters' performance, while certainly not Shakespeare material, is exactly what is called for - bewildered and confused.Everyone who was anyone in the country music industry contributed to the soundtrack, including Jerry Reed once again recording the film's theme (a virtual carbon copy of East/West Bound and Down). Brenda Lee and Don Williams make cameos, as do Burt's buddies Joe Klecko, Terry Bradshaw and Messrs Dudley Remus and Hal Carter.All in all, disappointing and disowned by hardcore fans of the original, but definitely worth a look for Gleason's contributions. They are what keeps the film going when the rest of it is bogged down and turned into a melodrama of sorts, rather than sticking with the winning formula that made the original such a smash and a classic. Beware though, it's nearly destroyed towards the end with the inclusion of his twin brothers, but that isn't Gleason's fault - blame the scriptwriters and director. Mixed feelings on this one, guys and gals... "},{"Title":"The sequel with heart.","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There are a real amount of bad reviews of this movie on the IMDB. Especially I WANTED TO KILL MYSELF AFTER SEEING THIS MOVIE, which I felt was a bit dramatic. But I liked this movie, it had great action, comedy, and it was quite heartwarming. Cledus and the bandit are appoarched to make another run. For 400 dollars there asked to deliver an elephant across country. Bandit who is still broken hearted after his break up with Carrie/frog almost a year ago. Bandit sees this oppurtunity to revive his image. Cledus asked Carrie to come along for the ride. But will sparks fly again for bandit and Carrie? And will sheriff Buford T. Justice and his simple minded son Junior catch them this time? A fun sequel, for whoever is a fan. Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jerry Reed, and Jackie Gleason know how to deliver the goods. "},{"Title":"A typical sequel...","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Following in the footsteps of the popular first Smokey and the Bandit movie, Smokey and the Bandit II is a very average sequel that follows the trend of most sequels; let's cash in on the success of the first movie and make more money.Even the storyline is very similar to the first movie, just thrown in a different cargo to be transported. That being said, don't get me wrong, because the movie is still entertaining.The Bandit (playd by Burt Reynolds) has fallen on hard times with alcohol, but as a business opportunity comes around, The Snowman (played by Jerry Reed) and Frog (played by Sally Field) persuade The Bandit to sober and clean up and drive a 400.000 dollar cargo. But the police, led by notorious Sheriff Buford T. Justice (played by Jackie Gleason) is in hot pursuit.It was nice to see the original cast return for this 1980's sequel, that being Burt Reynolds, Jackie Gleason, Jerry Reed, Sally Field, Paul Williams, Pat McCormick, Mike Henry and the dog Fred. But Smokey and the Bandit II also brought the wonderful Dom DeLuise into the frame.Smokey and the Bandit II is entertaining enough for what it is, and it should be seen if you enjoyed the first movie. It does, however, suffer under the pressure of being a sequel. "},{"Title":"A return that isn't as OK as before","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit II is a follow up adventure movie that reunites Burt Reynolds as the Bandit and his good old bud Cledus better known as Snowman. We also see the return of the bride to be in the first movie as well a bride again, but the bandit comes a calling and off she goes leaving the same man as in the first film, Junior Justice. With Junior Justice you have good old Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T.Justice alongside him, and yet again for another time he is after the bandit, this time trying to deliver an elephant (Ran out of ideas quickly me thinks).It all plays out rather fast paced which is both it's biggest positive but also negative, the story is fairly frantic and not well thought out in parts and just a little bit shaky. It's good old fun don't get me wrong but the laughter isn't flowing and some of the things that happen are just downright stupid, by the end you feel almost like doing something dumb. The stunts are the best thing in the story and I won't doubt the movie on it's skill of keeping you engaged, but that doesn't mean it is good.Hal Needham directs OK but never well enough to save this from being average, his touch is both too cringe but also dampens some of the moments that could have had laughs. The writing is not well done and possibly one of the worst things about this, it just makes the story as mentioned more stupid and contains moments and characters that are just needlessly un-needed. What the film really needed to be even OK was just to have an injection of good writing and some more clinically funny bits to be the kind of alright movie I felt the first one was.Reynolds comes back not as good as before but still has a little bit of his style that he gives Bo Darville aka the Bandit and he gives a performance that I felt was good albeit not as funny as he was in the first. Jackie Gleason as the Sheriff is for me the funniest person in this in fact if anything he gets funnier in this movie than previous, the jokes are well suited to him and the funny relationship with his son is at times fun to see. Sally Field is the bride to be yet again who comes to the aid of the bandit and the snowman and she brings plain acting, I won't criticise her so harshly but she is far from OK, makes her scenes stale and also for some reason disappears for most of the second half of the movie then returns out of nowhere. I think all in all this was fun-ish, but not fun enough for me to kind of like it; it was more for me a kind of dislike and disappointing actually. That said I know for a fact fans of the first will enjoy this as it basically lifts off from where the first finished in a sort of way, it tries too hard to remake what made the first a smash and does create a so-so piece. So overall I wouldn't really recommend it but then again I wouldn't say don't try it, just don't watch it if your looking for a bit more smart entertainment, but sure if you want a quick watch that doesn't require much thought then this is perfect, but still mediocre. "},{"Title":"High-speed pursuit low on fuel.","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Smokey and the Bandit II is an action comedy where speed demon outlaw The Bandit (Burt Reynolds), now all washed-up because of his falling out with girlfriend Carrie (Sally Ride), accepts another dare from wealthy big shots Big Enos (Pat McCormick) and Little Enos (Paul Williams). This time, he is to transport a live elephant across the country in three days or less.Like the first movie, there is virtually no basic plot to this sequel, taking on the same formula of the high-speed car chase with Justice Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) in pursuit of The Bandit. Gleason continued his hilarious portrayal of the Sheriff, inserting laugh-out-loud redneck humor where appropriate and continues to talk-down his slow-thinking son, Junior (Mike Henry). But, I thought the movie was less exciting than the original, as I thought the constant bickering between The Bandit and Carrie really dragged the film down, and Cledus (Jerry Reed) and Carrie's sudden concern over the elephant's welfare rather than winning the dare takes away the excitement and fuel of the overall plot.This sequel has its funny moments, mostly courtesy of Jackie Gleason, but it's not as exciting as the first movie.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Decent good ol' boy sequel","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Released in 1980, Smokey in the Bandit II is (naturally) the sequel to the good ol' boy hit Smokey and the Bandit from 1977. Burt Reynolds stars with Jerry Reed as Bandit and Cledus, two Southern truckers who take a gig hauling an elephant from Florida to Dallas. Sally Field co-stars as Carrie, aka Frog, a literal runaway bride (again) picked up by Bandit. The father of the groom, Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason), ain't happy and goes on the pursuit. Mike Henry, Paul Williams and Pat McCormick are also on hand. Also, several of the champion Pittsburgh Steelers have cameos, like Terry Bradshaw, Mean Joe Greene and Joe Klecko.People tend not to like this sequel because Bandit starts out as a drunken bum and the movie's not as kinetic as the previous one. However, Bandit gets back into the swing of things and there are enough motorhead antics to please car chase aficionados. No, it's not as good as the first (which wasn't all that good in the first place), but I enjoy the elephant shenanigans and the subplot about nobly sacrificing an incredible amount of money for the welfare of an elephant and (maybe) her bambino. Moreover, I appreciate the warmhearted tone and redemptive subtheme.The female eye-candy is pretty much limited to Field, but there are a few peripheral cuties.The film runs 101 minutes and was shot mostly in Florida, but also Georgia (the race track) and southern Nevada, the latter of which they try to pass off as East Texas. Why Sure! GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit II","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Hal Needham is back with Reynolds and all the gang for another dose of pedal to the metal, tarmac burning, high octane, highway speeding...I think. This time the movie has gone for a more all out comedy slapstick route, more along the lines of Needham's other movie 'The Cannonball Run', or dare I say, Disney's Herbie franchise.Once again the plot revolves around the Bandit and his partner the Snowman, transporting a cargo across the country as quickly as possible. This time its from Miami to Dallas, once again the challenge is set by Big Enos, once again there is a big monetary reward and lastly the cargo is an elephant (only thing that is different). Here lies the problem with this movie, its exactly the same sh*t as the first movie, exactly!! Once again the duo team up with Sally Field's character Frog, who has once again left Junior Justice at the altar, which naturally means Sheriff Buford T. Justice is back on their trail...again. The entire premise of the first movie is basically rebooted or remade here, accept the cargo is an elephant.I really couldn't believe my eyes as I was watching this (first time viewing), the plot simply retreads everything. When we find the Bandit he has become a drunk which adds a new dimension to the character, but that is quickly forgotten as the plot recaptures the same old vibe, but not in a good way. Frog is once again lured away from getting married to Junior, which begs the question why on earth is she still even wanting to marry this guy! I thought she was over him in the first movie. The fact that this leads to Buford Justice chasing the Bandit and co across the country yet again feels really really rehashed and boring.This movie seriously takes a nose dive in terms of dignity, talk about selling out and milking your original idea. The whole project just feels like its patting itself on the back whilst slapping product advertisement stickers all over itself. I mean lets look at the Bandits attire in this one, he's wearing a shiny red jacket with the words 'Bandit' and 'Trans Am' down the sleeves and across the back. Even the car has 'Bandit' on its paintwork which makes me wonder why really, it that really necessary? is the Bandit a product within this movies universe? Plus how the hell did they manage to afford a Pontiac Trans Am by chopping in that crappy old car?As the story unfolds more and more ridiculous things happen which make no sense and have clearly been chucked in to be funny, apparently. Enter Dom Deluise, a Needham regular, a regular movie partner of Reynolds and a regular slapstick comedian of the time. If you ever needed your movie to be bolstered with in your face comedy then Deluise was your man, and sure enough he is on good form here as expected. The only problem is his character has obviously been jammed in just to extract the best from Deluise and nothing more, the character is a throwaway job. The fact the Bandit and co take him along on their adventure makes no sense either because they could of dropped him off anywhere, he's obviously there to salvage the movie. Now lets talk about the cargo, the elephant. Yes that's right, they stuff a living creature into the trailer of a big rig, no light, no food, no water and most importantly no air! Couldn't help but wonder if this would have been allowed these days, of course its not real but we do actually see the animal climb into the trailer. The point is its the whole idea of doing it, and the way the characters think its perfectly OK, although admittedly they do look after the animal much better later on. Gotta ask why a Republican party would need an elephant, yeah sure its your mascot but you really need a real one?!The whole thing is so drab, just watching Buford chase the Bandit all over again, doing the same spiel but without any grown-up edge to it. Everything is so childish, the chases are almost like Benny Hill sequences, the carnage is tame and has this cartoon-esque quality to it, there is never any real threat or danger etc...because its all so light-hearted. In the first movie it felt relatively realistic, like it could happen, here its all over the top and off the wall, which in- turn takes away any proper enjoyment. Perfect example being the big money sequence where the Snowman and all his big rig buddies take on an entire squadron of smokies. Now this is the sequence which I refer to as (Disney's) 'The Love Bug' sequence, this is what I meant at the start of this review. The whole thing is pretty cringeworthy and virtually destroys any self respect this movie had.I was seriously disappointed with this sequel, never knew it was such a rehash...or reboot basically! Its exactly the same as the first movie with minor alterations, watered and dumbed down incredibly. There isn't even any car or truck porn to get excited about, they have completely jettisoned that idea leaving only the famous black Trans Am. I can't count all the big rigs in the Love Bug sequence simply because it was so crap and infantile, clearly not about the trucks. Do yourself a favour and don't bother with this shockingly woeful attempt at a sequel.3/10 "},{"Title":"The scenes involving Gleason & Henry were great, but everything else was pretty bad","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Having seen the first film I only had one real expectation with this film and that was quite simply 'dumb fun'. Well all I can say is that there was plenty of dumb and not enough fun and that's the big problem with this film.The premise of transporting an elephant from Florida to Texas already had me worried as I felt that this plot line overstepped the fine line between being a fun premise and being a dumb premise and sadly that's exactly what happened; far too much time was spent on the protagonists fussing over the elephant and bonding with it was just dumb and not particularly funny. I knew I was really in trouble when I realised the best they could do from this was to get the elephant to form an emotional attachment to the Bandit - simply put it wasn't funny and didn't work.On a lesser note I found the Bandit's transition from his care-free persona in the first film to him being a depressed alcoholic at the start of this film(all because he misses Carrie or 'Frog') to be a bit too much of a stretch in credibility. I just found it hard to believe that he'd go to pieces like that.The biggest problem this film has is that for the most part it quite simply lacks fun; the best thing about the first film is that it felt like one long car chase, it was exciting and fun. Sure it was dumb, but it always leaves a big smile on my face every time I watch it. This didn't. As mentioned, the transportation of an animal gave it an emotional core that it simply didn't need and it suffers badly as a result.Thank goodness then for Gleason & Henry who do at least try to salvage something from this wreckage; their interplay was superb as it was in the first film and they both share the best scenes in the film. In fact, I don't remember there being one scene in this film involving Gleason & Henry that wasn't funny.The demolition derby style finale was a little over the top and embarrassing, but at least it brought some much needed excitement to the table. The somewhat sugar coated ending didn't leave a particularly good taste in my mouth and it did make me wonder at times if the writers kept forgetting what type of film they're supposed to be making.This is a pretty poor film that is ultimately saved by the excellent performances by Gleason & Henry. Although there's a lot of tedium in this film, the scenes involving Gleason & Henry are so good that it actually makes it worth your while sitting through all the weaker aspects. "},{"Title":"An OK sequel","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is an OK sequel to the first film - it's not as bad as some critics say it is. It still has quite a few laughs and good chase scenes. The first film we were introduced to the loony characters but in this second film they seem to loose their comical merit just a little bit.The movie is almost a repeat of the first film with smalls changes Bandit and Cledus who are this time going from Florida to Texas carrying a strange load (an elephant). And you have to put Sheriff Buford T. Justice back in hot pursuit of The Bandit.If you simply like car chases and wrecks on film then you should like Smokey and the Bandit II.7/10 "},{"Title":"How could this go so wrong so badly?","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Somewhere in the film's second act, Sally Field pinpoints why the Bandit is such an unlikable prick he's not having any fun. And she sums up my experience watching Smokey and the Bandit II perfectly. A sequel to Smokey and the Bandit was inevitable, and the original set the stage quite nicely. But this movie opens with the gang scattered and the actors seem to be playing cartoon versions of their characters. None of the charm or humor of the first movie is present this time around. It just lumbers from one contrived gag to another, and I often wished the movie would go somewhere. Anywhere. I've seen bad sequels, but I don't think I've seen one that squanders the promise of the original so badly. It's like the first movie never happened. A car chase doesn't make or break a movie, but putting the Bandit in a Trans Am without getting to see him floor is just wrong. This was awful.4/10 "}{"Title":"just watch it for sheriff Buford T. Justice","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When I saw the name Dom Deluise (Doc) on the credits I thought I was in for a hell of a ride. Dom and Burt Reynolds were best friends and it showed in the flicks they both made together. Here it showed again but the comedy in part 2 was more silly then in part one, in fact, what had this to do with the smokey story. All characters are back but it never picked in on part one. In fact, it was rather ridiculous with the elephant. The only part I was looking for wasn't the parts with the bandit but good old Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason). He was still being the sheriff like in part 1, sadly the scene's with the bandit were more about talking and silly situations with the elephant. Where were the road scene's, sure, towards the end you had that truck against the smokey part, and it was funny, but even there Buford's brothers were way over the top. Not what it should be or could have been, but it was nice to see an old pepsi refrigerator and some Burger King cans from way back in time...Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 0/5 Story 1/5 Comedy 0,5/5 "},{"Title":"Poor Sequel.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Burt Reynolds is back as the Bandit, along with Sally Field as his girlfriend, and Jerry Reed as friend Cledus. Jackie Gleason, Mike Henry, Pat McCormick, and Paul Williams also return as Bandit must transport an elephant from Texas to Florida, while still being chased by not only Sheriff Buford T. Justice and his son, but also Buford's twin brother(a Canadian Mountie).Bad sequel starts off strangely, with the two leads embittered and apart, before the story begins, which is utterly absurd and dreary, not to mention unfunny, though costar Dom DeLuise tries. Final action/crash up is dreadful, and film far too silly for its own good. "},{"Title":"Middle of the road","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD**OK, so the Smokey & The Bandit trilogy must be the most under-rated trilogy of all time. People who think these movies are terrible are idiots. What were you expecting in a film that stars Burt Reynold's ego and a fast car?!Reynolds is a living legend. At least in car chase movies. This second outing for The Bandit is probably the weakest of the three, but it's still a good laugh (read switch of brain and ignore every good film plot you've witnessed).Gleason provides so much comedy with his interactions with The Bandit and his son, Junior.Plot? Transporting a crate across America. That's about it. Some emotional BS thrown in for whatever reason, but the part of this film that owns you all is when Justice calls for help from his brothers. You then witness the greatest 100 Smokeys vs 25-or-so 18 wheelers scene in the history of cinema.Odd that when I saw this again yesterday for the first time in years, the TV channel allowed words like son-bitch to be said, but edited out other, less offensive (for a Sunday afternoon) phrases.The Bandit is going to smoke some Smokies!  "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the original","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Where to start. The plot was just too lame, less action than the first one, and just too depressing. Also why would Carrie/Frog try to marry Junior again if she knows she doesn't love him? Also Bo Darville was less charming in this one than in the first one. In this one, his personality was exactly the opposite from his personality in the first one. In the first one he was strong, he had self confidence, high self esteem, good sense of humor, etc. In this one he was weak, and he had zero self esteem. Exactly the opposite of what he was in the first one. Also why didn't they pick up from where they left off in the first one? The elephant story was just too cheesy. It was not nearly as solid as the first one. Also why did they have to destroy all the beautiful police cars? In the first one many police cars survived in the end. Also we don't know how Bufford T Justice's Pontiac Bonneville police cruiser ended up like that. In the first one we saw how each damage occurred. Also in the first one Bufford T Justice didn't abandon his pursuit on Bo Darville. So there was no reason for Carrie/Frog to try to marry Junior again to start a new pursuit. "},{"Title":"They added Dom DeLouise, but subtracted laughs in this one.","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I do not hate this film, or even dislike it. The problems with this film is basically the best comedy in this one we have seen before in the first one and the weak ending. This one's best comedy as Big and Little Enos are in the middle of a political battle as both parties do stupid things to the other. Well they want the Bandit and the Snowman to help them by picking up a rather large package. The only problem is that Bandit is down in the dumps after being dumped by Carrie who is once again apparently going to marry Junior much to the chagrin of Justice. Well once again she skips out on the wedding and the Bandit rides again and then after a while the movie becomes way to serious for its own good even with the addition of the usually funny Dom DeLuise. The conflict at the end is just stupid, this is not a film for a heartwarming ending, but one with a few nice car chases and such. The only comedy you get in the last part of the film is by Jackie Gleason and none of it is really new. This is just a case of a sequel that should not have been made, especially if they were not going to put all that much effort into it. Still, it was rather humorous during the first portion of the movie so while not really good, it was not all that bad either. "},{"Title":"Smokey and the Bandit  2.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I am a fan of the trilogy even thought the last two were weak entries and a prime example of how sequels usually aren't better than the original but I did not hate this movie despite character changes,crappy plot...an elephant,could they do no better? The film isn't as charming,or as fun as the first but it does have it's moments.I enjoyed the Gleasons portrayal of the other Justices,yes it was probably uncalled for and not helpful to the script but I found it rather amusing. Gleason as usual was at his best but the acting of the others in the film he just couldn't save it. Reynolds character suffered a terrible character change instead of living it up like he should of been he was made into a drunken whinny little...well I won;t say it. I am a Burt Reynolds fan so I won't go much further into criticizing him. All I mean is his character could have been written much better so really wasn't Reynolds fault.Sally Field,shame on you for breaking up with him while filming..wait til after filming for Christ sakes. Her acting in this one was by far one of the worst in her career. They could of made this film work,had some fun despite breaking up. It's like Burt and Sally's life brought to the big screen. No just No. Can't complain about Jerry Reed,he's still got it.This film did deliver a few laughs despite the somber gloom and the thin plot. An elephant,really,what in gods sakes were they thinking. They could of really been creative and done something with it. There was potential in this film but they wasted it. I liked the action scenes at the end where the convoy of trucks come to the Bandits aid. Now I did like that.I am by all means not trying to criticize Mr.Reynolds or Ms.Field but this was not the best movie of their careers if not their worst. But despite it I found the movie a time killer and amusing 2 hours despite many flaws of characterization,etc.If you want to watch an excellent well made movie this is probably not the film for you. If you are bored and need to kill 2 hours then maybe for me it's moussed me on nights where I was bored to tears otherwise.I rate it a 5 since not panning the film I'll give it a so so. The ending credits where they flub their lines probably has to be the best part of the film. "},{"Title":"A Big Letdown From the Original","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The Bandit (Burt Reynolds) goes on another cross-country run, transporting an elephant from Florida to Texas. And, once again, Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) is on his tail.I loved the first film, I loved Burt Reynolds, I loved Jerry Reed and I even liked Sally Field for the first (and probably last) time in my life. But this second film just does not have the same vibe and simply does not appeal to me on the same level. An elephant? How does that have the same feel as Coors? It is just silly. It is one thing to be a comedy, but another thing to be silly.I have not yet watched part three, but from what I hear it is even worse... with Reynolds almost entirely out of the story! What the heck? Original only, please! "},{"Title":"That's one bad rug, Burt!","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film is so terrible that the most interesting thing is watching the toupee on Burt's head threaten to fly off and start filming Cannonball Run without him. Goodness, this film is a disappointment. The original was fun, somewhat exciting, had funny lines, and an intriguing premise. With part 2, we are left with a lazy, low-speed retread that amounts to little more than spotting cameos by high profile country singers and athletes. There are some huge stunts here, as you would expect, but in between them we are treated to nothing but boredom. Much of the plot deals with Reynolds, Reid, and Field trying to transport a pregnant elephant across the country in order to make several hundred thousand dollars. Along the way, we have to sit through Reynolds and Field having a long, slow make-up/break-up session. Ughh!Dom Deluise is on hand as an annoying ethnic-sounding doctor who keeps trying to get them to pull over so the elephant can receive proper care and deliver her baby safely. Maybe that makes for interesting viewing if you are a kid (I loved this movie as a child), but now it seems so anti-climatic. The only person who seems to want to keep this story moving is Reynolds, who has to know this script is a loser and needs more action. The only bright spot is the return of Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T. Justice. Once again he sets out to track Reynolds down as Field has left his son at the altar to join the Bandit in another wild escapade. As funny as Gleason is in his multiple roles, when you watch this movie on basic cable, you miss most of his lines. Since most of them include a sum bitch or PG rated slur, someone apparently went back and re-dubbed most of his dialog for the small screen. In some ways, its almost like Gleason isn't even really there in some scenes. Too bad. There really isn't a lot here to recommend. 3 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt the worst sequel I have ever seen by a wide margin!","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was a shameless attempt to cash in on the popularity of the first movie, with absolutely no attempt to write a movie worth watching. It was almost like the producers were trying to test how gullible the public is in paying money to see a sequel which was totally opposite in quality to the original movie. I really like Smokey and the Bandit. It had everything a quality movie could have. Burt Reynolds was charismatic, confident, and secure. In this sequel, he was gutless, confused and spineless. And the Sally Field character was a moralizing, preachy, annoying beau with her eyes set on correcting Bandit in the sequel. Kinda reminds me of most marriages! What we all loved about the original movie, fast driving, southern charm, Sheriff Justice's tough guy charisma, a real sense of urgency, are totally missing from this movie. The writers wrote a real piece of garbage in this one. The Bandit was reduced to a complete loser, who only succeeds because of his friends, not because of his abilities in like in the first movie. Worthless movie, totally. "},{"Title":"Terrible sequel","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Awful follow up to the fantastic Smokey and the Bandit this movie surely marks the beginning of Reynolds downfall as the Worlds number one movie star. Everything about this needless sequel is lazy, the story is poor the actors look uninterested and jokes are recycled from the first film. Burt's character doesn't even seem to be the same care free guy we loved in the first and Sally Field looks like she may have regretted appearing in this. In real life Reynolds and Field had broken up so maybe thats why the film has a depressing feeling all the way through it. Jerry Reed and Jackie Gleason aren't too bad but they have nothing to work with here the director seems only to interested in how many cars and smashes he can show on screen at the same time. Has no-one noticed that car stunts are not made more exciting by simply multiplying the amount and adding more and more cars? If anything its boring. I can appreciate car stunts, there was some great stuff in the first one and in other Reynolds movies like Hooper but by now it had run its course. Avoid this movie even if you loved the first. "}{"Title":"one of the best crash scenes ever","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Let's face it, even for the time, the plot was over the top. Bandit and SNowman have to trek a pregnant elephant across the country due to a bet from big and little enis. Frog is onboard yet again, and the chase by Buford T. Justice continues.Now, there are a lot of jokes that fall flat, and the ill timed failure of the real life relationshp with Sally Field nearly ruined the film. However, it isn't given too much screen time, thankfully. However, the film nearly drifts too much into the need for the Bandit to rebuild his image. Why his image took such a hit is never fully explained.On the other side, at the end of the film, you have some amamzing car chase scenes. It's rare to be able to pull of a credible, and great crash scene. It's even harder to pull it off when you intend to add humor to the mix. That's what the producers pulled off here, and the sight of so many crashed cop cars, the ride across the backs of strategically parked big rigs, to Burt Reynolds telling a Mountie to go back to Canada, and stick it in the snow It's perhaps one of the most memorable parts of the movie. Yes the movie is a little over the top, but it is great escapism. If you are an action fan, the car crash scenes of the end will be satisfying (espially the Mountie car that becomes a driving pancake).I still wish Burt Reynolds would have stuck around for the third installment how ever. Such a great series should have bowed out better. "},{"Title":"I fell asleep","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" After the impressive Smokey and the Bandit I decided to watch Smokey Part 2. My oh my, what a disappointment! The characters that I fell in love with in the first movie vanished completely. The only characters who seemed to have stayed the same was Junior and his law fighting father Buford Justice. Now the plot was the same as the first film except instead of transporting beer they are transporting a pregnant elephant. Along the way they pick up a Doctor played by Dom De Luis. Frog dumps the Bandit to marry Junior but leaves Junior at the alter, again!, to go on with Snowman and the Bandit to get the money offered to them by the Enos's. They drive really fast, blah, blah, blah. Pick up the crate holding the animal, blah, blah, blah. They pick up the doc and boom, I fell asleep from the boring story. I woke up at the ending of the semi slash police car chicken race. The only real points this film gets is thanks to the great Jackie Gleason, Rest In Peace. Now if you've enjoyed the original film, you may not enjoy this film. I didn't, I enjoyed Part 3 more than this! Make your your choice wisely, this film is pretty lame. "},{"Title":"A massive insult masquerading as entertainment","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Quite possibly the worst picture ever made, but has stiff competition from 'Cannonball Run II'.  Like the 'Cannonball' movies, it has a roll call of notables (for its time) but plays like a fraternity house home movie that's amusing only to the people who appeared in it.  Former pro football player Terry Bradshaw is featured prominently and is a perfect fit for this film.  A harum-scarum comic chase, but without any thrills or laughs, the entire movie falls in lockstep with Bradshaw's hootin' and hollerin' country-fried yahoo persona.  You have much better things to do with your time than this.  This movie is two hours out of your life that you will never have back again.  This movie will leave skidmarks on your TV screen and I don't mean from car tires. "},{"Title":"Keep on truckin'","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  * * * (3 out of 5)Smokey and the Bandit IIDirected by Hal Needham, 1980Silly yet very loveable sequel finds Burt Reynolds and gang back for more. Needham again injects his energized sensibilities, and Reynolds and Sally Field keep the sparks flying.Dom DeLuise is hysterical as a madcap Italien doctor, and was a breath of fresh air into what was looking more and more like tired formula.  DeLuise and Reynolds hit it off instantly, and went on to do The Cannonball Run I+II shortly after. "},{"Title":"The silly doctor puts his hand up the elephant's backside.","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The Bandit acts like an ass-hole and then a silly Doctor sticks his hand up an elephant. Later, in a surprise twist, Sheriff Justice breaks wind at the Bandit, causing the Bandit to act like an ass-hole in retaliation. Meanwhile, the silly Doctor still has his hand up the elephant's backside. The Bandit acts like an ass-hole some more, the Sheriff breaks wind at him some more and then the silly doctor with his hand up the elephants backside keeps his hand up the elephants backside.Things build to an exciting climax as the doctor tries to remove his hand from the elephant's backside and his arm breaks off in its anus.The End. "},{"Title":"Hello Bandit!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  While I didn't enjoy this one as much as the original, it's still great fun. The big action scene at the climax is well done, with Jackie Gleason in some nice moments as he plays different members of the Justice family in doomed hot pursuit of the Bandit. Burt and Jerry Reed are fun as well.Just kick back with a beer to get in the right mood and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Its OK...","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is an OK movie, not as good as the first, but Ok anyway. The story is even poorer and its really the same movie except theyre hauling an elephant instead of a truckload of bear. But anyone whos seen the first will enjoy this one as its just more of the same, but slightly worse.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who watches this movie and doesn't get it I feel sorry for you. The campy-comedy of this film is undeniably fun and not supposed to be taken for more than that. If you want to sit back on the couch and have a good laugh go  rent this flick! "},{"Title":"Even fluffier than the first","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is just more of the same silliness that was prevalent in the original Smokey film, but the sequel is still a little bit worse than the mediocre original.  About the only good thing that I can say about this film is that it wasn't boring.  In fact, it seemed like I had only been watching for half an hour when the final credits rolled.  Unfortunately, this only proves that the plot is INCREDIBLY slight, and that a fun cast cannot make up for a script that seemed like it was about two pages long. "},{"Title":"Not worth reviewing","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I said Not worth reviewing for a reason. The reason is I couldn't think of anything of value to say, be it good or bad. My mind was blank as I sat here. I was trying to think, but nothing happened (Thanks, Curley) What possessed anyone to (re)make a movie of this caliber? Caliber as in Smokey and the Bandit being a 10 gage shotgun and this farce being a bb gun. What were they thinking? We expected to see the clam chowder run and got a knocked-up elephant. Grim acting, weak plot line, painful jokes all added up to this movie. When I'm channel-surfing and I see Smokey and the Bandit on, I always (to the annoyance of my wife) stop and watch it. When SatBII is on, I watch it out of curiosity. Curious as in watching old dried paint peeling off a wall.(did the writers eat paint chips as children?) As far as a chase movie centered around the health and well being of an elephant...save it. Next time call a Vet! "}{"Title":"Not As Fun, But Still Fun","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Bearing the same original cast members, this sequel does tend to make you look at your watch a time or two, while failing to entertain with the same quality as the original. It was more heartwarming, but less in your face to Gleason's character. Had they managed to attain the same comedic level, while raising the sugar factor, this would have topped the first one.Our favorite fugitives from justice race the clock, and Mother Nature, to deliver their latest specialized load.This was quite fun, but did not manage to meet the quality of entertainment we received from the original, not that the original was a masterpiece, or anything.I enjoy it, but not as much as I did the first. It's more like the Rom/Com version of Smokey and the Bandit than a continuation of any story, though they did write this as a continuation at least among the characters.It rates a 4.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Could have been worst","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm not too big on sequels to my favorite movies.Smokey and the Bandit 2 is not too bad but it should have been a lot better.It's just not as funny as the first Smokey and the Bandit.The first Smokey and the Bandit movie is a classic.I just thought that this one should have been more like the first one.What the movie lack are the things that made the first movie a classic.But to be fair, the music is very good in Smokey and the Bandit 2.Smokey and the Bandit 2 has the same great group of actors and actresses from the first Smokey and the Bandit.The acting is good and some of the jokes are very funny.Overall if you miss the first movie, check that out instead it's much better.This movie gets a 5 out of 10.It's could have been worst "},{"Title":"Unconvincing Therefore Unfunny","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I guess comedy is rather like fantasy ie in order to work it must be convincing . Consider the works of Nigel Kneale where we see alien invasions , our suspension of disbelief is kept in check so we sense mortal danger in the scenario . Classic DOCTOR WHO shares this conviction , check out the early stories where the Tardis goes anywhere in time or space in a totally fantastical way but is written and played in such a way we can actually believe what is happening . It's the same with LORD OF THE RINGS where thousands of years ago mythical creatures fought for the future of middle Earth . Jackson's vision of the trilogy is historical drama rather than fantasy hence even the most cynical viewer like myself can buy into the story The problem with SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 2 is that it's very difficult to believe in the characters and the situations involved . Smokey and his cronies come across an elephant and transport it across the USA pursued by a red neck sheriff . This premise might have had some potential ( Though it would never have been a classic ) but what let's it all collapse is the way the characters are written and played with Jackie Gleason especially putting in a very poor performance as someone who has panic attacks when the word  Bandit  is mentioned . There's plenty of unconvincing set pieces such as the Bandit goading Sheriff Justice into showing him his sharp shooting and this is why the movie fails as entertainment . Having said that it's better than SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 3 "},{"Title":"Goofy","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  First, I was laughing so hard, upon reading autumnshowers' comments, that Ifell off my chair!!!Okay, this movie is goofy... but my wife LOVES all the Smokey and the Banditfilms, so I am forced to watch them, once a year. And hey, Buford T. Justicereminds me of our town's former Chief of Police... and good old boys? Theyare EVERYWHERE, here in Lassen County!!!So, yeah, the movie is pure corn, but Jerry Reed is strange, funny, and weird,  and Burt Reynolds and Sally Fields?... Okay, maybe they're not Romeo andJuliet, but they DO represent a certain slice of America. ============================= "},{"Title":"good","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a little different than the first.  They had to take an elephant across the U.S.  It was funny because the elephant liked Burt and would put her trunk around his waist and pick him up.  He was like Put me down!  It was funny.  Dom played this doctor from Italy.  His accent wasn't that great but was still funny.  A must see for Burt fans.  "},{"Title":"Best Chase Scene Ever!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has the best chase scene of all time. I think this movie total blows away French Connection, the Italian Job, and Ronnin. This movie started the whole police, sheriff and deputy car chase scene. Plus it has lots of funny comedy. And the best part is the car. Burt Renolds drives the coolest Affordable American car ever. The 1981 Pontiac Trans Am Turbo is still the baddest Amerian Muscle Car of all time and you get to see it action for 2 hours. The V8 356 horse power, 5.6 litter engine sports car does some funny stuff during this movie. I think the plot is very cool - bootleg beer over the state line without getting caught by the cops! Movie plots don't get any better than that. It you've ever drank beer, and driving a T-Top Trans Am (not at the same time of course), then you will love this funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Here we go again!","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A sequel to the first, just as funny as the first. Smokey and the Bandit are at it again! This one has more guest stars than the first one. Also, I like the part that this movie has more trucks. In the first movie Cletus drove a Kenworth, in part 2, he drives The GMC GENERAL! Now that's my favorite truck. With a movie with all the trucks is a major keeper in my book. I think it's where I got the idea of creating Whitlockville. Especially the scene where Cletus' crew makes a bridge of semis for The Bandit and him to cross. YAAAAAHHOOOO!!! is what The Bandit shout after he crossed the Bridge. As for that Neanderthal Sheriff Buford T. Justice(The legendary Jackie Gleason) he should have been faster than that. His family and the County and Mounted Mounties didn't stand a chance against all those trucks! The Sheriff had his car turned over by Mean Joe Green, his badge crushed by a trucker who I won't bother upsetting and when his bone headed son forgot to load his gun, Buford should have shot his butt out right. With the elephant and baby in tow, the question is what's next, Bandit? Man, this movie was just as funny as the first, and it was my better favorite as well. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. JUST FOR THE TRUCKS! "},{"Title":"One of the best family movies ever.  Good, clean entertainment","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" We loved this movie. We've seen it many times and still laugh just as much as the first time we saw it. It's truly a great film and will always be remembered. My question though is this, Was Cledus Snow's dogs name, Fred? This question just can't be answered in our home. We think all animals names should be included in the list of characters and actors. After all they work hard, too. And another thing, had the Snowman not stopped to feed himself (put some groceries down his neck) and Fred, they wouldn't have went into that caf and eventually came out and ran over all those motorcycles. That was about one of the lamest bike gangs I've seen next to the Black Widows in Every Which Way But Loose. Just having animals in a movie can truly add to the greatness of a film, and the memorability of a film. "},{"Title":"I wanted to kill myself after seeing this film.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Watching this film has caused me to really consider if there is any meaning in life whatsoever.  I seriously doubt it, and find myself entertaining thoughts of suicide (believe me those thoughts are more entertaining than this film).  I haven't felt this depressed since I first heard Michael Bolton.  This film is a bleak, horrific document of the worst in all life; even a concentration camp looks more fun than enduring this film.  This is the bottom of the evolutionary scale, and any thinking life form will surely detest it.  It restates the negativeness of the universe in a terrifying, haunting way that rivals catholicism.  Godless, hellish, eternal grief. "},{"Title":"A slight improvement","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  By no means a good film, but, I think, a slight improvement over the totally insubstantial Smokey and the Bandit. At least here they tried, with some success, to give weight and feelings to Reynold's character. "}]