[{"Title":"Ignore the Critics on this one. Its great.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"59 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The problem with Woody has always been that everyone takes his movies more seriously than he does. Here, using the tactics of Felini, he makes fools of his detractors including the greatest detractor of all, Woody himself. For many reasons, I rank this among his best. He removes the restraint of plot, and just goes balls out nuts with his usual philosophical angst, and endless worship of beautiful dames. Oddly enough, without the fetters of convention, to me it was actually less pretentious or indulgent I think people like to call it, and a lot easier to understand and empathize with. One thing that I've always found absurd, and ironically what this film dwells on, is the complaints by fans and critics that he should go back to making comedies. Woody cannot not make a funny movie. If he's in it, and he's talking, I'm laughing. Especially back in this era, when his jokes were so fresh. So make no mistake, this film is loaded with comedy. Finally, I liked his choice of women in this. Charlotte Rampling is what I suppose the word breathtaking was originally meant to describe. If you arent touched by the final scenes with her, you got issues.  "},{"Title":"Woody meets Federico  in the Stardust Hotel","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was very surprised to find out that Stardust Memories is dismissed by both critics (at least some of them) and viewers as absolutely unwatchable Allen's film, his most chaotic attempt to claim that he can not stand his fans. I found it insightful and witty satire that cleverly (as always; if anything, Woody is a very clever man) fuses the comic and the serious.Sandy Bates (Allen, of course) - a comic director who does not want to make funny films anymore because there is so much suffering in the world (the scene reminds so much of Sturgis's Sullivan's Travels). Sandy is depressed because his new serious film is not well received by both critics and public and he is spending a weekend at Stardust Hotel during showing of his films. While there, he reflects upon his life, art, and relationships with three different women. Sounds familiar? Like 8 1/2, anyone? You are absolutely right. Woody meets Federico in the Stardust Hotel. The film is delight in gorgeous black and white. It is funny, touching, angry - all in the same time. The film was made twenty four years ago and I am very happy that Sandy - Woody had realized that to help the world IS to do what you do the best - funny movies. The people survived because they laughed.One more thing - Charlotte Rampling is breathtaking.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Reading some of the comments listed here, I'm dismayed by some of the narrowness of the criticisms (It's shot in black & white for no reason!  The flashbacks are indistinguishable from the present day!)... as if these were somehow to be construed as mistakes.  Jeez.I love this film.  It rambles a little here and there, and sometimes it's so personal I feel voyeuristic watching it.  The montage of Charlotte Rampling towards the end is stunning in how it summarizes Allen's feelings about memory, nostalgia, and the ever-present reality that never seems to allow the past to make sense.One cannot deny that Allen has a very keen understanding of who he is, as a person, comedian, and lover.  This is not to say that he is infallible or somehow more evolved than anyone else, but rather - through the retrospective of his earlier funny films - it's clear that he understands his strengths, and - outside the theatre - the weaknesses of his emotional life.A perfect film for a quiet Sunday. "},{"Title":"Interesting, and profound, but surprisingly misunderstood.","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It seems that Stardust Memories does not get the credit that it truly deserves. Everyone has such distaste for this film because they thought that this was an autobiography and it was Woody's attack on his fans/critics. Woody himself has said many times that this is not the case, but even if it were, I believe that the fans/critics deserve to be lowered down a peg. After all, Woody's interpretation of his fans (via Fellini's style of awkward and hilarious faces) is valid. Fans and critics alike should never have verbally abused him so much after the release of Interiors (1978). Why should directors be type-casted? Let him have his freedom! After all, Interiors wasn't such a bad movie. It was different, but not bad. Stardust Memories has also been accused of Woody's most self-indulgent film, but this is an outrage. All of Woody's films have something to do with his personal life, but if he had casted someone like John Cusack as Sandy Bates, then everyone would have stopped complaining about it's self-indulgence and start understanding how much of a creative genius Woody Allen is. Overall, Stardust Memories will be one of his films that lasts; but only time will tell. "},{"Title":"A little self induldgent, but brilliantly so","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While this film doesn't get the praise and respect of, say, Annie Hall or Manhattan, I think it is a brilliant look into the mind of a film director.  How much of Woody Allen is Sandy Bates?  Some, I'm sure, but I think it's more interesting to compare Sandy to Woody Allen's persona--that is, who the public thinks he is.The structure of the film is also quite interesting to me.  Allen had done a very non-linear story structure, mixed with occasional flights of fantasy, in Annie Hall, but Stardust Memories does that and piles on a movie within a movie within a movie, and manages to both comment on all that, at the same time  as he's telling the story of the brilliant, but self-absorbed Sandy Bates.A great movie, that you probably should see more than once to appreciate. "},{"Title":"A B&W confection full of touching Allen-isms","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Only a filmmaking genius like Woody Allen could bring such viable characters to the screen with such life and perception.  Allen (who also scripted) is Sandy Bates, an acclaimed, world-reknowned director who attends a weekend festival honoring his works.  When he's not being bombarded by mobs of autograph hounds and PR people, he takes time to reflect on himself and the three diverse women in his life drug-abusing actress Dorrie (Charlotte Rampling), wistful violinist Daisy (Jessica Harper, who also appeared in Allen's Love and Death (1975)) and French housewife Isobel (Academy Award-nominee Marie-Christine Barrault).  Loaded with the crisp dialogue that we've come to expect from Allen (Best line I would trade that Oscar for one more second of life), Stardust Memories is noticably one of Allen's most personal films.  Also, what makes SM unlike his other works, where his characters do a lot of interacting, the film's focus is mainly on Allen (most beautifully) interacting with himself mentally.  Sharon Stone has a bit part in the beginning as a train passenger.  Gordon Willis' cinematography is gorgeous.  ***1/2 of ****. "},{"Title":"An Allen Classic","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, Stardust Memories is Allen's greatest achievement. The film perceptively explores the relationships between art and reality, between the artist and his work, between the work and its consumers. Beyond its philosophic concerns though, this is also an incredibly funny film. There are more genuinely funny moments within this serious film than in many of Allen's earlier pure comedies. It skewers the movie industry, the movie-going public, Allen's own earlier work, Allen's present insecurities (surprise!), and a number of other targets. Intelligent, thought provoking, and at times hilarious, this film is an overlooked gem in the Allen canon. "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to popular and critical opinion, this is Woody Allen's Best film. Yes, better than Manhattan or Annie Hall and all the others (about 30 i think). It is his best film because it is his most truthful, and it's angry. Critics dont like it because it attacks critics. But it is inventive, brillantly imaginative and purely cinematic, the narrative is almost non-existent and the film is really feelings put onto celluloid, in this sense it is a very PURE film, and probably autobiographical. Although no doubt Allen would deny this! I love the off-beat characters , and its also a very atmospheric film. I have seen about 25 Woody Allen films and think this is the most honest of them all. "},{"Title":"Imperfect, but it's still one of Woody's smartest scripts, with other incentives...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...and, in Sandy Bates, the lead of his satire on celebrity, loves, and his usual themes of turmoil over life and death, is a sense that Woody Allen is doing one of two things (or both perhaps)- taking from his own life and thinly disguising characters and situations, or using his own public image in film's culture to look through the looking glass slightly at some of his popular themes. This is not to say that the film is one of his very best. I could see what Allen was doing, for example, with the scenes and instances of tipping the hat to Fellini and his masterwork 8 1/2- the two films share that common thread of an artist in an overall funk of bittersweet memories and creative confusion. But while Fellini made his film out of a burning need to reveal all of his love for cinema out of his angst(s) after La Dolce Vita, Allen's track record shows that he's near incapable of waiting around too long to make a film (he's averaged nearly a film a year in 37 years up till 2003) so much of what comes forth in Stardust Memories isn't as much autobiographical as it is told through a character filtered with and not with himself. In short, a lot of the 8 1/2 dues were my least favorite parts in the movie (though I did like the quick Superman-type mementos).But does that make Stardust Memories a failure, pretentious? Not to my point of view- once Allen starts the story rolling, and he gets his characters/actors into the gist of the film, it goes along like most other Allen films involving phobias, fears, loves (women), and sophisticated sense of varied parody. There are moments that Allen's stand-up act is injected into the mix, or a scene that could've been a chapter from one of his books, but mostly the audience gets the sense of his OWN love of cinema via Sandy Bates. Bates is another one of those Woody characters that seems all the more impressively formed and executed since it feels like the Woody we know, but Bates is just a little more on the edge of satire, viewing into his own self-doubts and trying to see if there can be any hope or meaning to it all- or if he can tell funny jokes. The script contains some of the most memorable moments of Allen's career in one-liners (there are a few from the fans and autograph-hounds that stick out) and in having a natural flow, close to a type of poetry, in the conversations and dialog in the film. Even if one doesn't laugh, it definitely shows the work of a wonderful writer at the peak of his game. His direction is also intrinsically interesting, especially how he uses the unique, dark, and evoking cinematography by the great Gordon Willis, and the unusual editing stylizing by Susan Morse (though, once again, some of these editing tricks are to Fellini's credit). And the performances work well enough for the material, more often than not, with Charlotte Rampling as Dorrie, Bates' wonderfully stressed ex-girlfriend, Marie-Christine Barrault as Isobel, an old friend who left her husband for him, Jessica Harper as Daisy, whom he falls head over heels for while she and her professor-boyfriend are at the Stardust attending Bates' appearance(s), and Tony Roberts, who had a worthy supporting role in Annie Hall, pops up here as well.I can recommend Stardust Memories for Woody Allen's main fan base, as it gives those who love his early films and his films that have more mature subject matter a bit of a (delightful) challenge. I don't know if I could recommend it however, as the very first film someone could see if the person wants to start of his films. There is an amusing quality to it that could give non-Woody fans a second thought about the filmmaker's work, but it's hard to say. It's not an altogether easy film to watch, or is it a masterwork like Manhattan. By the end of it, never-the-less, my time was not the least wasted, I knew I saw some ingenious scenes and jokes here and there, and there was a subtlety to it that has me liking it and responding more to it on repeat viewings. Is it homage? Sure, but it's a blend of homage (or as Roberts says ripping it off) and a personal, nearly original style, and it ends up, on a repeat viewing, a major work. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"i like his later, less funny films","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is, i would say, not only woody allen's greatest movie, it is also my favourite film ever, by anyone. i've gotten more from this film every time I've watched it, over the years - which is many times - & i've found something different & new on each occasion.This glowing recommendation doesn't, by the way, mean i am a rabidly undiscerning woody allen fanatic. i don't think he's made even a decent film since deconstructing harry - another great film inexplicably reviled upon its release - & the 'early, funny' films i have always found dull & juvenile.What is great about woody allen - & this is still what the majority of the critics seem invariably to miss - is that only Chaplin before him mixed tragedy, comedy & pathos so perfectly (leading to the maxim in the movie industry that 'only woody can do woody'). It is this that is Allen's great gift, all his most perfect films are aglow with this sublime anomaly, & it is these films that people will still be watching fifty or a hundred years from now.For the record, the films you really & truly need to see by woody allen are theseAnnie Hall. Stardust Memories. Manhattan. Hannah & Her Sisters. Crimes & Misdemeanours. Deconstructing Harry.Zelig is good too, if a little slight, as is Broadway Danny Rose. of the earlier, funny films, Sleeper & Love And Death are by far the best. And of the films he directed but not appear, Sweet & Lowdown is probably the best, though Purple Rose of Cairo also deserves an honourable mention.This film, Stardust Memories, will haunt you, enrich & nourish your life for years to come.Check it out! And tell your friends! "}{"Title":"Woody grows-up and makes fun of himself.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody has a good look at himself as his career changes from the funny man with glasses who now wants to make serious films. Fun with black and white photography, taking the piss out of Ingmar Bergman's film style and turning serious is all part of Woody's maturity.  "},{"Title":"Certainly one of the most autobiographical films from the Woodman","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen likes his privacy.  He rarely gives any access to the media or his audience, yet he's aware they exist, and once in a while he makes a movie like Stardust Memories, where he speaks to them.  Following the maturing success of Annie Hall and Manhattan, Woody decided to address the segment of fans who were clamoring for his early, funny films.  As filmmaker Sandy Bates, Woody attends a film festival in his honor where he reflects back on his cinematic career and love life, the latter of which concentrates on two French women.  As usual, Woody claimed years after that this film was not autobiographical.  It's probable that some details in the story were constructed or exaggerated for dramatic effect.  Still, with Woody's evident evolving as an artist, coupled with references to his own life (studying magic as a child, the numerous fans praising his early, funny films), it's clear that some of these thoughts mirror Woody's real life.  These inner-reservations may not be as incendiary as the ones presented in the wonderfully blistering Deconstructing Harry, but they are genuinely honest - and resentful.There are two types of Woody Allen films; his New York films and his experimental, European-influenced films (perhaps a third style would be when he blends the two together).  Stardust Memories would definitely qualify as one of his experimental European films.  Despite the lush black-and-white photography of Manhattan cinematographer Gordon Willis, and the all-around nuanced performances (most certainly Jessica Harper and Helen Hanft above all others), this is a strange journey the viewer takes in the film.  What transpires is essentially a film within a film within another film, but Woody rolls it out wonderfully (especially the ending, or rather, the ending-within-an-ending-within-an-ending).  Given the usual intelligence and intellectualism in Woody's films, criticizing the audience may seem off-putting but he should be allowed to once in a while.  Sandy is a relatively normal person whose fame and success breeds hangers-on and freeloaders.  Critics are rightfully portrayed here as self-serving media whores (a critic asks a cutting question that implies plagiarizing Vincent Price and then gives a I've-got-him-now wink), and Sandy's fans are seen as selfish, inarticulate leeches (Would you sign my left breast?  I love your films sir, you have such a degenerate mind!).  It is not lost on Woody for a moment that Stardust Memories may be criticized as the work of a narcissist documenting his personal pain and fobbing it off as art, so he has someone say so within the first ten minutes of the film.  Smart move!What is so strange about this film are the facial features of several characters.  Many of the critics and audience members appear with elongated beards, pudgy noses, raised eyebrows and oversized glasses.  It always makes me curious when I see the film whether Woody is implying that he only remembers the strange-looking people in his audience or if he sees all of them in a skewered manner.  In a way I hope I never learn which is the truth, I enjoy the mystery of it, and it's always a good sign when a movie raises questions.  The Q&A sequences, the discussion with the aliens, and Sandy's crashing of a Sci-fi convention are absolutely genius.  This is definitely a film for the more hard-core Woody fans, but I think it remains of of his most essential (and so does he). "},{"Title":"Beautiful, true, troubling, funny, virtuosic, and beautiful. Beautiful!","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories (1980)Woody Allen's search for what matters in life boils down to some less than funny truths in this utterly brilliant movie. First, what really matters is a relationship that works. Second, there is no obtainable big truth about life and death. Hence the last three minutes of the movie, which throws every shred of reality out the window.But then there is the last fifteen seconds of the movie, which is about what also really matters to Allen--the movies, alone, with the blank screen waiting. No matter that it will fade out some day.The plot is actually fairly straight forward, but it's told in a highly abstract and broken up way. And the presumed reality is interrupted, without warning, by segments of other films, starring the same people, so it's easy to lose your footing. The best advice is to watch it loosely, not worrying about the facts. And to watch it twice. I've seen it ten times by now, over thirty years, and love it every time.One reason is the filming, the photography, the sets and lights, the constant inventive and sometimes referential construction and editing. There are parts that will refer to Fellini and another amazing moment that pulls out Bergman, both directors that the real Woody Allen admires (and insists he is vastly inferior to). There are some beautiful, brief, offscreen moments that recall Ozu, and there are endless scenes that allow the camera to move through crowds with highly orchestrated strings of people (often bizarre caricatures), in a virtuosic way. (The cameraman is Gordon Willis, sometimes thought to be the greatest cinematographer since New Hollywood in the late 60s. Check his list of films on this site and gasp.)But the plot, the plot. There are those out there (I'm not one of them) who really prefer movies to make sense, and to want the plot to pull them along rather than push them away as happens here. So I'll say this much about what happens, which you should skip if you want to find out for yourself--Allen plays a movie director named Bates who is much like himself, and he is currently involved with a French speaking woman named Isobel. She represents the stability of a truly caring, loving relationship, and that stability (and her two children) scares Bates. He was previously involved with a stunning bit part actress who he raised to starring roles in his films, Dory, who is also beautifully bipolar, which he finds maddening and unworkable. But Dory has some mysterious spark and depth of character he can't get over, a touch for something deeper, which is always in his quest. Meanwhile, at the film festival that is the main site of the plot, he falls for a much (much) younger woman, Daisy, and that begins to mess with his head, too.You really can follow those threads through pretty well, and survive. Or just sit back, grab a few laughs, and be dazzled by the visuals and the editing and the inventiveness of it all. And the truth it so well represents. "},{"Title":"A kaleidoscopic masterpiece of absurd humour, abstract thought, cinema and nostalgia","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny, moving, imaginative, bold, intelligent, surreal, nostalgic and beautiful; Stardust Memories (1980) is one of Allen's greatest films, if not THE greatest. At its most simple level, the film is a merciless satire on the film industry, on the notion of celebrity, and on Allen's public persona, as he here essays the role of a stand-up comedian turned filmmaker wrestling with a number of weighty personal issues, including the death of a close friend, the breakup of a relationship and the beginning of an affair - all the while trying desperately to reconcile the need for personal success in relation to artistic expression. It is without question one of the filmmaker's most radical and imaginative works released at the peak of his powers, featuring a great deal of wit, warmth and human emotion alongside irreverent moments of personal homage, silliness and surrealism.The film opens on a train as a ticking clock fills the soundtrack. Allen's character, Sandy Bates sits helpless in the carriage, surrounded by ugly, depressed looking people who stare back at him with dead eyes. As he looks out of the window he sees another carriage, this time filled with beautiful, revelling sophisticates all cheering and waving. Sandy tries desperately to convince the conductor to let him off the train so that he can switch carriages, but his pleas fall on deaf ears. As he tries frantically to signal to the other train, a beautiful woman kisses the glass and laughs as Sandy's train pulls away from the station. The next shot shows the ugly, depressed people from the train wandering through a garbage dump, recalling elements of The Seventh Seal (1957) and One Plus One (1968) before the film reaches the end of the reel and we realise that what we are seeing is a film within a film. The sequence works on a number of levels - firstly, as an extended homage to Fellini's 8 ½ (1963); establishing the theme of film-making and the games within the narrative, etc. Secondly, it is a comment on the nature of the character and on life itself; with none of the characters satisfied with the situations that they're in and always wanting something more. Lastly, the scene establishes the tone of the film; being every bit as stark, surreal and enigmatic as anything by Bergman, Fellini, Godard, etc - with the comment on mortality, on artist expression and on the journey of life - but is also incredibly funny.Unlike later films of Allen that were more mature and more serious in-tone than the early funny ones, like, for example, Crimes and Misdemeanours (1988) or Husbands and Wives (1992), Stardust Memory is a film rich in absurd humour, imagination, fun and frivolity, whilst also containing some of Allen's most moving and intelligent ideas. I'd liken it to a combination of the aforementioned 8 ½ and elements of the Coen Brothers' last definitive film The Man Who Wasn't There (2001), which would seem to have taken influence from certain elements depicted here. As a comment on the struggle of the filmmaker and the argument of art over commerce, Allen is entirely ruthless; turning the backroom nature of film production into a leering Fellini-like circus of stupidity, banality and contempt for the audience. At one point, Allen's character is being berated by the studio heads for turning in a film that is pretentious, self-indulgent and unfunny, while carefully positioned in front of the famous Eddie Adams photograph of the execution of Vietcong prisoner Nguyễn Văn Lém; creating a tragic echo of that later scene which foreshadowed the murder of John Lennon.It also shows the absurdity of film-making and the pressure for Sandy to return to former glories and produce work simply to satisfy the masses. Although Allen claims that there are no elements of auto-biography in his work, I think he is wrong. Even if does it unconsciously, without thinking, it's impossible to see Stardust Memories and not see it as a comment on the critical and commercial failure of his earlier film Interiors (1978). With that particular project, Allen was able to turn to the massive success of Annie Hall (1977) into producing a more sombre and serious film with heavy references to both Bergman and Chekhov. The film was a critical failure and led into the production of Manhattan (1979); one of Allen's most celebrated and iconic films, but one that he apparently wanted to have destroyed. Many of these personal issues can be seen in the character of Sandy, who is struggling through life like the rest of us and yet is expected to entertain. At one point he argues that it's impossible to be funny with so much sadness in the world, whilst simultaneously creating a film that is very funny as well as somewhat moving. The second element of the film deals with the memory of Sandy's troubled relationship with tortured manic depressive Dorrie. The relationship is sensitively handled and brilliantly performed by Charlotte Rampling, who conveys the fears, desired, dread and anxiety of this character on a path to self-destruction.In the final act of the film the walls between life and death, fact and fiction, fantasy and memory all come tumbling down as Allen creates a kaleidoscope of elements all reoccurring from previous sequences in the film. The colourful characters, all chosen for their often unique physical features that are further distorted by the skewed, black and white cinematography of Gordon Willis also adds to the film's somewhat stark and surreal approach, which is filled with imaginative visual composition, intelligent production and location design, elements of wild fantasy and abstract, absurdist humour. By the end of the film, we no longer know if what we've experienced is real, literal or a theoretical film within a film, but we know the experience has been a unique one. "},{"Title":"Better than Fellini","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen Fellini Otto e mezzo and I find Woddy Allen's film is much better. I like Fellini's work, but in 8 1/2 I think there is a lack of humor. Woody Allen's movie is much more funny than Fellini's one. In Europe has been published a book about interviews with Woody Allen by a Swedish critic, where Stardust memories is considered one of the best movies of Allen.I have enjoyed the surrealistic style and the metalinguistical games of cinema into the cinema (Mise en abîme would say french deconstructive critics). Also games with time are very original and sophisticated. I prefer this movie more than Manhattan and I think is one of his bests.As does Zelig, Woody Allen changes from one movie to another. Sometimes he wants to be Bergaman, other times Fellini, other times he wants to make a German expresionistic movie.Sometimes Woody Allen makes homages to Bergaman, other times he is laughing over Russian novel. But, as has seen the french literary critic Marthe Robert in L'ancien et le nouveau, there is not a great distance between a parody and an homage. "},{"Title":"Spotty, but studded with gems","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To describe only one scene, the voiced-over flashback of the Dorrie character (Rampling) reading the newspaper while listening to Louis Armstrong on a calm Sunday morning is possibly the best that this minimalistic style of shot will ever get.  Allen used a single, close minute-long shot of the partner looking back at him to illustrate the sweet spot of a relationship, in which a pair is seeing in each other mainly things that they like.  That's the point for which the serious are always angling, and the point the romantically frivolous can never reach.  Which one Allen is - that's left up to the viewer.  Possibly he considers himself less than romantically serious, but fantastically lucky to have gotten to this moment. "},{"Title":"Stardust Memories (1980) ***","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A self-indulgent yet enjoyable fantasy by Woody Allen, where he models his style after Fellini's 8 1/2. Allen plays a world famous film star/director not unlike his real self, who's now approached a mid-life crisis and has tired of making funny movies. Though he's become embittered, he reluctantly agrees to be the guest of honor at a weekend celebration where the best of his films are going to be shown. While there he has to contend with sycophants, obnoxious autograph seekers, childhood flashbacks and different women on a surreal journey to self-realization. Woody received some hard knocks from fans and critics for making this type of highly personal movie, but I think it's very stylish and dream-like. Photographed in glorious black and white. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's tribute to Fellini","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In what may have been Woody Allen's best movie ever, he plays an aging director attending a festival to honor him. The movie starts with him on a train full of morose people; that's when he looks out the window and sees a train where everyone's partying (Sharon Stone plays one of the passengers on the other train). This is only a taste of the bizarre things that await him.At the festival, the movie becomes truly Fellini-like. Not only is he surrounded by people requesting his autograph, but one woman asks him to sign her breast! But the chain of events also allows him to reflect on his life and relationships (Woody Allen has a way with relationships). Among his former lovers are Charlotte Rampling and Jessica Harper.Anyway, Stardust Memories is definitely one that you have to see. It reminds us that Allen was quite good before he got all obsessed with neurotic rich New Yorkers. Also starring Tony Roberts, Daniel Stern, Laraine Newman and Brent Spiner (Data on Star Trek The Next Generation). "},{"Title":"second-best film ever shot","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The best film I ever came across is Fellini's 8 1/2... It's witty, melancholy and simply true.The only choice for the disillusioned modern man to escape the dreadful emptiness he calls life is between suicide and despite.Guido Anselmi chooses to treat his contemporaries with mild sarcasm that is rooted in deep resentment instead of fleeing this earth by hanging himself like Fassbinder's Herr R., who overcomes his miseries by slaying his wife and kid before dangling from the office's bathroom window frame.By doing so, Anselmi becomes a modern Everyman who should pose a role model for everyone of us. Instead of giving in to the worries that plague us constantly, we must emancipate ourselves from engaging emotionally with our fellow people - a valuable lesson to be taught by this film! Woody Allen manages to add even more spice to this story by inserting his unique point of view. Where Fellini is witty, Woody is downright funny; where Fellini is melancholy, Woody is equally so; where Fellini is true, Woody strays a bit for the sake of malicious humor --- but nonetheless Allen accomplished an incredible feat - he copied one of his heroes and emulated him in a certain way.When the audience poses questions at the cast of the film in the film, Eric Roberts is asked whether a particular scene is supposed to be a homage to House of Wax he honestly replies No, we just stole the idea.Woody stole Fellini's idea and elaborated on it in a truly American, New Yorkish, Jewish, Woody Allenish way. The result is cinema at its best entertaining, thoughtful and uplifting (if you are depressed as any intelligent human being should be).Watch it, be amazed, drop off and learn Misanthropy REALLY IS a manual for living stoically Never mind the buggers who are trying to hassle you, focus on yourself and YOU'LL BE FINE!!! Thanks Federico! Thanks Woody! A perfect 10 --- !!!! "},{"Title":"I agree with Feb. 11, 2004 review","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of Stardust Memories before and watched it when my roommate rented it. This is classic, straight forward Woody with a bit of an artsy edge relative to his more famous films. Existential angst and rocky relationships with beautiful women are the theme along with a healthy dose of his own fear of death. This film is almost like a parody of an autobiography of his own life as a comic/film-maker. At the end I was both depressed and refreshed regarding love and life, and was compelled to have another glass of wine while reflecting upon some of the crazy and destructive, yet beautiful girls with whom I've been involved. Again, Woody Allen is successful in striking a chord in my soul. "}{"Title":"An homage betters the original","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I could be like others, shouting the blatant mimicry of Fellini that Allen produces in STARDUST MEMORIES.  However, in this clever parody and scathing self-character study, isn't this film better than 8 1/2?STARDUST MEMORIES is among Allen's best work, aging well, like a fine Twinkie.  Yes, he ridicules fans and critics and non-artistic people, but he does it so well!  Allen cattle-prods those who took him too seriously as a funny person by becoming funny as a serious person.  In a homage to a scene in the film, if one has a Woody Allen Film Festival, one should include STARDUST MEMORIES. "},{"Title":"Woody's 8 1/2","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With the exception of Annie Hall this is easily Woody Allens most personal film and I think its also an homage to the Fellini film 8 1/2 as we watch Allen as Sandy Bates. He's a very successful filmmaker and is hounded by autograph seekers wherever he goes. While at a film festival honoring his work, Bates reflects on his life and relationships and also what direction to take his career into. The studio hates his new film and want it changed. Sound familiar? It should. Charlotte Rampling plays Dorrie who is Bates girlfriend and Marie-Christine Barrault is a woman that Bates has always been in love with and she has just left her husband and taken the kids with her. You can't argue the fact that this is self indulgent as a lot of the critics of this film have complained about. But its suppose to be. I was a little annoyed at some of the turns that the film took and I never really understood the whole UFO watcher segment. Allen does a good job of showing the problems of being a celebrity like the never ending autograph hounds that pop in every situation when he's trying to say something important to someone. It also shows his frustration at the studios who complain that he's not funny enough and want to take control of his own film. But these points are made early and then the rest of the film gets at times repetitive. Yes, we know you don't want to make funny movies anymore because your depressed at the world. One of the fun things about this film is Spotting the star. Daniel Stern, Amy Wright, Anne DeSalvo, Brent Spiner, Cynthia Gibb and Sharon Stone makes her film debut as the party woman on the train. Not nearly as bad as some have been saying and it does reflect on Woody's conscience. Over the years this film is probably more interesting than when it first came out. Still a must for Allen fans and I think others will have to take their chances on this reflective film. "},{"Title":"Woody in his prime","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" &#x85;obviously if you don't have enough to eat that becomes your major problem, but what happens when your living in a situation where you don't need to worry about that, then your problems become, how can I fall in love? or why can't I fall in love? Why do I age and die? and what meaning can my life possibly have? the issues become very complex for you. These lines are spoken by Sandy Bates the lead character played by none other than Woody Allen in one of the prolific director's best films. I choose the above quote to start this review as I believe that it perfectly elaborates the meaning of the film (and maybe all of Allen's films). Stardust Memories is about a film director who is on the verge of a mental breakdown, as he is feeling increasing pressure from his relationships, his career, his fans and himself. Sandy Bates finds himself being forced to attend a film festival celebrating himself. While Sandy is at the festival he is being constantly harassed by fans of his films, who are all painted in an extremely bad light and has often been called by both critics and the public as Woody Allen attacking his own fans who call for him to go back to making films like his early funny ones after the commercial failure of Interiors. The secondary story line focuses on Sandy's relationship with the many woman in his life, where he cannot decide between someone who is stable and wants marriage, another who has many psychological issues but is very exciting and sexy and one of whom he shares many common interests with but is indecisive and is dating a friend of his, and i believe that this is where the films main weakness lies, (along with inconsistent pacing, and slight tonal shifts), opposed to the fleshed out and well defined female characters in the past two films to star Woody Allen, Annie Hall (1977) and Manhattan (1979) the female characters in Stardust Memories are very thinly defined once you go past your initial impressions of them. The film takes obvious influence from the films of Federico Fellini especially 8½ (the working title was Woody Allen no. 4, in an interview Allen stated he wasn't even half the Fellini of 8½) The main evidence of the influence can be seen in the opening scene which seems to be taken straight from Fellini's 1963 opus, and many dream sequences spread throughout and the near mandatory beach scene. The difference between the two films is that in 8½ Fellini deals with internal issues effecting only the life of Guido, while Sandy Bates seems to have much more going on in his mind, as shown in the scene where he meets the aliens. While I don't believe that Stardust Memories can be seen in the same league as one of Woody Allen's greats which would include Manhattan, Annie Hall, Crimes and Misdemeanours and Hannah and Her Sisters, if never seen one of his films i would suggest seeing one of these before Stardust Memories, but it is an extremely effective film and if you are a fan of Woody Allen I would definitely recommend seeing it as it is certainly one of his best. "},{"Title":"We enjoy your films&#x85; particularly the early, funny ones.","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Frequently misquoted as funnier ones, it's an amazing prescient line (used twice) from Allen as early as 1980. Following on from the drama Interiors and the black and white comedy drama Manhattan, it's a criticism that Allen would be facing far more regularly in the future, but he addresses it himself before anyone else got the chance.There's a line of reasoning that if you've seen around half a dozen Woody Allen films you've seen them all, and in some senses that perhaps holds true, particularly for Stardust Memories, one of his most indulgent films of all. Although he denies any autobiographical elements, the film of a comedian who makes films that have pretensions and begin to alienate his audience is clearly closer to home than Zelig or Shadows and Fog. It helps that it's one of his best, beautifully shot and once again paying homage/pastiche to Fellini. That said, it loses a lot of lustre on repeat viewings, particularly in 2012 where postmodern deconstruction is de rigueur, and I did drop my rating two stars watching it again for this review.Some suggest that Allen's decline was quite swift, and that even during the 80s it was only the odd film that would be worth seeking out. Yet throughout the decade he was still doing some of the best of his work, still yet to be troubled by his personal life overshadowing his art. Perhaps it can be best summed up by Zelig (8). Okay, Zelig's an experimental piece about a human chameleon so it's hardly typical Allen, but the film is interesting and cute, and produces wry smiles... yet is rarely laugh out loud funny. They're largely a series of pictures you'd admire and be entertained by, rather than appreciate as purely comedic spectacles. People who wanted the genuinely funny guy of the 70s would struggle to find him from this point on, though his work with drama saw new rewards. This was Woody increasing his worth as an artist, with the black and white cinematography used to such great effect in Manhattan repeated here, in Broadway Danny Rose (7) and throughout most of Zelig. Credit for how good many of these films look must go to Gordon Willis, who was Director of Photography on this, Manhattan and Annie Hall. His role as Cinematographer on five other Allen movies of the period didn't harm them, either. It's also notable for being Allen's first film to use old recordings as a soundtrack, something which has become something of a Woody cliché in recent years, but was fresh and vibrant then.Stardust Memories was Allen's first film of the new decade, but the quality continued throughout as he wrote and directed ten features. Much of it is Allen at the top of his game, with the likes of Hannah and Her Sisters (8), Radio Days (8), the underrated Another Woman (8) and the meaningful albeit overtly written Crimes and Misdemeanors (7). Weak films are sparse here, with only the tired A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy (4) and The Purple Rose of Cairo (4) letting down the quality control. That said, Cairo is still an interesting experiment, following on from Zelig's lead with a character stepping out of a film. However, it perhaps lacks true narrative drive, with the line they sit around and talk? No action? Nothing happens? possible self-referencing. It may also be a personal oversight as it's a film that is quite regarded, including by Allen himself. Cairo is also one of three 80s movies in which Woody does not appear, the others being the worthwhile yet heavily drawn September (6) and Another Woman. Back to Stardust Memories, and film critic Roger Ebert was right when he regarded it as the first Woody Allen film in which impotence has become the situation rather than the problem. Certainly, as Ebert empathises, the supporting characters have no real depth, particularly the women. The detailed characters of Annie Hall and Manhattan are gone, and in their place are ciphers there to badger or distract Allen. However, what fills their place is ruminations on life, death, existence and morality. Being a film of the period then there are some customary bad taste routines, such as another rape joke and a quip about Hiroshima, but generally this is one of the more thoughtful of Allen's films, no matter how superficially lightweight. Perhaps with Allen's obvious homage to Fellini then you can't help but feel he doesn't come over favourably by the comparison, but this is, after all, something he concedes himself. Another Woman was a homage to Bergman, but had its own distinct identity. You feel that Stardust Memories couldn't exist at all without 8 1/2, and tying his inspiration so rigidly to another's work isn't Allen at his most inventive.Overall, it's a filmmaker making a film about filmmaking. And although Woody was bright, witty and ironic enough to steer that from total indulgence, it's still a work that doesn't really ask as many questions as it purports. As a work of art then it's stunning to look at, even though most of the shot compositions are pastiche. But as a film to watch it lacks true emotional depth... though does, at least, presage one of Allen's most successful decades in cinema. "},{"Title":"Too much reality is not what the people want. I guess we got what we wanted with Stardust Memories.","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories certainly throws you for a loop. I found it entertaining and quite amusing. Allen is certainly making a comment on the life of a Hollywood director&#x97;from decision making to the never-ending struggle between directors and the studios. However, one is enveloped in a whole lot of confusion when looking any deeper into this classic Woody Allen masterpiece.I still don't understand the whole 'movie within a movie' deal. I am not sure what was reality (if anything) and what was fake (if everything). Stardust Memories is confusing because it doesn't seem to follow any clear structure. The plot is constantly broken up with flashbacks and lapses in time.Just as Allen was searching for the meaning of life in his relationships with women, you will be left searching for the meaning of the movie. You are either going to enjoy Stardust Memories or thoroughly hate it. Just take it for what it is and don't stress over the intended confusion. "},{"Title":"different than annie hall but still as good","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The fact is that Woody Allen is one of the great filmmakers to grace the American cinema. Most people have heard of Woody Allen, but they don't give him the same recognition as Spielberg or Hitchcock because maybe his films are a little different but that's what makes them so great. A lot of critics thought this movie was terrible and I have to agree that it is not my favorite, but I do not believe that it has no worth. The message that the movie is trying to convey is good. Woody Allen plays a director who wants to make more serious films, but by the end he realizes that there is enough suffering in the world and he should just continue to make funny movies because that's what makes people laugh and helps them through times of suffering. This movie is philosophical and has a deeper meaning. It's true that the movie is a bit out there, but I don't think that made it a terrible movie. I think the people who didn't like it just didn't get the message of the movie. "},{"Title":"WA's befitting homage to himself","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you've watched Stardust Memories you would perhaps,finally, be able to guess what adulation or the abysmal lack of it does to a film-maker. Allen backs his forte - comedy,of course - and drives home,a most important point(WA himself would never admit to driving home a point or striving to do so,of course!)in terms of how to 'react' to art. Savour it if you like it,shut up if you don't! The film thrashes the whole business of criticism,reviews and enlightened opinions. Stylistically,he marries the European(read Fellinian)to the Allenian,beautifully. And with Glenn Miller's Moonlight Serenade playing in the outdoor fantasy sequence,the deja vu you get,is confirmed. For Allen afficionados like myself,attempting a review of this number is sacrilege in itself because for once would have expected us to shut up and watch. "},{"Title":"Only Woody Allen could have made such a film in 1980.","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let us start by getting to the heart of the matter.Stardust refers to an extremely naive romantic quality.By this yardstick,stardust memories are those romantic remembrances of the past which are an integral part of human consciousness.Old memories must be assessed on a timely basis in order to make sense of the life one is leading.This is precisely something which Woody Allen chose to depict in his film Stardust Memories.In many ways,this film gives viewers an idea about Woody Allen's status in American cinema.We get to see through this film that he is neither a product of Hollywood studios nor a leading light of American independent cinema movement.He is quite simply an American director who has embedded a lot of European sensibilities in his films.Stardust Memories reveals that film directors like to lead different kinds of lives outside of their film making activities.It is a common fact that everybody would like to be associated with a film director in order to promote some social cause.This aspect has been nicely depicted by Woody Allen in this film.One word about Woody Allen's women characters.The women characters of Stardust Memories are not weak but they have also not been shown as strong willed women.In this manner their is a mysterious ambivalence concerning this film's women protagonists.Black and White format is a nice method chosen by Woody Allen as all our dreams,all our memories are invariably made up of black and white images. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Mid-Life Crisis THE MOVIE","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's no secret that Woody Allen tends to make his films somewhat autobiographical of his own life and personal experiences, but Stardust Memories takes it to the next level. It is basically a complete reflection of Allen's state of mind in 1980. The movie is about a film director named Sandy Bates, who is starting to have anxiety about what he is doing for a living and starts to question its purpose. He goes into a retrospective recluse about his previous work and begins to recall all the things that influence his love of film. I wasn't alive in 1980 and I didn't know Woody Allen in 1980, but if you can't call this autobiographical to the extreme, I don't know what you can.Stardust Memories is an odd film because it really has no storyline. It is told in an anecdotal narrative style as Bates recalls different moments in his life as new moments arise and influence him. He considers all the different oddities that inspired him to make the popular films he's made. There are a lot of different women in Bates' life and they all have various amounts of influence on him as a filmmaker, and the whole film is told through these stories about women he's encountered or loved in the past. After a while you start to think, what is the point of all this? The film doesn't seem to be going anywhere after a while, and it all boils down to just a lot of retrospect and internal conflict more than anything else. It feels as though Woody Allen made this film for himself rather than anybody else. And there isn't necessarily anything wrong with that, but to the viewer it's not very appealing.One of the biggest issues with this film is that Woody Allen's character, Sandy Bates, isn't likable. He's a complete narcissist and is completely full of himself. He doesn't necessarily convey it outwardly dramatically, but he has a constant aura of egotistical jerk that is impossible to really connect with. He feels detached from the world and it makes it difficult to relate to his conflict, but that really just goes back to the fact that this is a film for Woody, not a film for the audience. And that's a paradox that just doesn't work with me, and it only made me feel like this film was a waste of time.Artistically this film doesn't have a whole lot going for it either. It has your typical Woody Allen nuances, but not to the level that some of his other great films have. It doesn't stick to one specific style and its thoughts seem a little scattered. It is shot in black and white which was interesting, but eventually got to the point where it served no purpose. Visually there was nothing in this film that gave me that fascination or 'wow' reaction that Allen's films typically incite in me. There are undoubtedly some well designed moments of the film with shots that made me nod my head in appreciation, but it doesn't have that consistent visual style that other Woody Allen films have.Allen was 45 years old when he made this film. I think you could definitely call it his mid-life crisis movie. All of the thoughts that were whizzing around in Allen's mind at that point in his neurotic life are conveyed and put into a script through Stardust Memories. For Allen I'm sure this film was a huge success that probably helped him sort through his life and allow his mind to clamber out of that jumbled crisis it was going through. But for me as the viewer I didn't get much of anything out of this film. Allen's intentions were clear, but the movie felt like a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Woody's Masterpiece","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories is a movie you just have to see. I mean that in every sense of the word. It is Woody AS Woody, holding a fun-house mirror up to himself. This may be a stylized film but Woody Allen is more immediate and accessible here than he was before or since.Woody's character Sandy Bates can no longer tell reality from his movies... and it may not matter. This is the director's strongest statement to date on fame, life, love, comedy, motion pictures, alien life and jazz heaven. Beautifully photographed, with Fellini's bizarre and Bergman's sweetness evident in every frame.You just have to watch the movie...GRADE A+ "}{"Title":"Woody at his most bizarre","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first attended college in Boston, I went to a Woody Allen movie - Play It Again, Sam - with friends. I was surrounded by people laughing hysterically, and I just didn't get it. Now I do. I've loved his work for years, my favorites of his films being Crimes and Misdemeanors and Bullets over Broadway. I'm not sure what this says about me, but whatever it is, I'm glad for it. I wouldn't be out of the loop with this most fascinating of filmmakers for anything.Allen is filmmaker Sandy Bates in his off-beat 1980 film, Stardust Memories. In it, Allen touches on the meaning of life, the pressures of being a celebrity, the frustrations of film-making, and problems in relationships.There is absolutely no structure to this film, leaving Allen free to go basically crazy and keep his audience paying attention and guessing. Sandy's latest film is interwoven into Stardust Memories -and then you find yourself asking, is everything I'm watching part of the film? Or is some of it reality? Sandy goes to a film festival where his movie is being shown and he's hounded by people for autographs, appearances at charity events, and script ideas. He intercuts moments with various women - are they at different points in time, or taking place at the same time? He has a relationship with beautiful, troubled, pill-popping Dorrie, played by Charlotte Rampling, he has a French girlfriend named Isobel, and he also hooks up with a young woman he meets at a showing of his film. He has problems with the film - the studio wants to edit it without him being present. He has family issues. It seems like all these things go on at once.Throughout it, Allen is great, mixing seriousness with comedy that always sounds like improv - Why is the traffic so thick? Is the Pope or some other show-biz celebrity in town? The last time you used the kitchen, it looked like Hiroshima, Yes, I carry a gun. I have a fear of Nazis. He's always astounding and thought-provoking, and in the end leaves one with the feeling that maybe there is no meaning in life, that what makes it special are those precious moments when suddenly, everything comes together and one has a sense of peace and wholeness. It doesn't necessarily happen when you're making a movie, or premiering one, or winning an award. But when it does happen, it's a true stardust memory, and it's what makes life worth living. I may not feel peace and wholeness after seeing a Woody Allen film, but he sure helps make life worth living just the same. "},{"Title":"The Movie With a Woody!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Woody Allen movies. It combines some great lines, bizarre Fellini-esque faces, beautiful women (including Suspiria's Jessica Harper), great photography, some heartbreaking imagery, a Gummo Marx reference, and an excellent performance by Charlotte Rampling (Zardoz, Orca). It seems to be an overlooked filmed in Allen's body of work, but I like it almost as much as Crimes and Misdemeanors or Annie Hall.  "},{"Title":"One of Woody's funniest.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love almost all of Woody's films for different reasons. I think his first films (TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN through LOVE AND DEATH) relied more on slapstick and funny one-liners in the best comedy tradition. ANNIE HALL and MANHATTAN were great romantic comedies based in reality rather than slapstick. But STARDUST MEMORIES is both a very deep and very funny picture. It has some very funny lines. One of the funniest scenes is when he comes back to his apartment late at night to find a strange woman in his bed. At any rate, this film is excellent and despite the fact that some people find it kind of self-indulgent, I think it is one of Woody Allen's best films. "},{"Title":"Tell Funnier Jokes","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dare I say this is Allen's finest film? Most people say Annie Hall, but this is the film that is always is referred to in other reviews of Allen's movies. Many people find this one intolerable, as it unabashedly plays up the Woody-puts-his- life-on-the-screen angle, playing the role of a filmmaker at a retrospective who feels he has nothing to offer the world through film any more. The bizarre cast of fans offer a surreal backdrop for a man having a crisis of faith. The film drifts from reality to fantasy or flashback at the drop of a hat, as Allen's character rehashes his failed relationship with an unstable woman. Yep, you've heard that plotline before. But it has never seemed more applicable than in this movie. The characters of Laraine Newman and the aliens (!) sum up the sentiments that Allen has had to wrestle with ever since he tried to make movies more serious than Bananas His insights are shallow and morbid! and You wanna help mankind? Tell funnier jokes. The film, ultimately, provides insight into the question of how much of Allen's life makes onto the silver screen The answer is that Allen himself may not even know where his life ends and the film begins.  "},{"Title":"Woody Allen himself","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After several funny farces, some romantic comedies and a heavy Bergman-influenced drama (Interiors) Allen reflects himself in this fascinating story filmed in black and white. He is the director who is surrounded by his fans, admirers and of course the young women, and we get to take part of his neuroses and private life (we know it is an Allen film). It is obvious that he has seen Fellini´s 8 1/2, but I don´t mind because this one is much more accessible and entertaining. A highly interesting film, especially for moviegoers, and the opening scene from a bus is dynamite! "},{"Title":"Often a satirical put-down of celebrity, but one packed with ciphers","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Without a leading lady to write for, Woody Allen concocts a showcase just for himself; the results are intentionally grotesque, certainly watchable but also a little bit uncomfortable. Allen has said in interviews that his role as a filmmaker attending a festival of his own movies is really nothing at all like him, and his treatment of the googly-eyed fans are not how he views his admirers in real life. After seeing the picture, that's a difficult assessment to swallow. It's a very pointed and satirical put-down of celebrity, and if you're the least bit touchy you may find Stardust--at the very worst--condescending. I didn't buy chilly Charlotte Rampling as a love-interest for Allen, but I did find the tacky, classless masses a neurotic hoot, and the film is amazingly photographed. It's too brash and ugly to be a truly comic experience--but as a transition picture from a commercial artist, not bad. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Homage? Allegory? Woody Allen Is a Master of Stage and Screen...","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...and proves it with this tale-telling adventure that might be autobiographical; and even a real glimpse into the future. If you are a filmmaker, this would be your ideal student film. Science fiction; multiple dimensions of past, present and future; knock out actresses like Charlotte Rampling and l'actress Francoise Marie- Christine Barrault... Let me just say that the screenplay is one of the great inspirations of my career as an artist, moviegoer, and film- enthusiast. Aside from all of the jazz, though, it is a very sensitive story a stark depiction of a tragic movie star romance, reminiscent of Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh. Allen might also be writing a script to say that becoming famous makes you a magnet for insanity. It's a Hollywood movie without the Hollywood ending. I daresay that's why critics trashed it. In actuality, this movie is a classic in the ranks of Federico Fellini and Louis Malle. I say it's one of Woody Allen's best films ever, and if you want to experience a gem from the world of independent films, this would be my pick. ~CME "},{"Title":"Most introspective and autobiographical Woody Allen movie","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Many of Woody Allen's movies have been introspective and autobiographical, yet this is the most introspective and autobiographical of all of them. Incredibly layered and complex, probably too much so. Still contains the usual Allen wit and clever dialogue, but toned down to be more serious. Truly captures the spirit of a director at a crossroads, and a quandary over where his true direction lies.However, as mentioned, overly complex. Scenes seem discontinuous and random at times. Also, if you aren't a Woody Allen fan (luckily I am one), many of the in-jokes and self-references will be lost on you.Solid performances all round, especially as the roles would have been difficult to play, considering the complexity of the script. As always, Woody Allen gets to play himself, though this time the character is actually himself.Probably the least accessible Woody Allen movie, but definitely worth the watch if you are a fan. "},{"Title":"funny surreal self-referential Woody","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sandy Bates (Woody Allen) is a successful filmmaker although everybody seems to love only his early funny ones. He's the subject of a film festival. Dorrie (Charlotte Rampling) is the great passionate destructive love of his memories. He has two women in his life. Daisy (Jessica Harper) is a needy dark classical violinist. Isobel (Marie-Christine Barrault) is a loving blonde French woman. She has just left her husband and has 2 young kids. He struggles to find his true love.It's surreal. It's self-referential. It's interesting. It's funny. I'm not sure why critics and Woody fans hated it back in the day. Maybe the movie takes a few too many shots at his fans. It hits a little too close to home and I guess the people took the ridicule personally. It's got some absurdest fun and Woody is funny in this. "},{"Title":"Stardust Memories Review","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This wasn't my favorite Woody Allen movie in comparison to Annie Hall but it wasn't bad. This film is like all other Woody Allen films, it deals with his fear of death/dying and his love for women. Throughout the film Allen seems to be looking back on his past relationships and tries to figure out what went wrong. It seems to me that Woody Allen is more of a method actor. All of the characters he plays in his films are all the same and seems to represent what I would assume Woody Allen is like in real life.Overall I would not personally recommend this as one of my top favorite Woody Allen films "}{"Title":"Probably Allen's most underrated film","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Perhaps Allen's most underrated film. Personally, he has called it one of his favorites. Some critics get hung up on it being some sort of mean-spirited autobiographical picture, the same mistake they make with Deconstructing Harry. The reality is, despite how messed up Allen appears to be personally, this is not about him per se, but is more a general commentary on how detached artists are from their fans and vice versa and how fame and fortune is often little compensation for the neurosis that both inspires and tortures many artists.The film borrows heavily and openly from Fellini in general and 8 1/2 in particular. This allows Allen to engage in some grotesque close-up scenes with sycophantic followers(i suppose this is where many people find the file insulting but I find humorous) and to allow for some wonderful flights of fancy, such as the UFO enthusiast scene.The recurring gag of people (and non-people) saying We love your movies, especially your early, funny ones is actually quite funny and poignant. It actually goes a ways toward supporting the theory I argue against that this is a bitter autobiographical film, and I am quite sure it is something that Allen did hear. Despite that, I find it a surprisingly warm film and actually it has a somewhat upbeat ending. "},{"Title":"It was possible only for Woody Allen to have made such a film in 1980.","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let us start by getting to the heart of the matter.Stardust refers to an extremely naive romantic quality.By this yardstick,stardust memories are those romantic remembrances of the past which are an integral part of human consciousness.Old memories must be assessed on a timely basis in order to make sense of the life one is leading.This is precisely something which Woody Allen chose to depict in his film Stardust Memories.In many ways,this film gives viewers an idea about Woody Allen's status in American cinema.We get to see through this film that he is neither a product of Hollywood studios nor a leading light of American independent cinema movement.He is quite simply an American director who has embedded a lot of European sensibilities in his films.Stardust Memories reveals that film directors like to lead different kinds of lives outside of their film making activities.It is a common fact that everybody would like to be associated with a film director in order to promote some social cause.This aspect has been nicely depicted by Woody Allen in this film.One word about Woody Allen's women characters.The women characters of Stardust Memories are not weak but they have also not been shown as strong willed women.In this manner their is a mysterious ambivalence concerning this film's women protagonists.Black and White format is a nice method chosen by Woody Allen as all our dreams,all our memories are invariably made up of black and white images. "},{"Title":"I would trade that Oscar for one more second of life","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While not for me one of Woody Allen's greatest films, Stardust Memories is along with Interiors one of his most under-estimated as well as one of his cleverest and most personal. It does ramble on a little too much sometimes and it does end on a strange note. But while one can understand why people would not like it- maybe they found the more biting and satirical moments hard to take (I think it was made very clear what Allen was trying to do)- Stardust Memories from a personal point of view was a great film from Allen and film in general and didn't deserve the hate it got at the time. The black and white and the photography do look gorgeous. The script is a great mix of truly biting satire, hilariously acerbic comedy and touching drama structured tightly and well blended, the dialogue being some of Allen's smartest and most thought-provoking. Stardust Memories pays homage to Fellini and 8 1/2, like Allen did in Interiors with Bergman, as can be seen in the more dream-like parts, very wittily done and photographed sumptuously. The story is not that hard to follow and while paced deliberately it still draws you in due to the homages, satire, how character relationships are explored and the situations depicted. The characters are as ever with Woody Allen are neurotic but also very real, Allen's character is not likeable but what he thinks of his fans and critics and how they treat him is something that can be related to. Allen directs assuredly and gives a very good performance as well, while Charlotte Rampling is indeed breathtaking and believable with Allen chemistry-wise. Jessica Harper underplays affectingly, in fact all of the acting is great. Look out for the brief appearance of Sharon Stone. Overall, a technically beautiful, smartly written and excellently played film, not a personal favourite from Allen but Stardust Memories is great and deserving of more credit. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Maligned by many on its initial release (Pauline Kael called it a dupe of a dupe of 8 ½), STARDUST MEMORIES is one of Woody Allen's richest films. Neither comedy nor drama, it's shows Allen's outrageous moxie in both spoofing Fellini and making his own version of the hell which fame can bring. Allen is Sandy Bates, a famous movie director attending a weekend festival of his own films where he's inundated with one loony fan after another. Freakish looking or unbelievably intrusive, these people give him no rest. Inter-cut with telling episodes of his own personal life, which of course is full of women troubles (Charlotte Rampling, Jessica Harper & Marie-Christine Barrault are excellent), the film has lots of laughs, though admittedly a lot of cynicism as well. The stark B&W cinematography by Gordon Willis adds a lot, bringing many ghoulish looking people to life. The large cast includes Daniel Stern, Tony Roberts, Amy Wright, Laraine Newman, Louise Lasser and Dorothy Leon (as Allen's non too bright cook). "},{"Title":"I Love Woody Allen","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While attending a retrospect of his work, a filmmaker (Woody Allen) recalls his life and his loves the inspirations for his films.The humor of Woody Allen, inspired by Fellini, and starring Woody along with the amazing Jessica Harper. And who can forget the under-rated actress Charlotte Rampling? She takes center stage in this picture.How do we categorize this film? I would say it is one of his more serious films, but that may not be fair -- it still has a lot of great, intelligent jokes and some of the segues are just plain weird. Not to mention aspects that seem to be daydreams... there are UFOs, magic tricks, a monster... "},{"Title":"Woody goes meta","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The real brilliance behind Stardust Memories is - any reviewer naming its flaws would automatically find himself parroting the very reviewers Allen is mocking in the film itself. Too artistic? Too depressing? Not funny enough? Well, maybe. Although, as he points out himself in the movie, why should he be forced to make only funny movies? More to the point, Stardust Memories is somewhat fragmented and uneven, especially compared to recent masterpieces Annie Hall and Manhattan. You might also say that, Like Interiors, Stardust Memories suffers from too many stylistic references to other filmmakers - this time Fellini more than Bergman. But this time it works, as it's clearly part of the point, and it's pointed out in the film itself (not exactly an homage, we just stole the idea outright).Despite a clear lack of balance and clarity, Stardust Memories is a Woody Allen classic, one that deserves much more attention than it usually gets, if only for being his first film that deals with filmmaking, leading to more recent semi-autobiographical works like Deconstructing Harry and Hollywood Ending. More importantly, it shows him more self-aware than ever before, coming to terms with a lot about himself, not unlike Fellini did in 8 1/2, which was Allen's obvious major influence in making it. And for fans of this magnificent creator, it's essential. "},{"Title":"Stardust Memories is a Woody Allen movie which refers to Fellini's 8 1/2. I think it's a good movie, but it could have been funnier.*","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mr. Allen denies adamantly that Stardust Memories is in any way autobiographical. He does take up the issues presented in 8 1/2 fans' demands, critics' demands, life's demands. But Sandy Bates (the main character, played by Woody Allen) is sympathetic, unlike the oppressively narcissistic Guido. I think that's because Allen peeks through all his characters and, despite all Mr. Allen's faults, he remains a sympathetic person. Charlotte Rampling plays Dorrie, Bates's muse, and Jessica Harper and Marie-Christine Barrault play love interests of Bates. Allen and cinematographer Gordon Willis do particularly well by Ms. Rampling. Hidden away in small parts are Laraine Newman, Louise Lasser, Daniel Stern, Brent Spiner, Sharon Stone, Judith Crist, and various executives in Allen's life. According to IMDb, Lasser and Allen were divorced when the movie was made, and the character of Dorrie is based on Louise Lasser. (Yikes. Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman was a documentary!)There are other Woody Allen movies that I like better, and if you watch this, I'd recommend watching 8 1/2 just before Stardust Memories. Some of the references Allen makes are obvious, and some are subtle (Dorrie being his mother in a beach scene, for example). The movie is definitely a fantasy, with the theme of the movie being presented in a non-linear fashion. Woody Allen has said that the 'reality' ends when Bates is looking at the dead rabbit in his kitchen. Up until then, the movie is what is really going on in Bates's life; after the camera shows the dead rabbit, the rest of the movie is Bates's reverie on what's going on in his life -- it is not really happening. I missed this totally the first time I saw Stardust Memories, and having read Allen's comment about this, the meanings of the scenes we see change. I consider 8 1/2 to be a much more visual movie. Much of what goes on in Woody Allen's movies is interior monologues that he brings to the surface as speeches, most of them neurotic. Fellini draws a clearer demarcation on what are Guido's fantasies and memories than Allen does, and Fellini _shows_ us more of what is going on in Guido's mind than Allen, who has Sandy _tell_ us. It's interesting to contrast the similar scenes in the two movies and see Allen's use of dialogue vis-a-vis Fellini's use of image. I'm contemplating whether Stardust Memories or 8 1/2 was the better movie. I couldn't stand Guido, hence didn't like Fellini. Bates is a nebbishy neurotic, but he came across as more likable that then insufferably narcissistic Guido. However, 8 1/2 has more style, is more visual than Mr. Allen's prolonged monologue that is Stardust Memories. Guido's flashbacks and reveries are more revealing than Bates's. In the end, I understand why Guido is the way he is, even though I don't like him. Woody Allen can't figure himself out, so he has no clues to offer his viewers. At the end of this movie (and of all Allen movies), Bates (Allen) remains as he is, a clumsy, neurotic, clueless man.Mr. Allen might be happier to know that I prefer his more serious work to his comedies. Or maybe not. Who can tell?*I'm joking. It's a joke. "},{"Title":"Terribly underrated Allen film - one of his very best","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I know -- I'm supposed to like 'Manhattan' more. I know -- this straddles the line between homage and rip-off when it comes to Fellini... But it's so physically beautiful, and so full of unforgettable moments of humor and heartbreak, that I can watch it over and over and just see more and more in it. It's an odd, wonderful mix of sad, angry, surreal and very funny. It's a chilling, sad, hysterical look at the emptiness of being famous, at what it means to not trust your own worth, what it means to be scared of happiness. The jump cut sequence with Charlotte Rampling is one of the best, most incisive pieces of film-making I've ever seen. Period.For me, it's a tragically underrated film. I'm thrilled to see it getting support here. I guess it can be validly criticized, but my emotional reaction to the nit-picking is 'who cares?' This is brave, unique, special film-making in a world with far too little.Horrifyingly, along with many other great Allen films (including Annie Hall!) , it's currently out-of-print in the US on DVD. I can only hope this means an upgraded re-release of these films is on the way, but there's always a danger they're caught up in some kind of rights battle. So if you want to own these classics, you might want to grab some good used copies while you can. "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a person finding themselves and thinking about if they are truly happy in their life and if not, if they can find what makes them happy in life. The main character Sandy, played by director Woody Allen, goes through this. He faces a re-evaluation of his life and what actually would and has made him happy. The whole movie itself, was a movie. So you can see the reflection and what he is personally striving for. Some people think that this film is actually a reflection on Woody Allen's actual life and thoughts. But has not been confirmed, only speculation. How this film was done was great. I personally had a problem really following and understanding the film. It jumped a lot through scenes. It took me a while to find out that it jumped through different times, but was in sequence of his multiple affairs and trysts. Woody Allen, no stranger the criticism his work and its progression. I think that this is one of those movies you would have to see a couple of times to truly understand and appreciate it. Even though this movie does have that kind of scattered feeling, I feel that is exactly what made this movie so good and unable to turn your eyes away from the screen! "},{"Title":"Meaning larger than life and movies","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" All that Woody Allen had to say for his type of work was profound and true. Movies should be lead artistically not by whether it will get bad reviews. Although I don't give the movie a high vote I respect what it says about the industry and about life. Life doesn't always have to have a meaning. It really is what it is. Everyone has a time in their life when they they truly wonder what their meaning is. It was not odd for the character to be freaking out over it because we should all be able to express that uncertainty freely. It's the only way to actually get things in order. That what Sandy had to do in order to get his love life in tact. Sandy obviously had women of all ages at his feet. Even married ones, but he had to make the movies he enjoyed, accept life the way it is and find true love. Sounds like a three step process, but for any common person, just like Sandy it was like climbing over a mountain. The little scenes when it was Sandy's older films and childhood was very different, but normally it would take a few times of watching the film to get it. I did enjoy how crazy his fan's looked from his perspective and how the sarcasm was really funny. "}{"Title":"Stardust Memories","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories was the first (and only) Woody Allen film I have seen. It didn't make me a big fan of his, but it wasn't that I didn't like it, it was just, okay. Allen both direct and stars in the movie.Though the film was made in 1980, it was shot in black and white. Allen portrays a comic director who doesn't want to make funny movies because of the suffering in the world. He can't stand his fans and wants to get away from the humor and move to making movies of a more serious nature. But in hindsight, when the audience and critics dislike the movie, he realizes that by bringing comedy and humor into the world, it can help those who are suffering. The Alien scene as he has a conversation, almost like with his conscious, was humorous. I thought the reflection of the hot air balloons, which could represent the women in his life, on his glasses ( what it appeared to be) was well done. An added mention, the soundtrack was great. Each selection went well with the scenes they were in. "},{"Title":"Stardust Memroies","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's Stardust Memories is an interesting film as long as the viewer works at it. This is not a mindless film with predictable characters and plot for the most part the film seems to be as scatterbrained and confused as its main character. The film is follows a veteran director around a film festival honoring his work and it also attempts to follow his train of thought. Woody Allen does do a great job of playing the main character who is torn in at least two different directions and between two very different women. Charlotte Rampling plays the conflicted Dorrie quite well considering most of the scenes that she is in she seems to be having some sort of emotional breakdown, because she does show the viewer some sense of why Sandy still thinks of her. The camera-work is almost as nutty as the characters in the film. At one point Sandy is reflecting on the moment that he and Dorrie broke up and her face is shown in flashes and she begins repeating herself as if that conversation is forever repeating in Sandy's head. The scenes with the aliens near the end of the film are a bit tacky but are a great reflection on past films. The film as a whole was confusing but is one that if watched a few times can be quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Stardust Memories (1980)","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories is a black and white film written and directed by Woody Allen. First of all I was never a big fan of Woody Allen films, for all the ones I have seen or heard of are to abstract for me. His way of directing is far different from others.Stardust memories is one of Woody Allen's abstract films. I personally did not get ANYTHING on what was going on in the film. Making it hard to focus on trying to figure it out. Stardust Memories is filled with flashbacks and different scenes. Woody Allen plays Sandy Bates, a comedian who wants to change his subject away from comedy but his loyal fans don't agree on this change. I have the opinion that the comedy was dull and/or confusing for me.The ways of the camera, and film editing is what made this film worth the while. At some points in the film, Allen uses the camera on the track, iris shots for some of his flash backs, process shots all making Stardust Memories directorally fantastic.I have to say at the end of the film, everything from the beginning of the film that made no sense, rounds up in one scene. One dramatically important scene at the very end. This makes Woody Allen's Stardust Memories a moderately fine movie. "},{"Title":"Stardust Memories","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film Stardust Memories from 1980, is one in which Woody Allen plays the lead character and is also Directed by. The plot is about a director named Sandy Bates (Allen) and his life as a Hollywood film director. Contrary to belief this film isn't an autobiography; however Bates also plays the lead role in all of his films. He was always known to be the funny man of Hollywood, but changes to a more serious tone as his path in life shifts. As a man he is looking for the bigger meaning or purpose of life. He looks for it through his films and his women. His main girl is Dorrie; she would be perfect if her sanity was all there. He has Isobel on the side and casual encounters with Daisy. Threw his films and life, he always feels that by mixing at least two of these females he would then have what he's been looking for. As his life becomes more chaotic, his films begin to take the more serious approach. His agent worries that his viewers don't want too much reality when they watch a movie. No matter what he did as a man or a director his fans were still there. Women wanted to sleep with him, people wanted their films watched; everyone always needed something. They kept him famous in order to hopefully become famous themselves. This film shows the inner ugliness of Hollywood and how once people are famous, sometimes that's all they're seen as. Bates gets killed in the end possibly realizing that Dorrie was what he was what he needed. Allen then throws everything off and ends the film with the film being watched. It makes you think about everything you just watched. It was very confusing however enjoyed because it makes you think about what you saw. "},{"Title":"As the man says Only art you can control. Art and masturbation.","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Say what you like about Woody Allen but there's no denying that throughout his career he has made some very brave choices, whether it's making a musical (Everyone Says I Love You), making a sudden switch from comedy movies to something very serious (Interiors) or making Stardust Memories, a movie that you can't help but take as a direct retort to the criticisms that were already being heaped upon the director's cinematic maturation.Allen has always denied that the movie is autobiographical but the central premise, about a director attending an exhibit of his work while he deals with possible studio interference to his latest serious movie (one that nobody wants him to do, all of them wishing he would just keep making the comedies), certainly feels like it was based on his time making the transition from simply that guy who makes funny movies to Woody Allen - director.The cast - Woody himself, Charlotte Rampling, Jessica Harper, etc - all do quite well but are hampered by a strange script that veers between the brilliantly comedic, the serious and many moments of surrealism in between. It's also a typical piece of wish-fulfilment for Woody in many places.Sometimes hitting all the right marks (especially when it comes to the strange effect that celebrity status can have on surrounding individuals) and sometimes feeling like, as mentioned in the movie, someone trying to make a good impression in a serious movie while saying lots of stuff we've heard time and time again, it's a very uneven movie and ultimately a rather unsatisfying one. Yes, I enjoyed the final shot and it reminded me of the enduring love that the director has for cinema but the meandering path there was not always a good one.Having said that, there's nothing really mentioned here that isn't already mentioned in the movie so perhaps it's a sly, subversive beast. Or perhaps Mr Allen tried to make it critic-proof. Or perhaps, as I think, it's just an interesting misfire.See this if you like Interiors, The Player, 8½. "},{"Title":"I was just trying to be funny!","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Exclaims Sandy Bates to the Q&A comment from the audience about why his films are of one sort but not another.I gotta confess, I smile at the pseudo intellectuals portrayed in this film. It's a shot across the bow by Woody at those who delve into his films and humor about what it all means, so to speak. Hence the reason Sandy Bates has to field some inane interactions with alleged admirers. Read that as real fans. And by that I mean fans in the truest sense; i.e. fans in this context being true fanatics.It was a relief watching this film. A man thinks of all the alleged know-it-alls at cocktail parties throughout the 70s who, lacking muscles to play varsity, flexed their minds to bully the those who led normal intellectual lives. Ah, success does weed out the inane, as we see Woody Allen rise to the occasion to give back a little of what he had taken over the years in regards to people using his films as a kind of barbiturate for some inadequacy. In short, it's a great film! -)Woody doesn't take direct shots at folks like he did in Annie Hall with the film professor during the theatre line scene. He just shows some scenarios he's probably experienced throughout his life, and the mild headaches he's most likely had to endure. The upside is that this makes for great movie fodder, ergo great comedy.Me, I can't think of a Wood Allen film I don't like. There are some I like more than others, and this one falls into that category. It's biting wit and true to form portrayal of film making vignettes as well as other slices of a film director's life, bring a smile to this viewer's face.What else can you say about it? Someone called it an angry film. Someone else called it brilliant. Yeah, sure, it's all those things. Some brilliance married with some spleen venting and all that goes with it. Given the man's experiences with pop-icon culture, to me at least, this seems a logical film to be made for the time. Can't film directors let off some steam and be funny at the same time?I have to admit, I'm one of those Philistines whose never seen Felini's Eight and a half weeks. Did I need to? Not sure I did, but it might've helped me appreciate the nature of the film a bit more, and make it more funny.So, to sum up, the guy was probably tired of all the hype following him and his films, and took that material to make a film. Now that's comedy!Enjoy -) "},{"Title":"Allen defends his film-making in Stardust Memories","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's film-making has always had a strong sense of personalized agenda about it, seeing as for most of his career he wrote, directed and starred in his own films, but none are as strikingly about discovering self-meaning as Stardust Memories. It's not a pretentious work, but it's not nearly as accessible as his more popular films for this reason. All in all, it ends up being good for the same reasons the characters and relationship drama and Allen's unique perspective on life and love, but its profundity seems mainly reserved for Allen or other middle-aged artists.Allen plays Sandy Bates, a director famous for his early comedies who goes to a festival of his old work at a time in his career where his producers are saying he's getting too out there. A combination of bombardment from fans, the arrival of an old, French love affair, and meeting a woman that eerily reminds him of one of his ex-lovers, causes Sandy to reflect on his work and life and radically reconsider his future.Allen gives a strong effort to align the audience with Sandy's perspective, whether keeping Sandy out of frame in scenes that he's in at times or more commonly bringing the camera into first person perspective. He succeeds the most at creating empathy for what it must be like to deal with the attention of fans or people seeking your help for one reason or another. He also uses those techniques well at capturing what it is about the women he's with in any given scene that truly rivets him. Charlotte Rampling, who plays his ex-lover Dorrie who he can't seem to get over, has the perfect look for the part. She has a distinct beauty in scenes where she makes him happy and when she's depressed, she can appear cold and detached. The film has some issues with structure and continuity. It's not hard to follow, but it's hard to catch all the time shifts because the transitions are always so quick. Toward the end, as Allen and this film search for a deeper meaning, the film only seems to get more surreal and downright existential. You get the sense that Allen knows exactly what he's attempting to make you consider, but it's not cathartic in any way.It's interesting, because at one point in the film Sandy is taking questions from attendees of the film festival and one woman asks for his reaction to claims about him being narcissistic. Though his answer comical, Allen, presumably with a cinematic chance to defend his actual self, never denies the allegations. The question then remains for viewers of his films, especially Stardust Memories, whether Allen's stories can be identified with, can be accessible to a large audience. His success suggests yes and his lower points in his career suggest no, but Allen knows this is how he makes films, this is how he searches for meaning and he will continue to do so. "},{"Title":"Manhattan Meets Annie Hall meets the wolf-man!","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sandy Bates is having a crisis of conscience. He's a comedic film maker who wants to make more serious films and yet the critics and audience hate them, his studio heads are ripping him apart over it and we see the end of the latest film he is shooting first (HE JUST ISN'T FUNNY ANYMORE! one studio head proclaims ...hilariously!) To get away from the furore of the studio and the up and down status of his own personal life he heads out to a film festival celebrating his work, looking at past films that he has made (There are some great clips of these by the way) while trying to decide what he wants from relationships while dissecting the disastrous end of his previous big relationship with Dorrie in which she was slowly self destructing.This is one of the films that strides the works of Annie Hall and Manhattan with later works such as Hannah and her sister and crimes and misdemeanours, in that its serious moments are not perhaps as clearly defined as in later works, there is a fair amount of paranoia here that has dated the piece in a bad way (it was round the time that John Lennon was shot) but the comedy moments are superb, especially when he is joined by long-time co-star Tony Roberts, who is brilliant as his friend with a flawless, effortless delivery that impresses fantastically every time he is on screen. As the film goes on it seems to gather strength with more details of his last disastrous relationships coming to the fore along with realisation of what Sandy Bates' (And Woody's own) place in the world is.This is one of those films that does not deserve the critical mauling that it has and there are many great touches within the film that make it a must see for any fans of Allen's best works as this is certainly up there with them. True, not great, but still better than a of garbage we're spoon fed at the box office. "},{"Title":"A personal, multi-leveled and mature work of comedy and emotion","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Stardust Memories, Woody Allen takes a step back from the new stories of Annie Hall and Manhattan and returns to his roots, taking on existing stories or genres and parodying them to tell his own (comedic) stories. But the growth he's shown in his previous three films isn't lost and really makes a positive impact in Stardust Memories.I would have to say that what Allen goes after as his inspiration text is Federico Fellini's masterpiece, 8 1/2. Much of the setup is related and the first scene of the movie is a variation of Fellini's first scene. The story is probably partially inspired by his own life, as he portrays a director who's well known for making comedies but struggles to make more serious films to the dismay of his fans. With his latest film being criticized by his producers and a little on edge from the pressure, both internal and external, to make a great film, he goes to a retrospective of his films where he faces his past, his present and a little bit of his future as well.Being a work that is related to a somewhat surreal and dreamlike work itself, Stardust Memories opts not to focus too much on plot, but rather gives Allen a chance to throw both emotion and comedy on the screen. The result is amusing and sometimes surprisingly potent as we watch Allen's character reminisce about his lost love and deal also with the struggles of his present. At the same time, I think that more linearly minded audiences (as well as those not familiar with Scandinavian (Bergman), French and Italian art cinema might find themselves at a loss to many of the references ingrained in the film. Finally, there are multiple layers to this film as well, as there exist films within films and stories within stories here, another technique that might disrupt audience expectations. I find that these points only serve to enhance the film, but I'm also a well read cinephile.This is clearly a personal work, one that Allen really throws himself into and makes himself vulnerable, while also getting a chance to talk about film-making, critics, audiences, and his life, without being autobiographical. While the way that this film is built is at times difficult for casual moviegoers to ingest, I think that the overall piece is quite wonderful and nowhere near as pretentious as some critics might suggest. Recommended for those who've seen some Allen and some of his inspirations in European art cinema. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories is probably my favorite film of all time. That said, it is dismissed for numerous reasons. I think that people often don't give it a chance before hand, and they see what they want to see. Also, they bring too much outside context into the picture itself. I feel certain that if people knew nothing about Woody Allen's life and his feelings about art and movies and fans, this film would be received differently. Of course, not everyone is going to like it. I happen to think that you have to be a jazz-loving filmmaker for this film to really hit home. For me, this film is great because it makes me so happy. The vivid ending makes the whole film worthwhile, and I think if you remove the context that may or may not have been caused by Interiors, you'll find that Sandy does not hate his fans, he merely hates the notion of fan-worship, which is logical anyway.If you're about to see this film for the first time, don't bring any prejudices along with you, just enjoy the experience. "}{"Title":"Can't believe I never saw this before","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rapid-fire Woody Allen jokes and swift cinematography. I was riveted from the beginning to the end. The jokes were never-ending. Of course, the movie centers around love, sex and film. But what I like best about this and other Allen movies is that he uses average people as characters in his movie that tell jokes, are part of the plot, etc. The jokes range from intellectual references to his Groucho influences. Anyone who can hold the viewer's attention like this for so long and make them laugh and reflect has definitely achieved a masterpiece. I have to see this a few more times. A movie like this can't be made these days. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen On Woody Allen","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories (1980) Woody Allen, Charlotte Rampling, Marie Christine Barrault, Jessica Harper, Tony Roberts, Daniel Stern, John Rothman, Helen Hanft, Amy Wright, Ken Chapin, Joan Neuman, Anne De Salvo, Leonardo Cimino, Eli Mintz, Gabrielle Strasun, Bob Maroff, David Lipman, Andy Albeck, Douglas Ireland, Jack Rollins, Howard Kissel, Max Leavitt, Renee Lippin, Sol Lomita, Simon Newey, Victoria Zussin, Edith Grossman, Jack Hollander, Laraine Newman....Director Woody Allen, Screenplay Woody Allen.Stardust Memories, released in 1980, and directed and written by Woody Allen, tries to do many things at the same time but ultimately remains a standard Woody Allen style comedy, which means it's heavily coated with intellectual humor, philosophy, sexual innuendo, psychology and visual jokes. It's an homage to the style of Federic Fellini, or some would say Ingmar Bergman. It was shot entirely in black and white and visual symbols pop up everywhere. Many consider this Woody Allen's most self-indulgent film. They're absolutely right. Despite the large cast of characters, the film revolves around Woody Allen who is essentially using self-deprecating humor (poking fun of himself and his movies) and at the same time glorifying himself. Hollywood in 1980 had begun a new wave of comedy and Woody Allen had already established himself as a star comedian. He was making movie after movie (mostly in New York City)and was also writing his own screenplays and directing. Stardust is about Director Sandy Bates who is sick of all the Hollywood stardom and tired of his critics who don't find his films as funny as his earlier movies. His newest films are deeply symbolic and philosophical, trying to solve the mystery of the meaning of life. He has relationships with women who have issues, the biggest example being Dorie (Charlotte Rampling) an actress who is deeply troubled with issues such as extreme insecurities, anorexia and mental problems. French actress Marie Christine Barrault plays a French actress who leaves her husband for Woody. The rest of the female cast are made up of women who idolize Sandy Bates. While yes it can be very self-indulgent of Woody Allen to make a film about his own life and his own style while at the same time celebrate the cinema of Fellini and art-house movies, this movie's comic writing is the real winner. The script is terrific and the humor, a mix of modern Jewis humor and intellectual humor, is the kind of comedy that is not seen anymore. Rather than mostly visual, sexual jokes or physical comedy, this comedy is one that has you laughing and thinking at the same time. You have to be a real fan of Woody Allen in order to appreciate this film. The music is mostly jazz. It's a surreal film that makes little sense at times, especially after the character of Sandy Bates has supposedly died and yet we see him alive and well and receiving a posthumous life achievement award. Again, the real winner here is the fabulous writing and much of Woody Allen's best work is in what the characters have to say and how they interact with each other. A Woody Allen classic and a favorite of many. Enjoy Stardust Memories. "},{"Title":"You're a comedian. You want to do Mankind a real service? Tell funnier jokes.","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen is one of those directors whose passionate love for cinema is strikingly evident in virtually everything he touches. 'Stardust Memories' is Allen's affectionate tribute to Federico Fellini's '8½,' which &#150; keen readers might have noticed &#150; I first watched several weeks ago, with a positive, even if not overwhelming, response. The film concerns a director named Sandy Bates (played by Allen), who has matured from the silly comedies with which he started his career, but finds that a serious film is not what the studio and the fans want from him. As he attends a weekend film festival in honour of his numerous works and is constantly harassed by avid fans, Sandy must work to reconcile his attraction to two different women the young and intellectual Daisy (Jessica Harper), and the more maternal Isobel (Marie-Christine Barrault), at the same time plagued by memories of his previous relationship with the dark and emotionally unstable Dorrie (Charlotte Rampling).Despite the Woody Allen's insistence that 'Stardust Memories' is not, in any way, an autobiographical film, you get the sense that he borrowed many of its themes from his own frustrations as a director. For example, Sandy is often told by fans that they preferred his earlier, funny movies to his later, more artistic efforts. Indeed, Allen himself started his career with such unashamedly silly comedies as 'Bananas' and 'Sleeper.' Additionally, perhaps due to the failure of Allen's serious film, 'Interiors (1978),' there is also an underlying hint of condescension towards film critics and audiences, which might go on to explain the film's unfavourable critical reaction upon release.For my part, I found 'Stardust Memories' to be an immensely enjoyable film, both hilarious and thought-provoking. Allen takes us into the very mind of his troubled character, occasionally lapsing into moments of surrealism and presumed dream sequences, including one wacky visitation from shrill-voiced extraterrestrial beings. However, the film's flashback structure proved a bit confusing at times, and it took me a while to work out that Sandy's relationship with Dorrie was something that had happened in the past. There is one fantastic scene near the end of the film that is worth noting Sandy is recalling a moment of his life that was absolutely perfect; when, on an otherwise ordinary day, he is watching Dorrie quietly reading, occasionally glancing up affectionately at him, with Louis Armstrong's Stardust playing in the background. Allen keeps the camera fixed on Dorrie for a good minute, and the scene really does feel&#133; perfect.In the film's final scene, we realise that the film we have been watching is, in fact, Sandy's latest film, with all the cast members present for the opening screening. Having battled with studios, fans, his women and himself, Sandy has translated all his troubles onto the big screen, with apparent success, since we hear critics praising the film's intellectual sophistication. As the theatre empties, we see glimpse Sandy just one final time &#150; or is it Allen, playing himself? Aside perhaps from 'Annie Hall,' this film seems like the most personal Woody Allen film I've seen, and, indeed, the director has often proclaimed it to be one of his favourites. 'Stardust Memories' is an underrated gem. "},{"Title":"Through the Looking Glass","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There comes a time in every director, every writer, every person who creates works of art, when he or she comes against the brick wall of re-evaluation which entails the need to look back and see the mistakes, the paths tread, the work that has been done, the detours, and do an assessment of where now is, where the future -- if there is one -- lies. Woody Allen, no stranger to homages and to the criticism his work -- and its progression -- had received as he went further and further away from the earlier, funnier movies he made, goes into Fellini's territory -- namely, 8 1/2 -- and sums up an array of images that could very well be a neat, carbon copy of what the Italian had made back in 1963. On his way to the Stardust hotel, Sandy Bates views another train filled with passengers (among them a pretty lady who blows him a kiss, none other than Sharon Stone making her film debut and sort of playing the wispy, fleeting role that Caterina Borato played in Fellini's masterpiece). Once he arrives to the hotel, everyone, including aliens, harass him on everything from his earlier comedies (which were much better according to them) to the most trivial of aspects, one of them which is his sister demanding that he take more charge of her life. At the same time, Sandy juggles affairs with several women, among them the blonde Isobel (Marie Christine Barrault, a neat substitute for Mia Farrow), Dorrie (Charlotte Rampling, a nice variation on Diane Keaton), and Daisy (Jessica Harper, ditto). STARDUST MEMORIES looks equally as great as MANHATTAN, being shot in the same textured black and white, but unless the viewer is in on the joke, this one may fall a bit flat on its face due to the very reflexiveness of its story. However, without resorting to the excesses that Fellini did in 8 1/2 (no scenes of women fighting over him, loudly, in a very Italian mode), it's darkly funny in that very personal Woody way that has become his staple. This is Woody facing his own career, his own life, even when it seems to have been done a little too early in his career which continues alive and well today, a quarter of a century later. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen can't decide, and neither can I","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen can't decide (at this point in his career) if he wants to make funny or serious films; I can't decide if (and how much) I like Stardust Memories. The term  mixed bag was invented for films like this; on one hand, it has several layers of self reflection (it's a movie about a director who wants to leave the funny stuff behind but can't quite bring himself to, and the movie itself has a lot less funny stuff than Allen's early films, but certainly a lot more than Interiors, plus there are movies-within-the movie-within-the-movie), some great lines (If I identified with a Greek mythological character, it wouldn't be Narcissus - Who would it be? - Zeus!), a couple of inexplicably magical moments (the hot air balloons), and three extremely beautiful women (my favorite is Marie Christine Barrault). On the other hand, it has practically no plot (I'd say approximately 70% of the movie is Woody being pestered by fans and signing autographs), it feels aimless, and it's a little hard to stomach that the three aforementioned extremely beautiful women (four, if you count the room service by an eager young female fan) all have the hots for Woody. I guess this whole movie is a matter of perspective if you like it, you'll call it free-form. If you don't, you'll find it formless. One thing is beyond doubt, however Woody's taste in music is impeccable. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"what happened in 1980","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently did a review of Ordinary People and stated I don't know how it won the academy award for best picture, the movies of 1980 must have been terrible. After watch Stardust Memories It answered my question, yes the movies of 1980 were terrible. I could not stand this film at all. It was a film about completely nothing, or at least thats what I got from it. Yes there there's kinda of a type of love story in the film but it really plays out to nothing when you find out the whole movie was just a movie. I admit yes that was an interesting twist but not a big enough twist to make me forget the two hours of nothing going on before that.The scene towards the end where they arrive at the fair like place just made zero sense to me. The movie tried very hard to be funny and I'm not sure I even cracked a smile during it. I felt like it was Woddy Allen trying to get us to feel bad for him and the pressure directors face. My response to that was why doesn't he wipe his tears with his millions of dollars. This was what I believe to be my first Woddy Allen experience and think it may be my last. Usually I like to search out for at least one or two good aspects of a film I didn't enjoy, but for this I found none. I hate to be that kind of person so negative but this movie I just couldn't stand. "},{"Title":"His greatest ever joke?","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I better start with an announcement I like Mr. Allen's funny films, satirical films, funny/serious films and serious films. I like his films with clear cut narratives &#x96;and the ones without snappy story lines. He can be as absurd, reality driven, epicurean, ascetic, experimental or conventional as he pleases with his films and ideas, this won't be my argument whether his film works on me or not. I find his films worth watching, some I love a lot. And his love or dislike for fans and critics... I don't think he's made up his mind about them. And then I arrive at the closing shot of Stardust Memories Sandy picks up his sunglasses in the empty cinema hall, puts them on, and is about to walk away but turns around to stare at the now dead silver screen &#x96;before he finally exits the picture and apparently leaves the place, walking with a serious face, hands in his pockets. Still thinking of, and agreeing with one of the closing lines (...but the role was just too thin) I find the shot both most regrettable and most pathetic ever in Allen's films. But as this intentional cliché of a scene is Stardust Memories condensed, it is very revealing, too. In it your find condensed an attempt to impress by suggesting a deeper meaning or vision than Stardust Memories actually possesses. So please, Mr. Allen, stop poking my eye with your finger. I unravelled your point long ago. You made Stardust Memories to present us both thinnest characters and most tiresome clichés of your career that far in order to reveal the collective masturbation of filmmakers and their audiences. I'm so sorry. I wanted to be up for it &#x96;I just wasn't up to it.How does Sandy reason his reluctance to make funny films? I look around the world and all I see is human suffering. Whether that is a joke or not, Sandy is about the least interesting character that Mr. Allen has created.Or is the last shot his greatest ever joke? To be understood in connection with remarks made by the audience and his actors leaving the cinema...? Well, I just can't care less. And for this reason Stardust Memories falls flat on me. I feel very sad with this. "},{"Title":"The Amazing Sandy","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's interesting that this is one of the few Allen films not on DVD which I think is a crying shame.I've written a few reviews now and this is my only 10 so far. It certainly won't be to everyone's taste, but to me it's a great piece of work.In 1989 there was a series on BBC2 called 'Moviedrome', introduced by Alex Cox. That's where I came across this - among other things, Cox cites 'two minutes of Charlotte Rampling' as being 'serious and amazing'. He's not wrong. Of course there will be the inevitable comparisons with Godard and others, well documented elsewhere, accusing Allen of derivation dressed up as homage, but the sequence showing only Dorrie's head will stay with you, guaranteed. You get a number of short statements that illustrate her see saw mental state at a particular moment, and the way Allen makes her face reflect her manic, up down washed out condition is deftly expedited.There are other things worth watching for - and I'm ignoring the obvious felliniesque nature of the car arriving at the hotel etc etc. He can't quite leave the humour alone, but it's when he's being sentimental I feel he's at his most effective. The bit with Potatohead Blues playing on the Sunday morning as he's looking at Dorrie reading the magazine just did it for me. Haven't we all experienced that one exquisite moment when it all just comes together? You can't have it again, it won't be repeated, but we have all been there. That's why this film works - it's not private suffering 'fobbed off as art'. It's an artist, an auteur, articulating a personal point of view on film that his audience can empathise with, and attach their own personal moments to.There is humour, of course, delivered in true Allen style, and unresolved issues, like when Daisy is talking to her girlfriend in the phone booth. What was that all about? Sometimes, as Dana Andrews once said, it's better not to know.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"not the best, but mindblowing nonetheless","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Woodman has made better movies, funnier, more graceful, and more profound... Yet this is my favourite by him, or anyone else for that matter. This strikes me as his most cogent work, the one where he not only talks about issues and throws bon-mots around, but also illustrates his points and brings them to life. (Perhaps all of them work on this level, but it seems to me that he's commeting on some of his more profound issues here). Some people find it self-indulgent (and it might be), but there are some flashes of flat-out brilliance that simply cannot be ignored.1) Charlotte Rampling's scenes in the second half. Breathtaking, simply and utterly.2) That fabled Allenesque combination of comedy and philosophy--always talky, but there is a masterful, almost metatextual comment in some of his scenes. (See in particular the scenes with Marie-Christine Barrault.)3) It seems heartfelt. It feels heartfelt... and it touches you.  "},{"Title":"An auto-biography?","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm guessing that Sandy Bates is really an alias for Woody Allen.  From what I've read and seen (in documentaries like Wild Man Blues), Woody Allen is not particularly fond of his fans.  Stardust Memories takes place during a weekend film festival where Sandy Bates is being honored, and what transpires there has been dubbed Fellini-esque by fans of the Italian director.  I haven't seen 8 1/2, so my opinion of this movie may be somewhat biased because I enjoy Allen's films so much.  It is an interesting experiment following his triumph with Manhattan (just as Interiors was a curious follow-up to Annie Hall).   I would not recommend this to anyone but his fans, even though he pretty much says that he can't stand his fans (and the general public) in this film.  The memorable and funny one-liners are there, and the characterizations are sharp (which really comes as no surprise in his post-Annie Hall career).   "}{"Title":"A Woody-head's perfect Woody","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Stardust Memories is often overlooked and overshadowed by Annie Hall and Manhattan, but its charm and beautiful look make it the Woody fan's ideal Woody. Woody's eternal quest to transfer his personal thoughts and insights to the screen is never more alive, as sharp, or as engaging than Stardust Memories.  Take it from one Woody-head, this one is for the his real fans. "},{"Title":"Not a good choice for a 1st woody Allen film","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to say that I was really disappointed in this movie. I've never seen a Woody Allen movie before this one. I'm not sure if I even want to see another one. I understand that he has a totally different structure, but I was 100% confuse and lost ( until the end of the movie.) I thought the directing was a bit off in my opinion. But I have to say he does have a different eye. He uses many techniques in filming and cutting scenes.I did like the shadowing. The movie did keep you awake, because the whole time you were trying to find out what was the meaning of the film. I did like how the ending was filmed and made. He gave you a closure from all your thoughts. Don't think I would recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Self Indulgent?  Sure!  But Name Me A Worthwhile Movie That Wasn't?","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  STARDUST MEMORIES (3+ outta 5 stars)This movie marks the first time that Woody Allen really started to tick audiences off with his unrelenting self-absorption. The story of a comedy film director who is disenchanted with comedy and wants to start doing serious work. Wow, ya think it's autobiographical at all? Actually, I think it's one of Woody's better movies... still funny after all these years. This is Woody's homage to Federico Fellini (mostly the film 8 1/2) but, really, you don't need to have seen the Fellini film to appreciate the humour. (I hadn't the first time I'd seen this.) Stardust Memories is usually dismissed as too self indulgent. So it's self indulgent.. so what? Most of the best movies ever made (and that includes Fellini's) were self indulgent. What matters is that movie is still funny... and, at times, even touching... which is more than I can say for most of Woody's subsequent films. There is a hilarious climactic encounter between Woody and a bunch of extraterrestrial film fans... which shows that Woody still had a sense of humour about himself back then. Only art you can control. Art and masturbation. Two areas in which I am an absolute expert. He seems to have lost that control sometime in the early '90s.  "},{"Title":"It ain't easy being rich and famous....","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Allen plays a successful film maker who agrees to appear at a seaside retrospective of his work - but quickly grows to regret it.A slow and showy film (black and white for no reason) showing fame from an inside perspective it manages to score points, but leaves little room for anyone to shine other than Allen - who, ironically, doesn't really want to.Say what you want about Woody being narcissistic  and self-involved (the autobiographical nature of his films is almost taken as read!), but that doesn't mean there are not little gems to be mined and little truths to be told I have myself noticed how famous people never seem to have a moment for themselves living, as they do, in a world of sleeve-tuggers and chancers. While hardly a Greek tragedy,  who else is making films about it?The central character is certainly a lot more downbeat and depressed than the normal Allen. Depressing images surround him and he seems to view even people as collectibles, the camera lingers on girlfriend Charlotte Rampling almost as if she were an antique vase more than a person.How this film will be viewed in a 100 years time will be interesting, maybe even  as a classic? Unique certainly. The initial audience didn't like it much, because we all know that Allen can be funnier and more inventive; but this is one of the few films that wants to explore the emptiness and alienation of fame. Where people know more about you than you do about them. Where you become, almost, public property. Allen started out as a writer, but it is hard to get your material sold unless you perform it yourself (also true of comedians such as Benny Hill, Mel Brooks and Spike Milligan) and then suddenly you are famous and you are stuck with it. I think that Allen really is a shy man and for a shy man to push himself on to a stage and try and be funny was a brave step. Even as a child he sat in a room thinking of jokes and selling them to newspapers, earning good money at it too. Something drives him (and I doubt it is money) and I haven't put my finger on it. Fame, for Allen, is an unpleasant by-product of success, like cavities are a national by-product of too much sugar, both to be accepted, but certainly not enjoyed.While only a minor film with limited tricks, this is almost a horror movie set not in darkness among people that want to hurt or rob, but in bright sunshine among people that  want to praise, support and coattail.Easy to see why people don't enjoy it though and watching it twice would be a folly. "},{"Title":"the most undervalued Woody Allen","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The strangest thing about this movie is why do I love it, more and more as time goes by? I don't know. The first time I saw it, I was 16 and I didn't understand it at all. Now that almost 10 year have passed, it's one of my Allen's favorite. There are Marie-Christine Barrault (what a beauty), Charlotte Rampling (you don't know whether to fall in love with her or to let her fall from a sky-craper)and Woody here wears perfectly his Annie Hall pants that make me feel so good every time... It's only for a public of Allen's adept, so if you're looking for an easy-watching movie, you'd better search somewhere else. "},{"Title":"A good idea badly executed","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story of a writer-director at a crossroads in both his personal and professional lives, the film is a good idea badly executed. I understand that it was inspired by and parodies Federico Fellini's film 8½ but I haven't seen that so I can't comment on any of the specific references to it. While his career and that of the protagonist Sandy Bates have followed similar paths, Woody Allen has always denied that the film was intended to be autobiographical. I am inclined to believe him, not least because he is a far more interesting man than the character that he created in the story. The film is a very frustrating one as it had such great potential. There are moments of absolute brilliance but they are few and far between, adrift in a sea of pretentiousness, bad writing and inadequate characterisation. On the bright side, the film has a fantastic look. However, I've always felt that films that look good but are badly written aren't worth very much.The best thing about the film is Allen's excellent performance as Sandy Bates, a director who no longer wishes to make the funny films that made his name and has instead turned to more artistic endeavours. At a retrospective of his work at a weekend film seminar, Sandy goes through an existential midlife crisis. He seems to have been living a life of quiet desperation for quite some time but things come to a head over the course of several stressful, slightly bizarre days. He is torn between his feelings for Isobel (Marie-Christine Barrault), a French former political activist who has just left her husband for him, and Daisy (Jessica Harper), a damaged, artistic intellectual. At the same time, he is haunted by memories of his ex-girlfriend and ex-muse Dorrie (Charlotte Rampling), who was the most wonderful woman in the world for two days out of every month and an emotionally unstable, self-hating neurotic the rest of the time. All three actresses, particularly Rampling, give good performances but their roles are underwritten and not entirely convincing. For instance, Dorrie should be a fascinating character but she is actually rather an uninteresting one. I imagine that it was intentional that the audience feel as if they did not really know her by the end of the film since the same was arguably true of Sandy but her scenes are not handled anywhere near as well as they could have been. The film features a nice cameo from Tony Roberts playing either a fictionalised version of himself or a fictional character with the same name. While she does not have any lines, Sharon Stone nevertheless makes a memorable film debut as the girl on the train in the film-within-the-film. As a huge Star Trek fan, I loved seeing two of its future stars, Brent Spiner and Armin Shimerman, pop up in blink-and-you'll-miss-them roles.The film is stronger when it parodies peoples' attitudes towards celebrities. At the seminar, Sandy is accosted by overly enthusiastic fans, a girl who sneaked into his hotel room to have sex with him, people who want him to speak at various other events, aspiring actors and pseudo-individuals. There are a few very funny moments featuring film buffs trying to find deeper meaning in Sandy's early, funny ones when there were seemingly none to be found. Some fans and critics interpreted these scenes as Allen's hostility towards and perhaps even contempt for his audience but I think that they were making the same mistake as the characters in the film. I interpreted them as being Allen's satirical take on celebrity culture rather than an attempt to insult anyone, frankly. At one point, Sandy hallucinates that he has been shot and killed by an obsessed fan. This is a rather creepy moment in retrospect as the same fate befell John Lennon not three months after the film was released.Sandy's hallucinations are the weakest part of the film as they are essentially a pretentious exercise in self-indulgence. Now, there's nothing wrong with a little self-indulgence if it is done well but, sadly, that wasn't the case here. I found these scenes boring and pointless. At the beginning of the film, we see a clip of Sandy's latest film in which he tries too hard to be artistic. His real life counterpart made the same mistake, I'm afraid. Speaking of Sandy's film, I did rather enjoy the scenes in which he objects to the studio re-editing it and giving it a happy ending. He claims that they have basically destroyed his film as they have compromised his artistic vision. As is well known, studios have a tendency to do this in reality and a few directors have even gone so far as to take their names off of their films in protest. Sandy strikes me as the sort of man who would do so if the Jazz Heaven ending was forced through by the studio and I can't really blame him there as it would not be the film that he made. That said, based on what he see of his film, I would not want to watch it in any event.Overall, this was a deeply frustrating and disappointing film. It had an interesting idea which was lost somewhere along the way. "},{"Title":"How do you recognize the talented artist? He's the only one who doesn't recognize his talent ...","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Only Art you can control, art and masturbation. Two areas in which I am an absolute expert. Anyone would immediately guess from which director is capable of such a hilarious self-deriding line. Indeed, Woody Allen is a comedic landmark, the best American cinematic exportation to the European market. And this is only justice since the roots of his comedic geniality, besides the Eastern-Jewish humor, two filmmakers complete the European connection Federico Fellini, the visionary and Ingmar Bergman, the introspective. Both Fellini and Bergman drove Allen's own contemplation of the world while Fellini explores the depths of one's inner demons, lusts, and repressed impulses, Bergman elevates them to their world, questioning the place of men within their own condition. Allen never denied these two influences but it was not until the pinnacle of his slapstick career that he made them more obvious.Allen's tendency for homages could be foreseen in Love and Death, a hilarious historical film parodying some iconic shots of Bergman's Persona. Annie Hall and Manhattan intellectualized the relationships between men and women, but it was Interiors that provided the most proper cinematic expression to Allen's torments. The film was a clear homage to Bergman style-wise, but it was saying more about the conflict in Allen's own creative process, as if he was facing a sort of existential block, trivializing the achievements of the past, and questioning the reason-to-be of his work. If not mocking, Allen was questioning his own status as an intellectual clown. He made people laugh, so what? This nothingness might even echo the dichotomy between art and masturbation, as if his oeuvre had no other purpose than satisfying an immediate, egoistical impulse, but leave nothing substantial for posterity.Through Stardust Memories, released in 1980, Woody Allen is still stuck in his middle- career crisis, incapable to consider with objectivity the value of his work. Yet this time, it's not Bergman, it's not the Ego vs. Rest of the World perspective that is underlined, but Ego vs. Subconscious. For such a diagnosis, the themes developed in Stardust Memories mirror Federico Fellini's 8½, the masterpiece chronicling the process of a film-maker's own actions and their incessant interferences with the impulses, grieves, childhood memories and personal fantasies. Both movies are in black and white and the references are obvious, just like Interiors that started with immobile contemplative shots of 'dead' nature; the very opening of Stardust Memories is an immediate reference to Fellini. Woody Allen, playing a fictional alter-ego director, Sandy Bates, stuck in a train full of sad-looking people, can't stand the suffocating atmosphere, forcing him to leave it immediately.However, the comparison with Fellini shouldn't undermine the review but only guide it to a better comprehension of Allen's motives behind the unusual format of Stardust Memories. If one thing, the episodes are not disjointed and the movie is quite easy to follow; in fact, it even suffers from being too explicit at times. In one hilarious scene, Bates implodes all his anger toward an Alien presence, revealing his frustration not to be able to provide something more transcending than humor. I had to watch the Alien scene again, and I was quite satisfied with my previous review of Interiors, which was expressing through a Family crisis, Allen's own fears and dilemmas, and in Stardust Memories, they're just thrown away with words, speeches, rants leaving no room for symbolism and creativity.Fellini created a deliberate confusion from which something genuinely creative graced the silver screen, and left the viewer with an optimistic feeling, a hope in Art, as something that one can only control if he gets himself carried by his emotions and personal sensitivity. In Stardust Memories, Woody Allen doesn't paint a fantasy but take a photograph of his existential crisis. He's a successful comedic director, loved and admired, but the way he depicts his fans and groupies as a bunch of variously pathetic, needy, weird losers says a lot about the vision he has of his own success, something shallow and meaningless. Bates is just a man who pleases the crowd because he incarnates the inner sexiness of an ugly or nerdy man with humor. Allen is known to be a master of self-derision, in Stardust Memories, he sins by being harsher than usual toward himself. Yet Stardust Memories never gets too dark or pessimistic; not only it maintains the comedic tone but keeps us hoping about Allen. If he doesn't admire himself, probably putting himself lower than Fellini or Bergman, he doesn't omit the role of women in his life. Stardust Memories' romantic undertones are essential because they demonstrate that Allen, like every great man, has a woman behind him. He's attracted by the intellectual Jessica Harper, the sweet and maternal Marie-Christine Barrault but can't get off the beautiful and sophisticated Charlotte Rampling, so brilliant she can't find the path of her life in a world full of interrogations. Allen can be a mentor, a baby, or stands on an equal cerebral footing. The harmony he finds in his inspiration relies on his capacity to be that three-dimensional love- wise and therefore incapable to be satisfied. In the same vein than Interiors, Stardust Memories is a pivotal moment in Allen's career, maybe the film didn't meet the success because people expected something exuberant and flamboyant a la Fellini. Ebert thought the film was frustrating because it was a depressing movie about a lack of inspiration. Well, Allen is never as funny as when he's pushing himself down. He's a man of contradictions, wishing he could make people take his humor seriously, but his vision of life is so full of fatalism, of absurdity, of an incapacity to find the right woman, that comedy remains the only proper medium to express his own disillusions. So, paraphrasing a line from Interiors, not only Woody Allen has the anxiety of a true artist, but he also has the talent, and both show in Stardust Memories. "},{"Title":"A bit of a cult item from Woody Allen","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stardust Memories seems to be a somewhat divisive Woody Allen movie. In it Allen plays a film director who attends a retrospective of his work at the Stardust Hotel. While there he is constantly harassed by fans who bestow unconditional devotion on him. His contempt for them is quite clear. It's this last bit that has made this movie so divisive amongst Allen fans. A few seemed to have taken some offence at this. Allen has been at pains to say that Stardust Memories isn't autobiographical at all. Well, no one can say for sure but to be perfectly honest a movie where Allen stars as a film director frustrated with a public who want him to make more funny films when he wants to make serious ones really sounds a little bit autobiographical but what do I know? Like several of Allen's movies this one is shot in black and white. It's one of his most interesting looking films. There are several comic segments taken from the movies in the retrospective scattered throughout the film. These are all beautifully conceived, funny and original. Their fantastical nature only adds to the interesting aesthetic, along with a beautiful montage of images of Charlotte Rampling towards the end. It's overall a visually bold film. The combination of comic fantasy, flashbacks and serious drama make for involving viewing.Overall, Stardust Memories is one of Allen's finest efforts. Its combination of the autobiographical and the inventive is very successful. It's a movie that probably deserves at least two viewings in order to fully appreciate it. Furthermore, it ends with a very nice little twist that just makes it even better. "},{"Title":"Onanistic","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this film at the cinema in 1980 and again, on television, a few years later. It has been a bit difficult to find in recent years but it turned up last night on MGM's new HD channel. I enjoyed it the first couple of times but, at this third viewing, I enjoyed it even more. It does not seem to have lost any of it's originality over the last 30 years and maybe it just strikes a resonance with my 30 years older self.The film appears to be autobiographical with the Allen character being named Sandy Bates. He attends a weekend retrospective of his films where he is constantly hounded by admiring fans. There are flashbacks to his Brooklyn childhood and also to the great love of his life with Dorrie, played by a frighteningly twitchy Charlotte Rampling. He has a dalliance with Daisy, radiantly played by Jessica Harper, who seems to remind him of Dorrie. He is joined by his current lover Isobel, serenely played by Marie-Christine Barrault who seems to offer him the prospect of stability with a ready-made family.Stardust Memories reminds me of Fellini's 8½ in both style and content. When asked, at a question and answer session if one of his films is an homage, his friend Tony replies An homage? Not exactly, we just stole the idea outright. I think that is Woody getting his retaliation in first. Similarly the comment that we keep on getting from fans that they love his films particularly the early, funny ones. The other film that came to mind was the 1997 documentary Wild Man Blues. In real life Woody also seems to be constantly accosted by people telling him that they are his greatest fan.The film has some great one-liners, most of which are listed in the quotes section on this page so I will not repeat them. As usual there is some wonderful music, notably Django playing Body and Soul and Louis Armstrong playing Stardust. It also has considerable psychological insight. There is a touching scene when Sandy describes a moment of happiness gazing at the woman he loves while listening to Louis Armstrong. I suppose that's better than gazing at Louis Armstrong while listening to the woman you love.On a couple of occasions in this film Woody continues his lifelong endorsement of masturbation. For example &#x85; only art you can control. Art and masturbation. Two areas in which I am an absolute expert. I cannot imagine that it is chance that his character is named Bates. Presumably in the childhood flashbacks he is Master Bates. "},{"Title":"A Juxtaposed Mess","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have a tough time reviewing this movie, and even a tougher time recommending it to anyone. On one hand, you've got Woody Allen's most daring script, and most abstract film structure - and overall thematically his tightest movie. On the other hand, you have a movie that's incredibly dark, almost absent of the neuroticism that makes Allen movies Allen movies.That being said, I found myself equal parts enjoying and confused by this movie. I like the idea of the movie being told in flashbacks at a lecture that Allen is giving, but the structure of the movie doesn't give that away til the end. So you're stuck wondering if the movie is a dream or not, it almost takes away from following what kind of meandering plot there is.The movie is also incredibly European, I feel like this film was shot specifically for Cannes. That being said, Allen still finds his trademark ways to get his neurotic nature in there, and for some reason STILL ends up with women that he has no business being with. However, like I said in the opening, this movie has straddled the line between American film and European experiment, neither excelling or faltering at either. So this film simply is, and proceed at your own risk. "}{"Title":"Woody's 8 1/2 - too much so","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen was one of the first auteurs in whom I became interested. Like many things I liked when I was a teenager, I've pretty much entirely left Allen behind at this point in my life. I don't generally stay faithful to artists for too long, unless they're consistent (the Coen Bros. come to mind). By the time I started liking Allen, he was already starting to falter. I personally gave up on Everyone Knows I Love You, even though a lot of people find that to be one of his best later films. Over time, I've even lost interest in his great films. I never did, for instance, buy Annie Hall on DVD. Stardust Memories came after Allen had succeeded as an artist. Not only had he made many comedy classics, he was able to become more serious and insightful, with movies like Annie Hall and Manhattan, and was still a success. Even Interiors, a fully serious film, was quite successful. Stardust Memories stars Allen as himself, with the name Sandy Bates. He's a successful director, but he's starting to question himself. Plus, though he's had great success as a comedy director, he doesn't find anything funny about life anymore. The film, however, is a comedy. The film takes place at a week-long retrospective of his work thus far, where he's repeatedly molested by his fans. He also obsesses over a new woman he meets, while also obsessing over his past loves. The film is Woody Allen's 8 1/2, quite unambiguously. In fact, in my mind, that's its fatal flaw. Interiors was Woody's Bergman tribute. But, even though he was mimicking Bergman, it was its own film. Stardust Memories, on the other hand, comes off as a full-blown rip-off of Fellini's masterpiece. The only difference is that the humor is Allen's and not Fellini's. But Allen's sense of humor is pretty much identical to that of his other films, so there's no compelling reason to watch this film. It's not necessarily bad, but it's unnecessary. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the interesting things about a great work of art is how, upon re-experience, it a) holds up and/or b) deepens and filigrees into something even better. From the first time I saw Woody Allen's 88 minute long black and white 1980 film Stardust Memories (made early on in Woody's Golden Era of 1977-1992), on a VHS tape, I knew I was watching one of the greatest films ever made. In the years, and 12-15 rewatchings of the film (progressing to DVD), nothing has changed my mind in this regard. Not even the red herring of linking this film to Federico Fellini's 1964 opus 8½. Having just rewatched the film, I can state not only is it one of the greatest films ever made, but arguably Allen's greatest film (although fans of Another Woman and Crimes And Misdemeanors may have a case), and definitively better a film than Fellini's (which is only arguably a great film)- for its humor, concision, lack of pretension, and screenplay, which, truth be told, is not nearly as big an influence on this film as Allen's most dogged critics claim.The reason for the greatness of Stardust Memories can be summed up in one phrase fear of failure. That is what holds the outer film (and its reality into the world) together, although the fear of success is also an integral part of the film's inner world. Let me explain. The fear of failure is one of the most important things any artist, especially the great, can have. Why? Because it kills the ego, and spurs the artist to innovate and try new techniques to keep their art ahead of the curve. Without such a fear, artists grow fat and sassy, and lose the demiurge to create, or at least to challenge themselves and their audiences. Need proof? Just think of the vast majority of aging artists, but most especially those who were once great. How many aging musicians and rock groups have never been able to equal their greatest early hits? How many writers have penned bloated egotistical tomes that are pallid reflections of an earlier work? How many visual artists have bled dry the one nugget or &#150;ism they made their name on? And one need only look at the dozen or more films that Allen, himself, has made since his Golden Era ended- mostly lesser reworks of themes his greater films tackled better. Like many before him, Allen has settled into the Old Artist Syndrome, just coasting on his laurels (considerable though they may be).But, it is the fear of failure that gets into the great artist and makes him experiment and risk failure. Stardust Memories is one of the most experimental films of all times- in its screenplay, its visuals, its humor, its use of time and reality, as well as its ability to question the very notion of the artist and the self. Most great works of art are lucky to tackle a single one of these aspects in a new manner. Yet, while the fear of failure dominates the essence of the film in the real world, it is also the very core of the film within. The lead characters are all obsessed with failing. Some try to grow and are slapped down by the powers that be. Some give in to their own fears. Some are so timid they do nothing at all, and some try to change, only to make asses of themselves. And it is this fact, this inner examination of the fear of failure that provoked such a hostile reaction from almost all critics upon the film's release nearly three decades ago&#133;. Great art perdures whereas culture is a whimsical thing. Something lauded one year becomes déclassé the next, and vice versa. But the elements that constitute a great work of art remain- excellence of craft; a deeper revelation of reality- especially if of something the audience presumes to already know (in this case, Allen's own personae and politics); and a broad appeal to the intellectual as well as the emotional sides of a viewer. Too often, poor art strives to hit just one of those aspects. If it goes too intellectual it often becomes pompous, pretentious, and didactic. If it shoots merely for the emotional it becomes sappy, maudlin, and predictable. Stardust Memories succeeds on both counts, as one of the most intellectually challenging films ever made, yet also one of the most humorously entertaining, as it deals with the nonsense that all humans deal with, and slough off, and also as it asks deep questions, such as when Sandy Bates is approached by an old pal he played stickball with, and who is envious of him. Bates replies that their fortunes were largely determined by luck, which is a fearful thing, for it means the utter lack of control in life. Yet, Bates delivers this shiv of knowledge so thoughtfully and empathetically, that his old pal seems relieved, even happy, even though Bates and we, the audience, know that that character is doomed to an utterly meaningless existence. And it is just such moments, delivered so matter of factly, that are often missing in lesser films, even if only missed in great films. Watch Stardust Memories a few times, and it is like watching a different film each time, but in the best sense of the notion. There really is nothing more to say, is there? "},{"Title":"Dark Look at the Pressures of Celebrity","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film has really divided many of Woody Allen's fans and critics. Some believe it to be his masterpiece, while others find it mean-spirited and self-indulgent. Allen stars as Sandy Bates, a successful comedy film-maker who wants to branch out into more serious work and make a difference in the world, much to the horror of the studio, his staff and his fans. Attending a weekend-long festival of his work at a hotel, Bates attempts to sort out his relationships with the three women in his life, while dealing with his doubts about life and art and avoiding annoying and intrusive fans and critics.Heavily influenced by Federico Fellini, especially Eight and a Half, the film manages an interesting look at the pressures of celebrity. Interestingly, the crisis that Bates is going through in the film, in regards to his work, is similar to what Woody Allen was going through when this film was made. He was trying to break away from the style of films that had made him famous. The film passes, almost imperceptibly at times, between reality, memory, fantasy and scenes from Bates' films. Many fans were angered by the pretty savage portrayal of the fans in this film (though Woody Allen swore that this was not an accurate portrayal of how he saw his audience).The film is self-indulgent, but then so are many works of art, which is what this film definitely is. Beautifully photographed in black-and-white and very well acted by a talented cast and often very funny, the film also raises some very serious questions.You may find it very difficult to like Sandy Bates, or to really like the film, but it is worth watching at least once.Probably this is one of Woody Allen's most striking and memorable films. "},{"Title":"Half comedy, half abstract art","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this film confusing. Is this a romance-comedy, or a sad story of afamous man? I think this is a very experimental film, with amazingly artistic techniques. Probably this movie could have been a better one if Woody hadn't even tried to make this a comedy, and focused on the sadness of the main character. Stardust Memories has too much seriousness as a comedy, and too little details as a serious drama. To me this movie was like, I'd say,  an   abstract art by a confused filmmaker, and I can't like this film as much as Annie Hall. "},{"Title":"luxurious b/w","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Close to Fellini's 8 e mezzo, this is one of the major works of Allen's career funniest, bittersweet tale about being a celebrity. Both Charlotte Rampling and Marie Christine Barrault are beautifully shoted and directed. A must see film, nowadays more than in 1980.  "},{"Title":"Fon-dust Memories","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was sixteen. I had to drag my mom (a nice, normal kind of mom) out to see it with me. I think she fell asleep, but I was riveted. This movie single-handedly made me into a film lover and a jazz lover ... all in one afternoon. I went back the next day to see the movie again and to hear THAT music again. After the movie I searched high and low for a cassette containing both Body and Soul and Stardust.I'm not a filmmaker and feel very uncomfortable making any comments on any technical aspects of the film, but I'll make a few non-controversial remarks. I loved the collage quality of whole thing. For me, it never needed it to feel any more bound together than it was. I loved the scenes -- the freakshow, the hypocrisy of fans, the genuine tentativeness that sometimes comes with life (those scenes throwing Sandy together with children and animals), the scene where Sandy and Dorrie are reading the Sunday paper ... the movie just made sense to me. It felt like life itself, god knows, not MY life, but someone's REAL life. Seems strange since there were so many caricatures, but I guess that's how we process people in our minds. We can't possibly have room up there to store all the details of everybody and the less important ones become easily sorted extremes of themselves ... and it WAS about memories. Who remembers all the details about superfluous folk from days gone by? Don't memories take on that dreamy quality after awhile?No matter what movies come down the road, this will always be one of my favorites because I just love the way it influenced my life. "},{"Title":"Fellini-esque portrait of the artist","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  But is the artist Woody Allen himself?  It's obvious that the circumstances are similar if not the same, but an overly literal translation of Stardust Memories seems to be what essentially caused critics and fans to dislike it.  If one can watch Stardust Memories without drawing comparisons to Woody's maturing cinematic talent from the early 70s (Bananas, Sleeper) to the end of the 70s (Interiors, Manhattan), then he will be treated to a feast of visuals and moods in the style of Federico Fellini wonderfully crafted by Woody and legendary cinematographer Gordon Willis.  The film is certainly funny and has its share of Woody one-liners, but to watch it to laugh is to watch it for the wrong reasons.  If you watch the film to think, and go into it with the mindset usually reserved for drama, you will find yourself laughing more.  Woody Allen proved himself more than a comedian with Annie Hall, a fine dramatic voice with Interiors, and simply one of the finest filmmakers ever with my all time favorite film Manhattan.  Stardust Memories is the culmination of these three films, which, although it would be denied, probably gives the viewer a pretty good idea of where Woody was at with critics and fans at the time.  The only Woody Allen film I would recommend more highly than Stardust Memories is Manhattan. "},{"Title":"Lost but Found","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Allen is in total control of this film made about a director who has lost confidence in his craft and  who indulges in sophisticated daydreams.  In the midst of so many fans who will believe in anything he would say, Sandy Bates fakes it, because he feels that he has nothing worth being said. Reflecting Fellini's Eight and a Half, Bates dodges the reality of his craft while reminiscing about love affairs, childhood and family.   He would rather be a ten-year old doing silent magic tricks.  As for love, he sways between the memory of a brief moment of silent and shared happiness with Dorrie, and the short phrases delivered by an institutionalized, pathetic Dorrie.  Funnier and more tightly written and directed than any film he had done so far, Allen uses Bates' ramblings to make fun of movies, fans and himself, but delivers a tightly crafted piece of movie-making.  "},{"Title":"Woody's life in turnaround in the late 70's","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you can tolerate the film within a film within another film framework, this movie has a lot to offer. While short on physical comedy and light on the classic one-liners, this film ponders some age-old philosophical questions and displays some of Allen's (and many people's) social weaknesses. The music, as usual, provides a pleasant and sometimes moving accompaniment to the visual action. The acting is, as usual again, natural and understated. The scenery is filled with symbolic touches for the discerning viewer. "},{"Title":"Woody does Fellini, unfortunately not as well","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Alright so every great artist takes some inspiration from the colleagues in their field in modern times. And clearly u can tell throughout Woody Allen's work the inspiration he receives from European directors, Fellini and Bergman. But in this movie he hits u over the head with 8 1/2 directed by Federico Fellini, and unlike Hannah and Her sisters, which was largely inspired by Fanny and Alexander directed by Ingmar Bergman, his tribute falls short of worthy. Woody Allen is a Dissatisfied Director who agrees to spend a weekend at a film festival honoring his movies. He's swarmed by fans trying to tell him story ideas, asking for autographs and telling him how much they like his earlier works. Throughout the weekend, He meets and falls in love with different women too. Like I said earlier, this film feels a lot like a dream or a fantasy in parts like 8 1/2. It also feels like Woody is saying to his fans to back off after his previous movie was criticized. I think the story is great and the cinematography fits well in black and white. Te acting also works with the story but no performance is special. And the music is typical Woody Allen jazz.Overall above average movie but fails to be a great tribute to Federico Fellini, and 8 1/2.6/10 "}{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Arbitrarily making a movie in black-and-white does not automatically mean it will be a visual masterpiece; however, in this case, the choice to film without color strongly enhances the film's visual presence.  Shadows, silhouettes, and starkness all play an important role.  The story itself is also fascinating, although the script is at times less than satisfying. This is probably one of Allen's best films, visually, but also one of his most mediocre, regarding other elements. "},{"Title":"Woody's most self indulgent film","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All Woody's films are self indulgent, but this one takes the cake.  Filmed in black and white, it tells the story of a director, very much like himself who goes to a film festival of his own films and watches everyone pan them. The plot is a huge mess, several actors are wasted, but its certainly not unwatchable.  You can certainly see but Woody was going for, but unfortunately he fails to deliver.  Interesting at best. 5.6/10. "},{"Title":"Something to have on in the background while you're speedreading Schopenhauer","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's 1980 attempt to flee the comedy ghetto and join Bergman and Fellini on the artistic heights may have been cathartic for him, and I'm glad other folks have been enjoying it, but we couldn't stay with it for long. The film opens with a little Felliniesque riff that's actually pretty great&#x97;Woody's trapped on a train full of scowling grotesques; there's another train full of glamorous revelers (including Sharon Stone) on a parallel track, but the passengers from both trains end up at the same unsavory destination. It's only when Woody imitates Woody that he starts to bomb. The verbal gags are uninspired (Charlotte Rampling You're a great kisser. Woody It was my major in college. Btw, my wife says she can tell just by looking that he's not.). It was funny when he was cornered by a lobster in Annie Hall, not so much when he's panicked by a pigeon in this one. One more thing if the Woodman really sees his fans as a pack of hairy-nosed, frizzy-haired pests and losers, maybe that's something he should have kept between him and his therapist. Interesting cast, but we didn't hang around long enough to catch Tony Roberts or Marie-Christine Barrault. In retrospect, seems like Woody was in a five-year slump between Manhattan and Broadway Danny Rose, during which he released two other films&#x97;one unmemorable (Zelig), the other unwatchable (A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy). "},{"Title":"Sketchy but funny in parts! 5/10","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Review This film felt more like a series of sketches than a whole movie. The storyline is all over the place and I didn't have a clue what was going on most of the time, but I understood the main concept which was that the popular filmmaker is fed up with the critics questioning his work and his love life is a right mess. Basically, it's your usual Woody Allen movie, were he uses every chance to get his leg over. As this movie was made in the early 80's, I can actually imagine Woody Allen's life being like it is in the movie, with the paparazzi constantly on his tale, fans asking for autograph and many beautiful women on his tale but it eventually leads to him losing the plot. He eventually becomes tired of making funny movies and I have actually witnessed this after watching a lot of his movies. He seems to sway from comedy to drama through his career so he obviously had this problem in his real life. Anyway, the film is funny in parts but the storyline is sketchy. Watchable! Round-Up After watching a few of Woody Allen's movies, I'm beginning to see a pattern with the box office takings, which isn't that great. He only started to make serious money when he decided to stick to writing and directing, which must have been a tough decision because he seems to be the main character in most of his earlier projects. He still adds some of his warped sense of his humour to his latter scripts, but he doesn't have that million words per minute, annoying humour, which I saw in some of the scenes in this movie. At the end of the day, this is a watchable movie which is better than some of his latter projects, but I'm still struggling to understand the mind behind his work.Budget $10million Worldwide Gross $10.3millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a popular director who is going through a nervous breakdown because of the pressure of being a comedy genius and his constant problems with relationships. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Allen tries a Fellini and gets a....","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some excellent comedy writing, astounding photography and Woody Allen personally spewing his inner conflicts all over the audience.Fellini was a master of the circus, Allen is a more personal intimate director. Fellini understood that for 8 1/2 to work he needed an alter-ego to represent himself. Allen, unfortunately, choose himself to play not himself. The film works, doesn't work and ended up infuriating me. Allen's signature neurotic whine is overwhelming at times, something that his other films don't have a problem with.It's laudable that Allen wanted to change his artistic direction after a decade plus of comedies it's his contempt for his fan base that irritates me. Imagine a French restaurant suddenly serving Thai food. Even if it's the best Thai food ever, the customers are going to be upset and wanting the French food to come back. Chaplin had the same problem when he made Monseuir Verdoux. The lovable tramp's now a killer!!! But in Allen's defense, most of us will never have to deal with crazy fans and I'm sure that most of the appalling fan behavior in this film is based on true experience as is the idiotic babbling of the film intellectuals.There is a disturbing scene where Allen's character is accused of pedophilia while in the background there is a huge blow-up of a news headline about incest. Well, we can't say we weren't warned.Overall a good experiment, one that Allen hasn't really tried to do again. It certainly is unique in his filmography. It's hard to classify a film that veers from comedy to drama with such a surreal style. If you want feel good comedy avoid this. If you want a straight drama avoid it too. If you are looking for a challenging experience,,,well. "},{"Title":"I Really, Really Wanted to Like This More","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I had an opportunity to see this again (the first time was about 25 years ago) I hoped to find new insights and meaning in it.Nope. It's still a silly, self-indulgent mess. A silly, self-indulgent mess created by a genius, but still... Sure, it's not painfully bad like Hollywood ENDING, but there are too many false notes struck here.In Sandy's apartment there's a wall size blow-up of a news photograph of a man just before he's executed by a bullet to the brain. Yes, indeed, this is what you'd want to see in your home on a Monday morning at 630. Strike one.Throughout the film Sandy and the people within his circle are surrounded by people who look as if they were cast by Freaks, Inc. Because Fellini cast unusual looking people in his films, Allen feels compelled to do the same. When Sandy goes with his girlfriend to visit his sister and her husband, there's not a normal looking person in sight. Bad hair, unflattering glasses, bad wardrobes. The message is clear if you don't live on the upper west side of Manhattan it's Welcome to Hell. There's an ugly word for Allen's attitude toward people outside his narrow circle provincialism. Watch DOC Hollywood for a wonderful take on the assumption that people between the coasts are ignorant rubes. Strike two.This was at the time that Allen and some other directors used the very distracting device of having characters walk out of the frame while dialog continues on the soundtrack. Even though nobody has used this device in years, it still counts for strike three because it calls attention to itself so loudly.There's good material here. It would be interesting if Allen would remake this. Keep the black and white, which I love. Just dump the elements that don't work.Allen did one wonderful 'serious' movie- INTERIORS (which nobody like me liked)- and then gave up on it. However, go back and look at movies like THE ICE STORM or IN THE BEDROOM or LITTLE CHILDREN and you can easily imagine what Allen would have brought to the material.The introspection and self doubt and the agony about doing funny movies gets very annoying. Everybody junior high age and above has enough complications in their lives, they really don't want to pay money to see more of it on Saturday night. As one character points out, people in Kansas City are tired at the end of the day from picking all that corn. "},{"Title":"Autobiographical?","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this in 1980 in the context of his intellectual comedies like 'Annie Hall' and 'Manhattan' I thought it didn't hold up. Then about ten years after that, something reminded me how funny some parts of 'Stardust Memories' were. It was the line about kissing being Sandy Bates' (Allen's) major in college. I got that line stuck in my head and I had to give this movie another try.Without making comparisons to Allen's other movies, I don't think it can stand up on its own. As an avid Woody Allen fan, even I have trouble with this one. There are many aspects of this film that puzzle me. Why the dead rabbit? Why the garbage dump? Why the chauffeur's arrest for mail fraud? Why the suitcase full of sand spilling out? Why the brother-in-law's four heart attacks? Why do all the characters have ugly faces? Why the UFO freaks? Why the jump-cutting of Rampling's face close-up near the end? And since when does Woody have to worry much about studio execs tampering with his films? Not likely. Yes, this movie makes you think. But about what? The movie is filled with diversions and imagery that amount to, in my opinion, not much. I must have seen it close to a dozen times over the years and I enjoy it only for the artist's struggle with day-to-day life. His persona is fun for me to watch, though many people find him annoying and whiny. And I can understand that. His personality is not for all tastes.There are some funny and revealing scenes concerning Allen's professional life. These he denied as being autobiographical when this film was released. (Yeah, right...sure.) I don't believe that. Why make such a film about the miseries of celebrity if this stardom isn't personal? And one has to have an interest not only in Woody Allen's other films but the man himself to even have a chance of digesting this. I couldn't imagine anyone enjoying this film without immersing themselves in his work during that period in his career. I cannot recommend this film on its own. Do your homework and proceed with caution.  "},{"Title":"New light after 20 + years","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Intentional ambiguities confuse and frustrate an audience both Mr. Allen and his character have contempt for or whose praise they don't feel worthy of. Personal and introspective to the point of being self-obsessed. Perhaps that kind of thing was fashionable 20 years ago. From today's perspective it's tedious. How can we care about people whose agony over decisions comes from a lack of moral conviction. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After seeing Annie Hall I expected this to be a good film but it wasn't even close. I recommend seeing Annie Hall first it is definitely more entertaining and it is actually funny unlike this movie. The only thing I can say that is good about this film is the references to older films and because it is shot in black and white. You really need to pay attetnion when you are watching this otherwise afterwords you will have no idea what is going on. A lot of strange and random things happen that in my opinion ruin this film. I'm glad I saw Annie Hall first because if this was my first Allen film I would probably never watch his movies again. "},{"Title":"Allen's Parody of Fellini is D.O.A.","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen is at his worst when he's making films like Ingmar Bergman or Federico Fellini; he's at his best when he's making films like Woody Allen. Stardust Memories (great title, by the way) finds him in Fellini mode, and it's a mostly tedious, unengaging film.Allen plays a filmmaker who's questioning the meaning of existence, and who can't see the point of continuing in making comedies when the world is such a depressing place to live. The film is full of the self-indulgent trappings of Fellini's films -- direct addresses to the audience, self-reflexivity, ponderous musings on philosophical questions. It's all mental masturbation, and it's all boring. The existential angst that Fellini, Antonioni, Godard, et al brought to the screen had its time and place, but by 1980 (let alone now), it all seems like beating a dead horse.The most frustrating thing about Stardust Memories is that Allen had created one of his loveliest, and most quintessentially Allenesque movies the year before, Manhattan. To see a director with such a unique style parodying the style of others feels like a distinct waste of time. Ironically, the point Allen makes in Stardust Memories is that comedy does have a place in the world, and that making movies his way is exactly how he copes with the frightening realities of the world -- too bad he couldn't have come to that point without having to make this movie.Grade C "}{"Title":"Not so Good","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll keep this short, because I really like Woody Allen's films and I don't want to unleash some sort of insane diatribe-for-the-sake-of-a-diatribe on a failed attempt.Stardust Memories is a muddled and self-indulgent film, and no doubt a very personal one. It's wacky, surreal and it's got some decent jokes - some people consider it their favorite.Me, it gave me a headache, with the onslaught of Felliniesque faces and characters with their caricatured expressions, garish make-up and overlapping dialogue which generally consisted of Could I have your autograph Mr. Bates? (who was played by Woody Allen.)It's not funny enough for a comedy and not disciplined enough for a drama.The film is Allen's tribute to Fellini's 8 1/2 - it tells the story of a director, Bates, who wants to stop making comedies because life has lost meaning for him. While the process and the insights might have been interesting for Allen, they are really meaningless to a non-director, an audience member. (The film is almost too personal - is that possible?) It's more of an example of the director's malaise, rather than a study of it.One final note I realize that Allen is the only director who spoofs art films. From Bergman to Fellini to directors of the German Expressionist period, even his existential films are self-conscious as films because of their emphasis on style (and appropriate theme, given a certain style). Except read spoof as commentary or response. "},{"Title":"stardust memories","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was directed by Woody Allen. This was my first Woody Allen movie making me wonder if I ever want to watch another one. I didn't like this movie at all. This movie was just a bunch of flashback of Sandy Bates life/movie films. Sandy Bates is played by Woody Allen. This film is about his life as a director and how he struggles with having people bother him every minute and about his love life. He is back and forth between which girl is right for him but in this film I didn't get if it was his real life or what he wanted for himself. The camera shots were done very well but other then that i would never watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"the work of an annoyed celebrity","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't help comparing everything Woody does to the great early films that preceded Annie Hall (which I've always thought was ingenious but overrated).While Stardust Memories isn't nearly as funny, it works pretty well for what it is, a paranoid fantasy of being a celebrity constantly hounded by strangers who want something from you. There is less of the feeling that Woody is making a knock off of a Truffaut or Bergman film, and even though there is an obvious Fellini influence this movie manages to stand on its own.It's also the only time until Deconstructing Harry when Woody made a film that indicated that he was aware that he's a bit of a jerk; Sandy Bates isn't portrayed so much as a victim as he is someone who is ill suited to deal with the chaos of his own fame. And while the movie isn't hysterically funny, it does have some good lines and nice cinematography (especially the opening sequence). It's not great Allen, but it's good Allen, particularly surprising since it's in the midst of some really tedious movies (he made Interiors and the vastly overrated Manhattan before and Midsummer's Night Sex Comedy and Zelig after, making Stardust gleam more brightly in comparison.) I'd rather watch Sleeper or Love and Death, but if you ignore those early movies and take Stardust entirely on its own merits it's really quite good. "},{"Title":"Good but nowhere near Great","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some people have said this was a transition from autobiographical films to well imagined films like Crimes and Misdomeaners but it's really not. This is more of a cross between screw-ball comedies like sleeper and love and death and semi-auto-biographical borderline dramedies like mannhatan and annie hall. Of the Allen films I've seen it's closest to Love and Death. It suffers from the same problems as Love and Death on one hand it wants to be a screw-ball comedy and on the other hand it wants to be a relational drama. Unfortunately though it takes the middle road and ends up as neither. It's good in parts, the scene where the aliens talk to Woody Allen is particularly brilliant, but as whole it's more than a little schizophrinic. If your a big Woody Allen film I would say watch but if not don't this really is the kind of Woody Allen film that turns people off from Woody Allen films. "},{"Title":"Mean-spirited","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While acknowledging the influence of Fellini on this film, I think this film will wear on most people. Allen's discomfort at fame is, I believe, hard for most viewers to accept. There is definitely an autobiographical element to this film. It is hard to swallow that Woody's life of penthouse Upper East Side apartments and numerous affairs is the stuff of artistic struggle.Additionally, I found his presentation of his fans to be incredibly mean-spirited. While I do believe he probably has met some very aggressive fans, I feel most people who admire a director's work are worthy of better treatment. His fans have made him what he is, and financed what is arguably a very comfortable life.The film is shot beautifully, and some moments are quite moving, especially the scenes of the balloons floating over the field and his revelatory moment watching his girlfriend read the paper. However, the overall whiny tone made it very difficult for me to watch this film. Instead of making this film, I feel he should have either acknowledged how his fans have helped him, or merely just complained to his friends privately over dinner. As it is, there is not enough beauty in this film to overcome the harsh assessments he seems to hold for his fans.Now that Woody is a much more marginal filmmaker, I think it is hard to watch this movie, since it was written at a time when he was more of a wunderkind in the movie business. Thankfully, after this movie, I felt he got back on track during the early 80s to making much better films. "},{"Title":"Kind of interesting but no great shakes","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Black and white film of Woody Allen playing a filmmaker who is known for his comedies--and is sick of making them. Still that seems to be all that the public wants. He goes off for a weekend to a retrospective of his films and the film follows him that weekend.I saw this WAY back in 1980 in a theatre. I was bored silly. Right after that I went to see Motel Hell and had more fun with that! I think I was just too young to appreciate it--20+ years later it looks pretty good. This was just before Allen started making those endlessly depressing and negative films (September anyone?) that almost destroyed his career. This isn't all that bad--but no great shakes either.It starts off with a VERY funny train sequence (which includes the film debut of Sharon Stone) and then takes off veering wildly between comedy and drama--never finding a comfortable melding of the two. It also depicts his fans as being clinging, mentally ill and looking like rejects from a Fellini film. Some people thought this was a swipe in the face to his fans but I didn't get that feeling. It has childhood memories which add nothing to the story and has an ending that was WAY too strange. This is basically a mediation on fame and success which tells us nothing new.Still it is well-directed and written. Allen is good; Charlotte Rampling is excellent; Jessica Harper nicely underplays her role and Marie-Christine Barrault is good too. Also it's fun to see Laraine Newman and Louise Lasser appear (unbilled) in small funny roles. Not a washout but not successful either. I was never bored (the second time around). I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Publicly-Executed Expensive Exercise","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Searching for the meaning of life and filmmaking in this homage to 8 1/2 piece, Woody Allen simply can't digest the cinematic techniques that are directly borrowed from Fellini and Godard the long takes where characters keep entering and exiting the frame, the disjointed narrative, and the jump-cut on Charlotte Rampling's close-up. This is a publicly-executed expensive exercise; sometimes an artist's finest job is not to divulge such a personal ramble to public. One of his big mistakes is to cast himself--or, did he really want the audience to know it is an exercise? The other is the writing; it may be a good idea not to clearly utter the question, when it is what is the meaning of life? "},{"Title":"Woody's Fantasy Women","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I didn't care for this the first time I saw it, and just watched it at sunrise on IFC for the first time since its release. Clearly, Woody's film craft is strong here, but his misogyny is stronger.Notice his arguments with Charlotte Rampling, how she comes across as loony and insecure -- always. A real one-note cliché. But it could be argued that a spectacular beauty like Ms. Rampling falling for a man like Woody must be unbalanced.And what about the scene at the sister's house where one of the guests in an overweight woman who appears to have enjoyed the sexual attention afforded by a rapist? Embarrassing. I could go on and on, there are so many examples.But the creepiest one has to be the argument between Woody and Charlotte about his flirting with a 13-year-old girl. Played for laughs, of course. "}]