[{"Title":"Choose the sword and you will join me...","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had heard a lot about this movie for quite some time but was never able to get my hands on it. If you have ever listened to The Gza/Genius album Liquid Swords, it contains several soundbites from the film including the opening commentary by Daigoro(Cub). SHOGUN ASSASSIN is actually a re-released, dubbed version of the first two Lone Wolf and Cub films that came out from Japan in the Seventies. When I finally attained a copy of it and watched it, I was comepletely blown away. This has got to be hands down the best samurai/ninja film ever to grace the United States.Enter Ogami Itto, aka Lone Wolf, a man who served his shogun well as the royal executioner. Until one day when the Shogun killed his wife and framed him, which sent him on a dark path of vengeance. So begins the story of Lone Wolf and Cub, a father and his little boy who travel from place to place as assassins for hire and are always watching out for the Shogun and his ninja army. Anyone who gets in their way are quickly sliced and diced by Lone Wolf's sword and a wooden baby cart rigged with all sorts of crazy weapons.The action sequences are breathtaking, much like Kurasawa's but with ten times more blood. Blood that doesn't just pour, but spurts everywhere like a hose. Ultimately I couldn't help being moved by the story a father and his son and their eternal bond in vengeance. This is just one of those cult films that you pray at night about, hoping that someday they re-release it in theaters or make a new film just like it. There are six films total in the Lone Wolf and Cub series that are avaible uncut on VHS and hopefully soon, on DVD. "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining action movies of all time. Lone Wolf is a relentless one man killing machine!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  'Shogun Assassin' is actually re-edited footage from two of the early 1970s Japanese Lone Wolf and Cub movies, dubbed into English. The brains behind this idea were Robert Houston, one of the stars of Wes Craven's horror classic 'The Hills Have Eyes', and David Weisman, the writer/director of the Edie Sedgwick cult classic 'Ciao Manhattan'. On paper this really shouldn't have worked, but it does. It not only works, it's one of the greatest action movies ever made, and a source of inspiration for both John Carpenter and Quentin Tarantino. I only hope that Tarantino's references to 'Shogun Assassin' in 'Kill Bill' introduce it to a whole new audience. Martial arts veteran Tomisaburo Wakayama plays Ogami Itto, aka Lone Wolf, a samurai who refuses to serve the evil Shogun. After the murder of his wife he hits the road with his young son, who he pushes along in a souped up baby cart. Lone Wolf has one thing on his mind - vengeance. Along the way many assassins and Ninja try to stop him, but he is a relentless one man killing machine. His journey finally leads him to a confrontation with the three Masters Of Death, who are escorting the Shogun's brother. Lone Wolf is one of the coolest figures in action movie history, and the baby cart gimmick really works, especially as his infant son narrates the story. The frequent fight sequences are exciting and very brutal, and there isn't a dull moment in the whole movie. I can't recommend 'Shogun Assassin' highly enough. For me it stands alongside 'Mad Max', 'The Driver', 'For A Few Dollars More' and (the original version of) 'The Getaway' as one of the most entertaining action movies of all time.  "},{"Title":"One of the classic Samaria sword movies and lots of blood.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I think this film is almost as famous for its tour de force editing,taking a min-series and making it into a coherent masterpiece of 86 min as it is for its action sequences.The basic story is about a Lone Wolf. A very proud samurai who worked as the official decapitator for the shogun.The paranoid shogun sends out his ninja to kill lone wolf, but get his wife instead.At this point there is the classic choose the(toy) ball and join your mother, choose the sword and join me the son joins him and we hear the story from his eyes from this point.It is pure carnage from here on in, as the evil shogun sets his ninja out on Lone Wolf along with the brutal Masters of death.There is a lot of carnage and blood in this movie...I MEAN a lot. But the father son relationship is touching and strongly developed.This movie is a classic that is only just starting to show its age, my 8 might be a bit low of a vote really.If you like fast sword play and quick deaths watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A difficult film to review","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Released today, film fans across the world would be throwing copies of Shogun Assassin onto bonfires because technically, it is 100x worse than the type of 'rip offs' that people keep accusing Tarantino of lately. Essentially, Shogun is the first fifteen minutes or so of Sword of Vengeance followed by the majority of Babycart at the River Styx copy and pasted into an 80 minute film, with the addition of bad dubbing and some seriously cool music. But, as it stands, Shogun Assassin was 'made' in 1980 and did the full trip around grind house theatres so it has gained a cult following. So today it is looked back on as classic hack and slash cinema, as Kill Bill will probably be in twenty years time as much as some purists hate to admit it.Speaking from my current state of mind I would say screw Shogun Assassin and go for the six Lone Wolf and Cub films. Even as a cure for film geeks lust for blood and guts, Shogun Assassin seems kind of strange. I never really understood why Houston didn't c & p some of the much more epic scenes of carnage from Babycart to Hades or Babycart in Peril. Still, the fight with the Hidari brothers (or 'Masters of Death' as they are known in Shogun) is one of the coolest in all six films. John Carpenter later used the brothers as prototypes for his '3 Storms' in Big Trouble in Little China, but if he was 'homaging' River Styx or Shogun Assassin we will probably never know. Ultimately, Shogun Assassin works in the same way as Kill Bill, as a gateway to grind house cinema for the masses. How many people realise, respect and take advantage of this is where the problems start. Regarding Kill Bill, thousands of people see the films and see them as original without realising their true purpose. But it is difficult to argue that both films are not taking advantage of underseen cinema.Alas, three paragraphs and I haven't actually said if the film is any good. The truth is, I will probably never watch it again because there isn't much point if you are into the LW & C films. But I won't have been introduced to 70s Japanese samurai 'grind house' cinema, which I regard as the best action genre there is, if it wasn't for Shogun. So I can't say it is rubbish, and to be fair, if you haven't seen LW & C it is far from crap, showcasing some of the coolest fight scenes ever filmed along with some seriously awesome music (which is the main reason I still have love for Shogun). Of course, the dubbing completely ruins Wakayama's performance and the Yagyu female ninja leader is turned into a useless loose end. But Shogun's existence is important and a godsend is stopping 70s Jap samurai cinema from falling into nothingness in the west. If you don't know samurai cinema, watch Shogun once and you will turn into a nerd like me and become instantly obsessed with Japanese cinema. I would never know and love a lot of the films I do now if it wasn't for Shogun, and for that I hold it in the highest regard. Well, sort of. "},{"Title":"Guess that everybody can be a director this way.","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is not an actual movie but a re-edited version of the first couple of Japanese 'Kozure Ôkami' movies, with English voices added to it. Nevertheless this doesn't prevent Robert Houston from giving himself full credit for directing and writing this.It's not like I hated watching this but it all also seemed pretty pointless to me at the same time. This version got obviously made to aim more toward the American market but that of course just doesn't give you the right to just take a bunch of movies and edit them into one and cash in on it.This re-editing of course also takes away a lot out of the movie. The storytelling isn't always anything too great now and scenes often too rapidly follow each other, without making much sense. It's like a re-edited version of only the action sequences. Guess it's good for the pace of the movie but there is a reason why Japanese movies are often such slow moving ones. It takes its time to build up the story and put down its characters. This of course just isn't very much the case with this movie.But even so, this still remains a good watch, due to it's great source material. It's action sequences especially stand out and it's one of those movies with exaggerated fight sequences and squirting blood. The fans of the genre will still get a kick out of it, though they would of course most likely prefer the original movies. This movie really made me want to watch the originals as well, so I guess this movie is still good for something.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I worked on this movie as sound engineer","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I was working for Mark Lindsay at wonderland, when the project fell in his lap. most of the additional soundtrack was performed on a Prophet 5 synthesizer along with a jupiter 8 keyboard. the zings and sound effects as weapons are used was created on a EMU (a wall sized synthe made of individual modules) and was recorded on a Trident flexymix console. Michael Lewis and Mark Lindsay worked so cohesively as if they were one and the same. The working title for one of the longer songs was chinks in armorthis movie was banned in 1983 in the USA because of the scene where wet and freezing the three travelers huddle together naked an the little boy flicks the nipples of the fem fatal and the nipple gets hard. fairly risqué for the time.years later the only place i could get a copy was from England. "},{"Title":"Good but nobody knows why","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this movie but I couldn't even begin to explain why. On paper it is terrible. The movie is made with bits of footage from other movies. It's dubbed. The story line is basic and irrelevant to why I like the movie. Not a great start and yet, once I started watching it, I couldn't stop. I used to listen to Wu Tang CDs when I was a kid and the Genius GZA album Liquid swords borrows a bunch of lines from this movie. I always thought they were cool but I didn't know they came from this movie. The part that is hard to explain, is that my wife, who doesn't like martial arts flicks or gore, also liked this movie.This isn't the kind of movie that you see by accident on TV. You'll probably have to buy it on DVD to see it. I waited for it to be on Netflix but eventually gave up and ordered a copy for $10. I'm glad I did. This movie inspired other movie makers and despite its age, it is very cool from start to finish. I promise you won't get bored. People talk about how the footage from taken from other movies but it is the new sound track that is added that makes it special and deserving of being judged as a movie in its own right. It ends very suddenly and I wasn't 100% satisfied with where they left it but in general, its and entertaining experience that I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to movie fans. In a world where it is hard to find something different, sometimes you have to look to the past to find something new. "},{"Title":"Pales in comparison to the Original six Kozure Okami films.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Shogun Assassin (1980) Directed by Robert Houston Written by Robert Houston & David Weisman Review Kozure Okami (Lone Wolf and Cub) is a well known Manga series that was first published in the 1970's that told the Story of a Shogunate Executioner who one day returns home to find his Wife and entire Household murdered by the Shadow Yagyu Clan. Ogami Itto; discovers that his Baby son Daigoro managed to survive. Framed by having a Funeral Tablet with the Shogun's Crest on it Ogami Itto; decides to have his Revenge on the Shadow Yagyu with his Son bu his side, Ogami Itto; and Daigoro becomes Demons walking the Crossroads to Hell, they become the Lone Wolf and Cub.During the 70's the Kozure Okami Manga series was Adapated into six popular Samuria movies that had a similar style to the Legendary Zatoichi series.Then in 1980 David Weisman who was a fan of the Kozure Okami movies obtained the rights to the films from the American Office of Toho Studios for $50,000. David Weisman and Robert Houston then took Lone Wolf and Cub Sword of Vengeance and Lone Wolf and Cub Babycart at the River Styx and spliced them together by using 12 minutes from the first film and the rest from the second film. One thing that Shogun Assassin does is dumb down the Story and Character Devoplment just to focus on the Violence which is a little bit disappointing.The Dubbing and Narration by Daigoro is Cheesy while the Music at times doesn't really fit with the Film and the Editing is slightly messy.PlotOgami Itto decides to rebel against the Shogun after they Murder his Wife, travelling through Japan with his Son the Lone Wolf and Cub wipe out anyone who tries to stop them. Lone Wolf and Cub are assigned to kill The Shogun's Masters of Death, three Brothers who kill anyone who stands in the Shogun's way.Ninja's hired by the Shogun try to Assassinate the Lone Wolf and Cub but are quickly sliced apart by his Blade but not without badly injuring him. Daigoro helps his Dad regain his Stenght meanwhile the Shogun devise a plan to stop the Lone Wolf and Cub by kidnapping Daigoro. The Ninja's successfully capture Daigoro, Ogami Itto finds his Son hanging above a well. Threatening to drop him Ogami Itto informs them that there both willing to Die, Daigoro is dropped into the well while Ogami Itto murders all the Oppnents except for the Female Ninja. Talking his Son out the well the Two continue with their Journey to stop The Shogun and eliminate the deadly Masters of Death. OverviewShogun Assassin is okay but when compared to the Original six Kozure Okaimi movies it pales in comparison but overall if you enjoy Cheesy Dubbed Movies full of non stop Violence and very little plot then you'll enjoy Shogun Assassin however if you've seen the six Kozure Okami movies then there's no real reason to watch Shogun Assassin. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic samurai film with lots of blood and violence.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film starts with the narration of Tizuro, lone Wolfs son. His narration gives quick details of his families life and the night his mother and Lone Wolfs wife Azame was murdered by a vicious shoguns ninja. Lone Wolf is understandably not pleased about this and sets out to avenge her death, taking his son with him. He becomes an assassin for hire(well he needs to pay the bills, right?). On his journey he has to face the masters of death, a trio of the shoguns very unpleasant samurai each with a unique weapon which are all really cool. I was surprised to learn that this is in fact edited together from the first two movies in the baby cart series. The American producers and editors did a great job and you would never know unless you were told. Anyway this is a fantastic movie, fast paced, quite well dubbed, great music, nice widescreen photography and has some awesome action/fighting scenes which are usually dripping in blood and gore. If your looking for some violent, gory, cool samurai action you will not find better than this. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the Shogun's decapitator","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Shogun Assassin is a combination of the first 2 movies of the Lone Wolf and Cub saga, this adaptation was intended for the American grind house circuit and British cienemas, but probably it got a release in other western countries too.Just the fact that this movie is just an adaptation, you would expect something dreadful and horrible....but it's not ! The dubbing is great, but sometimes it gets hilarious, the soundtrack is awesome and it was composed especially for the Shogun Assassin edit, not for the original movies ! The action is cool and well choreographed, with lots of sword fighting and lots of blood, including lots of bloody sword slashings, some finger chopping and decapitations ! The movie is not boring at all, check it out ! "}{"Title":"Surrealistic voyage into bloodletting","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is not for the faint of heart.   It's also not extremely realistic, what with blood spurting in all directions at almost every turn.  However, it's not intended to be realistic.  It's a fantasy ride.  It's intended to be entertaining to those who enjoy film making of this genre, and to serve as a vehicle for a hero.   And Lone Wolf is a hero of grand stature with a talent for defending himself and his own.  And throughout the film, as he's pursued by hired assassins he defends himself and his child with style and brutal grace.  Throughout the film, the glorious examples of extreme bloodshed are observed by his young son who accompanies his father... the son narrates the film in a manner that's almost mesmerizing in its effectiveness as events unfold.   This film has some of the most stylish and expressive swordsmanship you're ever likely to see.  And throughout the bloody brutality and edged weaponry action there are some examples of the kindest and most humane exchanges you could ever imagine, particularly between father and son...  some profound, some humorous, some just simply ordinary.   This film is hard to find and it's almost never seen on pay cable anymore, although Cinemax used to run it on occasion some years ago.  However, it's still around in some video rental stores and on some of the auction sites now and then, so if you spot this film somewhere grab it.  It's an amazing way to spend an evening, watching Lone Wolf and child take on the world.  I looked a long time before I found my copy in an older video rental store that was going out of business and was selling off tapes.   I bought it for four dollars... I'd have paid MUCH more for this obscure little gem of a film that was actually edited together from episodes of a Japanese TV series that aired in the early 1970s.   Watch this film with an open mind and with acceptance.  It's a journey into furious bloodletting, subtle glory, and profound dignity.   "},{"Title":"Swordfight fans, you will reach Nirvana during this orgy of carnage!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  For a film edited from highlights of two films in a series of six, SHOGUN ASSASSIN is far, FAR better than it has any right to be. That said, track down the originals since they are all available on video in widescreen, subtitled editions. The cinematography will make you drool, and the swordfighting is probably the most impressive samurai-type swordwork ever put on film. Another plus is Lone Wolf, played by Tomisaburo Wakayama. Casting him for a handsome comic book hero is not what would come to mind immediately, but it is his middle-aged dumpiness that makes him utterly believeable during his fight scenes. Swordfight fans, you will reach Nirvana during this orgy of carnage! For a more impressive display of Wakayama's skills, check out LIGHTNING SWORDS OF DEATH (frequently found in rental shops as LUPINE WOLF), the third film in the Lone Wolf series which was actually released in the states six years before SHOGUN ASSASSIN during the kung fu movie craze. In LIGHTNING SWORDS, the film remains totally unedited from the original and features a showdown between Lone Wolf and army that is equipped with not just swords, but arrows and rifles as well!!! "},{"Title":"They've taken something great and turned it into crap!","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'd just recently discovered the Lone Wolf and Cub series and having just watched all of them I found them to be some of the best of the genre that I'd ever encountered. I watched them in Japanese with English subtitles and found every one of them to be exceptional. When I saw that Shogun Assassin was based on the Lone Wolf and Cub series I was excited to see it, but oh what a letdown it turned out to be. Some hacks have taken the original series and cut clips out of each of them, then re-edited those clips into the most god-awful movie I've ever seen, and then claimed to be the writers. I knew that something was off as soon as I saw that Retsudo, from the real series was shown as the Shogun. In the originals he was the head of a clan who had stolen the post of royal executioner from Ogami Itto through deception. In the original Daigoro (the son) hardly ever speaks more than the word Pa, yet in here he is the narrator. The dialog is just plain insipid and has no relationship to the original story. Skip this worthless dreck and find the original Lone Wolf and Cub series.In reading all the glowing reviews I have to wonder if they were written by friends of the people who put this together, or by people who have never seen the original series or other great Samurai series such as the Zatoichi movies or other greats of the genre. "},{"Title":"I've seen quite a few hack'n'slash samurai movies...","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen quite a few hack'n'slash samurai movies, and I've also seen quite a few serious samurai films, but this is hands down the funniest movie ever made concerning sword swinging super men! If you have only heard about this one, then you have no idea what you are missing! The only movie that can match its intensity (action-wise) is the Road Warrior. See this one at all costs! And yes, I am aware of the actual series of Baby Cart films, but they are not really as strong as this American Tour-de-force of editing. "},{"Title":"Hyper-violent samurai epic","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've wanted to see this movie for a long time now. Ever since Genius/GZA had excerpts from this film on his first album and I learned about the Lone Wolf series, I've really wanted to see this movie. I must say that I wasn't disappointed. This is a highly entertaining film. The shogun's executioner and his son go out on the run and must contend with samurai, female ninja, and 3 killers called The Masters of Death. There's a lot of sword fighting, all of it is over-the-top bloody. This guy is one bad mutha...that's for sure. The only scene I didn't care for was when him, his son, and a woman try to keep themselves warm after fleeing a ship, I thought it was essentially unnecessary. I liked the child's narration, it went along good with the movie. And check out the way the Master of Death with the club gets it...whoa boy. "},{"Title":"I guess I wish it was different. But a wish is only a wish.","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I generally hate dubbed movies, and I make no exception for this one. It would have been rated higher had it been subtitled. I hate losing the beauty of the language while watching a film.For those who want to see a Samurai film that shows the craft as well as the beauty, you could hardly go wrong with this film. Actually two different films joined together to make one, it gives a taste of the Lone Wolf and Cub series.Tomisaburo Wakayama was magnificent as the Samurai that traveled the roads with his son hiring himself out. You could bring anything to bear and he would dispatch them with ease. No matter how many came to kill him, he always walked away with his son. The Masters of Death were no match.There is blood, lots of blood. Limbs falling to the ground and blood spurting like from a lawn sprinkler. Death in a Samurai film is not pretty. "},{"Title":"First dubbed movie I liked","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Shogun Assassin is a very nice movie and a real must for samurai-fans. This movie doesn't take that long .. but it has all in it to make a movie great. There's some eastern mystique, there's swords & sorcery, there's much blood, yes even some nudity for those who want it ... And it has some decent family values. Father loves his son, son loves his father and together they travel through the ancient Japan. I really liked this movie! That's why I gave it 8 / 10. Now, about the dubbing. I HATE dubbing. Come on people, why would you want to dub a movie?! Tom Cruise speaking French? Jet Li with a low American voice? A movie is unique, please keep it that way. So, I was a bit disappointed when I discovered this Shogun Assassin was dubbed too. But I still liked it, because for those who're into Wu-Tang Clan and especially GZA's Liquid Swords will recognize the many samples. But still ... "},{"Title":"Seminal work","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Shogun Assassin is like a slice of movie history where you can imagine a young Quentin Tarantino jiggling about in his seat going wild with excitement at the potential. Shot on a budget, with fairly unsophisticated equipment, it is the film that is credited with being the inspiration to Kill Bill as well as influencing the slew of films that started with Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon. Here you see, in rudimentary form, striking use of colour, simple landscapes used with stunning effect, emotional involvement of the audience (the hero carries his infant child everywhere with him while defeating rival swordsmen), and imaginatively choreographed fights - rather than mere show of technical skill. But the film is quite dated, even compared to other 80s films, so is more of interest to aficionados than those wanting straight entertainment. Expect lots of blood. "},{"Title":"Fun Samurai and Ninja Film","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" When the wife of the Shogun's Decapitator is murdered and he is ordered to commit suicide by the paranoid Shogun, he and his four-year-old son escape and become assassins for hire, embarking on a journey of blood and violent death.Shogun Assassin was edited and compiled from the first two films in the Lone Wolf and Cub series, using 12 minutes of the first film, Lone Wolf and Cub Sword of Vengeance, and most of Lone Wolf and Cub Baby Cart at the River Styx. Both were originally released in 1972.The project was directed by Robert Houston and his partner David Weisman, a protégé of Andy Warhol and director of Ciao! Manhattan (1972). A fan of the original Kozure Ōkami films, Weisman had obtained the rights for $50,000 from the American office of Toho Studios. The film was distributed by Roger Corman's New World Pictures to the grindhouse movie circuit in the United States.Reviews at the time of American release (1980) were not all positive, with Vincent Canby commenting on the mix and match of editing and how this is something like What's Up, Tigerlily? I would disagree with that, but I see where he is coming from. Canby also remarks that the samurai is tubby, which is true, but I think that is part of his charm.For me, this is a fun film ,and perfect for distribution by Corman. It may have been better as the original two films (I have no idea), but like this it makes a quick action thriller that drive-in fans will love. And it still maintains some of the great visuals, especially a desert scene that is quite clever. "},{"Title":"The wolf lures you to your grave!","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Lone Wolf and Cub series began in the 1970s as a manga by Kazuo Koike. This morphed into Lone Wolf and Cub Sword of Vengeance and Lone Wolf and Cub Baby Cart at the River Styx, the first two in what would become a sequence of seven feature films. Each film finds actor Tomisaburo Wakayama playing Ogami Itto, a nineteenth century ronin. Ogami wanders the Japanese countryside accompanied by his young son, Daigoro. As the whole world is out to kill them, Ogami and Daigoro take part in a series of incredulous action sequences.These action sequences are Lone Wolf's main claim to fame. Amongst fans of 1970s exploitation films, the series is renowned for its bloody, ridiculous and cheesy-but-cool violence. Our heroes are constantly battling samurai, ninjas and female warriors, each battle climaxing with geysers of blood, dismembered limbs and gratuitous decapitations. Characters hold their action poses, others scurry funnily in wooden slippers, whilst everyone delights in exhibiting elaborate special combos. Love them or hate them, films like this would result in hundreds of copycats, would influence countless video-games, would influence the aesthetic of future action movies, cartoons and comics, and would add numerous motifs, quirks and trends to the grammar of cinema.Shogun Assassin was released in 1980. Directed by Robert Houtson, it was created by splicing together footage from Sword of Vengeance (1972) and River Styx (1972), the first two Lone Wolf features. The result - designed specifically for Western audiences - is a choppy and shapeless film in which plot is sacrificed in favour for an endless procession of violence. American grindhouse junkies of the 1980s loved it; they'd never seen anything quite like this before. But to purists, the film was mostly an insult. To them, Shogun Assassin lacked the gravity of other Lone Wolf features, even if it did ultimately offer the same weird blend of goofiness, hyper-violence and sentimentality.7.5/10 &#x96; Stupid but iconic. For more serious fare, see Kurosawa's Ran, Okamoto's Samurai Assassin, Yoji Yamada's samurai trilogy (Twilight Samurai, The Hidden Blade and Love and Honour), 47 Ronin, Kiru, Hiroshi Inagaki's Samurai Trilogy, Goyokin (1969), Chushingura (1962), and the great Masaki Kobayashi's Samurai Rebellion and Harakiri. "}{"Title":"Possibly the coolest of the video nasties.","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I imagine that many Japanese cinema purists look down on Shogun Assassin, viewing it as bastardised art, the film consisting of the juiciest bits from the first two classic Lone Wolf and Cub films edited together and re-dubbed for the US market. I, however, see the film as a fond reminder of the video nasty era when, against the wishes of the BBFC, I proudly owned an ex-rental, big box VIPCO VHS copy of the movie; it was one of the highlights of my collection, a gloriously violent saga that introduced me to the world of unflappable samurais and arterial spray, for which I will be ever grateful.Of course these days the censors have seen sense and all of the Lone Wolf and Cub movies are available in their entirety on DVD (pristine prints in their original language with English subtitles, no less); but while it's great to see the movies as the filmmakers intended, I still get a kick out of Shogun Assassin's incongruous American voice-over, grimy 80s synth score and erratic editing, elements that take me back to a time when collecting banned movies was a challenge and the viewing seemed more rewarding as a result. As soon as Daigoro's narration kicks in, I'm back in the darkened bedroom of my youth, revelling in all the stylish blood and violence wreaked by super cool rōnin for hire Ogami Itto (Tomisaburô Wakayama), enjoying the fact that I'm sampling forbidden fruit, and it tastes good. "},{"Title":"Exaggerated Violence","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Recap Lone Wolf is a samurai bound by honor to his master. But when said master, the shogun begins to fear him and tries to have him assassinated, those bonds are broken. What is worse, the assassins only manage to kill his wife, leaving Lone Wolf and his young son on a mission for vengeance.Comments This has a very different style. It is very exaggerated in every way, and I would almost describe it as cartoonish (not surprising considering its source). Everything is either ascetically minimal or over the top exaggerated. Lone Wolf on one hand says almost nothing, but his swordplay is all over the top. Bodies, blood and gore literally flies in every direction. Effects and sound are equally exaggerated to emphasize the action. So it is clearly different from many other movies. If this is in part because its Japan, whose movies often exaggerate to emphasize, dialog for instance, I can't say.If you can accept the style, it is a entertaining action movie. And mark my word, it is pure action. There is very little dialog, and what is said is almost all a narration by Lone Wolf's son. This makes the movie rather one dimensional, but it is not a big problem as it don't seem to aspire to be more. It will never be confused with a masterpiece, but still a entertaining movie that has had a rather big impact.6/10 "},{"Title":"Sheer unbridled GINSU GLUTTONY!","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Seriously, anyone who doesn't like this movie...I can't be friends with! It brings violence to an arena that oozes class! Mix historical reference, with lavish sets and costumes, over the top athletic BS and mix in some seriously cool genre acting and BLAM! Lone Wolf and Cub! If you want an introspective plot that will enable you to understand your childhood...go see a shrink! If you want to laugh, say whoa, replay that and oh my God that is messed up then THIS IS THE FLICK FOR YOU! For those of us who actually care check out the closeups of Ogami Ito's katana, they actually use an authentic blade, not some zinc-alloy, prop blade crap! I have seen this movie about 70 times and will probably watch it again in the next week or so! "},{"Title":"Sick movie","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is such a timeless movie. I watched it with 3 of my college friends and the consensus was that the movie could have came out now and looked the same and we still would have loved it. I want to find a remastered version. The commentary by the boy is the best narration I have ever heard.The plot is so simple and I think thats why its so effective. Like Quentin said about making Kill Bill, all he wanted to do was tell a revenge story. He could have thrown in a bunch of extra crap but he didn't want to. This movie is the same idea, just a simple yet powerful plot with passionate, interesting characters. The tone is set early and the audience is instantly aware of how honorable and wise lone wolf is. His son is what takes the movie from an 8 out of 10 to a 10 out of 10. His comments are so well put and he seems very wise for his age. Their is also a lot of artistic shots in this movie. They really did well in setting up the battles.(IE.the waterfall scene looks epic)Overall, this movie delivered in every aspect. It had non-stop action, all the crazy deaths one could hope for in a movie of this genre ,well portrayed characters and even some laughs. To top it all off, the narration from the little boy really brings you close to the film. Great movie, a must see for everyone who enjoys action. "},{"Title":"a tale of vengeance driven by infernal fury","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" this movie is a classic. for anyone who enjoy's older circa 1970-1985 Japanese/Chinese cinema, this film should be at the top of the list. for its time (1980) its astonishingly violent as the back of the box says. its non stop action for the most part, and lone wolf's swordsmanship puts beatrice's in kill bill to shame. btw most of kill bill's thematic nature was derived from this very film as well as certain kung fu films. our main character (lone wolf) is hell bent on vengeance after his wife is murdered by the shogun's ninja's, he basically becomes an unstoppable killing machine with the ability to summon the power of a dozen armies with one swift slash of his sword or as his son put it he became a demon slaying all ninja's that r sent his way by the shogun, vowing payback with rivers of blood. the story is strong, and the action is very entertaining. This film captivates and almost humors with the liberality of the taking of life. The score is also awesome in the English dubbed version as it is a circa 80's electronic type painting a surreal experience when backdropped against feudal japan and violent swordplay. The masters of death are also very awesome characters to watch who demand a presence on film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely cracking!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Absolutely brilliant! I first caught wind of this fine beauty by chance really. I am a collector of vipco vault of horror movies, and almost every vipco you buy, there's a trailer for shogun assassin. When I say by chance, I would normally be collecting a horror movie under the vipco title. However, after watching such films as Kill Bill, Hero, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, House of Flying Daggers and many other in the martial arts category I was very intrigued. I also heard that Quentin Tarantino had used shogun assassin (amongst others), for his Kill Bill influences.The blood and the combat are injected at just the right heart-popping rate to keep you enthralled, from start to end! Action all the way. I've never seen a film like it! After watching shogun Assassin and mentioning this to a friend at work, he said he had already seen it and he thought it was fantastic! He also told me of another series of films which were released before this one, called the Lone Wolf and Cub series (aka baby cart 1 to 6) Do yourself a favour, if you love shogun as much as I did, get yourself the Lone Wolf and Cub movies (which are now available in a box set) Your DVD collection is not complete without it! "},{"Title":"Best Samurai movie I have ever seen","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw the film about 15years ago and I just kept seeing it over and over again. I am a martial arts teacher and one of my students lent me the DVD of the film. The swordmanship is mesmerising and makes me feel regret that I did not begin to learn the art of using the katana. The story line is amazing and you have to look at the overall movie to appreciate the quality and story, and photography and eroticism, and scenery and fight scenes. You guessed it I just cannot fault the film unless you say it was never long enough.It is sad that the hero died of a heart attack at the age of 53 as I would love to have seen all his sword fighting films.The use of the katana is fantastic and I wish.........Allan  "},{"Title":"I need to know how many souls to pray for...","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a fairly short movie, and at one time, I attempted to count the number of people who are killed in this film.  It gets pretty difficult, and I lost count after around 115 or so.  Considering that this is primarily hand-to-hand combat, with a cart full of special tricks, that is some feat!Lone Wolf's son puts it best, My father tells me not to count the number of men he's killed, just to pray for the souls of those he's killed.  I need to know how many souls to pray for, so I keep count...A cult classic.  If you want to see blood spilled, spurted, and stained, go no further.  This movie belongs in your family. "},{"Title":"this is a must see","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is cut together out of pieces of the first two films from the OKAMI (LONE WOLF AND CUB) series. If you're looking for samurai action only, this one's for you - if you prefer an indepth understanding of the whole story, I recommend to start with the series mentioned above.Apart from all that GREAT CINEMA - GO FOR IT.Some trivia All inserts on the hiphop album GENIUS (of the Wu Tang Clan) Liquid Swords are sampled from the english dubbed version of SHOGUN ASSASSIN, which is interesting because all samples from other Wu Tang Projects are taken from Chinese, not Japanese movies (as the band's name already says... mostly old school kung fu stuff with Wu Tang reference). "},{"Title":"swords, honour and sh!@*-loads of bright red blood!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Top Samurai action.  The film follows a typical 'avenging death of family blah blah blah' plot but the main emphasis is on the non-stop Samurai death! The death toll is huge and topped off by some excellent, if slightly too red, blood effects.  Gore galore, and thats what this film is about!  The main dude is wicked, cool as ice, and continually has to fend of hoards of ninjas and assassins with only his sword and the help of his small baby and a very heavily armoured babycart!  It is the conviction with which he plays the part, as well as the poetically-choreographed swordplay (John Woo eat!!) which keeps the movie from becoming too naff. I'd buy the whole series (I think there are 3 more) if I had the money and foreign videos in HMV werent so expensive (donations welcome)!  And whats happened to Bravo??  They used to show some wicked films (such as this) but now all they show is crap! "}{"Title":"Action!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has it all; Gore, action, Decapitions.. a 'decent' storyline.it's been a long time since i saw it, about 1 and a half year. so i'm writing from the experience i had back then.and wow, i still remember it very well.it's about a Middle aged man taking his son, and going on a crusade, to avenge his wife. as he travels through the country, he kills tons and tons of people with his sword. Decapitation A plenty, gore, and some really neat stuff.Good movie, Good blood, Good fighting scenes.. what more can anyone ask for? -)7/10! "},{"Title":"Sword & Sorcery ... with a vengeance","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Tomisaburo Wakayama is brilliant as the noble Samurai (Lone Wolf). The evil Shogun has assassinated his wife and Lone Wolf must flee to save his infant son from the clutches of the Shogun. What transpires is non-stop action and great action sequences. If you ignore or accept the b-grade blood squirting and special effects, you will find a great story of father and son overcoming the odds to continually defy the Shogun. Look out for the touching scene where Lone Wolf's young son tries to bring him water. A great movie and a wonderful tale, highly recommended if you enjoy the martial arts genre. "},{"Title":"Spurt","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yes, the noirish direction here is brilliant, as is the action sequences. But come on, didn't the constant spurting blood get to be a little much? I was thoroughly entertained by this too short film and gave it an 8.(R)- Strong physical violence, strong gore, female nudity "},{"Title":"Everything about this movie is art","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A simple story ; Lone Wolf, the Shoguns assassin ; he crosses the Shogun - a big no no apparently.  His missus pays the price.  Our man and his son with the funky hair then set off to walk the earth, kicking Samuirai ass every 10 minutes or so, with style of course.Now this may sound a bit lightweight, but the story isn't the strongest aspect of this movie.  In short, I can only describe this as a piece of artwork.  Every scene is beautiful (albeit a little dark and grainy) and the psychedelic soundtrack and weird fx give us a trippy, thumping, sythesizer treat to accompany the visual splendour from start to finish.The gore is over-the-top to a slightly comic effect, and the combat sound effects are all you could hope for from a film of this genre. Kerthwang!, Ching, Crunch etc etc.  Fantastic.  Nasty weapons, fancy leaping moves and plenty of day-glo claret.All the characters are wacky and interesting.  Some menacing, some plain daft and some just not as they seem....  I don't think however there's many Oscar winners amongst 'em -)A totally engaging title, I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys both the analysis of the production as well as the basic entertainment value of a movie.  To be fair, it does play in some ways like a low budget title ; but that lack of budget is in complete contrast to the extra amount of effort put in.Always better than high budget, low effort.  See Kevin Costner for details.8/10 from me.  "},{"Title":"Simple, but enjoyable","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is hardly brain taxing stuff (just read the back of the DVD box for proof) but it's still a very enjoyable film.  The special effects are poor, but if anything this enhances the enjoyment of the film.  It reminds me of the Monkey TV series only a little more down to earth and less intentionally funny.All in all, a little bizarre but well worth watching. "},{"Title":"A Great Action Film","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is amazing.  It tells the tale of Lone Wolf (Tomisaburo Wakayama) and how he decides to defy the Shogun (he was the shogun's executioner). He also decides to bring his son, Daigero, along.  What ensues is violent, aesthetic fun.  Breathtaking swordfights, blood spurting all over from vanquished enemies,  it just has to be seen to be believed.  The whole experience is hard to explain, so I suggest just buying it.  It's REALLY hard to find, but if you do find it, no matter how much it is, pick it up. Moviewise, it just may be the best thing you ever did. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Greatest Samarai Movie Ever!","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I had been wanting to track this movie down for quite some time and when i finally scored a copy i must say i was far from disappointed. It's about a traveling samurai and his son. Every ninja in sight wants to kill these dudes so they get in tons of sword battles. That's about the extent of the plot. All you really need to know is that Shogun Assassin is a bloody masterpiece...and when i say bloody it's no exaggeration. There's beheadings, severed limbs and gallons and gallons of spurting blood. This is a very bizarre movie (aren't all foreign movies?) and that's what makes it so great; well that and all the excessive bloodshed of course. For example there's a very weird scene were the father rips this chicks clothes off and just when you think he's gonna rape her he, his son, and the woman all huddle up naked to keep warm. This allows his young son to cop a feel. Haha anyway it's a great flick for splatter fiends and ninja fans alike. Don't miss out! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest action films ever made","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Most cinematic condensing of several films into one are completely unwatchable failures. Check out (or rather don't) anyone of Al Adamson's incomprehensible examples for proof of this. In fact, the only condensation job I've seen that was any good was this. Shogun Assassin takes two Japanese entries in the Lone Wolf and Cub series, reedits and combines them into one feature film. Guess what? It works and is one of the most exciting and entertaining action films ever made. Its not as profound as any of the Samurai epics by Kurosawa, but its still a lot of fun.The main reason it works is because of the editing. Whatever they take out must've been erroneous, because the end product is still coherent. At times it does resemble a trailer as opposed to an actual film, but that means we get all the good stuff. There isn't too much character development or plot going on here, but the film is such a jaw-dropping experience that you don't realize that until its finished (and even than it hardly matters). The action scenes are all masterfully choreographed and very, very bloody. The arterial spray here rivals anything by Sam Peckinpah for glorious violence. Additionally, the lead performance by Tomisaburo Wakayama is appropriately charismatic, mysterious, and cool. There's also some unintentionally campy humor from the arch villain. As I said above, there isn't much here that resembles a plot, but who cares? Shogun Assassin is an action grindhouse classic. (8/10) "},{"Title":"bloody","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILERSThis was not an easy title to find on dvd for a while. At last I stumbled over the Vipco version on a trip to Amsterdam, a couple of years ago. I remembered very little from it, after seeing it years before. some things came in mind, such as the father with his kid, the three assassins with enormous hats and fearceful weapons, a headless body spraying blood in a othervice beautiful sunset shot and a lot of blood spraying in general. I had to see it again. I was pleased. Those Asians know how to make good over the top sword movies.Whats funny though is that these Americans seem to want to take credit for the production and directing of it. The only thing as far as I know is that they have edited two or more movies together as one. The credit should have read Editors american version. I don´t think carpenter even mentioned that the three assassins was borrowed from this movie, in his audio commentary for Big trouble in little china. Certainly they where.Rates 8/10   "},{"Title":"Excellent spaghetti western...or should I say eastern","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Shogun assassin was a very peculiar, dark, stylish, powerful and charming Japanese mass slaughter movie. Story of this 22 year old classic certainly isn't very profound or ingenious but nevertheless the film works as what it is - if you want to see lots of bloodshed, this movie will arrange plenty of it for your eyes to marvel. Shogun assassin is a traditional and successful Asian martial arts flick. Many of the camera angles and close-up's were obviously loaned from spaghetti westerns. Since I love spaghetti westerns as well as good Asian action movies, I loved this one. I can't understand why Shogun assassin was banned for so long. Sure, it's extremely violent but outrageous violence has hardly never been this sympathetic. That little kid added a fantastic finishing touch. If you have a chance to see Shogun assassin I can only say go ahead and watch it because the experience is somewhat impressive. "}{"Title":"A dark and twisted masterpiece.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  One of the darkest and most twisted films ever made, but very, very well made.  The premise seems really silly.  The sight of Igami Itto wheeling a baby carriage around while annihilating the legions of ninjas sent to kill him by the demented Shogun should be laughable, but it is not.  The child, Daigoro, is not yet old enough to speak, but by making him, slightly older, the narrator you end up with a great narrative device.  BE SURE TO LISTEN TO THE DUBBED VERSION AND TO WATCH IT IN ANAMORPHIC WIDESCREEN.  It's one of the best voice tracks ever, and the use of lighting, close ups and camera combine with the anamorphic widescreen for an intense visual impact.  The story and very graphic action never let up or disappoint. For double bills, I would have to stay with the dark and twisted motif and recommend.  GO GO SECOND TIME VIRGIN, or STENDAHL'S SYNDROME "},{"Title":"Your..Technique...Is...Magnificent...","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Very mind-blowing is the best way to describe SHOGUN ASSASSIN. Yes, it's a combination of two previous films put together, but its non-stop storyline, and its unreleting gore factor, puts the viewer into an unfamilar journey never before taken.Nice voice-overs by the Shogun  (Yagyu clan member) and the narrator (The infant, Diagoro, who gives both a comic and haunting view on his road to never-ending violence) and for those who thought the babycart was full of genius weaponry, should check out the third episode-BABY CART TO HADES, which may contain the first example of the Gattling Gun put to use! "},{"Title":"Baby Cart Of DEATH","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  There are 3 things that make this movie worth seeing.1. The really bad dialogue. The kid doing the voice over has some great lines, like where he is breast feeding and the voice over says But we were happy2. The Baby Cart. This cart should belong to James Bond, it has more weapons and gadgets built into it than most Bond items.3. The Blood Splatters. If blood makes you squeemish, dont see this movie. The director must have mad an airtank off screen that he used to spray the blood, because it was like a fountain in every fight scene.Overall, an entertaining flick. Final tally - Dad 432, Son 7 See the movie and you'll understand. "},{"Title":"boom","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Almost everything about this film is flawless. What I particularly like about Shogun Assassin is that it can be enjoyed in a number of different situations; a mindless Samurai film to be watched with friends or as a serious piece of work to be analyzed by yourself. This is a quality piece of cinema in every respect. The music score, although obviously composed with early 80's electronics, doesn't adhere to any specific genre. So often, movies date horribly due to the insertion of popular music of the time. Thus, this attempt at fashion ultimately dates such movies horribly. The fresh, unique and intensely moody score of Shogun Assassin highlights this film as one which has not dated. The dubbing is excellent (apart from the Shogun himself). The script is just raw meat (every sentence is tough and extremely dramatic and no one ever says anything trivial) and the slightly incongruent translation (although some of the phrases stand out as being very cool; his Ninja scum torment us by night with their supreme torture methods) in some places can easily be forgiven by the fact that the characters in this film have the most moody and satisfying voices in any film I've seen. The direction is staggering, and moments when we see the 3 Masters of Death standing at the front of the ship, or the Ninja group in the forest, standing totally still, or when we see the Shogun near the start as the great doors slowly creak open, are moments of cinema history not to be forgotten. The cinematography is amazing, with many scenes exhibiting almost monochrome color schemes to emphasize the dramatic effect, and different types of camera have also been used to great effect. The slightly vertically stretched picture lends a unique powerful stylization to this already masterful film. Shogun Assassin is very violent, but although this film is treated very seriously, the blood color always reminds us that this is just a seventies Samurai film. The acting, the music score, the child's voice over, all the other voices, the direction and the cinematography are all very close to perfection. It is, in short, a violent work of art, and the only fault I feel Shogun Assassin has is that the ending comes a bit too soon (under one and a half hours) and sudden and is fairly unsatisfying. Also, the sword fights are, although very slick, not amazing. Bottom line; this film is not to be trivialized. "},{"Title":"...revenge is a dish best served cold","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Shogun Assassin is the amalgamation of the Lone Wolf and Cub movies which in turn are based on the Japanese popular comic books.The plot of the film revolves around the shoguns chief executioner and his son.  The shogun goes insane and orders him killed.  He sends assassins who, when they don't find him kill his wife instead thus sending him on a cold blooded road of revenge.  The lone wolf (as he is called) now wanders the countryside pushing his young son in his wooden pram (which is armed to the hilt!), taking any jobs as a hired killer he can find on the way.The fight scenes are like mini ballets with copious amounts of fake blood which is comical to say the least, but the swordplay is fabulous.  You literally marvel at the way he carves through armies of enemies.  Another charming feature of the movies is the constant narrative by his young son and many of the less violent moments of the film are often quite touching concerning the relationship between the father and son.A great action film which is now available after many years on the banned list.  One to watch.....  "},{"Title":"if you want blood.....you got it","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Shogun Assassin isn't technically any great genre picture, but I remember enjoying it with friends one night when there was nothing else to watch. It's one of those movies for the casual fan of the samurai sect of Asian action pictures (if there can be such thing as 'casual'), but maybe it might have more appeal to the real cult-followers of the ultra-violent films of old-school samurai mania. I actually got it almost on a fluke; it was featured in what now seems like a very clever goof by Tarantino from Kill Bill 2 (the little girl asks if she can stay up to watch this movie with her mother, hardy-har). I won't describe the plot as it would be the ultimate moot point- just know that a samurai is betrayed by his former master when the Shogun kills the samurai's wife, leaving him widowed with an only child, then he goes around the rest of the movie slaying anyone in his path while the child narrates with a dead-pan mix of sorrow and naive pride (albeit with that 'touching' opening speech by the kid). Basically, if you're ever looking for a good excuse to watch senseless blood-shed (and likely on a crappy DVD if you didn't look well enough and got it on said whim, all in line to get an unrated version) it's here, as the story wasn't even worked on to that much effect anyway.One could look at this like one of those monster movies from the 60s that got chucked together to make something remotely marketable (Godzilla's Revenge comes to mind); a little label should come on the DVD that says 'common sense need not apply here'. But it is a lot of fun on a senseless level nonetheless, as the lone wolf goes about chopping off heads, disemboweling by the dozens, always with the major spray effect and shot like it all needs to get shown in the most bing-bang-zoom quality possible. Unfortunately, unlike for example Riki-Oh, there aren't as many high-quality gags and just overall zaniness to go along with the verve of the ultra-violent B movie, it actually does in its own disturbing way take itself seriously. And it goes without saying that it's almost pornographic in its stylized blood-shed. Yet, against what should be my better judgment, that's what I did end up liking about it, how it went for broke all the way till the final showdown with the shogun. I wouldn't ever rank it with the great B-movies, and it sure will never have the substance of the more classy Samurai films of the 50s and 60s at Toho, but if I ever went on a dare with friends to watch it (or just too drunk to care), it'd be this one I'd pop on. "},{"Title":"A Samurai movie to keep and watch over and over ...","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have read that this movie was banned and couldn't find it on most  of the dvd dealers online. It is a spectacular display of swordplay and must-see for those in the genre of the likes of Kill Bill and Last Samurai. I have seen some bloody scenes on Kill Bill and wonder why Shogun Assassin was banned. If you think you have the rave to see amazing blade blood, wait until you check out Shogun Assassin. I loved the true essence of Samurai servitude and warfare skills, displayed by the best Samurai movie I had ever seen. I would like to see more of this movie in the market, and own one. Shogun Assassin is a true knockout ... you can never get tired of. "},{"Title":"Epic Samurai Bloodshed","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" First off, if this film has never even shown up on your film-seeking radar, you'll want to perk up your ears....Cuz this movie will rock your balls off. It should be no surprise to you that no more than two characters make it to the very end. Can you guess which two? This film is epic. EPIC!!!Lone Wolf is a relentless death-dealing samurai assassin who refuses to serve under a corrupt and brutal shogun. In retribution, the Shogun's killers slaughter his wife and force him to run with his kid, Daigoro. And man don't ya think that p issed him off? Donch ya? Soooo, our boy roams the countryside with his kid in an elaborately booby-trapped baby cart. (No, sissy, not a stroller.) Did I mention that the kid, Daigoro, narrates this film? That's part of what makes this movie so damn good. The narration really helps the story unfold between the action, at times that otherwise would rely on unspoken acting ability. It helps dumb pot-head Americans like me to understand what's happening. See, there's an unspoken bond between the Lone Wolf and Daigoro that's deeper than love. They understand that they share in fate together, and fate could take them apart at any moment.Then there's the violence. The kills are sublime. There is much bloodspray as the Lone Wolf and his cub make their way through many professional killers who are sent out constantly by the shogun. I won't spoil too much but the gore looks pretty professional and the action is fierce and brutal. There is a really well done fight sequence between the Lone Wolf and ruthless female ninjas who are disguised and walking towards him on a road. Then there are the phenomenal Masters of Death. These three sons of the shogun have at their disposal some intimately nasty looking instruments for killing everyone they meet. The action scenes really balance the very careful characterization that this movie goes for and it all feels right.This really is a great movie and I'm so happy to have bought it. There's some really cool stuff in this bad boy. And don't let's forget the gore. Freaking A man. "},{"Title":"Overrated video nasty","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Like quite a few old samurai movies, Shogun Assassin has found itself back in the limelight. This is a result of Kill Bill, and Quentin Tarantino is almost certainly a fan of this movie; which will most likely account for quite a few of it's fans. I'm not a big fan of this sort of movie; while I enjoy the merciless and bloodthirsty violence, the plot's are too thin and I find myself bored before the end. This definitely happened with this movie, and although it's only eighty minutes long; it really does seem like a lot longer. Don't get me wrong, this isn't a bad film; but if it injected as much enthusiasm into the storyline as it does with the violence, it would be a hell of a lot better. The overly simply plot follows a master-less samurai (or 'Ronin', for those of us in the know) whose wife is murdered by the local Shogun, and to which our hero swears vengeance upon. This leads him to take his son (whose eyes the film is told through) on a quest to kill anyone and everyone that gets in his way. An odyssey which he calls 'revenge'.The phrases 'impossible to keep a body count' and 'previously banned' appear on the packaging of this movie as if they were great medals of honour, but for someone who has seen quite a few 'previously banned' films, I really cant see what the big deal about this film is. Yes, there are many slaughters in the movie; but much of the violence happens off screen, and the really gory stuff (like someone having their head sliced in half) is simply too comical to be taken seriously. As mentioned, the action is seen through the eyes of the young child, who also tells the story. This gives the film a rather odd edge, and it's also the closest it ever comes to disturbing. Knowing that all the senseless violence is being seen through the eyes of a child gives it a little extra bite in it's 'video nasty' bid. Most of the baddies in this film are typically rubbish, with the vast majority of them succumbing to our hero's way of thinking and having their heads lopped off. The only unique villains are the three brothers, calling themselves 'The Masters of Death'; but their crowning glory is one of the biggest disappointments of the film. On the whole; I say watch this if you like seeing people get sliced and diced. Otherwise, there's far better video nasty's out there for you to catch. "},{"Title":"Flying blades","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The hero in this Eastern action flick is not a sword fighter - he´s a human killing machine! The fighting sequences in this film are very short at all, because none of his enemies really seems to have a chance to defeat him. Lone Wolf kills armies of ninjas, soldiers and outlaws what causes a higher body count than any Rambo movie has got... The violence and the gore in Shogun Assassin are extremely high there are splitted heads and rivers of blood, so the fans of those amusing Jackie Chan-movies should stay far away!!! Otherwise director Robert Houston has created a fantastic menacing atmosphere what´s quite matching to the dark revenge-story.7/10 "}{"Title":"Words fail me...Amazing...simply amazing","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I do not know how to describe this movie. I watched it 22 years after it was released and it shows. I was expecting cheap gore, weak storyline, bad acting and stereotypical fighting scenes. I was hooked after the first ten minutes and awe-struck after the first 30. Soul? magic? atmosphere? I frankly don't know what it is this movie has but it is unique, breathtaking and touching. Just watch it. "},{"Title":"Awesome. Words fail me.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The editing. The sound. The music. Oh man, is this film awesome.I love the part in his home, when Lone Wolf is attacked. That upper cut sword move that sends the other guy's sword flying up to stick in the roof. The swings outside with bamboo poles flying like grass through a lawn mower. The inn, where a dirt covered grimy, bum like Lone Wolf hands the innkeeper 1000 pieces of gold for savekeeping, and says quietly, Is it enough?. The look on the innkeeper's face! Lone Wolf sensing danger while in a bath, and the cool 360 degree slow camera pan.Awesome. They should show this film to film classes as a lesson on making a great low budget action film. "},{"Title":"Kill Bill is NOTHING compared to this !","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Firstly after rediscovering my love for this genre . I just got to say that Kill Bill is a lot of crap compared to this . I first saw the heavily cut version of this when i was only 12 and then saw it YEARS later all i can say is WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOWWWWWWWWWWWW!!!!! Get me a samurai sword . If your not familiar with and of the baby cart films . This would be the best place to start you will be left craving for more !!! Just ask some of the others who have seen this , Blood , Guts , and relationship i wish i had with my dad there is virtually everything you could wish for in this film . All you have to do is watch it and then watch kill bill and i tell you this much you'll switch of Kill Bill after just 15 mins of watching it !!! GREAT STUFF !!!!!!!!!!! SHOGUN - I'M COMING FOR YOU "},{"Title":"Much cooler than the QT stuff.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is by far better than the highly overrated pompous pile of crap that is Kill Bill. Okay, this doesn't look as cool, but in some way it actually feels more real than Kill Bill, I think it's beacause the japanese approach to death is less cynic than the QT one. This old movie involves more swordfights you can handle and tons of blood. Could you really ask for anything else? No. At least you shouldn't.So don't waste money on Kill Bill, Tarantino probably won't need them anyway. This is what samurai bloodbaths are and should be all about. Blood, blood, blood.7/10 "},{"Title":"A violent, but fun, Japanese Samurai action film!","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hello,I first saw this magnificent film when it hit U.S. theaters in 1980. I thoroughly enjoyed the comic-book plot and almost cartoonish violence. I also liked the corny dialogue and appreciated the fact that the lines were dubbed by American actors that tried to give each character a distinct voice - unlike British/Australian dubs in Hong Kong flicks where many of the heroes and villains sound exactly the same from film to film. I really, really liked the synth-driven soundtrack which helped kick off the 80's and many of its technopop music scores!I later learned that SHOGUN ASSASSIN was a hybrid of the first two Lone Wolf & Cub/Baby Cart films in a series from 70's Japan, but that didn't diminish my fandom of the film one iota. In fact, I have since seen the entire six film series (with subtitles - which I prefer) and enjoy them much the same as I enjoy James Bond films from the 60's - 80's.Joey "},{"Title":"Baby Carriage of Bloody Death","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*A samurai called Lone wolf and his son are traveling through the countryside. They are trying to get away from the Shogun and all of his ninja assassins. Thankfully the baby carriage Lone Wolf is pushing around is armed to the teeth. There are blades popping out of every part of this thing. His son is a quick study too. He knows where all the buttons are so he can get in on the killing action. It all leads to a final showdown against the Masters of Death. They are three ninjas who look amazingly like the three main goons from Big Trouble in Little China.Highly enjoyable samurai movie. The blood was spurting out by the gallons. Sometimes you could even tell when a guy was holding a hose to his chest while the blood gushed out. The ninjas didn't count on facing the baby carriage from Hell. They die very badly.  "},{"Title":"The best Samurai movie ever made.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Shogun assassin is a movie composed of scenes taken from the first two episodes of the Babycart series, a six-part epic following the fortunes of a master swordsman turned assassin (Lone Wolf) and his son (Daigoro, aka Cub).An excellent eastern/electronic soundtrack replaced the largely silent original while Japanese language was dubbed into English. Surprisingly, the dubbing works, for the most part, extremely well, and this also allowed the producers to come up with script and plot changes which bridged the gap between the various scenes pasted together from the different episodes. What we are left with is the most visually stunning Samurai movie ever made. Forget Kurosawas slow ,arty and frankly boring 'epics', Shogun assassin has a tension that is tangible. At every turn, there is the possibility of attack for the duo, while the excellent soundtrack adds menace, beauty and suspense. The fight scenes are quite simply breathtaking. While many commentators decide to focus on the arterial sprays gushing from the victims, they are missing the point - the swordplay on display is almost poetic in its precision and execution. The period costumes and settings are excellent and if you like your heroes to be stoic and impregnable, they don't get any better than Lone Wolf. The young cub Daigoro provides us with the narrative to the story and this proved to be a masterstroke, as the simple childish tones add to the suspense and help to set up the scenes in the movie. Tomisaburo Wakayama turns in an incredible performance in the lead role, gaining your respect, fear and admiration along the way. If you haven't guessed already, I am a major fan of this film. Rather than go through the plot, which you can find anywhere, I decided instead to highlight the elements which make this a great film. If you haven't seen it, rent it now. Pure Genius. "},{"Title":"More than just a blood-fest","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I bought this film on DVD recently on the basis of what I remembered from the mid-eighties. I remember seeing the video of this sitting next to Driller Killer, The Burning and Brutes and Savages. At the time (I was in my early teens) I remembered this as a blood-fest, with copious amounts of blood and violence - just what a teenager is after. However, watching this film again recently, i was delighted to find that it is much, much more than a Japanese slasher movie. The front cover of the DVD boasts incredible feats of violence, and it does have that, but it is also a film that conjures up the 'seriousness' and single-mindedness of a samurai who is out for one thing - vengeance. I had forgotten about the savage nobility of the main character (Tomisaburo Wakayama) and the love he has for his son, or the atmospheric cinematograhpy that captures the ritualised nature of life in feudal Japan the harsh and unforgiving landscape that acts a metaphor for the films lead character. This film is a gem. I'm now going to splash out on the rest of the Lone Wolf and Cub series.      "},{"Title":"Send Your Ninjas, I'll Kill Them All!!!!!!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  And so he does!!  This is a bizarre and amazing cult classic of a samurai film that is apparently pieced together from two longer films in the Lone Wolf and Cub Series.  From my point of view the viewer would never know this was a composite film and it stands alone as an amazing and strangely hypnotic piece of violent film history.  I first viewed this epic while in college and did not really know what to expect.  I thought I was in for a simple and bloody martial arts flick.  Well, it was bloody as all hell but this is more of an epic art film than something on Saturday kung fu theater.  It is hard to describe what makes this movie different but its combination of great acting, direction, pace, dialogue and score set this film far above any other martial arts film I have ever watched.  In addition, this is the only film that seemed to portray samurai sword fights as I always envisioned them, very quick and very bloody with little or no fencing.  The swordfighting in this film is unreal and stunning.  I would recommend this to fans of action but I would also recommend this odd film to serious film fans, there is something going on here you might not expect.  In conclusion I just want to say, they will all pay....WITH RIVERS OF BLOOD!!! "},{"Title":"Totally Cult","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Lonewolf (Tomisaburo Wakayama, sadly dead by an heart attack in 1992, at the age of 53) reminds me those old fashioned films that care about the image instead of blazing hollywoodians special effects. The story is really deep, focusing on awesome scenarios from the old japan, full of epical dialogues between the characters. I would like to write a lot of good things about this cult movie, but it's better (and faster) if i talk about some lacunae, like a not perfect timing of the plot and the (imho) not that good end , seems like the director cut off a final part. Anyways i gave the maximum vote just for the perfect MIX of action/philosophy it got, an all-round film for everyone (adult at least).. It really deserved it "}{"Title":"possibly the best film ever","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I cannot really explain just how good this film is. Dark and atmospheric from beginning to end, a kung fu film this aint. The fighting is straight to the point, limbs are severed, heads are split in two and blood sprays like a sprinkler system from every wound. The dubbing and music are perfect and the narration from the kid gives this a new edge from other samurai movies. I have the whole Baby Cart series and belive me it is a must for anyone who likes this film. If you dont like this film...see a doctor. "},{"Title":"amazing in almost every way","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film impressed me there were so many good things about it. i love the way its narrated by the kid. lone wolf is just really cool. the cinematography is some of the best i have ever seen. the locations were also amazing. the fights looked very real and were done brilliantly. the 3 guys lone was payed to kill were good and reminded me of the ones from big trouble in little china. the effects were great too. i haven't seen so much blood in a film since braindead. there are some great gore scenes like a guys head being chopped in half and decapitations. on the whole this is one of the best films i have ever seen.9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best Samurai movie's ever made.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Shogun Assassin is one of the best Samurai movie's I've ever seen, Shogun Assassin is up there with the like's of legendary Samurai movie's such as Sanjuro and Yojimbo, which where directed by the lengedary Akira Kurosawa.Shogun Assassin is a great movie, but also very violent, sometime's the amount of blood is slightly un-nerving but very realistic all the same.A must see for any martial art's fan, if you can stand the amount of blood.9/10   "},{"Title":"The Finest Samurai Flick Ever!!!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has no pretences. It delivers everything you'd ever want in an action flick,gore,violence,fight scenes and a little sex to.The little boy is a hoot.  "},{"Title":"Incredible movie","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A true martial art movie, with blood, amputated limbs, good katana fighting and incredible action.This movie is the first real samurai movie I ever seen, its a MUST! "},{"Title":"He Slices, He Dices, let the blood fly!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love samurai films. But my one big problem is that they often don't have enough action. It's usually a bunch of dudes standing around talking for two hours, until they finally have a big sword fight at the end (kind of like Phantom Menace). Also, the fights are often pretty bloodless, which takes some of the fun out of it. But with this movie, you won't have to wait two hours for the payoff, and it doesn't pull any punches on the blood, either. Swords will flash and blood will spurt every ten minutes or so. "},{"Title":"A great samurai film with outstanding sword fights","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film has some of the best sword fights ever shot on film.  The plot has Lone Wolf (Tomisaburo Wakayama) travelling the countryside, pushing his son, Daigero, ahead of him in a baby cart.  The only time he stops is to battle the seemingly infinite number of ninja the Shogun sends out to kill him.  The film has blood spurting up every five seconds and is not meant to be realistic.  It's more a bloody dance.  Bodies take seconds to fall over, defeated swordsmen spurt blood up in the year for seconds before falling over, and blood spurts up in front of (and sometimes onto) the camera.  It's a great film for fans of action films.  This extremely violent, yet aesthetic film was directed originally by Kenji Misumi. "},{"Title":"The Shogun Assassin saga","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Shogun Assassin is one of the greatest samurai/swords movies ever made. Not only does it deliver a full grown action movie, it also shows more comlex moral situations. Among those there is a powerful scene where the son of the hero has to choose between sword or ball, life or death..... The movie-line is about an ex-samurai (ronin) who now makes his living as a hired assassin, but he is constantly followed by the shoguns assassins. Watch out for the Lords of death.For a person without any movie background this movie will quickly become an endless mass of violence, it may even seem a bit pathetic. But no. This movie is well known by movie critics all over the world as one of the greatest movies ever! This movie should be seen not watched. "},{"Title":"Die Hard with Ninja's in 12th century japan.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The beauty of the choreographed ultra-violence is only matched by the depth of physical and psychological torture which the films star, Lone Wolf, endures. The fighting just does not end. Look out for the quotes used by The Wu Tang Clan. "},{"Title":"Sam Peckipaugh meets Kurosawa","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a fun little movie...a tad bloody, but since most of the blood is so obviously fake that it adds to the fun.For the most part, Shogun Assassin seems to almost be a parody or be making fun of all those Italian Spaghetti Westerns that got their inspiration from classic Japanese cinema.  It is considerably different from the Lone Wolf and Cub comic books from the early eighties, which is where I first learned of the movie.  It took me almost a decade to finally see it...and I really wasn't disappointed.There is a lot of action in this movie...Lone Wolf himself comes off as totally unstoppable.  He is relentless and even his young son gets into the act.  The three Masters of Death they battle are also interesting, using some rather unique weapons for a Samurai movie (and even, indeed for a martial arts movie).The one bad thing about the movie is that it ends a bit too suddenly, without any real resolutions to the plotline. But then, I know there is a sequel out there somewhere...  "}{"Title":"Not to every taste","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is neither as a good a film as some reviewers claim, nor is it as bad as others remark.The Lone Wolf and Cub chambara (sword fight) films have a strong cult following. The first I saw was Kozure Ôkami Shinikazeni mukau ubaguruma, on an English-dub VHS with the ridiculously redundant title Lupine Wolf (a Latinate-Germanic bastardization which properly translates as Wolfly Wolf?!); I couldn't tell whether to laugh or feel shocked. These are indeed rather odd films, because the film-makers have not failed to include every cliché of the genre they could, and yet boldly include wild innovations that are completely anachronistic, having absolutely nothing to do with the Chambara tradition, nor with the older tradition of samurai-folklore. In that respect, they paved the way for many of the fantasy ninja and samurai films that followed, and which constitute most of the B-movie entries in the Japanese cinema of the past ten years. While the anachronisms most noticeable are the gimmicky weapons (packed inside the baby-cart, no less), what may truly offend a traditionalist here (and I guess I'm one of these) are the personalities of the characters involved, who talk and act like 1960s street yakusa pretending to be samurai.But what makes these anachronisms striking is that they are presented in films that take themselves just SO seriously, there is hardly ever a moment's humor, and rarely does any character even smile. And to be sure, the Japan depicted in these films is so dark, so filled with vile corruptions - physical, legal, spiritual - that it's difficult to understand why all these characters just don't commit seppuku and get it over with.This particular film has recently been re-released on DVD. It is actually a re-edit of the first two films. The DVD costs less than half the price of any of the original films, and is more widely available than any of them (I got my copy at Wal-Mart). Consequently, it will probably be the first of these films younger American viewers are likely to see. Is it faithful to the original series? Not quite. The story tends to get lost among the action scenes, and the original films actually have strong, if rather complicated, story-lines. And most confusing of all is the loss of the sense of anachronism which was the special gift this series made to the Japanese action film.Still, it is a film entertaining in its own violent way; and at the price, it may be worth viewing as a sampler, to get the taste of the original series.I should warn the reader that every review concerning the violence in this film (and in the original series) is completely true. The violence in these films is graphic almost beyond belief; Lone Wolf cultists are clearly impressed with it, others may feel it is so overdone it borders on self-parody. (For comparison, check out the final Katsu Zatoichi film, which has a shattering final sword-fight that uses touches of wit here and there without losing any of its credibility.) Not to every taste, not even among chambara fans, but it may be to yours. "},{"Title":"Butchery, but not in a good sense.","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" While at university I was introduced to the original Kazuo Koike/Goseki Kojima 'Lone Wolf & Cub' graphic novels by a half-Japanese friend and instantly became a fan. After a time we tracked down the movie versions and I was pleasantly surprised at how faithful they were to the original material - indeed, in many sequences it was as though the movies had used the Kojima graphics as storyboards for the filmed versions. All was well and good until, just yesterday, I saw this.Shogun Assassin is, in essence, a badly stitched together hack-job of the first two films in the series - Sword of Vengeance and Baby Cart at the River Styx. Eschewing the need for a coherent plot or any sense of pacing, it is merely a crude assembly of all the action scenes of the original films, with all the characterisation and plot development removed to make way for a nonsensical series of fights. It is, quite possibly, the worst editing job I have ever seen and, now that a box-set of the original movies is widely available, there is absolutely no point in seeing it. If you are at all interested in the Lone Wolf & Cub saga then seek out the originals immediately, but don't waste your time on this. "},{"Title":"Uninteresting dubbed C-movie action splatter","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have a friend who has repeatedly reacted badly and disinterested when I mentioned showing him some of my films(Kurosawa mostly)claiming he hated samurai films. When I visited him this weekend he said he had something I would love and so he showed me shogun assassin and now I understand his resentment towards samurai films. He had formed the idea that this is what all samurai films are like and he couldnt be more wrong, Im almost angry at him for being so stupid, it´s like eating a raw snail and then claiming you hate french food. The film itself is not good at all, it might have been slightly better in original language but now its one of those horrible ninjafilms of the seventies, except there are samurai instead of ninja. It almost makes you feel dirty when you see it, I lost all interest halfway through and turned it off..I´ve read the comicbook so I knew the story. "},{"Title":"Crap! Watch the real Kozure Ôkami series  instead!!!","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is crap. Basically a mesh of 6 really cool samurai movies mixed into one film that is utter trash and totally lacks the feel of the originals. Ignore the rave reviews of the people who just don't know any better. Robert Houston, The director is actually a washed up actor from the 70's. Ugh! Another example of Hollywood taking something great and regurgitating onto movie screens for retarded mass audiences to lap up. I noticed most people who remember watching this movie in the 80's are over rating this movie big time! I think perhaps they are not putting aside childhood nostalgia and voting based on that. I watched this in the 80's and I wasn't really impressed. However, when I saw the originals from the 1970's -I was blown away! That's also when I noticed that the English dubbed voices are horrid! Itto Ogami's voice/dialog in Shogun assassin is simply ridiculous. Look at the voice over cast -Sandra Bernhard??????? Jeez! What nonsense! The real voice of Tomisaburo Wakayama is powerful and his laugh is haunting and scary at the same time. I also love how the super hacks David Weisman and Robert Houston credit themselves as writers. That makes me sick. Skip right over this mess and watch the Kozure Ôkami series instead! "},{"Title":"An Utter Classic in My Book","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm making it a new goal to see all of the films on the DPP's video nasty list and this one is on it. Granted, most of the films on the list are trashy exploitation films that are probably fairly painful to sit through but this one is amazing. This is probably the greatest exploit I've seen so far and it's much more than just an exploitation film.The film is dubbed so in that case it's sometimes hard to tell if the acting is good or not but it seems great otherwise. The story is well thought out and moves almost perfectly. The gore and effects are absolutely stunning. This movie seriously took me by surprise and amazed me completely.Anyone who likes classic exploitation needs to see this film. It truly is the best one I've seen so far and I hope you find it as good as I did. See it today! "},{"Title":"If Kurosawa & Tarantino had been able to make a film together, it still wouldn't match this...","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I heard about this movie from a guy I worked with at HMV Trocadero in London, and being a fan of Samurai flicks and violent Asian cinema (Kuroswa, Takeshi Kitano, John Woo, all the usual guys), I couldn't wait to see it. I first saw a dubbed VHS version about 10 years ago and it blew me away, so you can imagine my reaction when I saw it in the original Japanese language on DVD. Even better is the recently released DVD box set of all 6 Lone Wolf & Cub movies, the ultimate in Samurai slasher action. The first two movies in the series, 'Sword Of Vengeance' & 'Baby Cart At The River Styx', were edited together to make 'Shogun Assassin' and once you've seen these two you can't really go back and watch 'Shogun..' again as it just doesn't compare with the originals. However, if you can't get hold of the 6 full movies, 'Shogun Assassin' is a must for any fan of the Samurai genre. I never thought I'd ever see an on-screen swordsman who could compete with Toshiro Mifune, but Wakayama matches him for skill, style and, most crucially, cool. You should also check out Takeshi Kitano in his recent remake of Zatoichi. "},{"Title":"Pretty good film really","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After his wife is killed the Lone Wolf sets off on a mission to kill the murderer, he takes his son along with him.I found it quite strange that a sixty-year-old man (at least!!) could kill hundreds of ninja's without a scratch on him.Basically an action film with an amazing amount of graphic gore and blood spurting everywhere, not to watch if you're queasy at the sight of blood!!I quite liked this film because I'm a horror fan, and this has a lot more blood than most horror films, so, overall pretty good! 7/10 "},{"Title":"essential","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" excerpt, more at my location - Banned in the UK for over a decade, Shogun Assassin is the film which re-invented the martial arts movie in the west during the '80s. Inventive, artistic and violently beautiful, Shogun Assassin's influence is almost as far reaching as the death toll contained in its unique 83 minutes.No matter what, Shogun Assassin is an essential part of any martial arts fans collection, and it also compliments the longer Lone Wolf and Cub series. Eerily magnificent, this is an oddity that will repay attention and stands up to repeated viewings, despite the flaws inherent in a project with such an unusual genesis. As an aperitif for the full series, it is the most tantalising of hints at what is to come. "},{"Title":"Very cool!","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" In the 19th century in Japan, a lone ronin nicknamed LoneWolf and his son travel the countryside to fight off deadly ninja assassins so he can avenge the death of his beloved wife, a powerful shogun sends out deadly minions to eliminate LoneWolf for good but can the one-man army himself deal with all of them? One of the most violent and goriest movies ever made! this Japanese-American action production is actually three films from the Japanese LoneWolf and Cub Series into one movie and dubbed into English. Considered a favorite of Quentin Tarantino and inspired his Kill Bill films, this entertaining and gory-as-hell film is a visual action feast with some laughable English dubbing ( i assume the Japanese LoneWolf and Cub series is better which i haven't seen) and non-stop ultraviolence such as heads split open, arms being sliced, etc.I can see why this movie has a cult following! if you want a good old fashioned Asian blood feast then maybe you should watch this.Also recommended Ninja Scroll, The Toxic Avenger, Ichi The Killer, Riki-Oh The Story of Ricky, Shogun Assassin, Kill Bill Vol. 1, Kill Bill Vol. 2, Fist of the North Star (Anime), Versus, Battle Royale, Cannibal Ferox, Conan The Barbarian, Princess Mononoke, Street Trash, From Dusk Till Dawn, Running Scared, Crank, Bad Boys 2, Vampire Hunter D, The Last Samurai, Ran, Seven Samurai, Rashomon, The Punisher (1989 and 2004), Samurai Fiction, and Blade Trilogy. "},{"Title":"A must see for any action fan","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Great action and a unique story line. You've got to love the kid "}{"Title":"Life Begins at 40","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" My son and I take no pleasure in revenge. It is an unsatisfying journey along a single track. No deviation, no obstacles. Bodies drop lifeless in the ditch.Bathe while you can, you are being watched. Women are a faded echo, love reserved for the dead. Sleep only as the blood drains from your body.We walk. They come and fall.When cut across the neck, a sound like wailing winter winds is heard, they say. I 've always wanted to cut someone like that, to hear that sound.Music to my ears. "},{"Title":"Very bloody..","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is cruel, really cruel.I just saw this movie, and i was amazed about all the blood. We watched a DivX version and I'm not sure about if it had been translated into english or just dubbed, but the talking seemed to flow. I'm still wondering if the movie has been translated into an eng/am version or just dubbed.Anyways, the movie as really asskicking. You can't talk about the act cos it's really weird. But the splatting is down for whatever.. )  "},{"Title":"Tribute to Babycart.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Lone wolf and son return in the seventh babycart film called Shogun Assassin. This film is more or less an edit of the first two or so babycart films. The music is strange and so is the acting. The english version of this film is obviously dubbed and it shows out like a sore thumb. This film was one time banned for some 20 years because it was classed as a video nasty. The violent killing are real, but there are some silly bits which you would expect from an eastern film. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.....","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I found it funny, anyway. The original trailers for the film are even funnier, if that were possible.Basically you have a masterless samurai who is bent on vengeance for the murder of his wife. In tow, he takes his son in a kind of baby carriage which was obviously desined by the Japanese version of Q.That's about it for plot. What you then get is an endless series of swordfights and battles which have so much spurting blood and silliness that you can't help but laugh in delight.This movie was also clearly plagiarised by the likes of Carpenter and Tarantino quite badly. Still, it's only plagiarism if people know where you got your ideas from, and rather sadly, this film isn't likely to be seen by many who aren't already In the know as it were.Adding to the ridiculousness of the whole thing is a synthesiser soundtrack that clearly is of the same stamp as that used in Hawk the Slayer. What was it about the eighties that made people think synth-music sounded good? Anyhow, the sound here just adds to the hokey fun of it all.Well worth watching at least once just for the Hell of it. If you don't laugh there must be something wrong with you. "},{"Title":"A stylish, action movie that should satisfy anyone willing to stomach a little bloodshed","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Shogun Assassin is no longer available in the United States, which is very unfortunate indeed. I obtained a copy through a Canadian film distributor. It follows a man named Lone Wolf, the right hand man of an evil Shogun. When the Shogun feels that Lone Wolf has grown too powerful, he sends his ninja spies to kill him. They fail, and thus begins the saga of Lone Wolf and his toddler son. A must see if you can obtain a copy.   "},{"Title":"So awful it was a mammoth","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is absolutely terrible! All the way through those long-drawn out hours of watching it, all I could think of was WHEN is this film going to end! Initially I thought it was quite amusing that this tiny little child was going around with this mammoth of a man killing all these people, I thought it was some rubbish comedy, but nope it was even worse when I actually realise this film was meant to be taken seriously! Who really can take enjoyment out of this film?!! We see the mammoth take a bath with the child...we see the mammoth slaughter bunches of people, why couldn't the mammoth just DIE.... Anyways, do not watch this film unless your some boring old fart. "},{"Title":"The most orange blood I've ever seen","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A plot is not existing, you could call it antique road movie. A Ronin pushing forward a wagon with his son who is attacked all the time by random Ninja. The Masters of Death are the most ridiculous bunch of villains imaginable. Just 1h23min of wasted time. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia Might Have Something To Do With The High Rating","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of these long forgotten obscure films that was very popular amongst my peers back in the day . . My peers were of course schoolboys in their early teens and when you're that age a film's quality is almost down to gore , swearing . nipple count and other low brow criteria . This means the greatest urban vigilante film wasn't TAXI DRIVER but THE EXTERMINATOR with its graphic scenes of mutilation and torture . By the same yardstick the greatest Japanese film wasn't by Kurosawa or Kobayashi but this one here . I didn't see it when it hit home video in the early 1980s where it subsequently banned circa 1983/84 but was constantly told about it by people who enjoyed seeing limbs and heads getting lopped off . After just seeing it I can't help thinking nostalgia plays a primary part in its very high user rating on this website There's no way you can accuse THE SHOGUN ASSASSIN in being boring but at the same time you can't accuse of being anything more than disposable exploitation schlock . Looking through the Movie Connection link on this page it's apparently three earlier films spliced together and dubbed in to English . One wonders how much milage there was in the previous films because story wise this one a very basic revenge tale with episodic fight scenes that go over the top . It's not enough to merely stab or decapitate someone and they must shoot a stream of blood . You know when you get a garden hose and put your finger over the nozzle and the water comes out in a high pressure spray ? Well that what happens here after a sword fight . It does become clearer and clearer the longer the film continues that is all the film rarely contains , a repetitive series of gory sword fights . Bare that in mind if you want to seek out the film due to its high rating . One also might have feared for a customer going in to a video shop in the early 1980s seeing the title and taking it home thinking it was somehow connected to the mini-series SHOGUN starring Richard Chamberlain . It's hardly family friendly but at the same time the violence is so silly and overdone it resembles MONTY PYTHON rather than some of the more infamous video nasties of the era and one wonders did it really need banned ? "}]