[{"Title":"A little dated but nonetheless very well done...","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"60 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first watched Saturn 3 with my father when I was about 12 years old and I remembered liking it and being creeped out by it as a kid. So I revisited the film again last night. Even though it has been over 15 years since I first saw this film, I still really enjoyed it. I was very surprised to see so many negative comments here on IMDb. All in all, the film is a little dated, but it still contains some very striking visuals and original ideas. The sets used for this film were extremely well detailed and thought out, as were the costumes and props. Hector is perhaps one of the coolest looking cyborg/robot characters ever conceived. The scene where he is first booted up and filled with cyber-blood is just vivid and stunning. After watching this film, it was also *quite* obvious that this movie influenced some of the more modern science fiction masterpieces like Robocop, the (1st) Matrix and James Cameron's Aliens. Several of the reviews harshly criticized the acting and the story, but I however found no problems in this department. Nowadays we seldom see good films with a small cast and a simple story. Not every movie has to be as advanced and as complex as films like Minority Report. And I am sorry, but Mark Hamill and Keanu Reeves can't hold a candle to Kirk Douglas and Harvey Keitel when it comes to acting. I think people are trying to compare this film to all the super budget modern sci-fi movies. Or perhaps this movie is regarded as crap by many because they think Star Wars is the end all, be all sci-fi movie of all time, which in my opinion, Star Wars is MUCH more cheesy and way too light-hearted to take seriously. If you like serious, dark sci-fi flicks, be sure to check this one out. Don't listen to all those Star Wars nerds who crap on this film. Judge it for yourself. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An Underrated Sci-Fi Cult","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the future, Earth is overcrowded and the population relies on distant bases to be fed. In the Saturn 3 station, Major Adam (Kirk Douglas) and the scientist Alex (Farrah Fawcett), who is also his lover and has never been on Earth, have been researching hydroponics for three years in the base alone with their dog Sally. Meanwhile, the psychotic Captain Benson (Harvey Keitel) fails the mental test required to travel to Saturn 3 and kills his replacement, Captain James, taking his place in the mission of assembling and programming the Demi-God series robot Hector to replace one of the scientists in Saturn 3. On the arrival, the mentally disturbed Captain Benson becomes sexually obsessed for Alex. Then he uses an interface to link his brain to program Hector, but incapable to control his emotions, he transfers his homicidal tendency and insanity to Hector. Now Major Adam and Alex are trapped in the station with a dangerous psychopath robot.Saturn 3 is an underrated sci-fi cult from the 80's with a dark story that has not aged. The plot is very simple but creepy and the cast is very well selected Kirk Douglas very mature but still handsome, convincing that Major Adam is capable to seduce Alex. The underrated actress Farrah Fawcett in the top of her beauty and showing parts of her body, seducing not only the psychopath Captain Benson but ( I believe) most of the male viewers. And Harvey Keitel is perfect as a mentally unstable man with sex drive on Alex. The non-commercial conclusion is also excellent and perfect for the story. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Missão Saturno 3 (Mission Saturn 3) "},{"Title":"Uneven but fairly enjoyable sci fi horror.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's no point whining about what 'Saturn 3' COULD have been with a script by Martin Amis, direction by Stanley Donen ('Bedazzled'), and the star power of Kirk Douglas and Harvey Keitel. It is what it is, and that is, despite the impressive production values, basically a throw back to a fifties b-grade monster movie. Hector is still one of the scariest movie robots of all time, even if the idea of a sex-crazed machine is a trifle ludicrous and reminiscent of all those horny BEMs on pulp magazine covers and silly flicks like 'The Brain From Planet Arous'. Hollywood legend Kirk Douglas ('Spartacus') must have been in his early 60s when this was made but still exudes charisma and virility. 1970s sex symbol Farrah Fawcett ('Logan's Run') is less convincing as his love interest and is, let's face it, little more than eye candy. Keitel must have been wondering just how he ended up in this silliness so soon after his excellent work in 'Blue Collar' and 'Fingers', but he is creepy enough, though apparently dubbed. I also got a kick out of the very brief cameo by Ed Bishop, star of 1970s cult classic SF series 'UFO'. All in all, an unambitious but generally effective thriller, which has a few dull spots but enough scares to make it some cheesy fun. Just don't expect too much and you will enjoy it all the more.  "},{"Title":"Harmless Space Hokum","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Right. Saturn 3 is one of those films that always seems to divide reviewers into the two old and trustworthy camps what a great picture and who the heck let this pile of manure be made? And then, it has the ability to have a solid middle ground; the nyah...not bad... crowd. I have to say that I fall into this latter group. I first saw Saturn 3 when I was a teenager and was gripped by it. I remember thinking how cool Hector looked and the fact that he was also downright creepy. In the years before seeing The Terminator Hector, for me, was the archetypal maniac machine that will stop at nothing to kill you in a (probably) gruesome way. Okay, the film's saving graces the overall design of the sets and costumes. Ignoring the rather bleak look of the corridors, the Saturn 3 station has that feeling of being futuristic but also familiar in a Holiday Inn-sort of way, and the launching area at the film's beginning, with that great big flaming hole image effectively acting as a rather cool backdrop. Benson's (and also James') space suits are very nicely done. They give off the distinct air of practicality, like a hyper-modern air force pressure suit, and also a sense of impersonality about them which becomes menacing with the addition of the dark face plated helmets. Adam and Alex's work-out gear, however, is very dated and it's also quite excruciating to watch their exercise routine. The ships aren't Star Wars Star Destroyers, but then they're not meant to be. The way I look at it, they were designed to look slightly other worldly and also practical. Benson's pod that he flies to Saturn 3 looks entirely functional and although it appears rather clunky and distinctly un-aerodynamic, it's worth remembering that in space there isn't any wind resistance so sleek lines aren't necessary. Unfortunately, because this was a full-sized prop for the actors to interact with the other ships do look like the models they are. Hector is a piece of design excellence. For a start, the actual costume is made from metal, instantly rendering the appearance of a real robot. The actual laboured gait and measured way of moving employed by the actor playing Hector (probably due to the considerable weight of the suit) is instrumental in convincing the viewer of his cybernetic credentials. What helps is that we see Hector being constructed and that can block out any ideas of the man in a suit mold, particularly in regards to the insertion of the brain tissue into (effectively) the torso of the costume. Finally, Harvey Keitel. His performance in this film is derided by many as being too over the top and hammy but I think that he actually saw the script for what it really was - eighty-odd minutes of comic-book fun. He had a ball with the Benson character and it's quite obvious that he knew he wasn't asked to do Shakespeare and play it straight. Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett are a let down to be sure. It's evident that Kirk's entering his dotage and the idea of him being an action hero and hot stud when he's the same age as most of the audience's grandfathers is frankly ludicrous. And showing your sagging butt, Kirk? Should've kept those training suit bottoms on. Farrah does play Alex well when she's there to look good, but any semblance of the idea that she's a research scientist just doesn't compute. The film in itself is a bit of a hit and miss affair. It aims to be a sophisticated sci-fi thriller like Alien but the casting of Douglas and Fawcett certainly taint any idea of it being classed as a thriller. The music (what there is of it) is original, the direction so-so and the overall concept is there, but it fails to it the target spot on. An enjoyable piece of hokum to pass the time would be a fair review. "},{"Title":"Chaotic, misunderstood sci-fi cult flick that deserves better treatment.","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In 1980, Saturn 3 was released. Since then it's been mocked, laughed at, even ripped-off by so-called Classic (Some actually deserved it, though.). Although it's rough on the edges, and suffers from some editing problems, effects, and a low budget, Saturn 3 is light-years better than any of the sci-fi crap that's churned out today (Not counting Revenge Of The Sith, which was good.), along with another underrated sci-fi cult hit Galaxy Of Terror. Unlike Galaxy, Saturn 3 was directed by producer (And best known for Singing In The Rain) Stanley Donen, who took over from original director (And special effects/set designer specialist) John Barry. His directing is fine, but along with him are Kirk Douglas (Who's often criticized for being too old to be stripped down in wearing nothing in some parts of the film, but this was made before he ACTUALLY became a decrepit, feeble old man, no offense Kirk.), Harvey Keitel (Who was unfairly dubbed by a stereotypical British dude i'm not familiar with), and Farrah Fawcet (Who's the weakest link of this film).It opens with Keitel (Dressed in a awesome space suit) taking the job to take Hector (The key robot of the film.) to Saturn 3, a sanctionary of sorts to keep Earth plenished with food. Of course, he kills the real men meant for the job, and goes in the spaceship unnoticed. The opening is full of surreal, trippy, but awesome details, and gives us viewers some view of possible space life in the future. Keitel (Who's character is called Benson, and is referred as the Captain) arrives at Saturn 3, and is greeted by Adam & Alex (Douglas & Fawcet, which their characters' names are a nod to Adam & Eve.). Alex says Benson is weird, and Adam outright distrusts him. Alex has also never been to Earth. We then see Benson construct Hector, a big robot with the tinniest head in the world. He has a synthetic brain, and is programmed by taking information from Benson via a head plug (A concept stolen by The Matrix.) Benson gains a weird obsession towards Alex, said obsession is transferred to Hector, which leads to Hector going mad, killing a dog, then Benson later on. Then, it leads Adam to sacrifice his life to save Alex.Saturn 3 contains some great designs, an interesting concept, a well-done execution, and some flaws. The flaws come from different places, mainly the casting of Fawcet. Some say this was vehicle for her showing off her skin, but due to the film's long history (Dating back to the early 70s, before Star Wars), it ain't. She makes her character a tad annoying, and seems to have not much to do except being fluff. She adds nothing, only causing a distraction from the real stars of the film, Keitel, Douglas, Hector, and the set design. Douglas & Keitel (Despite the awful decision to dub Keitel) are excellent, Hector is a creation of mystery to behold, the sets are great, and the score (Although brief) is cool and unforgettable. The effects work well, except for some really awful ones (Notably the one scene where Hector extends his arms after Adam tosses a crate at him, the riding through the rocks scenes, and, ugh, that one effect where Hector looks like a automated reject from Disneyworld's Epcot Center after getting pushed into the trap Adam and Alex made, although he was smart enough to avoid it first.). Despite these flaws, Saturn 3 is a great, forgotten sci-fi flick that needs to be seen and treated better, especially in the days of dreadful crap like You Got Served, Hustle & Flow, Waist Deep, Stargate The Series, The Matrix Revolutions, and Cars (Which I haven't seen, nor I want to see it, due to my fear that it will be inferior to the CGI Animated masterpiece The Incredibles). See it, respect the effects (Which are still better than CGI), and don't laugh, you'll understand me better. If you see, or seen it, then go to www.PetitionOnline.Com/Saturn3/petition.html to support my petition to release a special edition, anamorphic widescreen, Uncut, remastered DVD. If you sign it, you will be thanked in the future. Trust me. "},{"Title":"Pretty neat science fiction thriller","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this recently, late one Friday night on BBC2. It reminded me, though it isn't a horror film, of all the times I used to stay up in the past to watch old horror films, loving the fact that although few of them were spectacular, it was just fun to be able to see weird old b movies from the days when b grade genre pictures were often pretty decent. Saturn 3 has a small cast, comprising mainly Kirk Douglas, Farrah Fawcett as his wife, and Harvey Keitel as the sinister Captain James, who intrudes upon their cosy existence manufacturing food on Saturn 3. Farrah Fawcett looks nice and has a blandly appealing presence but isn't that much of an actress. Kirk Douglas brings a rugged, stoical gravitas to his role and is quite watchable, though his portrayal seems a bit stiff for the role. Its hard to judge Harvey Keitels performance since he was dubbed over. This is unfrotunate because it gives his human character a robotic feel. The film is fast paced, thrilling and wonderfully designed, with excellent special effects, especially Hector the robot. Hector is a great creation and has lots to do during the film, once it gets going. Also, as the film goes on, it seems to definitely have influenced the film Virus, with Jamie Lee Curtis, as well as other later science fiction films Though the characterisation seems a little weak the actors put their all into it and since the film becomes focused on the Hector and technological villainry the lightly drawn characters don't hurt too much. The screenplay runs swiftly and has sufficient vigor to paper over any cracks. Oddly, the screenplay is by acclaimed writer Martin Amis who penned great works such as Money or London Fields. Sadly the film has little of his sparkling language or savage wit but it does have a lot of excitement, some interesting themes and good dystopian details, especially in Keitel's characters attitudes. The final half hour or so is constantly tense and gripping, mounting to an inspired climax before a slightly weak final few moments. Sadly the film seems destined to mainly be seen in a truncated form instead of the 100 or so minute one mentioned on IMDb. The film definitely could have been more fleshed out, for there is the odd interesting point that is not expanded. However, the 85 or so minute cut is a such a tight, compelling ride that it is hard to criticise. With better acting, more characters or the 100 minute cut this could possibly have been really great. As it is I'd still definitely recommend it to science fiction or robot movie enthusiasts since its has some great ideas, effects that hold up well today and some good thrills. Worthwhile. "},{"Title":"No Taction Contact!","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this in the theater on the day it was released in 1980. This was a Grindhouse movie shown in little theatres, not in huge complexes. I went to see it not expecting much&#x85;Not expecting, but got This film had the coolest robot I had ever seen in my life. Back then I was not familiar with Harvey Keitel, I did not know that Roy Dotrice had overdubbed his voice, all I knew is this creepy guy, opens an airlock on a space station and lets his Captain fall through, shattering him into a million pieces of gore, and that was disturbing, and it was shown within the first 5 minutes of this film - And Keitel, who at the time was hidden by a black space helmet, giggling about killing this guy in that horrible way, what kind of film is this with a beginning like that.Not the best Stanley Donen film, but Donen clearly had a talent for doing the best he could with very low budgets, it could have used a few more dollars in the effects budget. It is highly Likely that John Barry directed a lot of this, and his design handiwork is evident.After seeing Space done so beautifully and economically by Ridley Scott in Aliens, this film for me was a return to my roots of Low Budget Science Fiction, which I grew up on, so I enjoyed the cheesy view of Saturn's Rings, I even loved the 2-D effect of the space station, and Donen's directing of the initial scene where you think is this going to be a musical in space? But there were some good effects despite the Apparent lack of dollars to make them really good. And I first saw this in the theater, and things always look better on that huge screen, until you see it on TV and it looks Cheap.So now, 32 years after I sat in that theater and was creeped out by Harvey Keitel and his robot Hector - I found a fairly good transfer of that film online and got it - And I watched it last night, for the first time in 3 decades. And I still liked it, the interactions between Kirk Douglass, Farah Fawcett and Harvey Keitel were subtle and the dialog was understandable although a future slang was being used, we can get the gist of the conversations... No Taction Contact! IE, Do Not Touch! - Kirk Douglas was far from being a decrepit old man in this film, he plays the lead role in his usual way, although toned down from his gritting teeth roles like Spartacus. In fact, this was the first film I had seen Douglas in where he was very subdued in manner but held his authority, when usually he acts with a lot more force behind his words and actions. I think this was probably the biggest Movie role for Farah , not counting several made for TV movies like The Burning Bed.The Saturn 3 set is convincing as a space habitat, except of course the gravity would be less than earth's, there is no mention of artificial gravity, so we have to take all that for granted in the film.The Hector concept, was the first time I had seen in a movie, that a robot had to be programmed from a human brain, and if that brain has problems I'm not malfunctioning, You are as Hector tells Benson- So this film makes clear that a guy who giggles over murdering his captain in cold blood, if this guy is the template for Hector's Programming, then watch out - The film made this concept very clear. This was also the first time in a movie where we see a socket at the base of a man's skull, this has been used in Science Fiction movies up to The Matrix.The design of some of the space-ships came from earlier science fiction movies, and we can blame veteran effects man Wally Veevers for some of the opticals in this film... The three-winged craft that comes to check on Saturn 3 is very familiar- I like that this was done that way, it connected this film which was at the time, a modern science fiction film, to its predecessors from the late 50's and early 60's. Most of the spaceships look like they came from the covers of The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction or Analog Science Fiction or Galaxy or any number of those pulps where these stories came from...And of course, the writer of this story was Martin Amis, the son of author Kingsley Amis, who wrote several science fiction stories with slants like used in this film.So basically, this was a B Movie that got some attention because of the then use of Kirk Douglas and Farah Fawcett, it could have been a great film, but as it is, it is not horrible, the science is believable, the effects typical but not great, the resolution not perfect but satisfying. The story could have been fleshed out a bit more, but as it is, the robot Hector, I remembered that Robot, when I saw Terminator I thought of Hector, when I saw Aliens I thought of Hector, there were a lot of possibilities for that character, this was not just an Evil Robot but a robot that became evil because of the way it was taught - Much like people in that respect. And that cylinder that held Hectors Brain - was creepy, any brain that is 4 times the size of a human brain, well you just have to say Why is that a BAD IDEA? "},{"Title":"Nifty early 80's sci-fi item","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The aging Major Adam (an able and robust performance by Kirk Douglas) and his much younger distaff partner Alex (sweetly played with charming naiveté by Farrah Fawcett) are stationed on a lone station located on one of Saturn's moons where they are working on ways to grow food for the starving masses back on Earth. Their idyllic existence gets ripped asunder by the intrusive presence of the depraved and unhinged Captain Benson (Harvey Keitel in fine menacing form) and his equally dangerous robot helper Hector.Director Stanley Donen offers a chilling vision of a cold, grim, and hedonistic future, relates the dark and compelling story at a steady pace, and generates some real nerve-wracking tension in the harrowing last third. The intelligent script by Martin Amis addresses such pertinent issues as overpopulation, depletion of precious resources, invasion of privacy, and the dehumanizing impact of advanced technology on mankind's soul in a thoughtful and provocative manner. Moreover, this film makes a valid point that technology is only as good or bad as the purpose it's put to use for. The lavish set design and snazzy special effects are pretty impressive (the towering Hector in particular comes across as genuinely imposing and frightening). The fact that Keitel's trademark New York accent was dubbed by Roy Dotrice with a more continental voice adds to the character of Benson's overall creepiness. Elmer Bernstein's spare pulsating score hits the moody spot. The glossy cinematography by Billy Williams provides a pleasing polished look. A neat and unjustly maligned movie. "},{"Title":"Farrah's leading men Kirk, Harvey, and a horny robot named Hector","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Would-be foreboding sci-fi looks all shiny and new, like a futuristic department store. Three good actors (Farrah Fawcett, Kirk Douglas and Harvey Keitel) come off looking like incompetent dummies in this derivative, cardboard cartoon. When Keitel arrives at the space station of lovers Douglas and Fawcett, he is carrying a strange metal container. Douglas offers to carry it for him and Keitel answers, NOOOOOOOO! in a hilariously chilly manner that makes even Richard Burton's overacting seem tame by comparison. Poor Kirk and Farrah even strip down for this one (so much for the classy reputation of vet director Stanley Donen). There is a neat scene where robotic Hector takes a splinter from Farrah's eye, but her reaction afterward (rubbing it like a child and sticking her bottom lip out) is embarrassing. This is one step beyond, all right. It's so far out it's brain-dead. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Nudity and violence in outer space.","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to imagine a more peculiar choice of director for this sci-fi thriller than Stanley Donen. Donen made some great films in the 50s and 60s (Singin' In The Rain, Seven Brides For Seven Brothers, Charade), but here he's in disappointing form. Partly that may be due to the fact that the project was originally to be directed by John Barry, but Donen inherited the responsibility when Barry quit due to ill health. However, Donen should not be made to shoulder all the blame. The script by Martin Amis leaves the actors to contend with some bad lines and situations. Elmer Bernstein contributes a forgettable music score which is well below his usual standard. And even the actors - all of them talented - seem indifferent to the project. Kirk Douglas, for example, seems to have accepted the role simply to enjoy some saucy nude scenes with sexy co-star Farrah Fawcett.Essentially, the story is a three-handed thriller (or, four-handed, if you count Hector the droid). Saturn 3 is Titan, the third moon of Saturn (hence the name), and it is here that scientists Adam and Alex (Douglas and Fawcett) live in blissful isolation, developing food supplies for people on Earth. Adam and Alex not only work together - they sleep and shower together too, which is a pretty enviable arrangement for Adam (who is about 30 years older than his sexy assistant). Into this perfect space oasis comes psychopathic Benson (Harvey Keitel), another scientist who has recently murdered a shuttle captain. Benson has brought with him a droid named Hector, supposedly to speed up the workload. However, Hector turns out to be a particularly unstable droid, particularly when the randy robot develops a liking toward Alex. Eventually it becomes clear that neither Adam nor Benson can control the droid, and with Hector determined to kill anyone who stands in the way of himself and Alex, that becomes something of a problem.......If Saturn 3 is a story of jealousy and desire, then it needs more than a sex-starved droid to generate credibility. If it is a sci-fi actioner, then it needs more action. If it was conceived as a sci-fi thriller then it most assuredly needs more thrills. The film emerges as a rather muddled and unappealing mess, with flashes of eroticism and very sporadic flashes of action. It marks a low point in Donen's directorial career, and is too forgettable to be remembered as a significant sci-fi work. Most of the folks associated with this one probably don't give it pride of place on their CVs. "}{"Title":"An overlooked and slightly damaged gemstone","Date":"26 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From its first shot of the underside of a space cruiser flying into the frame towards a planet, you feel the influences of Alien, Star Wars, and every other genre film of its type put out in the 1970s. The only difference is in the lower budget the studio had to spend on models, props, and other special effects.Scientist Adam (Kirk Douglas) and his colleague/lover Alex are stationed on an experimental hydroponics research station on one of the moons of Saturn. Their peaceful existence is interrupted by the arrival of Captain Benson (Harvey Keitel). He's been sent to assemble a robot named Hector who will likely replace Adam in the hopes of making the station run more efficiently. It slowly becomes obvious the robot has a mind of its own. It will stop at nothing to take over the station and liberate itself from the control of any humans.Saturn 3 is rated R for violence, language, adult situations, drug use, and brief nudity. The brief nudity is basically a flash of Farah Fawcett's breasts and the butt of Kirk Douglas. Both are unnecessary and add nothing to the story. Harvey Keitel and Hector both lust over the scantily-clad Fawcett. Keitel tells her that on Earth, everyone is promiscuous in the future. They've come to all just enjoy each other sexually with no inhibitions.To common everyday movie audiences, Saturn 3 will come across as just another misstep for any of the actors and filmmakers involved. Cult classic enthusiasts will understand it for what it is. It's an overlooked and slightly damaged gemstone worthy of its place next to Meteor, Outland, Lifeforce and other forgotten treasures of the era. "},{"Title":"Kirk Douglas and Farah Fawcett battle a robot built by Harvey Keitel","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Saturn 3 is greatly underrated at IMDb (currently 4.7). It's an above-average picture. It's innovative, with a robot antagonist several years ahead of The Terminator. The sets are extremely well done. The action is continuous. The special effects are very well done. Personally, I prefer them to computer-generated effects.It's possible that modern sci-fi fans brought up on a different kind of sci-fi movie and effects find this not to their liking. Perhaps the story is too closed in and limited for them. There are only 3 main characters, plus the robot, and they are all enclosed in a space station. The photography is dark and the picture functions as much as a mystery-noir-thriller than as a sci-fi piece.Although there is a good deal of action, there is a large psychological component to the story. Keitel, who is crazed, opens the story with a murder so that he can go to Saturn's third moon (there are 60!) and build the robot Hector via transferences from his brain to the robot's. This turns the robot into something very threatening. The robot looks as real as can be. Eventually, Keitel and Hector merge into an android, a part of the story relatively undeveloped. Both Hector and Keitel have a strong desire for Fawcett, who is a one-man woman and happy with the older Douglas.This story has no doubt been done before. It has been partly done in the western Thunderhoof, for example, which has but 3 characters. In that one William Bishop tries to woo Mary Stuart from grizzled Preston Foster.Keitel played his part rather robotically and without any voice accent, which was good. At first I thought his voice was dubbed, it sounds that different. I am not entirely sure, but I think it's his voice. At any rate, his performance works.To my mind, the sets, the robot, and Keitel's character stand out. The compact story helps, and so does Kirk Douglas. Farah Fawcett is good as the naive female who has never seen earth and wants to try some new adventures, including a Blue drug. "},{"Title":"Hokum Running Rings Around Saturn . . .","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Charade director Stanley Donen's Saturn 3, with Kirk Douglas, Farrah Fawcett, and Harvey Keitel, proves once again that robots&#151;no matter how smart they are&#151;are no match for humans. It also proves that despite his age, Kirk Douglas remains as fit and athletic as ever&#151;and that Farrah Fawcett's talent is really how loud she can shriek.Although Saturn 3 has the elements to make it a minor classic as sci-fi suspense thrillers go, the movie flounders because of awkward scripting, phony special effects, and Stanley Donen's lackluster helming.The story is set in the future, with neither date nor year provided. The action confines itself to the maze-like setting of a space station. A mentally unbalanced captain, Benson (Harvey Keitel of Mean Streets), murders a fellow officer on board a huge space ship by blowing him out of the ship's escape hatch. The captain then takes the dead man's place on a mission to deliver a robot to an experimental food laboratory on Saturn manned by Adam (Kirk Douglas of The War Wagon) and Alexis (Farrah Fawcett of Charlie's Angels). In the words of Adam, if the universe needed an enema, they'd stick the nozzle in at Saturn 3.When the captain arrives, he claims that he is there to help Adam and Alexis with their research which has fallen behind schedule. He has also brought along a new robot, the first of the new demigod series to aid them. The captain also takes more than a passing interest in Alexis and decides to steal her from Adam.Meanwhile, the captain assembles the robot&#151;named Hector&#151;and teaches him through direct input from the captain's brain to the robot's huge capsule-encased brain. Eventually, Hector turns against the captain and tries to take over Saturn 3.Scenarists Martin&#151;actor & novelist turned writer--Amis and Oscar-winning Star Wars art director John Barry establish textbook suspense by putting Saturn 3 into shadow lock when an eclipse occurs. Shadow lock lasts for 22 days, cutting our trio off from the rest of the universe. No radio messages can be sent from Saturn 3 and none received. What could be more unnerving than to be trapped in a space lab on a desolate planet&#151;especially with a mad robot on the loose! Long before the space station goes into shadow lock, Saturn 3 is in trouble. Amis never explains why Benson murdered his fellow officer. Or what Benson hoped to gain at the space station. We don't really know if Hector was bound for Saturn 3. Amis never really gets Douglas and Fawcett into any tight spots. There are several close calls, but nothing that will put you on the edge of your seat.As the movie's chief villain, Hector-the-robot offers few surprises. Certainly, he looks intimidating, but he's not nearly as vicious or intelligent as the monster in Ridley Scott's Alien. At one point, Adam disables Hector by overloading its batteries when the robot tries to recharge itself. Later, Adam tries to kill Hector by blowing him up. Why didn't Adam simply just run Hector's batteries down and overload him again? More often than not, a science fiction movie is only as good as its special effects. In this department, Saturn 3 leaves a lot to be desired. The space ships look like plastic models, and the planets seem to be cardboard cut-outs. Veteran director Stanley Donen, with help from Barry, generates atmosphere and suspense, but Saturn 3 drags along in places, suddenly accelerates, and then stalls out. There are some good moments, like Benson teaching Hector. Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett make a good duo. Elmer Bernstein's sinister music reminds you a little of Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey. While Saturn 3 cannot begin to compare with 2001, Star Wars, and Star Trek, Donen's film surpasses The Black Hole and Starship Invasions. If you enjoy science fiction movies, hokum like Saturn 3 should appeal to you. "},{"Title":"Saturn 3,  Give It A Try; U Might Like It","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have this film on VHS, bought it so cheap through Amazon, and I am such a sucker for sci-fi movies. I watched this movie last night and thought it was OK. I remember seeing this when I was only 10, on TV and thought it was really cool; but it was on TV and I was so young. It's one of those sci-fi pictures U would find on Mystery Science Theater late at night, but I never considered it awful. Yes, the special effects are lacking and some of the scenes U can tell are filmed in miniature. It's a B sci-fi movie but it's not bad, considering most of the cast just consist of 3 main characters and a robot. The plot is a basic one, a not so stable astronaut, kills one who is going to Saturn 3. He takes his place and the terror is about to begin. Once there you can tell Capt. James is a few shy of a six pack when he meets Adam and Alex. The 2 scientists who reside there and who are conducting new ways of food production for Earth from Saturn 3, an outpost hydroponic food production . Once settles in Capt. James begins to build a robot, named Hector, a new model the company is starting to use. Once complete, he shows off his creation to Adam and Alex. Capt. The robot is creepy enough; but what's creepier his his direct input to the robot, by taking information from his brain into Hector's. Hector eventually turns on Capt. James and eventually comes after Adam and Alex. It's up to Alex and Adam to stop this robot from hell and try to escape with their lives. This movie is far from Star Wars, but give it a try.THX, -Kris L. CocKayne- "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Gem","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Saturn 3 is an often over-looked minor sci-fi gem. It's by no means perfect, but there's a lot to enjoy. In many ways, it initially comes over as a robotic take on Alien. This is not inaccurate, but it's a small part of it. What we have in Saturn 3 is a wide selection of themes. Love hidden away in a far-flung corner of a permissive, hedonistic society. The evils of simple lust, jealousy and envy. How man's creations can turn on him, totally dependant on how we create them, and what parts of ourselves we allow them to emulate. It's not just about the 'robot-gone-bad' scenario. Hector is a villain, only because of the worst parts of humanity that he becomes imbued with. On top of that, we have a solid, dark adventure. In fact, you'll see some scenes that look to have directly influenced James' Cameron's 'Aliens', notably the hiding-under-the-floor scene, amongst others.Saturn 3 has some wonderful production design for the interior sets and props. Hector is a fantastic fusion of ideas. Hulking body, twisted and exposed muscle and vein-like wiring, and a set of eyes that perfectly undermine your expectations to create something rather more menacing. You expect a large, threatening head on that body. Instead you get only two searching eyes. The interior of the outpost is excellently realised. It doesn't go for the obvious route, emulating either Alien or 2001, but is somewhere between. It's own take on those. There are occasionally some obvious 70s influences, making it less timeless than a film like Alien, but they're not detrimental to the over-all film.Unfortunately, it is badly let down by some fairly dreadful model effects, for which there was little excuse in the wake of Star Wars and Alien. Though you do get the impression this is due to budget cuts at the end of production. The design of the ships, etc, is excellent. It is simply the effects themselves that clearly lacked time and money.To top it all off, Saturn 3 has an outstanding score by Elmer Bernstein. It is full of atmosphere, sometimes full of awe and grandeur, while at others almost demonic in its themes for Hector.Kirk Douglas delivers a solid performance, while Farrah Fawcett is functional, and a suitably attractive damsel in distress. Harvey Keitel does a fair performance as Benson, and ironically I feel he is more menacing with his voice dubbed by Roy Dotrice (Done well enough, that if you didn't know Keitel, you couldn't tell).There's a lot to enjoy in Saturn 3. It's full of ideas and stands up surprisingly well (Excluding some model effects). It's one of those films where you feel, with just a little more effort, really could have been a sci-fi classic. As it stands, it's still an under-rated and excellent film. "},{"Title":"Singin' in the space-rain!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Stanley Donen from the smarmy classic Singin' in the Rain directed this sleazy space adventure? What's next, George A. Romero remaking 'Dirty Dancing'?? Less surprising than the awkward director choice, however, is how silly and redundant this movie is... It totally lacks the originality, creativity and &#150; especially &#150; the credibility in order to become memorable science fiction. All it is now is an at times entertaining SF romp with a good cast and a couple of really nice gimmicks, but those hoping for another cool genre milestone will be sorely disappointed. Saturn 3 stars Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett as a pretty much carefree space couple, stationed in a control base on one of Saturn's Moons. Their jolly lifestyle is about to end abruptly when the grumpy Capt. Benson (Harvey Keitel) comes to build an all-knowing Meccano-robot. In one of the most ludicrous plot-twists ever, the robot (basically made from pipes and wires!!) becomes obsessed with Fawcett's ravishing body. Not that we can blame anybody for wanting to jump Farah Fawcett (she's ultra-hot again!) but this premise is a little too stupid to build a complete, supposedly 'adult' science fiction screenplay 'round. Trained genre fans can play a game spotting all the other (and more successful) titles that heavily influenced the story. The list is rather impressive, with Star Wars, 2001 &#150; A Space Odyssey, Alien, Zardoz and Dark Star as the most obvious ones. Some of the dialogues Kirk Douglas has to produce are terribly cheesy and for some incomprehensible reason, Harvey Keitel seems to talk with a dubbed voice. Watching Saturn 3 isn't a total waste of time, but there sure are better SF gems to purchase. "},{"Title":"Martin Amis Gives Sci-Fi a Try","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"19 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" All right -- first off, I'm going to recommend that you see this, even if just to satisfy your own curiosity (which I'm presuming on your behalf, I suppose). My own curiosity stems from the fact that Martin Amis was the screenwriter here. For those who don't know, Amis is the gold standard for modern literary fiction (although more recently, he has been off-form, c.f. the horrendous Yellow Dog). His narrative prose is too often described as Mandarin; that is, erudite, rife with classical allusion, and thoroughgoing familiarity with the major English writers and poets (particularly and most importantly Milton, whose Paradise Lost he basically cannibalizes for the plot and much of the language of his The Information, and also P.G. Wodehouse, whose prose style his is most akin to). Amis, the son of novelist Kingsley Amis, claims to have read nothing but comic books as a boy. There's nothing overtly Amis-ian about the dialogue itself -- one or two stillborn jokes about Saturn being the place where they would insert the tube if the solar system needed an enema (which sounds like the astro-physics stuff from The Info or London Fields, where sodomy is talked about in terms of black holes, and Nicola herself is a black hole of sex, right?). There are erudite elements like classical references to the Roman god Saturn (at least in the title itself, and not really developed in the screenplay) and naming of the robot Hector, of the Demigod III series (one of the characters constantly reminds us of Hector's bad treatment at the hands of Achilles, to wit, Hector's body was dragged around the walls of Troy by Achilles). The acting by Douglas and Fawcett is just unbelievably bad. No way to get around it. As I think back on it, the screenplay may have been pretty good actually, but their delivery was ruining it, every time. Douglas's big, hammy face and shoulders filling up the screen and stepping all over what may have been witty little bits here and there. He was badly, badly mis-cast in this one -- it should've been someone like Jack Lemmon or Kevin Spacey. Farrah Fawcett (earning her paycheck as a set decoration, basically) was perfectly cast, in light of the fact that this is basically an Adam and Eve In Space story. Amis's females (c.f. Other People, or Success) tend to take Milton's Eve as their model. Now, if the execution, in terms of acting or staging what-have-you, didn't come off, the overall structure of the thing was anagogically sound. There's no question that Amis's novelist's sense of architecture was at its high ebb at this part of his career (the contemporaneous book would be Success, Amis's most cleanly and cleverly plotted). As I said, it's basically Adam and Eve in space, and the ending, as with our first parents, is not a happy one. Harvey Keitel is the intruder on Douglas's and Fawcett's Eden. And what's interesting is that his character is a forebear of the Devil character in Amis's later novel, The Information, Scozzy. Keitel's character is, like Scozzy, a sort of cyborg, a series of pixellated surfaces, motivated only by desire for Fawcett. By the end of the movie, his person merges with the robot Hector. The movie's coda was surprisingly strong, actually, almost unwarrantedly powerful, given the crappiness of what had led up to it. Overall, you'd have to give Amis credit for trying to bring depth to a pretty shallow genre (references to Homer, Virgil, and Genesis, in a 90 minute sci-fi horror flick), and for knowing when to get out of the way for the visual aspect of the action. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite sci-fi films. It has a realistic depiction of future and a thought provoking story. I have read Roger Eberts review which is a total embarrassment and seemed to be written by a 10 year old boy rather than a famed critic. He criticizes the film for being unrealistic, i.e. the gravity being almost the same on Earth.. Come on! Almost every major film from Star Wars to Alien depicts gravity even in spaceships. This film takes place in a moon of Saturn which has similar size to earth, so naturally gravity is close to the one on earth. Inhabitants wear oxygen helmets when outside the station, they pass through decontamination chambers and all other details are very finely handled. This is no cartoon fantasy with lightsabers and wampa-dampa monsters. This is serious stuff which even inspired some future films like The Terminator and The Matrix. Also, there is a light but good story behind it.. Just one scene from the film, the chess scene can be viewed as a summary of the plot. Adam (note the importance of the name) plays a chess game against Hector, which is controlled by Benson. Hector makes a move and Adam asks why he did that. Benson replies; to exchange and simplify which is the idea of machine and artificial intelligence replacing human, making them obsolete. The exchange also accounts for the exchange of Benson with Hector, where his mind is mixed with Hectors mechanic body. Then Adam makes a winning move to the surprise of Hector and Benson - a sacrifice, foretelling the ending of the film. Sacrifice is something that cant be taught to machines says Adam. The only shortcomings of the film may be some poor special effects such as the landing of the spacecraft on the moons surface and some very obvious miniatures. May be with a higher budget this could be turned into an all time classic. I would be pleased also to see an extended version. All in all this is a great film which never received the praise it deserves. "},{"Title":"Flawed with fantastic ideas","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two lovers stationed on a remote moon base of Saturn are intruded upon by a murderous man and his malevolent 8-ft robot.Its production issues, changing of directors (one of which was the late great John Barry) and budget cuts aside for a film that was made in 1980 it feels like late 60s/70s. That said, the sets that take a leaf from Alien (1979) are partially effective and the blue ominous lighting works but is sadly used sparingly.The late Farrah Fawcett is still a major draw and although there's a cringe worthy age gap between leads it is fitting to the narratives themes. Acting legend Kirk Douglas is a little inconsistent and not on form possibly due to the script or production woes. Harvey Keitel has been unconventionally re-dubbed which is a shame, but he still is effective as the homicidal sociopath, off beat, boorish Earth Captain Benson. Although choppy, there's some great setups with the interestingly designed Hector robot and Elmer Bernstein's score if fantastic. It's not purposely ambiguous, but it leaves many questions and loose ends. It's by no means the worst science-fiction movie, John Barry's story offers some great ideas and has clearly influenced subsequent scifi's notably the Matrix (1999) plug-in.It's flawed and inconsistent but still worth viewing for the concept alone. "},{"Title":"You Have A Beautiful Body.  May I Use It?","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I can understand what Farrah Fawcett was doing in this movie. She was just coming off the enormous success of Charlie's Angels and every young girl was copying her hair style. This was her chance for a career in feature films.Then, too, I can understand why Kirk Douglas is in this movie. He was in his mid-60s and although he looked fine and retained his talent, fewer offers were coming his way.But what is Harvey Keitel doing in this movie, made up like Bette Midler and dubbed throughout? He was at his peak, yet here he is, inexpressive, lacking in tonality, and more robotic than the android he creates. What a waste.The story, by Martin Amis, son of the sophisticated Kingsley, borrows from Silent Running, 2001, and Alien, but at heart it's a clumsy respinning of Forbidden Planet. Instead of Morpheus and his pretty daughter on a lonely planet, we have Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett living comfortably together on Saturn 3, an isolated outpost on one of Saturn's moons. Their mission is to grow plants hydroponically to help feed earth's population.Instead of their torpid existences being disturbed by a visit from Leslie Nielsen and his crew, they are visited by Keitel, who has brought with him a robot to help them on Saturn 3, and once the robot is working, one of the loving couple will become obsolete.So far, so good. But then Keitel, with his phony voice, develops a yen for Farrah Fawcett. You have a beautiful body, he tells her. May I use it? And why not? Douglas has his signature chin dimple but Fawcett has her appealing attributes too. We get a brief glimpse of both of them as she sheds her robe preparatory to playing doctor with Douglas. This was a disturbing scene indeed because there is no evidence that they are married, so I'm afraid their congress is improper.I don't want to go on with the rest of this nonsense. It's not really worth this space or your time. The robot goes berserk, as robots representing the id are wont to do, and begins to bust some moves on Fawcett. I don't blame this freaky looking machine for having the impulse, but what on earth, or on Saturn 3, can its intentions be? The climax involves a plodding chase through the internal tubes -- all lighted with neon blue -- with Douglas and Fawcett running and the robot plodding like Schwarzenegger's humanoid in The Terminator. There is a moment of self sacrifice. Fawcett gets to visit the earth for the first time in her life. "}{"Title":"A bad MOVIE, but something cool to dwell on.","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" By most metrics, this is a bad, bad movie. The plot is simple and predictable, the acting is bland and terrible, the action is boring, the special effects are bad (one guy explodes into a bunch of ceramic), the voices are dubbed, and badly, plus Harvey Keitel is dubbed over by someone else (like wtf), and all the characters are one-dimensional. I only found this movie because of references in MST3K, Somethings wrong on Saturn 3, which ought to say a lot in itself, and could have been riffed on that show if not for the violence.BUUUT, whats good about the movie is more meta than the specifics, like they had a cool idea but failed on the actually making a movie part. Good movies are usually best understood when trying to imagine the vague thoughts of the creator(s) that caused them to make the movie in the first place. It's all about Benson, and how he, and the society he represents, are essentially Hector, a robot made horrible by it's blood tubes and a disembodied brain. These people think they can be pure and efficient and productive, but all that pesky human stuff can't be suppressed and ends up becoming horribly warped. "},{"Title":"Fun romp in outer space","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Quite a jolly romp this &#x96; campy, slightly sensationalist in an 80's kind of way. Production (set and costume design) values are quite good for a low budget late 70's early 80's flick (there are shades of 'Barbarella' and '2001 A Space Odyssey' especially in the opening five minutes or so from the 60's) however, the exterior special effects are very average for the time of production. 'Hector' the robot is genuinely quite sinister in an impersonal mechanical kind of way. The sequence under the floor hatchways reminds me of similar scenes in the later Alien and Terminator films. The story does not make much sense and it feels as though the narrative has been truncated somehow in parts (needs a directors' cut?). The ending builds up to a sort of crescendo (and just when I was expecting a twist) the credits roll before we get chance to arrive back on Earth. "},{"Title":"Blazed a trail.  Or did it?","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Once Star Wars had made science fiction respectable again (respectable, at least, in terms of being good box office), many other projects followed. Saturn 3 at least tried to do something different. Dressed in science fiction trimmings, Saturn 3 tried to give us a claustrophobic, adult, thriller.The adult elements merit comment. The film certainly starts in shocking style with a gruesome killing. And, as it goes on, there is occasional nudity. Plus, thematically, it is dark, with violence always hanging round the corner. And there are two menacing villains one, the impassive, unreadable android Hector and, two, the always worrying Harvey Keitel (Keitel plays someone who is probably off-balance behind a veneer of normality so well, that you expect it even when he is playing comedy).As the protagonists, Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett make a strange couple, living in an idyll of isolation featuring occasional work and frequent sex. It is exactly the sort of part one might have expected Fawcett to play at this stage in her career it is exactly not the sort of part one might have expected of Douglas.Taking a step back and looking at the piece overall, the science fiction trimmings are fine, but the drama itself is, dare one say it, a bit stodgy. It turns out to be quite difficult to build any sort of emotional identification for Douglas and Fawcett and, as the film progresses (rather slowly) towards its denouement, this turns out to be a fatal flaw. "},{"Title":"Saturn 3 (1980)","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Come in, Hector. Come on in.Saturn 3 is a space drama about a couple living peacefully on a remote research station in the middle of nowhere, on a moon of Saturn. Their quiet day to day routine is interrupted by the abrupt invasion of the outside world, in the form of two renegades, one more ominous than the other. And then it's off to the races.The actors do a decent job, playing their parts as stipulated by a severely limited script. We get to see them live their daily lives and we get glimpses of the society of the future, through remarks and references. Kirk Douglas plays the strong, older type, who has seen it all and then chosen to retire far, far from it. Farrah Fawcett plays the helpless big baby who relies on the protection of the others and, finally, Harvey Kaitel plays the conflicted man who wants what he sees and won't give up until he gets it.The idea of the script is OK, and it fits well in the spirit of the '80s, trying to capitalize on the success of space operas like Star Wars and Alien but on a much smaller, personal scale. The implementation however is a bit rushed, and the story fails to tap in the sources of tension and take them to their fullest potential. Perhaps with a bigger budget and with better special effects this could have been a much better space drama.Saturn 3. A decent attempt at a small story. 6/10 for the good old times sake. "},{"Title":"Outstanding set design and a good premise let down by dull direction and sloppy editing.","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The talent working on this film should have meant the end product was a lot more coherent than it actually was.John Barry who was involved with a story credit but was production designer for Star Wars and Superman must have had a big hand in the set design for this film as it looks incredible.The sets are so good they are a character in themselves and lend effectively to creating a sense of isolation.The sets remind me of Alien,yes they are that good which would be testament to the brilliance of Barry.Its a shame then that the rest of the film is rarther poor.It shows glimpses of promise but seems to falter just as its picking up.An expressionless Harvey Kietel seems dubbed and gave a physically hollow performance alongside an energetic Kirk Douglas and an airhead Farrah Fawcett.The visual effects are actually OK but the film seems to be missing big chunks and i get the feeling there's a version out there on the cutting room floor that is actually a lot better than what we have here.This film could probably be remade quite successfully,it has a great premise and is lacking a quality director to see it through. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Dumb But Somewhat Enjoyable","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When this movie was released in early 1980, critics had a field day slamming it. While I agree that the film's no classic, at least it has top stars, decent special effects, good sets, and pretty good direction courtesy of Stanley Donen. The story is as dumb as a box of rocks (Keitel wants to go to Saturn 3...just to raise havoc?), the dialogue is atrocious at times (see Keitel referring to Fawcett's dog as just something to eat), and some of Hector the Robot's escapades are unintentionally amusing (he's hot for Farrah Fawcett!) but I can think of worse ways to spend two hours. Watch it on a slow night, just don't think about it too much. PS--Just one question after the climactic explosion, we see pieces of Hector flying through the air in slow motion...but where are the pieces of Kirk Douglas? "},{"Title":"Not entirely successful, but oddly entertaining just the same.","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This somewhat sordid sci-fi thriller certainly marked an offbeat choice of material for the veteran director Stanley Donen, who was better known for making films such as Singin' in the Rain and Bedazzled. It's just quirky enough to be watchable, with the actors gamely going with the flow. The major triumph in Saturn 3 is the production design, by Stuart Craig, and the lighting, by Billy Williams. This is a great LOOKING film, albeit a somewhat underdeveloped one. It might have been nice had we gotten to know the characters a little bit better, so our rooting interest could be stronger.Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett play Adam and Alex, two lovers working in an underground space station on Saturns' third moon, Titan. Their job is to try to develop new foods for an underfed Planet Earth. Then along comes the unstable Captain Benson (Harvey Keitel), who makes life miserable for the two of them. For one thing, he quickly begins lusting after Alex (but who can blame him?) and, when he builds a giant helper robot named Hector (!), he is able to transfer his thoughts into Hectors' brain matter. So what we end up with is a terminator with a sex drive.One of the most curious details is hearing actor Roy Dotrices' voice coming out of Keitels' mouth. This situation - could one consider it a sexual *rectangle*? - is enough to make this at least somewhat memorable. It's a fairly trim film at a mere 88 minutes in length, and it gets down to business with some rapidity. Hector himself is humanoid in shape but still very much a mechanical, and his design is amusing. Kirk and Farrah make for an unlikely but somewhat appealing couple. Keitel looks rather uncomfortable as the unsubtle antagonist.This may be worth a look for curiosity seekers but they're advised to not get their hopes up or anything like that.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Old and Slow","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Captain Benson (Harvey Keitel) failed his psych test and kills his replacement to travel to Saturn 3 station. The Experimental Food Research Station has only scientists couple Alex (Farrah Fawcett) and Adam (Kirk Douglas) and their dog Sally. Alex has never been to earth. Bension brings with him the DemiGod series robot Hector to replace one of the scientists. He becomes obsessed with Alex and transfers his insanity as he programs Hector directly linked to his brain. Adam is weary of Bension and would rather get rid of him. Neither Benson nor Hector can contain their homicidal tendency.I have never seen Harvey Keitel so stiff. He's trying to be menacing. Since he's Harvey Keitel, he easily achieves that. He definitely has creepy. However he could have been better. (I read the trivia says he was dubbed... that would account for the stiffness.) Kirk Douglas is so old compared to Farrah Fawcett. He's not a very likable character. This has a real cheesy 70s vibe to it. Their home furniture looks completely dated like a 70s space movie. The robot also look very dated. The big problem for it is that it moves so slowly. Also the design is slap together without any artistic flair. A giant robot as an idea is interesting. The execution is lacking. Also it's hard to build up tension. The action is shot poorly. The special effects look bad. The base looks the same no matter where they go. The whole thing reminds me what bad sci-fi used to look like. "},{"Title":"Long-Lost Labor-of Love","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A pet-project for John Barry (NOT the musician), the man died before finishing the film from meningitis in so fast a manner that had it been in film it would be 'poetic license' (quoting from a writer, IF memory serves right). Second big Break for Farrah Fawcett (Logan's Run being the first) First time I saw Harvey Keitel (Made Big Impression) Mr. Douglas seemed a bit old for the leading lady. Nice understated effects (zero-gravity, people walking 'upside-down', etc.), Harvey Keitel's death. (¡oops, gave that away!). Hector The Droid was a little Dorky, but the design (Inspired by Michelangelo & Leonardo) is timeless.A labor of love that became a harmless, timeless, time-filler.If you love the genre you'll like it.  "},{"Title":"Saturn 3","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Saturn 3 suffers from an identity crisis. To look at the poster you would think it's about a killer robot in outer space. True. But, if you look closely at the poster you'll see that Stanley Donen directed this...that's right, Stanley 'Singin in the Rain, Charade, Two For the Road' Donen. Intriguing. When we first start the film up we get a shot of the underbelly of a large spacecraft emerging from the top of screen and seeming to be infinitely long a la Star Wars. We then get to see a man's body get shattered into a million pieces by Harvey Keitel. Cool. Then we see Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett all lovey-dovey with Keitel more than a little jealous. Eh. Keitel then builds a robot that is able to relate his thoughts. Cool? No, no it's not.Saturn 3 is part thriller, part bizarre love triangle, part sci-fi but never commits to any part of itself or any genre to be of any interest. The sexual elements may have been golden on paper but they don't amount to anything here; there isn't enough scary moments/gore to be entertaining to horror fans, and the science fiction elements are often so stupid (how did Keitel's ship fly through Saturn's rings and not get smashed to bits?) that it's a tough one to sit through.Thankfully though, it is quite silly at times with some corny dialogue and overacting by Douglas, not to mention some awful dubbing over Keitel's voice. Why does Keitel kill the man and come to the planet?Why has Fawcett never seen earth? Why does Keitel want to build the robot in the first place if all he really wants is Fawcett? These questions are never answered.Lastly, back to Donen. Why him? The original director had to bail out because of illness but they couldn't find a young director to spit this project out? Donen is a fine director and should have done more great projects - why did he feel he needed to dumb himself down for this? He couldn't have thought the script was any good, could he? Only virtues The robot is kind of neat, and the set design isn't bad.*1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Not a bad sci-fi flick","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently watched Saturn 3 and found it to be quite good. There are only three characters in the entire movie but this does not hinder it in any way. Wierd to see Harvey Keitel in this with a ponytail!, he is excellent as per usual and there are impressive performances from Kirk Douglas and the sexy lady 'Alex'.Check this one out,Rating 7/10.Blue Dreamers. "},{"Title":"This film is an 'A' OK","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this film mostly on regular television, and I wish that I wanted to own this on video. What I like in this film that stars former Charlie's Angels actress Farrah Fawcett, she did a good performance in this film!!!I give this film a 10 "},{"Title":"So bad, but now it might be worthy of cult appeal","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is so so so ridiculous, and apparently it was written by Martin Amis (some might argue no wonder it is bad). Though, it does have kitsch appeal, what with Harvey Keitel as a very English madman and Kirk, looking like Fawcett's granddad, slapping an amazingly rousing, luscious Fawcett who you could just eat up she is so pink and fleshy (I better not go on to save censorship) on the butt in a shower scene. I just can't think of this working originally, except maybe if they had turned the sex up and made it erotic sci-fi thriller. Abit like Demon Seed, where Julie Christie is just defyingly sexy, but the director (that mad English name I can't...Donald Cammell, got it, you see?) doesn't make enough of it. "},{"Title":"Saturn 3","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A robotic monster, built by renegade Captain Benson(Harvey Keitel, as robotic as the monster in the film)from Earth, make life hell for Adam(Kirk Douglas)& Alex(Farrah Fawcett). Benson(with a device implanted in the back of his neck that mind melds with the gargantuan machine..this part of the plot is by far the most silliest concept that never gets a full explanation)is in lust with the lovely Alex and the robot picks up on that and itself becomes infatuated and obsessed with her. Soon Adam finds himself in quite the predicament because Benson considers the Major an obsolete old timer in the way of his plans to supply the Earth with the food sources from Saturn's moon necessary for that planet's survival. Anyway, the film soon consists of the robot attacking or chasing everyone, including Benson(who was playing with fire to begin with for he hadn't quite read up on what to do if the machine needs to be silenced when enraged)with Adam needing to figure out how to stop the blasted thing.Ambitious, but cold, dull & life-less. It's derivative of many sci-fi pictures, particularly Kubrick's 2001, but doesn't have good enough special effects or space-ship interiors(or exteriors for that matter)to compete with other far more entertaining, mind-blowing fare. It hurts that the film is completely miscast with Douglas, good as always, but does not belong in this genre. He's always great at playing heroic types, but inside this very uninspired plot Douglas has very little to accomplish. Fawcett is a stunning beauty, but she's merely a pretty mannequin because she is completely wooden. Keitel should've fired his agent for even reading the script for he is sleepwalking something fierce here. And, the most sad statement of all..Stanley Donen, of all people, directed this rehash. Pretty sad, really. And the idea of having a lust-sick robot on the rampage as your main plot is pretty laughable. We, at least, briefly see Fawcett's amazing rack..she is quite the lovely creature. "},{"Title":"A much-maligned favorite","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  People seem to see Saturn 3 from a negative perspective, due to the star power that they believe was wasted on this script.  I, however, view this as one of the best B-movies of the '80s, rather than as one of the worst star-studded films.  Kirk Douglas, Farrah Fawcett, and Harvey Keitel all turn in credible performances, and Keitel's role as the psycho is especially memorable.  The fabulous robot used in the movie is one of the most convincing ever filmed, as well as one of the most evil-looking.  While certain shots, most notably those from outside the base, allow the movie's low budget to become obvious, I think this is a terrific film for what it aspired to be.  It is a great tale of desolation, jealousy, and rage as experienced in the bleak future of mankind. "},{"Title":"I Love This Film","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my most favourite films. This film scared me out of my mind when I was little. I have always loved Kirk Douglas but to put him in a sci-fi is just fabulous. This is a great fear film, it has everything. Big scary robot, implants in the back of your neck and big vats of acid in the floor. Everyone should watch this film once to see how films should be made. "},{"Title":"Part Alien, part Star Wars, and a little Star Trek thrown in as well.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about a couple that lives on this outpost in space.  They are lovers and their world is carefree and simple.  That is until a criminal comes and builds a robot that goes insane.  The problem with this movie is that there just isn't enough cast here to make this movie as cool as it should have been.  The robot needed people to kill, but there were only three people around so it didn't really get to flex its muscle.  On the plus side Kirk Douglas is good, and so is Harvey Kietal as the criminal.  Fawcett isn't great, but she does ok.  The plot should have included more though as a lot of this movie goes unexplained, like Kietal's character motivations, or why didn't anyone warn Kirk and Farrah that a criminal was out there.  In the end this movie has its moments, but tends to become a bit tedious. "},{"Title":"There's something about Farrah Fawcett.","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two scientists / lovers, Adam and Alex are stationed on Saturn's third moon seeking possible sources of food for Earth's growing shortage. Soon Benson, who's posing as Captain James, joins them and he has brought along components of a robot called Hector. He can control its actions with his brain, as he can be connected to it with a device in the back of his neck. Though his lustful feelings for Alex and psychotic intentions, infects Hector and causes it to go berserk.Danger, danger! What could have been a Sci-fi film brimming with ambitious ideas, turns out to be a increasingly derivative story that just never gets off the ground and languishes in its uneventfully bonkers premise. It occasionally gets quite nasty and sleazy, but never goes anywhere with this voyeuristic touch to make you squirm. Instead this is given pretty risible treatment. If you going to make something this dumb, it better be shamelessly fun when it finally goes haywire. Honestly for me, that didn't occur much. It takes its sweet time to build up the situation, after watching the characters lounging about aimlessly and eyeing each other off. There's just too much time to kill, as there's little to no suspense generated. From a guy who has done some light-hearted movies (Singing in the Rain, Lucky Lady and Bedazzled), director Stanley Donen didn't seem to adjust to the material. He went fishing for the thrills in a very unfulfilling manner and slack pacing eventuated from it too.What kept me watching were the impressive images in this technically well-made enterprise. The imaginative set pieces and overall design are vividly detailed that you could see where most of the money gone too. The special effects also were exemplary staged and especially convincing. Hector the randy robot is one ominous creation and this showers the dreary air. A broodingly understated music score was integrated successfully and the polish photography had a muggy tinge to it as its filmed in such dour lighting. It's lavished A-grade production values stuck in a cheesy B-grade format. The main influence for this would be the soddenly dire script that spits out some dreadful dialogues. The flimsy story is weakly drawn up as it's filled with baffling intentions and abrupt plot-holes. A fine cast isn't given a whole lot to do. Kirk Douglas floats by in very little effort and might be the film's slight energy. Scary, since how old was he? A lot of the interest arose from his performance. Harvey Keitel sounds unrecognizable and is plain deadpan in delivery. As for Farrah Fawcett, she's totally lacking in her acting skills here and provides a child-like innocence to her part. I guess on this occasion we're only supposed to drool over this benchmark 70s pinup girl.It has some minor moments, but this mostly cold and uninspired shocker doesn't get up to too much trouble. "},{"Title":"Your inadequate Major, in every area... - You have a beautiful body, may I use it?  Watchable enough Sci-Fi horror film.","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Saturn 3 starts just like Star Wars (1977) with a shot of space in which a giant spacecraft slowly enters the top of the frame & flies 'over' the camera. Onboard Captain James (an uncredited Douglas Lambert) prepares to depart in a small spacecraft when a mysterious spacesuit & helmet wearing person named Benson (Harvey Keitel, hideously dubbed throughout by Roy Dotrice) opens an airlock & blasts the Captain into some protective wires which make him explode. This impostor takes the place of the Captain & leaves on his own for one of the moons of Saturn. Once there Benson lands in an experimental food research station called Saturn 3. There are only two people who live on Saturn 3, reclusive lover's Adam (Kirk Douglas) & Alex (Farrah Fawcett). It seems that Adam & Alex are making slow progress with their work so Earth has sent the first of the Demigod series of robots lovingly named Hector to help assist them in their research & hopefully speed things up a bit. At first Hector is in pieces, but it doesn't take long for Benson to screw him together & for the fun to start. Hector has the ability to learn directly from Benson, Benson has a special device implanted into the back of his neck which leads to his brain & Hector is able to absorb Benson's thoughts & personality through this device, or something like that. Unfortunately since Benson is a liar, murderer & a mentally unstable drug user Hector starts to develop some worrying personality traits from him. Including an unhealthy obsession with Alex, eventually Hector goes completely berserk & decides that nothing or nobody will stop him from achieving his slightly distorted orders. To make matters even worse Saturn 3 has just entered a 22 day eclipse & cannot contact anyone until they come out of it...Saturn 3 is one of those films with a troubled production history, John Barry started the film as director but was either fired or left depending on who you believe & the films producer Stanley Donen took over & completed the filming. I quite liked Saturn 3, it isn't brilliant but it wasted an hour and twenty minutes painlessly enough. The script by Martin Amis is not without it's problems, for most of the film there are only three human characters in it. Saturn 3 could have done with a few more disposable cast members for Hector to kill. Benson's motives are almost totally ignored, why kill Captain James & go to Saturn 3 anyway? About two thirds of the way through Hector kills him before he says anything to suggest why is is there, some of Benson's other actions throughout the film were also a bit of a mystery to me. How could Benson pass himself off as Captain James so easily? I was also confused about Hector's motives, what were his eventual plans for Saturn 3, Adam, Alex & why? Some of the dialogue is a little silly as well. The taking of drugs is mentioned but not tackled in a serious way as is the pollution of Earth. The 'Trivia' section on the IMDb states that Saturn 3 only has music during the opening & closing credits, well I can tell you now that I watched it mere hours ago & although the music is used sparingly in Saturn 3 it is scored throughout by Elmer Bernstein. I would also like to mention the sound effects at this point as they really got on my nerves, every time something happened there was an annoying exaggerated electrical sound like when Hector walks or does something, when a door opens or shuts or just operating a computer. The part of Saturn 3 which stands out is the production design & sets which are very impressive, Saturn 3 obviously had a fair amount of money spent on it's overall look. The deranged robot, Hector, looks quite good even if it's head is rather stupid in appearance & it's obviously just a poor actor encased in a robotic suit. It's just a shame he didn't get to do more, preferably killing people. Some of the spacecraft in Saturn 3 look extremely silly, impractical & are obviously just plastic models. The special optical effects are OK, they're not great but they are just about acceptable without becoming too distracting. The acting isn't that great, Douglas looks a little bit old for the role, the best thing I can say about Fawcett is that she's pretty to look at & Keitel complete with pony-tail is dubbed throughout so his original performance is lost. There is a brief nude scene with Fawcett, forget about any gore or violence as all we get a severed hand, a dead dog & a novel use of a decapitated head. Saturn 3 is generally well made & has a reasonable polish to it, nothing stands out as being particularly brilliant but at the same time nothing stands out as being particularly bad. Overall I found Saturn 3 to be an OK way to spend 85 odd minutes, with a bit more thought in the script it could have been really good. As it is it's average at best, watch it if there's nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Shame they pulled the budget from this one!","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Kirk Douglas and the late Farrah Fawcett are Two lovers stationed at a remote base in the asteroid fields of Saturn, they are intruded upon by the mysterious Captain Walker Harvey Keitel(who for some unknown reason is dubbed by actor Roy Dotrice) Keitels character is retentive and sexually oppressed, on the other hand Douglas and Fawcett aren't their May to December romance will raise eyebrows! Farrah as ever looks hot, depending on which version you view, there are some scenes which proudly display Ms Fawcett's assets)fans will be delighted!the couples happiness is interrupted when Keitel unveils his malevolent 8-ft robot Hector who as the film progresses develops a mind and a murderous habit of his own.'Saturn Three' is a great concept but it is rather shoddy, witness some of the effects on display terrible! it's a case of the film's troubled production history due to the fact that it's company (ITC Lord Grade) decided to reduce the budget and concentrate on the dreadful 'Raise The Titanic!' "}{"Title":"SATURN 3 (Stanley Donen, 1980) **","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had watched this as a kid on local TV in the early 1980s (when only black-and-white sets still existed in Malta!) and, even if I knew it was no great shakes, some sequences from it (Kirk Douglas' nude fight with Harvey Keitel and the climax, for instance) have stayed with me ever since! Still, having come back to it after so long, I was expecting to be greatly disappointed but actually I enjoyed it for what it is as a sci-fi epic, it certainly brought nothing new to the table (borrowing the plot's essential life-on-a-space-station element from SILENT RUNNING 1971 and its sex-starved robot, an appropriately menacing creation, from DEMON SEED 1977) but was nonetheless fairly engaging - with a stylish enough look courtesy of cinematographer Billy Williams and production designer Stuart Craig (though Elmer Bernstein's score is curiously forgettable) - and, thankfully, did not overstay its welcome (running for only 88 minutes).Even so, the two leads - who actually ended up Razzie nominees, as did the film! - weren't exactly inspired (Douglas, by this time, was past his prime and, unfortunately, his stint in the sci-fi/horror genre - which also comprised HOLOCAUST 2000 1977; the only one I've yet to catch up with, though it's been shown on Italian TV quite a few times, THE FURY 1978 and THE FINAL COUNTDOWN 1980 - is best forgotten!) but, at least, Harvey Keitel brought to it his typical intensity and intelligence - though I'm sure it's a film he'd rather forget. Speaking of which, I recall an article in the British film magazine Empire comparing the fortunes of Keitel and Robert De Niro over the years in the same year Keitel appeared in SATURN 3, De Niro reached his pinnacle with RAGING BULL, but a dozen or so years later the tables would be more or less turned...but that's another story.In the end, one has to wonder what Stanley Donen was thinking when he accepted such a project - but, then, his career had always been somewhat erratic (including at least a couple more notorious false steps with the homosexual two-hander STAIRCASE 1969 and the bootlegging comedy LUCKY LADY 1975). "},{"Title":"Rather Fun Alien Clone Derailed By Poor Casting","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Let critics say what they like, the camera loved Farrah Fawcett and she possessed enough charisma and beauty to hold her own on screen. She was fortunate to prove her detractors wrong many times throughout her career with films like The Burning Bed and Extremities but Saturn 3 did little to help shake her image as a poster girl. Saturn 3 is a British rip off of Alien starring Kirk Douglas and Fawcett as lovers working on the 3rd moon of Saturn which is invaded by a deranged scientist and his robotic creation; Hector. The special effects are competent and the sets are interesting enough to hold your attention but the deadly robot lacks menace and appears stiff and unconvincing. Saturn 3 should have been a lot better and more successful than it was. It's a gorgeous looking film and Fawcett was a media sensation. The problem is the casting choice of Kirk Douglas as the male lead. At nearly 60, his nude scenes boarder on repulsive and cancel out the natural sex appeal Fawcett brings to the part. If the point was to feature the white hot Ms Fawcett the premise was torpedoed by negating it with the completely unappealing Mr Douglas. It's an empty headed adventure that should please fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"An Unbelievable Disappointment","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two lovers (Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett) stationed at a remote base in the asteroid fields of Saturn are intruded upon by a retentive technocrat (Harvey Keitel) from Earth and his charge a malevolent eight foot robot. Remember, in space no one can hear you scream...Saturn 3 was produced and directed by Stanley Donen, better known for his colorful musicals, who saw it as a Frankenstein story in space. The story came from John Barry, who had done production design for such films as A Clockwork Orange, Star Wars and Superman. He initially passed the story to Donen's wife who passed it to Stanley, but Barry ended up being a co-director of sorts.The cast, consisting of only three people, is pure star power. Kirk's role was originally for Sean Connery, but Connery passed because he was hiding out in Spain to avoid taxes. And this was during Keitel's low period, after his work with Scorsese and revival thanks to Quentin Tarantino. For some odd reason, he is entirely dubbed. People are bound to seek this one out just to see some of their favorite stars.I cannot even begin to say how disappointed I was by this. Science fiction is a fun genre, and this is an all-star cast with a hugely successful director. There is no way this should have gone wrong, but it totally did. What should have been suspense turned into a slower, dragging tedium.There is so much potential here, and you have to admit the set designer and special effects crew did a top notch job. For a late 1970s science fiction film, they had everything at their disposal to make this a blockbuster. This same robot used in a different way could be incredible... but no.The film lost money at the box office, and the critics were not too kind, either. Roger Ebert gave the film a measly single star and wrote the story is so dumb it would be laughed out of any junior high school class in the country.The Scream Factory Blu-ray features audio commentary with fan Greg Moss and film critic David Bradley, and is extraordinarily informative. For such a stinker of a film, these two have an endless amount of information on its background and make it almost a treat. "},{"Title":"See Saturn 3","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the few attempts to modernize the classic mad scientist film format that actually succeeded (in my opinion). This was never meant to be a major blockbuster of a film. Watch it for what it is, and enjoy the themes robot versus man, psychopath versus his own mind, 'good' versus 'evil'.This was the first film that I'd seen Harvey Keitel in. He played a sociopathic psychopath so well, that I had a hard time adjusting to seeing him play other types of characters. He is downright creepy, and the match of wits and acting between Kirk Douglas and him is a real treat.This film has attitude and one seriously MEAN robot.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good stuff from the 80's","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Enjoyable sci-fi about a murderous man(Keitel) and his funny looking robot arriving at Saturn 3 food research station where dirty old Kirk Douglas and much younger babe Farrah Fawcett spends most of the time porking each other. soon Keitel begins to take over, because he also wants to pork Fawcett(Naturally). Then all hell breaks loose when Hector the robot develops a mind of his own and starts chasing, killing and bossing people around. The effects of this film are poor in terms of production year. but that is purely based on budget, so i'll let it slide. the story is interesting and the acting is convincing enough to sell you the idea of a distant future where mankind has conquered space. "},{"Title":"Murderous robot on the rampage on a distant planet !","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film on TV a few years ago and taped it. Just found the DVD in a $2 shop last week, so I grabbed it. I liked the movie previously, and I like it even more now. The colours and scenery really come alive so much more on disc! I have been a fan of Farrah for several years, ever since Charlie's Angels in the 70's, and Kirk Douglas too, so to have them in a space movie together is a great thing for me. Good space scenes, and the spaceships aren't bad either, but how the small shuttle gets through the asteroid belt of Saturn without being pulverised into small bits of space-junk is a mystery to me. Saturn 3 is also quite a dark movie, falling more into the genre of sci-fi horror than just a straight up space movie. Harvey Keitel's character is murderous and nasty, which we see early in the movie, while his robot creation is pure evil. Mr Keitel tries to introduce Farrah's character to hallucinogenic drugs and steal her innocence, while attempting the whole time to compete with Kirk Douglas for her affections. However, a good movie, good sci-fi plot, and very enjoyable each time I watch it; a pity the dog had to die though. "},{"Title":"Oh, come on! there's always Farrah's T*t.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As producers, Sir Lew Grade's ITV organization always reminded me of a hybrid government agency / microwave oven, able to spend enormous amounts of money without accountability while simultaneous shriveling outstanding raw ingredients into a tasteless, unrecognizable mess.  `Saturn 3' is no exception, although I cannot in good conscience dismiss it without pointing out its really good elements.  For one, `Saturn 3' has some truly stunning visuals (and I'm not just talking about the brief shot of Farrah's perfect breast); some wry commentary of the dehumanization of people as a result of modern technology and overpopulation; excellent lighting, cinematography, art direction and music; and the simulated demonstration of  inserting a metallic occipital probe for direct neural connection SOME 20 YEARS BEFORE `THE MATRIX'.  WARNING  SPOILER AHEADIt would have been nice to have a logical storyline and an ending that really made some kind of point. Ending the movie after Douglas' sacrifice would have made as much sense as showing Farrah at the space station on the way to earth.  Sure Farrah said earlier she wanted to visit for the first time, but big deal. The last scene plays more like the BEGINNING of a movie rather than the END.Nonetheless, this one is worth watching, at least on cable, ESPECIALLY if your a teenage boy and you don't have any copies of Farrah's PLAYBOY spread.  "},{"Title":"Not malfunctioning...Not malfunctioning...You are.","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie isn't as bad as some of these reviews are saying. I saw this first on TV, in say, 1985 or so.I was 11 then so I remember that it scared me pretty good.So it was on Showtime and I just got done watching it for the first time since then. The plot does have some pretty big holes.Seriously now, just what is Kietel's character supposed to be doing? Is he really a captain? Say a crew member of that shuttle that went crazy with ideas of his own?Is he a criminal escaped in space?If that is the case, then how does he know all that earth protocol, and how does he know how to build and operate Hector, plus all the nuances of this new direct input technologies needed to teach Hector? For that matter, how does he then know how to proceed with hydroponic food research? OK, that aside.The story is a decent little three man act in space, about jealousy, and keeping what is yours in the face of challenge by the new and the younger/improved.It reminded me of a good Sci-Fi short story you would find in a compilation book.In fact, I wish I had experienced this story just that way.Hector does have some menacing qualities when he goes nuts and his dialog with Farah and Kirk is creepy.Move along all angry when he is directing them to the lab.Don't be late again Adam! all threateningly.It's not what I'm putting in; it's what I'm taking out. to Kirk when explaining the direct brain download portal. That scene with Kietel just realizing Hector is going wrong and Hector is typing out responses because he is too stubborn to speak is really good.It was truncated though,cut too short, not going far enough, which is most of this movie's whole problem.The acting really isn't as bad as all that either,Kirk plays aged and not really liking it, and he knows he has got a great thing with Farah,but he can't really expect to hold her forever.Kietel does a great job, just watch the way he looks at Farah while his obsession builds.He does the Brave New World man well,he does the angry nut well,he does the drug-addicted, confused-narcissist well.Farah is the weakest link, but her beauty at the time adds to the scenery.The end is OK, I guess, for 1980 stuff.Sacrifice always plays well.To fix this stunted film I would have done these things... 1.Had Kietel actually be a scientist that shows up and goes mad.Erased all confusion about who and what he was. 2.Never shown the murder Kietel committed,just referred to it in the typing scene,that would have given intrigue and a more mysterious answer to Hector's inherited madness. 3.Extended Hector's depth into madness somehow, shown him slowly but pointedly going off the deep end, instead of ..Oh no Hectors killed the dog now he is after Farah. Well I think those things would have helped anyways.One more thing, for an insane, murdering captain Kietel sure fights like a little girl.Kirk took him down in 2 seconds.Then we had to see a naked Kirk for 2 seconds.Uggg, and thats twice as long as we see naked Farah. "},{"Title":"A nicely nasty dark movie","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's a load in this movie to like and everyone dirty-mouths it.  It has one of the most terrific unhinged robots in film history let loose in one of the most claustrophobic settings and a great early performance from Harvey Keitel.  When Hector the robot finally loses it you would be hard pushed to find a bleaker vision of a psychopath.  It is reminiscent of Disney's Black Hole (another underrated gem) in it's use of relentless, unnerving mechanics gone mad.  The casting of Douglas and Farrah Fawcett is always cited as it's weak point but no-one seems to appreciate that without his square jaw and her blonde hysteria Keitel and Hector would not be nearly so much fun. Throw your preconceptions of sci-fi out the window and watch it as a great study of obsession. "},{"Title":"Tedious Sci-Fi Movie","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only real plus to this film is seeing a younger Farah Fawcett run around in a skimpy white outfit through most of the movie.  Kirk Douglas and Harvey Keitel are completely wasted in this mess of a film.  The special effects will appear very poor by today's standards, and the sets are obvious miniatures.  When this movie premired, the Robot in the film was a marvel to movie-goers but will seem primative now.  The plot is revealed at a snail's pace, so if you try to watch this movie do your best to make it to the ending.  "}{"Title":"Oh, Kirk!","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Just what you didn't know you needed - an 80s sci-fi epic from the director of Singin' in the Rain. With a cast of three - outer-space technocrat Kirk Douglas, wife Farrah Fawcett, and prim British agent Harvey Keitel. Read those names again. The movie opens with some peculiar choreographed stuff that looks like a tribute to the moon landing at the Oscars, and proceeds before long to an absurdly jocular Douglas-Fawcett shower scene. There as elsewhere, Douglas looks like he's having the time of his life - huh huh, I'm in the shower with Farrah Fawcett - only they're being MENACED BY KILLER ROBOTS for Christ's sake, and there he is winking at us. Farrah's blank 'oh my gosh' stares make for a dissonant counterpoint, her star must have been fading around now because we get some gratuitous boob shots. And meanwhile there's Harvey acting as weird as ever while he frantically builds/turns into a robot. There was some kind of money in this movie, clearly, and some of the flashing lights and stuff amount to a dream date for stoners, but it's still an 80s sci-fi epic from the director etc. "},{"Title":"A Confused Mess","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This confused mess of a movie can't even decide what film it wants to rip off--2001, Forbidden Planet, Demon Seed, or any of Donnen's more distinguished psychodramas. With 1950s-style special effects and a score so portentous it would make John Williams blush, the film sets up epic expectations that are instantly let down by the world's least plausible love triangle. Douglas tries gamely to inject some heroics, but the action grinds to a halt every time the camera stops to admire Farrah's perfect hair or Keitel's dead-fish stare. The killer robot ends up being by far the most sympathetic and interesting character. While the film may elicit a few chuckles or ogles from those who remember Farah in her '70s heyday, it's too unfocused to be much use even as camp. "},{"Title":"Beware the rings of Saturn","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Each of the main contributors to this film must have done it to prove something. Kirk Douglas must have signed on to show that world that at age 64 he could still kick butt, look fairly decent shirtless, and grab the babe.Farah Fawcett was trying to prove that she was more than just a Charlie's Angel, yet she seems to have simply changed locations, as she still seems like a bimbo in space. Harvey Keitel, one of filmdom's best character actors, was just getting his feet wet. And, I suppose that director Stanley Donan wanted to show that he could tackle science fiction.Unfortunately, all their efforts were wasted. Saturn 3 is one of the worst films ever made. It has a crappy script, less-than-impressive special effects (even for its day), and a villain that is no more frightening than The Tin Man from The Wizard of Oz. Anyone that can recommend this bomb is in need of deportation to the ringed planet. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this film had to be the worst waste of time for a Sci-Fi fan. Not even seeing Farrah in her youthful days helped. Acting, directing, and special effects fell down for all concerned with this film.Give me Attack of the Killer Tomatos any day of the week ... LOL "},{"Title":"You have a great body... may I use it?","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's nice to know even Harvey Keitel doesn't score with that line, his first attempt at courtship in the limp Saturn 3.The normally excellent Keitel gives an awful performance in this lifeless SF cheapie. Some musical cues are nabbed from 2001, while the opening overhead starship shot is a direct crib from Star Wars, only on a fraction of the budget.Keitel's psychotic Benson arranges to be placed on a Saturnian moon with Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett. An aged Douglas is less Spartacus, more Old Farticus, while appropriately for a woman named after an American tap, Fawcett is thoroughly wet. We're shown Fawcett's bare chest within the first twenty minutes, and it doesn't get much better from thereon.Shockingly bad science fiction, we get brain drains, Earth memory pills and a robotic would-be rapist. What's most unsettling in all this is, unlike the underrated Demon Seed, the mechanical rape is used not to illustrate the nature of violation, but merely used as a narrative plot device. Of course, Douglas and Fawcett are so insipid you spend the whole of the film wishing they would get wiped out, as painfully as possible.The robot, Hector, is actually quite effective, though the voyages through Saturn's rings have to be seen to be ... laughed at. I don't know what's the worst part of this film &#150; the exteriors that are clearly studio sets, or Keitel getting his hand chopped off, an obvious hand up the sleeve trying to convince while a rubber appendage skittles across the floor.Ultimately, you have to ask questions, such as why does Keitel join the Saturn 3 team in the first place? What's his motivation? Why are the performances so sterile? Why did Douglas (then 63) allow that shot of his wobbly rear end? Saturn 3 is an appallingly made film, and you cannot imagine why the cast agreed to be in it. The script is awful, the direction clipped and static, but best of all... it's great fun! Some turkeys are bores, others are pretentious, some repulsive, but Saturn 3 is so enjoyably poor it makes for compulsive viewing. A must-watch into one of the very worst science fiction films of all time, it's absolutely essential. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Sadly underrated","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love this film. It scared me rigid when I was a child and when I saw it again on the BBC last night (about 20 years on) I was almost as scared at the sight of HECTOR.To me this film has a great deal going for it the overall atmosphere and silence emphasise the claustrophobia of the situation beautifully.The play on how much HECTOR learns from Benson, the possibility or otherwise of total self-control and the commentary on how man's creations cannot actually transcend some of his most basic limitations are interesting aspects of the film.The alien quality of the robot as he shows independence from the control Benson tries to exert on him is also quite eerie the typed conversation in which HECTOR accuses Benson of murder is really scary.All-in-all it's an odd film with many flaws but on the whole it does a few things very well indeed. "},{"Title":"Does paint ever dry on Saturn 3?","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The other day I had absolutely nothing to do. You know that feeling? When you don't have to go to work, it's raining cats and dogs outside, and your only good friend with a car doesn't answer the phone.You channel surf on the telly, hoping, praying to come across anything even remotely interesting (re-runs of FULL HOUSE or even BAYWATCH?) but the only thing you run into is a documentary on the history of water, and a soccer game between Yemen and Taiwan. You then decide this is a good time to finally get through those first ten pages of THE LORD OF THE RINGS after it's been collecting dust since before you hit puberty. But as you pick it up your eyelids suddenly feel heavy, and you decide to crawl back in bed, looking forward to work the next morning.A day like that can only *begin* to describe the agony of sitting through SATURN 3. At least PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE had barrels of unintentional laughs. How masters of the trade Stanley Donen and Kirk Douglas got involved in this is beyond comprehension... oh wait, no I remember... Kirk get to shag Farrah and Stanley get to watch. Poor little Harvey, he just needed a career. This has to be one of the slowest moving 88 minutes in the history of moving pictures. "},{"Title":"Should Have Stayed Lost In Space","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Piece of crap with Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett, 2 people in love and working in space, just the 2 of them on a remote station near Saturn. Into their lives comes Harvey Keitel (His voice was dubbed by Roy Dotrice because his Bronx accent didn't wash) and his friend, a robot named HECTOR. Of course, things take a turn for the worst, when Keitel gets the hots for Farrah. Unfortunately, so does HECTOR.If you really want an example of What were they thinking? then this is the perfect film. It was directed by Stanley Donen, Mr. Singing In The Rain, for goodness sake! Plus, WHY did Kirk Douglas feel the need to show his buns? (Does this run in the family? See his son Michael in Basic Instinct, or Fatal Attraction.).If you plan of having a Bad Sci-Fi Movie Festival, then this would be the film to have for it. Otherwise, save your money. If they show it on cable, skip it. "},{"Title":"Robot with a small head desires research scientist with a small brain.","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here are a few interesting things which we learn about the future from Saturn 3. -Saturn's moons are to be approached only by going through an insanely treacherous asteroid belt. -Scientific installations on foreign moons will be surprisingly roomy. They will also have a handy 'detonate' button which will somewhat pointlessly destroy the adjacent landing pad. -Everything in the future, from doorways to computer read-outs to the very planets themselves, makes a noise. Moreover, robots make breathing sounds when lurking about (4102) and emit a sort of squeal when humans throw plastic buckets at them (10132). In fact, they will continue to make such noises even as they are blown to smithereens. -If a robot chops your hand off, it is immediately fatal.Okay, we could go on (and on), but the fact is that this is an utterly daft cartoon of a movie, and probably is best approached as such. The casting is weird, to say the least. Kirk Douglas seems bemused, Harvey Keital is hammy, and for the role of Alex the research scientist, Farrah Fawcett just does her patented 'breathy-voiced sexy innocent' persona (complete with little-girl sulky pouts) one more time. Possibly the least convincing cinematic portrayal of a research scientist, ever. The effects and model-work are pretty threadbare even for 1980, and the movie's ending is irksomely underwhelming, to boot. As for the monster, well it's a great big ungainly bipedal robot with an anglepoise lamp for a head which clumps slowly and largely non-scarily about the moonbase supposedly lusting after Farrah. He certainly isn't after her for her brains. Anyway, all of that notwithstanding, Saturn 3 is entertaining enough, albeit as a great example of 'bad sci-fi'. It's basically a cornball 1950s-style monster movie; all the DVD cover needs is an illustration of the robot holding a swooned Farrah in its evil arms. Treat it as silly, campy fun, because if you thought about it for any length of time, you'd only get mad. "},{"Title":"Blanked as ordered.....","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the distant future, single man and woman scientific team are living on one of Saturn's moons to grow food for the starving Earth. They have their isolation shattered when a deranged killer, masquerading as a visiting technology expert, arrives at their lonely outpost to take over their work and build a lethal creation a super-intelligent 8-foot robot which later takes a murderous mind of its own...A weird movie this, imagine the terminator with nice legs and the head of the monster from the end of beetlejuice, and you have the main jist of this movie. Not to mention the fact that the robot has fallen in love with Farrah Fawcett, and will do anything to take her away from Kirk Douglas.Keitel has his voice dubbed as he plays the dastardly villain. we know he is the bad guy because he dresses up as Darth Vader at the beginning and kills a man for no good reason.Douglas looks bemused, but has a good time because he spends half of the movie naked with Fawcett, who is just there for eye candy.Effects are a little funky and psychedelic, but ho-hum never the less.It isn't a bad movie to watch, it's just very, very odd. "}{"Title":"Observations of a Space Flick","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 1. Special Effects. A mixed bag. The shots of Saturn and interstellar bodies were ethereal and believable &#x96; I couldn't help but be reminded of the similar shot of Saturn from 'The Quiet Earth,' and they're nearly on par. The designs of the bug ship, green jumpsuits, and decon chamber were also good. The model work, however, particularly that of the gold-colored moon base and the red & white spaceship featured at the end, were laughable. As this film is post-Star Wars, this is an even greater faux pas. Furthermore, the effects from Silent Running (1972) nearly a decade before give Saturn 3 a run for its money. The robot itself is alright by B-movie standards, which isn't saying much.2. Alex & Adam. It's probably just me, but I wasn't bothered by the campiness of their performances. They seemed to genuinely care for one another, and Alex's loyalty to Adam and her rebuffs of the stoic Benson just made their relationship (which was never to last long anyway) all the more poignant. If I were in Alex's shoes, hell, I'd go for the major too.3. Benson. Cue stilted, unnatural dialogue. *facepalm* 4. Costumes. Whoever was in charge of this really outdid themselves, considering some of the outlandish and distracting sci-fi space outfits we've been subjected to for decades. From the green suede uniforms and spacesuits, right down to the semi-formal and casual wear that Adam and Alex sport, all the clothes were practical and of realistic, earth tone colors. They didn't scream Look at us &#x96; we're wearing clothes from the future! Little of it looked dated to my eyes. Alex's perm is another matter.By the way, the recurring circular badge for the space flight program was a nice graphic design.5. Story. The kernel of a good tale is in there somewhere, but definitely needed more background and more screen development. Random bits of dialogue (e.g. The Earth is Hungry, abort time) were mysterious and thought provoking, but a little more development in order to fully grasp this world, and what happened to the Earth, would be nice.I've always thought that the movies deserving of a remake should be those that weren't successful the first time around. Who knows, maybe if they pulled more story from the novelization and budgeted enough for decent special effects, Saturn 3 could finally be the movie it was meant to be. "},{"Title":"Saturn 3 - Worth A Look See","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I must start off by saying I'm a fan of Sci-Fi films so I'm biased towards this genre. I really liked this film and continue to do so now more than ever. I first caught a brief glimpsed S3 in a hotel room premium TV channel while waiting for my friend for an evening out. What I saw was interesting and intrigued me sufficiently to see the movie when it came out on video (VHS) back in the disco 70's era. Recently, I rented a DVD copy of the film and I've experienced it from a completely new viewpoint. I'm seeing it at 58 years of age after a recent corporate downsizing and one of film's themes, obsolescence, strikes a bull's eye with me. The film is laced with such references. Dialogue such as then one of you will be obsolete and abort time are examples. Kirk Douglas was about 54 years old when this film was shot. His own career was just starting to wind down so aging and obsolescence of his character must have struck pretty close to home.S3 is also the typical man against machine film. It also takes aim at the drug and youth culture and a planet earth that is in ecological peril. Farah looks great and the shower scene gives us mere mortals a brief glimpse of her just to spice things up. Seven out of 10 for me. Worth the time to see it yet again. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Blue Dreamers","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Just for the record, i'm a Star Wars fan, and i don't crap on this movie, ah well whatever. This movie was obviously an attempt at something very interesting , the strength of emotion or desire particularly, and the ethics of creating sentient life forms. To be honest the film did'nt turn out quite as i feel the makers intended, a bit like Hector really. These issues are represented, but possibly not integrated in to the script subtly enough. The film really scores in production design, the sets were very detailed and elaborate, and the design of Hector, is fantastic, a true classic from the golden age of practical effects. I saw the movie in a double bill ,with Hawk The Slayer, some people will laugh, others need an explanation (look it up), being a disgruntled 10 yr old ,who had not managed to gain admittance to Alien, this movie was close in its form ,so it really fit the bill. Its dated ,yes, even a little ,dare i say it,hokey, but if you can just watch with an open mind ,it has a nice remote, desolate 70's sci-fi charm to it,that and Farah Fawcett (Majors ?) doesn't let the side down , check it out ! "},{"Title":"A train wreck, but an interesting one.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Warning! Spoilers Ahead!Okay, so, being the good sci-fi guy that I am, being firmly in the 2001/Star Trek camp and taunting Star Wars fans, I decided to round out my DVD collection with this, got it cheap, by the way. Kirk Douglas, Farah whats her name, and the man, Harvey Keitel. Talk about potential. The premise was good, the actors were better, so the question is what happened?Budget, okay. But my god, had this director ever seen 2001?! The music was bad enough, and being the HUGE Airplane fan that I am, Elmer Bernstein (who did this and Airplane) obviously took the music from one or the other. The music in the first 5 minutes of this movie are straight from the same for Airplane!s.Farah naked okay, but Kirk? Kirk Douglas is a great actor, but seeing a 60+ year old man's tushy is something I could have done without.Love the uniforms too, that grey Eastern Airlines Naval bus driver look. Yeah. So anyway, Don't spend too much money on this movie. And, in my opinion, Farah's boob in the boob shot is strange looking. Part of the movie?  "},{"Title":"You have a great body, can I use it?","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ***********Spoiler Warning**************I remember when I saw the ads for this one, which was about six months after Alien came out, and thinking in my twelve year old mind yet another great sci-fi movie I was missing because I was too young.Many years later I saw this on cable, and was glad I waited.  Probably the most amazing thing about it was how they got Kirk Douglas to sign on. Farrah I could see and Harvey Keitel wasn't much of a name back then, but it was surprising seeing him playing a scientist with a ponytail.Beyond that was mucho serious absurdity that should have been cleared up in the planning stages before the script was even settled on.  Kirk and Alex (Farrah) are a seemingly happy May-December couple for *some* reason living with their dog on a base on one of Saturn's moons, for *some* reason growing hydroponic food for Earth.  (Wouldn't the moon have been closer?)Everybody addresses each other with military titles but carries on like civilians, and only Harvey Keitel seems to be bent on *some* mission to replace one of the crew with his robot that has human brains to run it and needs a lot of maintenance and tinkering.  Harvey immediately and bluntly chases after Farrah, with probably one of the most inane come-on lines in history, and is actually surprised that she didn't willingly offer himself to him.  Supposedly Harvey represents whatever culture has degraded to on Earth, while Farrah acts as if she was born and raised in outer space, (many jokes come to mind on that) and Kirk just seems plain happy to be living with Farrah.  She may be pretty and sweet, but the appeal of living with someone slightly brighter than a floor lamp has to wear off eventually....The rest of the story is jealousy and the usual psychotic robot, spaceship that for *some* reason has a detonate button on it, running around the same three corridors that make up the base, and so on.  One quick flash of skin (two if you count Kirk) and one moment of gore is about all that separates this from a high budget TV movie of the week.The only real recommendation to see this movie is how silly bad the robot looks.  The lower half is an overdone clanking metal man with muscles sculpted into the panels, (Why? All they do is cover the cables and wires!) but the chest grows into a giant block about three times normal size atop of which are perched two skinny robot arms and a head consisting of two pointy lights.  Somebody thought that would be impressive.There's not even enough of a story or setting to make a decent impression, this movie rightly has faded into time-slot filler status in the wastelands of cable. "},{"Title":"The movie that started it all...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Overall basically not a bad sci-fi film, has a thin plot line and skeleton cast but yet the film does have some spark. It is as dark and eerie as 1979's ALIEN, but as you watch this movie it may not look like much as a B-picture in the beginning, however once the tension mounts to the films climax centering on a non stoppable machine, the story actually sets the stage for The Terminator. The first time I ever saw this movie was when movies like star wars and the empire strikes back had topped the list at the box office. Back in the days home video and VCR's were out of reach for the middle class person's wallet, this one will be rememberd by me as one of the first of its kind. "},{"Title":"While a nostalgic kick for some, Saturn 3 is disappointing","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Many of IMDb's favorable reviews of Saturn 3 begin with This movie scared the wits out of me when I was ten, or something of the sort. These reviews are always favorable. I suspect that these members' recent viewings are tinged with nostalgia. At any rate, here's a review based on an adult's first viewing.Much of this review focuses on the means used to bring the film's main physical threat, a robot named Hector, to the screen. This stems from the fact that the entire second half of Saturn 3 is a simple monster movie Hero saves passive woman from monster. Hero and passive woman run from monster. Hero kills monster. For any of this to be worth your time, the monster has to be scary. Hector--a pencil-necked, wobbling, clumsy, slow-coach stunt-guy-in-a-suit--is not scary.Saturn 3's budget woes are well-documented. While they don't show up in its cast or set design, they do betray themselves in other ways. The biggest single problem is Hector. Hector is a guy in a robot suit. It's a cumbersome suit, tricked out with fluid-filled surgical tubes and rigid metal plates. In an ineffective attempt to persuade viewers that it isn't a guy in a suit, the suit's designers built up its shoulders so high that they enveloped the guy's head. They then stuck Hector's own head atop it. The head is an extremely fragile concoction, with two light-bulb eyes at the end of a miniature desk lamp arm. It's so fragile that, when it moves, the whole assembly shakes unevenly.Unfortunately, this means that when the script calls for the monster to stare, frighteningly, at the audience, the camera must zoom in on this stupid, fragile head and lavish attention on it. And that, my friends, is a giggle-inducing moment. It undercuts any remaining credibility this robot has as a threat. Instead, it establishes Hector as a pencil-necked geek. Through the rest of the film, whenever I saw Kirk Douglas struggling for his life with Hector. I wondered Why don't you just reach up and snap Hector's tiny little neck? He'll be left blind, and you can hunt him down at your leisure.We have plenty of time to wonder about this, because Hector is slooowww. That's because, after all, he's a guy in a cumbersome robot suit. Moreover, it's clear that Hector's mind isn't the only thing that's dangerously unbalanced; the suit is on the verge of toppling over more than once.By the time Kirk Douglas sacrifices himself to destroy Hector, you're so distant from the story that you notice, immediately, that he didn't need to kill himself in order to pull off the trick that kills Hector. It's a trope designed to manipulate the audience, divorced from reason and bereft of emotional impact.My score of 3/10 reflects Kirk Douglas' reliable work and the rather good set design. The sets are very effective in evoking a dark and claustrophobic mood, and with their vein-like tubes they quite plausibly represent a biological research station carved from lunar rock. The missing seven points are due to the risible robot, Harvey Keitel's wooden acting (perhaps aggravated by his unknown dubber), and shoddy visual effects (even for the period). To be fair, the VFX serve only to establish locations; but this _is_ science fiction. VFX are part of the draw, and they need to be at least serviceable. "},{"Title":"Overall, not a bad film... ?!?!?","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Do not believe the reviewers who write that this is overall, not a bad film. This IS a bad film...a very bad film. The only reason I gave it even two stars is that it has some intriguing scenes with FFM, if you know what I mean.To begin with, the first few scenes appear to have been grafted on to the rest of the film. Why is everybody doing a Broadway show around the transport craft? (And shouldn't they get out of there when the airlock is opened to launch the ship?) Why does HK off his buddy and take his place? Hey, don't you think you ought to fasten your cargo down with straps or something before you zoom off and become weightless? After that, it gets really bad. KD and FFM are having a little May-December romance at the hydroponics research station, which is inexplicably unmanned except for them. (not that they actually do any research...they're too busy running around in lingerie, taking showers together, and flashing butts. And that's just KD.) Looks like a pretty sweet life to me...Earth is going to hell, but they just keep subsidizing this silly research station so KD and FFM can enjoy themselves.Then Satan comes...HK with his big buddy, Hector the Robot. Hector is one of the new demigod-series robots, but he looks more like a demitasse-series. He is a big old goofball. He's never even threatening.But that's enough of all this. Bad FX, bad script, no believability, OK musical score, and dumb plot. Don't waste any chance you have to miss this. "},{"Title":"So boring it hurts","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Really bad sci fi is the worst.  I am sure Farrah Fawcett jumped at the chance to make this movie at the time, not knowing how boring it would ultimately be.  No redeeming qualities whatsoever.  "},{"Title":"Good premise poorly executed","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people bag on this film and I'm the first to admit that it is not a good film but I would be lying if I said I wasn't entertained by certain things in it. I was entertained by the incredibly bad set designs. Here's a film with a good budget, big stars and directed by the great Stanley Donen and it looks like it was filmed in someone's garage! And of course Farrah gets naked. Thank god for VHS and the pause button! If your wondering why Farrah was a sex symbol in the 70's freeze the scene where she takes her clothes off. And Keitel was creepy and his voice sounded different. Maybe it was dubbed but he gave a convincing menacing performance. Not a good film but the story had promise.  "}{"Title":"Good humor saves this from the movie dump","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While certainly not a good film, Saturn 3 is interesting and funny enough to bring back fond memories of the after all these years.  The movie plays well on tension, and has a few frightening parts.  It is a bit slow, however, and the special effects are definitely on the cheesy side - but then again, with Farrah Fawcett in her younger days staring in the lead role, what else would you expect except cheesy.  I rated it a 5  -- mostly because the brain-filled robot, however cheap it was depicted in the film, was an interesting concept.    "},{"Title":"From Hunger","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just read a glowing review of this movie in which the reviewer dismisses the film's legion of critics as a bunch of benighted Star Wars nerds. Well, let me tell you, anyone who thinks Saturn 3 was remotely interesting or cool must have watched it on Ecstasy or acid (basically, I am saying that marijuana would not be enough). I grew up as a rabid Sci-Fi fan who salivated at the prospect of ANY movie set in space, and back when Saturn 3 was made, you took what you could get. I found redeeming qualities in nearly every Sci-Fi flick that came down the pike, so I was not what you'd call picky. Silent Running, Outland, Logan's Run-- you name it, I managed to convince myself that it was good. But Saturn 3? What a turkey! It was pedestrian, it was dull, the story was hackneyed and pointless, and it was annoying. And remember, this was Farah Fawcett BEFORE she won acclaim in The Burning Bed. Oh, and the special effects were not very special at all. The person who praised this movie and registered disdain at all the negative reviews should go back into the archives and look up what every single film critic said about the movie when it premiered. It was panned by everyone in the industry, and for very good reason. It stunk. So please, unless you have a clinical fascination with dreadful movies, don't waste your time. And don't listen to delusional apologists for the film who first saw it when they were 12 years old. "},{"Title":"Awful Sci-Fi B-Movie--Not Worth a Watch","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'Saturn 3' is maybe the very first rated R movie that I ever saw, when I was like nine years old. I thought it was so-so alright, then, heh.The look and design of the film is good in that now-retro, Space Age way. But that, along with a fairly catchy electronica theme, and the late Farrah Fawcett showing her lovely, luscious breasts, are about all that this film has to offer.Despite starring the legendary Kirk Douglas and then-newcomer Harvey Keitel, there's really nothing to see here. The acting is quite bad, but that's due in large measure to the horrendously dumb, nonsensical, and underdeveloped story and characters that they're all forced to try to deliver (which Douglas does, probably about as well as could possibly be done by anyone, given that awful material). And putting the lovely Fawcett in a such a prominent role was definitely not a good idea Sexy and pretty, she very much was; actress, no, not so much.Compare that last aspect to, say, 'Logan's Run' 1976 (which was a better film all-around than this), where the makers were rather smarter about her casting Fawcett had quite a smaller role where she didn't have to push her acting abilities beyond their limits. E.g., they didn't give her too much for her to do in the movie. Instead they used the highly-desirable Jennifer Agutter for that, who is also hot AND can act too.'Saturn 3' had some potential, but instead came out as el cheapo B-movie schlock, plainly made in an attempt to grab yet another piece of the Space Age/Star Wars/Sci-Fi Craze pie, one of quite a few such films oft-released for many years in that era--this one, among the very worst of them. "},{"Title":"An insane killer, a crazed robot and a hot babe","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With a recipe like that, you'd think that this movie would be watchable, but no, the story and director butcher the premise.This movie isn't even funny, its just dull. To add to the poor acting, awful dialog and insipid story, the director lets a lot of cheesy special effects sequences run on for well past forever. I guess in 1980 these were state-of-the-art so he wanted to make sure that audiences were wowed, but in 2006, its stilted and boring.There is no reason to watch Saturn 3 -- the story makes no sense (why does the killer even bother going to Saturn 3? why? why would he do that? he's insane but not that insane), the sets look cheap, the sound is cheesy, etc... etc... etc.... It has been deservedly forgotten because it is wretched. "},{"Title":"A decent sci-fi pic from ITC.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A group of space researchers land on a asteroid on one of Saturn's rings, they research in their own biological lab with the help of an android who seems to have a mind of it's own and wants to kill.Suspenseful at times but falls flat in some areas. The cast like Farrah Fawchett, Harvey Keitel, and Kirk Douglas are good, the robot was freak and does offer a couple of gore scenes.A very much watchable effort from ITC ( the company that brought you The Dark Crystal,  The Last Unicorn and Company of Wolves), but don't expect this to be a classic like  The Terminator or Alien.5/10. "},{"Title":"A stunning flop","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies ever made, not only in the SF genre (which includes an amazing array of cinematic dung). It's about a robot who tries to shag Kirk Douglas. Harvey Keitel desperately tries to make it a threesome. Farrah Fawcet is there to watch. The movie had a potential to become a good SF classic, like The Forbidden Planet, but it just lacks any spark, like the director was directing it and making pancakes at the same time. It's terribly flat and artificial. The actors are so good you want to get inside the TV and give each one a good kick. Douglas using his final line kills the movie altogether. If you don't end up throwing the tape out the window screaming, in the middle of the show, watch it to the end and learn how not to make movies. "},{"Title":"UTTER SH@T","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have *ever* seen.Saw this years ago in the days when I would watch any film or TV science fiction flick, no matter how smelly.Boy, did this smell something Rotten!! - WARNING - SPOILER!The entire thing involved 2x humans and 1x robot running around after a dizzy blonde, each trying to get her into the sack. (including the robot!) The cast was poor, the story sucked and the so-called special effects were vapid.Some scenes, set up to supposedly shock the audience, were a complete fizzer. We have an opening scene lifted directly out of Star Wars, and interiors reminiscent of Alien. Hardware could have been borrowed from the set of Buck Rogers in the 25th Century.The robot looked stupid with its rediculous video camera head and spindly vidcam tripod neck. You can almost identify which bits of a television set was cannibalized to put the costume together. It's fairly obvious there's a man inside one of the dumbest monster costumes to come out of the early 80's! I expect to see something like this in reruns of Dr Who, but not a major movie (which went straight to video).The ending was stoopid to the first degree.....CONCLUSION? Watch only if you're completely wasted. Other than that, don't say I didn't warn you! "},{"Title":"Nonsense sci-fi","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Quite an unusual cast for a sci-fi action flick, and this is perhaps what marks Saturn 3 down more than the flimsy plot and tame special effects. It was amusing to witness a 63-year-old Kirk Douglas kick butt and save the day. A class actor like Harvey Keitel is wasted in this film, and sure will try and forget his role in a movie which proved unsuccessful at the box office.Farrah Fawcett had abandoned Charlie's Angels in 1977 after just one season to better herself as an actress and move into the world of movies. But in 1978 and 1979, Fawcett was struggling, appearing in unmemorable features which film goers ignored, Saturn 3 being another failure. Although stunningly beautiful, Fawcett doesn't take her role as Alex in any particular direction, and seems just like your typical scared easily blonde (sorry no offence intended really!), but this time stranded in space! These three stars are the only characters in the film (unless you count the robot of course). It's just as well because the script is hardly memorable, and the special effects leave a lot to be desired. Stanley Donen tries hard to prove himself a superior director in the sci-fi genre, but his time and effort was simply wasted; Saturn 3 fails. This was filmed the same year as Alien, and Ridley Scott's effort has gone down as one of the best films of all time. If you had to choose between the two, there really is no contest. Saturn 3 tries to mimic Alien in a sense, but fails to raise suspense, and that is its biggest downfall.I'm a fan of Farrah Fawcett in her career following Charlie's Angels, but this film is certainly not a highlight in that career. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Warning! Kirk Douglas Naked!","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For those of you that heard about the Farah Fawcett nudity in this 'film' and are curious enough to check it out, don't! Not only is she just weird in this movie and not really attractive, Kirk Douglas shows his bare a$$, its nasty! They really need to have a warning for that, I'm still recovering.I love entertainingly bad movies, which is what this movie is, and at first glance, you may notice the all-star cast of Farah Fawcett, Harvey Kietel, and Kirk Douglas, but these are the only 3 people in the movie! Only 3 actors, and one main set. Kirk Douglas is just ugly, clearly he took this role to show he was still a leading man, yes, he may be in shape at 64 years old (which is how old he was when this was made) but its creepy! He looks like skeletor, and Farah Fawcett, literally 30 years younger than him, plays a doe eyed dumb blonde that is incapable of being anything but helpless. She act like a much younger woman in this movie, and I don't know how these actors could stay in character its so disgusting.The dog getting killed, Harvey Kietel's hand being chopped off are part of the fun gore that is in this movie, and the robot is clearly the most convincing actor of the movie, at about 45 minutes in you'll realize there just isn't too much to this movie - after Kietel's character is killed off, that just leaves the two creepy ugly idiots in love (fawcett and douglas) to run from the robot for the rest of the movie. Great stupid late night viewing. "},{"Title":"This was almost a good movie","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, the planet Saturn looked really crappy in this, but remember that when 2001 was made they changed Saturn in the book to Jupiter in the movie because they could not make a Saturn effect look decent at all. The technology was interesting and morbid, the huge spaceship with giant claws at its stern that could've been launch/landing bays or maybe grapplers, Benson's spacepod looked like an unholy mating of a big black spider and a viperfish, Hector at least looked more technologically realistic than some cyborgs with all those transparent liquid-filled tubes of different fluids necessary to sustain biological life but his microphone-stand head was stupid. The stick-probe-in-your-brain learning device was definitely creepy. I wish they had gone into a little more detail about Earths hunger problem, exactly what a dead cell is, and why people who haven't been/can't goto Earth are branded on their foreheads. Farrah has one very brief nude scene where you see one breast for about 2 seconds. Adam's bare ass I did not need to see. Strange that people can be flushed into space so easily without setting off any alarms. When Hector got horny the movie went downhill fast. My favorite quote, He's not so cuckoo. You can tell the time by him! 6/10  "}{"Title":"Prime candidate for the bottom 10","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I remember seeing this when it first out, in a theater, and thinking ... why?  It was on cable a few nights ago and I watched it again.You know those shows on TV about bad drivers running from the cops? The only reason to pay attention is that at any moment you're going to see something incredibly stupid. That's what this movie is like, only in slow motion.If God were truly merciful, he would have destroyed all the copies of this movie before it made the theaters, and long before cable.(tiny spoiler) ......Did Kirk Douglas appear in it, it just to see Farrah with no clothes? "},{"Title":"I'm just ecstatic there isn't a Saturn 1 or 2...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Madman and robot chase couple in space.  This was the synopsis digital cable gave me, but I went ahead and watched it anyway.Um, yeah, truly a very very bad movie.  One of those films that just fails in every aspect possible; acting, effects, script, sets.  And the coup de grace in my book, the pointless killing of a dog.  And it's a shame, because the dog was the only decent actor in the flick.  I truly believed that it WAS a dog.  Unlike scientist Farrah Fawcett, or whatever the hell Keitel was supposed to be.  At first, with his wooden portrayal and monotone, I thought HE was the robot and maybe Douglas would be the madman. Also none of the actors seemed to be working together, it was almost as if each person was shot separately reading their insipid lines, and then with the magic of 1980s Parent Trap technology, spliced together for the finished product.  I bet they never even met each other in person.  The high point was Fawcett's nude scenes, but the movie wouldn't even let us have that without showing Kirk Douglas's old man butt.  They give with one hand, and punch us in the jimmy with the other. The shoddy acting is enhanced, that is to say made shoddier, by a script so threadbare, they let Fawcett wear it in one of the bedroom scenes (shudder).  The words were just there to fill space between the actors who were talking to themselves.  This was by no stretch of the imagination a cerebral pick...it pretty much was madman and robot chase couple in space. In a time where you had films like the Black Hole or even 2001, you kinda wanted more from a sci-fi, and Saturn 3 offered nothing but intense stomach cramps and volatile flatulence. We know it is the future and space due to the presence of brightly colored tubes framing all the sets.  What is it about tubes that imparts that feeling of future advancement to crappy set designers?  My guess, cheapass to procure.  The remainder of the sets were just black soundstages with the occasional pipe and metal grid floor.  I mean, when even the sets anger you, you know it's gonna be a bad movie. And let's not forget effects.  The robot Hector...i mean come on..ABS?? Why would a robot need abs?  And the head is just one of those robot arms with two christmas lights for eyes...why sculpt the abs and then give it no head?  It's pretty obviously a dude in a suit with a robot arm on his head. And when I say madman and robot chase, I think pursue is a better word, as there's little fast movement where this robot is concerned.  Again, costumes and spaceship models anger me in such a non-specific way that I believe it's my hatred for this movie spreading like a cancer through all areas of production...worst gaffing i've ever seen, and the catering was pretentious and tasteless...cough...All in all, a very bad movie...good for whatever bad movies are good for. Peace. "},{"Title":"Evil Dude and Robot must have the girl.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've been wanted to see this movie and finally found it late one night on the SCI-FI Channel. It starts off innocently enough with opening credits. Neat cast of actors and you think it may actually have some value but on the other hand when Fawcett takes top billing over Kirk Douglas one begins to wonder.Basic plot soon falls into Evil Dude and his robot wants the girl while Ferrah screams throughout the film. Reminds me of those old low budget horror films of the 30's & 40's. Makes for an interesting evening if nothing else is available at the video store, otherwise a real drag. Better to leave it at the video store and go home and read a book. Not one that Kirk Douglas will glowingly talk about when asked about his career.Rent if you must but be prepared to be bored silly. "},{"Title":"A real space turkey.","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Plot Synopsis Benson, a space pilot who has been passed for flight duty due to being mentally unstable, kills another pilot & takes over his mission, which involves delivering a new service robot to a remote hydroponics station on one of Saturn's moons. Once there however, things get ugly when the robot's mind becomes polluted by Benson's thoughts & tries to have its way with the female scientist working there.Film Review When ALIEN came out during the sci-fi boom of the very late 1970s / early 1980s, Stanley Donen (a director who specialised in light musicals) took over a trouble-ridden project & turned it into one of the biggest critical flops that 1980 has ever seen. Since then, Saturn 3 has become a minor cult favourite for fans of Farrah Fawcett.The film's plot &#x96; loony space pilot flies to a remote outpost, starts having fantasies about the local babe & struggles to contain his insanity with a robot (which is technically a cyborg due to its organic brain) that is psychically connected to his brain &#x96; is quite interesting but quickly collapses into pretentiousness due to a script that runs over everything with a Biblical overtone that makes the whole thing unintentionally hilarious.The best thing about the film is the visual effects. Saturn 3 has had a whole heap of money thrown at it & it shows, with some impressive spaceship miniatures, nice sterile uniforms & a lab complex that has been built around an entire soundstage. If only the script had the same budget as the production&#x85;The acting is another problem. Kirk Douglas & Harvey Keitel don't do much to stand out in their roles &#x96; in fact they seem to have a contest over who can underplay the most. Fawcett displays the same spectacular air-headed idiocy that critics at the time thought was an once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to savage with their scathing critique. The best acting by far in this turkey belongs to the robot, who proves to be a real scene-stealer, whether by displaying unsportsmanlike behaviour after losing a game of chess, tearing apart the station's resident pooch (probably saving it from Keitel's appetite &#x96; they eat dogs where he comes from) & lusting after Fawcett.The film has had a bad time at the box office, only managing to draw some really negative reviews upon its release. "},{"Title":"Interesting and overlooked movie...","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's another one of those movies that I saw as a kid and, despite being an average film, managed to completely mesmerize and captivate my imagination. I have read so many unfair reviews that I needed to speak out, so I'll try to give you a detailed analysis of this interesting piece of Sci-Fi.THE FILM ITSELF. Obviously the producers of SATURN 3 wanted to cash in the then current craze on Sci-Fi movies that STAR WARS and subsequently ALIEN helped launch. The film deals with a food research lab on Saturn's third moon (hence the title). Two food research scientists (Adam, played by Kirk Douglas and Alex, played by Farrah Fawcett)and their pet dog live all alone in an isolated space station full of weird corridors. They are working on alternatives to food, to feed earth's hungry. But the company they work for decides they need more help and send in Captain James, not before being torn to pieces by wacko peer Benson (Harvey Keitel), who takes the Captain's identity and flies to Saturn 3. With him, he carries several cargo loads of what appears to be a dismantled robot plus a container holding what looks like piles and piles of brains. Right from the start, Captain James behaves strangely and rapidly develops an obsession for Alex. But Alex is doing fine with his fellow science AND bed partner Adam, even if he looks like he were her father. Captain James the proceeds to assemble HECTOR, the robot he brought with him. HECTOR is the 1st of the demigod series, an advanced cyborg capable of learning human logic by means of direct input.To make this part of the review shorter, HECTOR also develops an obsession for Alex, since he is being programmed by demented Captain James. In a short while, Captain James and his robot go berserk and unleash mayhem on Saturn 3.THE ACTING. If you think Keanu Reeves is a wooden actor, you have to see Harvey Keitel here. The veteran actor in one of his earlier movies acts as a lifeless man. To make matters worse, his voice was overdubbed and some of his lines are really annoying. It almost looks like he's THE robot, not HECTOR! And Farrah Fawcett's Alex is the living definition of a space bimbo. For a supposed scientist, she acts like a 12 year old girl. I don' know if this was intentional or if Mrs. Fawcett's acting skills at the time were limited. And Kirk Douglas just goes through the motions. Being older and supposedly wiser should have tipped him off at having a psycho in his space station.THE RATING. I'm a bit confused by the rating. There's more sex and violence on your typical PG rated JAMES BOND movie than on SATURN 3. Hell! Even RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK is way gorier. As for the sex, we see more skin in TITANIC that on this one. There's small glimpse of Farrah Fawcett's right breast and you get to see Kirk Douglas' naked butt for 8 seconds. That's all the sex you get. There's no profanity. There are no F words or any obscene remarks. On the violence side, there are only 3 or 4 blood related scenes. We get to see a man blown to pieces when he is sucked into space, an amputation, a decapitation and squashed animal. Not too gruesome (except for 2 scenes). The sex was always more implied than visual.THE MUSIC. Elsewhere here it says that Bernstein wrote 44 minutes of music and the only music we hear is a the beginning and at the end. WRONG. The score is pretty chilling. Combining classical with some weird synth sounds, Bernstain creates a pretty chilling score. It's an utter shame that there is no Soundtrack CD for this interesting score.THE ROBOT AND FX. HECTOR, the ominous killer robot is still a marvel to watch. It's not conventional in any way. Instead of having a proper head, like say, C-3PO, he has what appears to be a probe with two light bulbs as eyes and an antenna. His structural design implies some logic behind it and to this day, it remains one of my favorite film robots. As for the rest of the FX, some look extremely dated. Like the air close ups on the space station; they definitely look like a model. The ship at the beginning looks a bit weird and it will take you a while to figure out its shape. There are air ducts all over and the lighting on these halls is real neat. The Special Make up FX we see during the blowing up of the actual Captain James and the Decapitated head look realistic and well done. But the real star will always be the Robot, Hector. FINAL COMMENTS. Had this movie been directed by its actual intellectual creator, John Barry, it would have been probably one of the best Sci-Fi films of 1980. Remember that in that year, THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK blew all other SF movies away, with only ALTERED STATES having something more interesting to offer mature audiences. It's a shame that Barry died soon after he was fired from HIS project. That's something that I'll never understand. SATURN 3 is in no way the worst SF movie ever. It certainly isn't among the best either, but THERE ARE others far worse. I hold this one dearly for nostalgic reasons but I know that it is not a perfect movie. The sadly Out of Print DVD is the only way you can see this movie again. It still angers me to see so much trash given DVD special edition treatment and other movies, such as this one, being totally ignored. SATURN 3 is still fun to watch and I'll say it again, HECTOR is really a cool looking robot, one of the best I've ever seen in a SF movie. "},{"Title":"a horrible little sci-fi pic","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This must be the worst film Kirk Douglas ever appeared in during his long and very successful career and it's amazing he agreed to do such a lousy film. Farrah Fawcett and Harvey Keitel, however, are more in their element as both have done some terrible movies. You can safely assume they took these parts because, at the time, these may have been their best offers.Another interesting decision for the movie was the director, Stanly Donen, who had a long and respectable career doing mostly MGM musicals (such as Seven Brides for Seven Brothers). It's very surprising that they lured him into doing such an odd-ball picture. Maybe he, like Kirk Douglas, has a skeleton or two in his closet that they used to blackmail them into doing the movie (this is the only LOGICAL reason I can think of).Whatever the motivations, the story is about a strangely mismatched couple (Farrah and Kirk) who man a small space station. They are happy to be alone because it gives them a lot of time to dress and undress and dress and undress. I guess maybe Farrah being nude COULD be why Mr. Douglas chose to appear in the film. Hmm--maybe I CAN understand why he chose to do this film.Anyway, Harvey Keitel's character stumbles into the station. Given that it's the 1-dimensional Keitel, you can rightly assume that he is a slimy scumbag sociopath (that's pretty much all he's played since) and he wants to score with Farrah. Well, along the way he is killed and somehow implants his consciousness into a sex crazed robot who terrorizes both of our heroes.Gee, with a plot like that, it sure sounds like a surefire recipe for success (or at least giggles). As a comedy, it kinda works. You could laugh at Farrah's acting, the stupidity of the script or the excuses they come up with for the leads to take off their clothes. But, considering it is supposed to be straight sci-fi, it's a total mess. "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" How to make SATURN 3 mix a little ALIEN, a little SILENT RUNNING, a little DEMON SEED and then burn it in the oven. Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett man a space station on one of the rings of Saturn --- for what purpose is anyone's guess. They take pep pills and exercise a lot. Their new-age Eden is invaded by psycho Harvey Keitel who unleashes a horny robot on them. Douglas and Keitel fight and the robot, named Hector, takes a shine to Fawcett. This is a terrible movie. It's surely the worst thing ever directed by the once great Stanley Donen. Poor visual effects and the inexplicable fact that Keitel's voice was dubbed by a British actor add to the movie's overall cheesiness. "},{"Title":"(2001 Space Odyssey) Meets (Farah Fawcett) !","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think my title said it all. Again and again there was, and still is, that fear of the machine to take over the human whether inside the man or outside him. The computer of (2001 Space Odyssey) was just the first bell, then why not to make the matter more understandable, dramatic, and commercial. So let's put that thinking robot (after making it lusty) in front of the sex symbol of the era, with some huge set and polished décor; which looked eventually more appealing than the movie ! What exactly the problem was? I think mainly it's in the script.There are flashes of good points but with no depth. For example  did you notice how the ones whom had never been to earth (Fawcett and Douglas) were more human than the one who came from it ? (Keitel who's robotic all the way !). Did you notice how they, the human ones, were using the technology to make a happier cheaper life through new type of agriculture, and, on the other hand, how the one from earth was coming with a robot to terminate, coerce, be sexually crazy, and totally out of its advanced mind ?! Moreover, look at a robot that thinks by a human's mind to take the worst of it. It's some satire where we have a future with 3 types of creatures  good humans (simply because they're out of the bloody earth all the time) whom have awful thoughts sometimes, then a human who stopped being human anymore to be a savage machine, then the savage machine which's powerful than everybody however does not have the genuine human mark.. The capability to be humanitarian or humane, so no wonder that the victory at the end was for the man who got the choice and the power to sacrifice for others. WAW ! You can say how wonderful this story when you put it in fashionable space adventure, with elements of thriller, Horror, and a little bit of sex too. But the final result wasn't as good as the original intent.That script cared much about the sexual (not amusing) relationship between Fawcett and Douglas, to present nearly nothing about their motives or their history. Like a bad B-Grade Devil-in-our-home kind of usual flicks. That made them, with inharmonic charismas, as silly as the evil guy. Actually all what I drudged my brain for it previously is close to nonsexist, as for instance the whole first half seemed more like a good atmosphere for exotic porn !! Not to mention  some of the space's effects were poor. The music wasn't up to the (Elmer Bernstein)'s standard. While presenting scary mechanical voice, the matter of dubbed (Keitel) was overall annoying. (Farrah Fawcett) had such a sleepy presence; like she was (Marilyn Monroe) in the wrong place (I don't see her as a sex symbol in the first place !). In fact the script that didn't give her much to say or to do. They thought back then that her being nude (even briefly) with the old mighty Kirk Douglas being rarely nude too would be profitable, to be eventually gross.. Only ! And what a laugh when they made some of the set's corridors as low to watch Miss. Fawcett curving A LOT, in the time that she got no curves at all ??! There was a good irony in making the human lead old, with the heroine preferring him on the young dashing machine. There was another irony between a giant monster robot and its small head. But did they work through boring scenes, depthless treatment, and bad chemistry between all the cast?! I love (Stanley Donen) and all of his classic works, but many people just don't understand how Hollywood itself stopped producing that kind of classics at the time, so why not to handle an erotic space adventure with some meanings. He managed to make it so bright as all of his movies, and a bit intense but maybe not convincing enough, especially with script like this and a cast like that.(Saturn 3) is somehow an eye candy, a dark diverting show, a nostalgic memory, and a mediocre try to show us the vanquisher machine that could beat us if we forgot the human inside or outside us, even if he was that weak or fragile. However the commercial meeting between (2001 Space Odyssey) and (Farah Fawcett) wasn't that great or that hot ! "},{"Title":"saturn 3 -- box office 0","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Essentially the story of Genesis set on one of Saturn's moons, this film is a complete shambles from beginning to end.  How Sir Lew Grade could take a story from the most widely-read book of all time and destroy it is a marvel to behold.  This project was started by John Barry and polished off - literally - by Stanley Donnen.  The buzz is that, when Barry saw the final cut, he was so outraged that he demanded that his name be removed from the credits; a man of principle, at last.  Nothing about this picture is in the least bit convincing the matte paintings look like paintings, the models look like models, the dialogue is sappy and frankly outrageous (ex. Keitel to FawcettYou have a marvelous body.  May I use it?), and the direction is amateurish.  The only, and we mean ONLY, saving grace to this otherwise execrable film is a brief shot of Fawcett's breast.  That's it.  Well, okay, that and Hector, the Demigod-series robot, didn't have any lines but did march around late in the film with Keitel's head stuck on top of it's, er, head.  This unintentional disaster of a movie totally wasted the talents of both Kirk Douglas (who really should have known better) and Harvey Keitel.  The talent-wasting index of Farrah Fawcett is a debatable point, but at least she did what she does so well that of playing a sloe-eyed, apparently none-too-bright full sized Barbie doll, a role that she executed flawlessly in Logan's Run (itself a terrible picture) and, later, inthe TV series Charlie's Angels.  Bottom line  if a friend gives you this film, give it back.  Then, get some new friends.  On a scale of 1 to 10, Saturn 3 redefines ZERO. "},{"Title":"Worse Than Jabba's Restroom Biscuits","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The 1970's saw a degradation of the sci-fi medium, with notable stinkers such as Silent Running (tree hugging hippies in outer space), Logan's Run (youth drug culture at its worst) and this canon fodder which merged the absurd with the contemptible.  The plot, or more-so, the arrangment of Kirk Douglas in a ridiculous role, takes place on Sheba, a moon of Saturn where there is a really old horny guy (Douglas), over the top as ever and his young sex slave (Facett), who does numerous nude scenes.  This is so painful to watch because there is absolutely no chemistry between the two.  Add a lousy Kietal in the mad scientist role and this goes even further into the stink pit.  The special effects are lousy as is the dialogue.  Not for the intelligent. "}]