[{"Title":"Very enjoyable tale","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Yes, Peck had a hard time with holding a British accent, Costner's Robin Hood didn't even try.Yes, there were a bunch of older actors in it, it's about older characters.No, it doesn't have an explosion a minute or a bunch of hard bodied guys or gorgeous babes, that's not what this movie is about and it doesn't need them.It's about a bunch of geezer who, despite being a bit over the hill, still have some sense of adventure and a bit of fight left in them.When viewed from that perspective this movie does the job very well.It doesn't need the repeated and obviously fake explosions and computer generated torn body parts that seems to be the requisite for contemporary adventure films. It's a relatively subdued spinning of a yarn based (loosely, I suppose) on a true story.It's heartwarming to watch the bunch of old soldiers (admitedly, not too much older than myself) pull it together one more time.On one of those cold, bleak winter afternoons when you're feeling that you might have missed out on a few of life's adventures, watch this movie and let yourself think, maybe, just maybe there's still a chance to live them. "},{"Title":"Intrigue and Adventure for Adults","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  A ponderous, but stately homage to the British Empire and the actual superlative function of British Intelligence.  It is beautifully photographed, and in no hurry, which is somewhat refreshing in the light of modern, hyperactive drama.  The film features solid acting by some great names supported by a prime polo stable of British character actors.  The film makes a conscious effort to keep close to the historical record, which would be the reason for some of its more unlikely episodes.  Only the writers of fiction need restrict themselves to the probable.David Niven is worthy of himself, as is Gregory Peck, with an underplayed British accent.  Roger Moore has a great deal of fun being a spy who is NOT James Bond, and is clearly enjoying the role.  His feminine antagonist is portrayed as lethal and skilled, and Trevor Howard does himself credit in advanced old age.The film's accurate sets and equipment are the results of many of the actual parties involved assisting in the film, which was made two years after the actual records of the Raid on Goa were finally made public by the British government. "},{"Title":"How would you like to blow up two or three enemy ships in a neutral harbor?","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" The film opens with incredibly accurate information that Forty-six freighters were sunk by the German submarines in the Indian Ocean in the past few weeks&#133; The U-boats know exactly where and when to strike&#133;On one hand, we also know that the Portuguese authorities dismantled the ships' radios when they gave them permission to stay there&#133; On the other, if Radio Monitoring is right, and the transmitter is actually in the harbor, it must be on a ship&#133;Not being able to break the code, the British Intelligence has to find out from where the information to those U-boats originates&#133; To find whoever heads the spy ring, and to get rid of the transmitter without forgetting to violate Portugal's neutrality&#133; Now if a British Commando cannot violate Goa's neutral status, they might have to turn to amateurs&#133; The Light Horse has not been in action as a unit since the Boer War in 1900&#133; If they were caught, it might be taken as a drunken escapade&#133; We are speaking about ex-soldiers on holiday, stealing a river ferry, sailing it the whole way round India from Calcutta to Cochin&#133; and then heading for the neutral port of Mormugoa, Portuguese colony...In that port, at anchor is a German ship, the Ehrenfels&#133; Their job is to seize that ship, or sink her where she is&#133; Also in that port are two other German ships so if they can knock them off at the same time, so much the better&#133; As you can see it is a crucial operation where many allied lives might be saved&#133; David Niven is the only man with any experience at sea&#133;Charlie Wilton will remain aboard to nurse the engine of the old tub&#133; Trevor Howard will have his only chance to settle accounts for his boy killed in Burma&#133; Roger Moore has to deal with some spies&#133; Peck has to lead the whole suicide adventure&#133; The film moves along beautifully, reaching an exciting and tense climax&#133; Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Good Story","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" What a group of strange reviews. Granted, I am 69 but I just started watching tons of movies since retiring (we had no money growing up). Thank God for cable, especially TCM, AMC and the History Channel. (And to IMDb.com - the first favourite added to my desktop in 1994!)The fact that this is based on a true story made all the difference. Yes, life was like that back then.Re Mr. Peck's accent - I've known plenty of Englishmen who sounded like that. What odd comments.The locations were great - nice to see something authentic. And I agree, the clothing could have been a bit less modern. Finances were tight all over during WWII.And to say these actors were past their prime! An actor is an actor is an actor - until physically or mentally impaired. (I've felt this way since high school so it is not just compassion for those now in my age group.)All in all, a satisfying experience. "},{"Title":"The Over the Hill Gang on the Road to Goa","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" The Sea Wolves is based on a true incident in which a bunch of middle aged and more than middle aged old soldiers from the British Raj in India got together and blew up three German freighters interned in the Port of Goa on the western coast of India.The British had a delicate diplomatic problem. For over 300 years Goa and some surrounding suburb was Portugese territory and Portugal under Salazar was neutral in World War II. Made it a place for a whole lot of intrigue. The Nazis had a transmitter on one of those ships that was relaying information about allied shipping and the U-boats were cleaning up. You might ask why it was the Nazis and not the Japanese. Very simply the Japanese never developed any real submarine capability just as the Nazis disdained developing aircraft carriers. Had both done so, World War II might have turned out differently, at least that's a pet theory of mine.Gregory Peck and Roger Moore get the job of doing something about the spying and the transmitter. Roger Moore goes into Goa and does a little counterespionage. He certainly as James Bond has the right credentials. He even has a fling with the head Nazi who is a woman played by the very beautiful Barbara Kellerman.Peck trains a force of former members of the Indian army now retired and waiting for the Raj to end as everyone but Winston Churchill knew it would. David Niven, Trevor Howard, Allan Cuthbertson, Patrick MacNee are some of men employed to go into Goa harbor and do away with those ships.These are patriotic men whose country is in her biggest crisis and feel helpless in not being able to be of service. It's that way when you've spent your life in the military. When the opportunity knocks, they kick down the door.In a recent biography of David Niven it's mentioned that Niven enjoyed being reunited with his Guns of Navarone co-star Gregory Peck and another guy who he had worked with, Trevor Howard. But the film was done in actual location in India and it was sometimes 140 degrees fahrenheit. It was pretty stressful and it exacerbated the symptoms of an undetected Lou Gehrig's disease that eventually took David Niven from us.I remember in the early sixties Goa was eventually just taken over by India. The Portugese had a lease there just as they did at Macao and the British did in Hong Kong. But the Indians just weren't that patient.The Sea Wolves is a good and entertaining film about a little known and very minor operation during World War II. "},{"Title":"Old Actors Never Die","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  They just turn up in films like this.I loved this film. The combination of these great old stars and charecter actors having a lark in a war film. Fantastic.The trick with this film is not to take it too seriously.Just sit back and release your grip on reality for a couple of hours.Pity we don't get more films like this today.  "},{"Title":"Classy film-making -- unlike much of today's stuff!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" THE SEA WOLVES is a fabulous adventure, based upon the true story of The Calcutta Light Horse, retired British veterans of the Boer War who are called upon to perform a secret mission in India during World War II. (The main historical source is the book, Boarding Party, by James Leasor.) A witty, well-structured script by Reginald Rose and solid direction by Andrew V. McLaglen make this a good old-fashioned filmgoing experience. (Both were also responsible, along with producer Euan Lloyd, for the excellent THE WILD GEESE.) The film moves along well, graced by a distinguished cast Gregory Peck, Roger Moore, Trevor Howard, Patrick Macnee and, in his last major role, the ever-suave David Niven. You'll cheer for the gallery of British supporting players who, fighting age and seasickness, struggle to get in shape for this last charge -- patriots whose desire to serve one more time pulls them away from their comfortable world of polo, cricket, and drinks at the club. They face a worthy adversary in Barbara Kellermann. Perhaps one may quibble with the uneven quality of Peck's British accent, but his customarily dignified presence makes up for it. Moore is rather Bondish here -- the womanizer of the group -- but ironically, more impressive than in his 007 films. (True Bondophiles will notice several 007 veterans among the crew, including editor John Glen, title artist Maurice Binder, and Matt Monro, who sings the closing theme.) McLaglen makes excellent use of the Indian locations, mainly Goa and Delhi, as he builds his story to an exciting climax. (The perpetrators of OCTOPUSSY should have taken lessons from this film.) The result is a truly classy adventure, without the high-tech noise and hot air of so many films.NOTE The Sea Wolves should have shot those responsible for the dim-witted advertising campaign, reproduced on both the VHS and DVD boxes! It is a MAD Magazine-type caricature which would lead anyone to believe that the film is a slapstick comedy. "},{"Title":"Jolly good show","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  Based on a true story, the Sea Wolves are a geriatric impossible mission team called back to duty after 40 years of retirement with the offer of a dangerous mission that carries no hope of reward or recognition for their efforts. And they jump at the chance! The movie itself is rather average, but the story is great fun, and more suspensible at times than one might expect. It suffers only from a decidedly 1970s made-for-television feel to the production, though the story is set in 1943. But even this drawback is ameliorated somewhat by closing credits where images of the real-life heroes from World War II are juxtaposed with those of the actors who immortalized their heroism in this film. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Entertaining War Adventure","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" In March 1943, in the World War II, the Germans use the neutral harbor of the Portuguese colony of Mormugoa to transmit information to a U-Boat about the allied ships to sink them in international waters. In Calcutta, the British Intelligence assigns Colonel Lewis Pugh (Gregory Peck) and Captain Gavin Stewart (Roger Moore) to spy in Goa and they discover that there are three German vessels anchored in the area and the famous spy Trompeta (Wolf Kahler) is based in Goa. They kidnap Trompeta to interrogate him but Lewis accidentally kills the spy after fighting with him in the runaway car. Meanwhile Gavin has one night stand with the gorgeous and elegant Mrs. Cromwell (Barbara Kellerman), who is the partner of Trompeta. They fail in their mission, but Lewis and Gavin convince their chief to use the veterans from Calcutta Light Horse led by the retired Colonel W.H. Grice (David Niven) to travel to Goa on board of the old ship Phoebe, pretending to be drunken businessmen on holiday. They prepare to destroy the Ehrenfels and the two other Nazi radio ships and get the German secret codes under the command of Lewis. Meanwhile Gavin on shore has a love affair Mrs. Cromwell and prepares the diversion to facilitate the mission of Lewis and his men.The Sea Wolves is an entertaining adventure apparently based on a true but incredible story. The use of retired military in the operation in a neutral zone seems to be too fantastic and romantic to be true and does not make sense why risky the operation exposing old men and not real soldiers. Would it make any difference to England after the sinking of twelve allied vessels? The unknown Barbara Kellerman is really a pretty woman and tailored for the role of a seductive spy. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Espionagem em Goa (Spionage in Goa) "},{"Title":"Retired British veterans retire German shipping.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  A neutral Portugese port in India has three German cargo ships in it.  One of them is believed to contain a hidden short wave radio that is transmitting the locations of British war ships to U-Boats, costing the British Navy dearly in the Indian Ocean.  Because the port is neutral, Allied forces are not allowed to enter and destroy the radio.  A plan is finally devised to use aged retired members of the, no longer in use, Calcutta Light Horse, who are now enjoying the joys of civilian life. But, is there really a radio in the harbor?  If so, which ship is it on?  This is quite an entertaining film, especially for those who enjoy (and remember) Gregory Peck, David Niven, Trevor Howard, and many many more British actors. "}{"Title":"Entertaining and Historical -- Falls a Little Short on Both","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" I would concur with the previous reviewers comments, though perhaps a little less enthusiastically. The Sea Wolves is entertaining, owing largely to a cast of good British actors. I saw this film on the History Channel, and as World War II buff, my interest in the film is largely around its wartime premise. I don't mind that the film makers have exercised minor artistic license with some of the story. It's often essential for good film storytelling.In this case, the true story, which was declassified by the British government in 1978, two years before the making of the film, is such a good story that little embellishment is needed to make a good film. I suspect that in this film the romantic exploits of Roger Moore are fiction, but no matter. My favorite films of the war genre, Force 10 from Navarone and The Dirty Dozen are historical fiction. The Sea Wolves has a similar element of misfit commandos, which is really tautology. Both Force 10 from Navarone and The Dirty Dozen are wildly humorous. Having served in two wars, I recall much of what happened as humorous to the point of farce, equally mixed with the parts that were serious, including a few terrifying experiences. A few brief moments of terror can go a long way, when experienced in real life, but not nearly as far when watched on the screen. Therefore, film makers typically alter the mixture, adding more action to keep us riveted. Like the historical epics films, based on the books of Connelious Ryan (The Longest Day and A Bridge Too Far), The Sea Wolves seems to strive to be faithful to the actual events, and in doing so, ends up being a little slow in the start.My harshest criticisms of the Sea Wolves are that its cinematography is rather uninspired, and its costumes are a disappointing to the historical enthusiast. Some of the uniforms and civilian clothes appeared to be reproductions in synthetic fabrics not used at the time. Also, as is typical of studio productions, some of the hairstyles were more influenced by contemporary styles than faithful renditions of the styles of the period. The film was shot entirely on location in India, where the authenticity of the sets and extras offer some consolation for the film's other failings.In summary, The Sea Wolves, while having the makings of two kinds of great war movies-- the entertaining all-star blockbuster and the ultra-accurate historical epic-- but fails to fully deliver either. Still, a good story and competent acting make it work a look. In doing a little research on the Web, I was able to locate a book, entitled Boarding Party The Last Action of the Calcutta Light Horse. The reviews of the book on Amazon are very promising for both entertainment and history. The film has got me interested, so I'll be sure to read it. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned wartime caper, very curious for a film made in the 1980s.","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" It is hard to believe that a film like The Sea Wolves ever got made in the 1980s. It is such an extraordinarily old-fashioned film that one would expect it to have surfaced in the 40s or, at latest, the 50s. The only giveaway is the fact that the costumes and hairstyles are slightly too modern for a film purporting to be set in 1943. Still, if you can forgive the film its datedness there are points to enjoy, including good performances, gorgeous locations and a genuinely exciting climactic sequence.In 1943, a number of Allied ships are sunk in the Indian Ocean. It seems the Germans are transmitting secret information about the whereabouts of Allied ships from one of their destroyers anchored in the neutral port of Goa. The Germans deny that their warship has anything to do with the business, and the British know that they cannot just sail into a neutral port and start blowing up suspected spy vessels - a more clandestine approach is needed. Enter Special Operatives Col. Lewis Pugh (Gregory Peck) and Capt. Gavin Stewart (Roger Moore), a pair of resourceful and adventurous soldiers who decide to destroy the German warship by a rather unconventional method. Pugh approaches the Calcutta Light Horse Brigade, a ragtag collection of elderly ex-British servicemen who had their moments of glory during the Boer War and the First World War. The brigade is commandeered by Col. Bill Grice (David Niven), who accepts the mission even without knowing the full details of the target or the objective. Stewart is assigned to create a diversion in the port of Goa, which he does by arranging a spectacular street carnival with fireworks and parties. Meanwhile, Pugh and Grice and their team of geriatric adventurers sail stealthily into the harbour and set into motion their audacious plot to destroy the German warship.The Sea Wolves is carried a long way by its performers. Peck is fine as the mastermind behind the plan (the only flaw with his performance is his English accent, though I've certainly heard worse); Moore seems to be enjoying this break from the Bond role with which he was synonymous at that time; Niven is his usual dignified presence and shares a good chemistry with his old Guns Of Navarone buddy Peck; and the rest of the cast consists of lovable Brit character actors like Patrick MacNee, Trevor Howard, Jack Watson and Donald Houston. The film is fairly slowly paced, which allows nice characterisations to be fashioned by these actors but occasionally results in periodic lulls in the story. The subplot featuring a lady spy (Barbara Kellerman) who almost thwarts the British plot is rather distracting, and the music by Roy Budd is disappointing too (Budd simply rehashes his Wild Geese score, but it doesn't suit this film quite so well and the title song warbled by Matt Munro is even less appropriate for this film). After a rather lengthy and exhausting build-up, the film's climactic sequence thankfully delivers the goods, as our aging heroes silently board the German ship and carry out their dangerous mission. Especially exciting is the scene in which the brigade have just planted mines on the hull of the German ship, but as they attempt to sail off to a safe distance the engine on their battered old riverboat gives up, leaving them to carry out emergency repairs before they sink themselves as well as the enemy! The Sea Wolves is passable stuff for a rainy afternoon, nothing special but amiable enough in its old-style way. "},{"Title":"Oddly, it should have been a lot more interesting.","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" The story in The Sea Wolves is based on a real and rather strange episode in World War II history. Not wanting to provoke an international incident with neutral Portugal, the British decide to attack a German ship docked in Goa (an Indian city controlled at the time by the Portuguese) using civilians....elderly non-coms at that! They need to destroy or capture the boat because the ship is being used against Allied shipping. And, the film starred a lot of older stars--the likes of Gregory Peck, David Niven, Roger Moore and Trevor Howard! This really sounds like an interesting story, right? Well, oddly, it wasn't. In fact, after a while I was just looking forward to the film ending. Why? Well, I think the problem is mostly because none of the characters were very interesting. They had a nice idea but the writer simply didn't instill enough in the characters to make them the least bit endearing or realistic. Sad. As a result, it's a film that you could watch if you have nothing better to do or you could just skip it. My vote? Flip a coin. "},{"Title":"Some comments","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" This movie really is an oddity - as others have noted its hard to see it being made now and it was pretty odd to see it being made then. However, I'd encourage folk to watch it as its an old-fashioned yarn featuring some splendid cameos from a strong cast of supporting actors. As for the stars - well Messrs Niven, Peck and Moore aren't perhaps stretched too much but they do enough to show just why they were the stars. I think its called 'screen presence'. Peck's accent - a plucky effort and far from the worst I've heard.A few minor points Why was the film made? Am I alone in suspecting that the director had a key role? Andy McLaglen had a penchant for casting favourite actors (a John Ford influence) and a scenario like this with ample opportunity to cast screen veterans would have appealed. He was also the son of the redoubtable Anglo-Irish actor Victor McLagan, an old soldier who (as you'll find elsewhere on IMDb)in the 1930s organised a semi-militaristic polo club called the 'Light Horse Brigade'. A coincidence - surely not, it must have appealed to McLaglen to publicise the story of another 'Light Horse' that did get to 'do its bit'.On the German resistance. These were not crack Nazi stormtroopers - they were mainly merchant sailors (tho some would have had naval experience). They were also taken by surprise in a neutral port where they were happily sitting out the duration. Given those circumstances they put up a rather good fight in the film - and its to be noted four German survivors of the raid were advisers on the movie.On people being shot in the arm. Were they supposed to invent extra British characters so they could kill them? On the whiskey - its the men's cover if the raid went off half-cocked as was quite possible.On the dedication - Mountbatten was the wartime commander in the area of operations including the Indian Ocean. Being made so soon after his murder it must have appealed to McLaglen (British-born of Protestant Irish stock) to remind the viewers again that not all old soldiers get to live out their retirement peacefully. We should also recall the two teenage boys (one of them local) and the 83-year old woman killed along with Mountbatten in that terrorist atrocity.Finally, I like the closing moments when the men are gazing at the burning ships. No champagne, no cheers, no high fives - just a comment of 'poor devils'. "},{"Title":"Almost sunk without trace","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Pretty much a period piece when it came out -- not the content, but the style of movie-making itself -- 'The Sea Wolves' is another of those examples of cinematic abuse that make the viewing of the results so disappointing an experience.A re-tread of just about any and every Brave Brits / Nasty Nazis war movie churned out by UK studios large and small in the 40s, 50s, and 60s, the surprise here is that production occurred in 1979 / 1980 rather than 30 years earlier.What's no surprise, however, is the degree of self-indulgence that infuses efforts like this, i.e., take a true-life story, promote your wares on the back of it. . . but change almost everything in it to fit box office conventions of the day.Appealingly lethargic at its outset, where the script certainly does map something of the genesis of the Ehrenfals raid, things then rapidly fall apart with the introduction of Roger Moore in a dinner jacket chatting up a villainess in a casino. Obviously nothing of the kind ever happened, and had this been but a minor diversion it may be easily overlooked. However, as the Spy Who Loved Me bit accounts for at least a third of the over-long film, it can't be ignored.If this inept fiction -- and inept it most certainly is -- doesn't do for Seawolves, then the finale certainly does writer and director presumably got together and said ah, well, better have a shoot-out here, as if it's the OK Corral they're chronicling rather than a mission to disable a German ship.Thus it is that several scenes which never occurred in reality unfold with hilarious unreality never have so many True Brits been shot in the arm, or missed at point blank range, than here, nor have so many really Bad, Bad Germans been mown down only to sneakily turn over after dropping dead and shooting back.It's rubbish, and annoying rubbish at that.But where Seawolves truly irks is its sustained deceit to be drama-doc rather than popular fiction. The facts are that the boarding party was detected as soon as it set foot on the vessel and the crew, thinking it was a regular Brit military operation, immediately set off charges pre-installed in the hold and engine room so as to scuttle the Ehrenfals and prevent her from falling into Allied hands.The ship was in no more than 80 foot of water so sank quickly and obligingly to the bottom, almost dragging the Phoebe with her. There was no gun battle, no hand to hand fighting, and despite SOE's ludicrous claim to have subsequently fooled the Germans into sinking the other two vessels by sending some kind of phony wireless message, the truth is that once the Ehrenfals had gone down, the crews of the other two vessels likewise scuttled theirs.Ends.Of course, the ordinary, middle-aged (and older) folks who actually participated in the raid weren't to know that. This motley bunch of solicitors, managers, accountants, jute growers, export clerks and retirees left their homes, their jobs, and their families to freely embark on a venture that could have claimed the lives of every one of them. That took guts. Real, genuine, shining courage.Seawolves, of course, has no grasp of this kind of truth, so makes no salute to it. Instead, there's one cliché after another, strung together on the pretext that, somehow, This Is How It Was.When it wasn't.Worthy of 1 out of 10 on release (for its location photography) it's today worth 4 out of 10 for the screen presence of Trevor Howard, David Niven and Gregory Peck. Sadly, we'll not see their like again. Rather more happily though, we're unlikely to see anything as embarrassingly bad as Seawolves again, either. "},{"Title":"sadly deficient","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Take one of the most unusual stories of WWII. Get a cast of brilliant actors. Make all the sets dead on. GET ALL THE DETAILS OF THE STORY RIGHT Mix it all together and the result is, Sadly disappointing, When I read the book 'Boarding Partythe Last Action of the Calcutta Light Horse, I said to myself what a great movie this would make Then I saw the cast, monster stars all. I watched with great anticipation. What a serious letdown, what had been a brilliant book about a brilliant exploit by retired old gentlemen giving one last hurrah for king and country fell surprisingly and totally flat. the story that cried for hamming it up for totally lacked the energy and joie de verve it needd. Whether it was the script or the dierection, something sucked the life out of the story.all I can recommend is to read the book ''Boarding Partythe Last Action of the Calcutta Light Horse. A truly unique story of WWII. "},{"Title":"The old geezers go to war ...","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" THE SEA WOLVES is an engaging enough romp, that kinda pays tribute to the brave men of the Calcutta Light Horse who cut off the Germans' intelligence pipeline out of Portugese Goa, but it's very hard to believe that this film was shot just one year before RAIDERS OF THE ARK. That it was directed by Andrew McLaglen may account for its old-fashioned look and feel, but really this kind of studio production was pretty much redundant by 1980.It's worth a look, but you'd spend two hours more profitably by watching a better war film than this one - for example THIN RED LINE. Come to think of it, even corny 1960s stuff like THE DIRTY DOZEN is better put together than this. Good story, fair script. Bit of waste of a great cast, really ... "},{"Title":"The Sea Wolves is a highly recommended film to spend on fun times.","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" During the Second World War, German submarines sink British merchant ships carrying thousands of tons of supplies and materiel for the navy. British Intelligence in India believes that the information reaches the Nazi submarine U-boats through a radio transmitter hidden in one of the three German ships are in Goa, Portugal. Since Portugal is neutral in the war, the ships can not be attacked by conventional forces, so that British intelligence decided to entrust the task to a group of expatriate British veteransAlthough not a movie that can stand out from others of its kind, the truth is that the adventure is well these old fellow-sufferers by the Indian Ocean in a small fishing boat to blow up a German ship. It is a film based on real events that took place, with good actors involved in the plot, dialogue acceptable, good photography, emotion and a cynical humor just low intensity fits.And finally note the characters of Roger Moore, and Gregory Peck, that fill the screen charisma more than enough, have good presence, you know do well in action scenes and dramatic moments. "},{"Title":"Wartime movie with spectacular scenes and  all star cast  who they all offer competent acting","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" True WWII story about a commando-style mission undertaken by a group of middle-age semi-retired British Cavalrymen in 1943 . The crew of veteran saboteurs (most of them formed by veteran actors as Trevor Howard , Patrick Mcnee ,Morgan Sheppard , Terence Longdon and several more besides ) commanded by Gregory Peck and David Niven are assigned the dangerous operation by the general (Kenneth Griffith) to blow up a German ship called Ehrenfels that carries a radio station located in the port of Marmagoa . They must destroy a transmitter in Goa , a Portuguese colony and neutral territory . As the end credits of this movie state , during the first 11 days of March 1943, U-boats sank 12 Allied ships in the Indian Ocean , after the Light Horse raid on Goa, only one ship was lost in the remainder of the month¨. The film is dedicated to the memory of the honorary colonel of the Calcutta Light Horse , Admiral of the Fleet the Earl Mountbatten of Burma , K.G. 1900-1979 . The producers wish to thank the Government of India and Administration and peoples of Goa and to pay tribute to commander B.S. Davies whose skill and courage at the helm of ¨Phoebe¨ contributed so much to the success of the mission . There are not the ¨Sea Wolves ¨of the title also called ¨Wolf pack¨ , that refers to the Nazi U-boats that are doing the shipwrecked and damage on the Allied fleet.This exciting film contains intrigue , suspense , noisy action scenes ,fascinating battles and an enjoyable love story with treason and tragedy between Roger Moore and Barbara Kellerman who results to be the main fascination of the film . Other chief excitements about the movie, will be in the intervention of famous British secondaries who realize professionally competent interpretations , some of them with no more than a line or two to say as Allan Cuthberson ,Patrick Allen , Donald Houston , Jack Watson , Grahame Stark , John Standing , Percy Herbert and several others . Vibrant and rousing musical score by Roy Budd with agreeable final song titled ¨The precious moment¨ sung by the usual Matt Monroe . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Tony Imi . The picture finely directed by Andrew V. McLagen is based on the book ¨Boarding party¨ by James Leasor who took actual events for his writing , these are the following  On reserve since the Boer War, they are most noted for their attack with members of the Calcutta Scottish against the German ship, Ehrenfels. The operation was organized by SOE's India Mission. It was kept covert, to avoid the political ramifications of contravening Portuguese neutrality in Goa, and was not revealed until thirty-five years afterwards, in 1978. The Ehrenfels was known to be transmitting information on Allied ship movements to U-boats from Mormugao Harbour in Portugal's neutral territory of Goa on 9 March 1943.The Light Horse embarked on the barge Phoebe at Calcutta and sailed around India to Goa. After the Ehrenfels erupted in a fireball and was sunk by the team of British saboteurs, British intelligence dispatched an open message over the wire falsely warning that they would invade Goa. The crews of the other two German ships in the Harbour, the Drachenfels and Braunfels, received the message and scuttled their ships in Goa's Harbour in the belief that they were protecting their ships from capture by the British. Italian ships in the Harbour were also destroyed. In 1951 all three ships were salvaged. "},{"Title":"If you liked The Guns of Navarone...","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  I thought the film was very good. Being based on a true story, the action comes when it comes. Of course Hollywood being Hollywood one  wonders where the 'true story' ends and the embellishment begins. I found the story interesting. The film opens with a spy segment when the British try to find a Nazi spy in neutral Goa who is tipping the German U-Boats to freighter sailings. Then the unique solution to taking military action in a neutral country...All's fair in love and war. In reality, it is impossible to ignore an effective enemy in a neutral country. After all, the Nazis weren't respecting that neutrality. People today don't have any idea how close the world came to being dominated by the Axis Powers. So such 'niceties' as neutrality sometimes had to be put aside. I thought this film something along the line of The Man Who Never Was with action. SPOILER  I thought it interesting that actual photographs of the sinking and sunk German ships were used at the end. I liked the film very much, but I wondered about the truthfulness of the 'love scenes.' "}{"Title":"The last of a dying breed... far from great but not bad either","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" It's one of those very British war/adventure flicks. This one is based on a true story actually. It's a bit of an oddity to find something like this in 1980. I mean you have STAR WARS, INDY, and... ummm... this. It has a distinct 50s or 60s feel to it. It has that GUNS OF NAVARONE feel (in no small part because Peck and Niven are on board) but with what looks like half the budget. And basically all the heroes here are old enough to be collecting social security checks. And yet despite all these oddities and quibbles it somehow feels like a comfortable pair of old shoes. You got stalwarts like Peck, Niven, good ol' Roger Moore (in between his MOONRAKER and FOR YOUR EYES ONLY 007 period), Trevor Howard, Patrick Macnee, etc. It's a boys adventure (errr... old men adventure) and doesn't really offer anything new. No real surprises or twists or really suspenseful moments here. And yet it's like an old friend that you can always appreciate. Not a great film (not even as good as THE WILD GEESE) but good enough to kick back and enjoy on a boring night. About on par with FFOLKES (also with Rog Moore) which came out the same year. Also funny to see 70s fashion in a film which is supposed to be set during WWII. Oops. "},{"Title":"Expendables in the 80's","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Sea Wolves with is star filled cast must have been a bit like the Sly Stallone led ensemble Expendables back when it was released.The splendid David Niven, the reliable Gregory Peck (Yes even with that accent) join the then current James Bond, Roger Moore lead a bunch of military vets on a dangerous mission.It tells the true WW2 story . The British must attack a German ship, that is saw in neutral waters. So the send ex soldiers who are now civilians and over 60 yeas old. The trouble with The Sea Wolves is that whilst the story itself is a very good one, and the cast is as good it is often shockingly slow. To the point of boredom at times, but also incredibly cheesy as it tries to inject a bit of humour (Moore's trademark as Bond) into this daring tale of veterans trying to sabotage German boats. Suddenly it ends up struggling to be average.My main problem wit this movie was Moore! I'm not sure his character is meant to be as funny as he seems. He dresses in tuxedo's, gambles in casino's, seduces women and is able to knock men unconscious with a single punch (all Bond trademarks) I suppose if you love his Bond you'll like it. But some of it is so ludicrous I wondered whether it was originally conceived as a spoof comedy.I have given this 5 stars for Niven and Peck, the action a scenes at the end and for the real heroes who this story is based on.Moore actually saved spoofing Bond for his next movie, the Burt Reynolds led ensemble Cannonball Run. "},{"Title":"A pleasant dip into the sea of nostalgia","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" I have to admit that I am probably a bit biased when it comes to this movie which sometimes is referred to as The Last Charge of The Calcutta Light Horse by the way. It is a classical war movie that I saw, and liked, as a kid. It also has several of my favorite actors since I was a kid in it. So needless to say I really do like this movie.When re-watching it yesterday I really enjoyed seeing characters like Gregory Peck and David Niven again. They are part of a time when movie characters could be funny, strong and quite macho without being totally overdone and foul-mouthed. David Niven as well as a few of the other characters are just great with their British stiff upper lip attitude and British humor.The story is a rather classical World War 2 adventure story even though it is based on an actual event. Most of the movie is the initial spy-adventure with Gregory Peck and Roger Moore followed by the preparations and boat ride into the neutral harbor of Goa. These are really the best part of the movie where the characters are really making the movie.When the action starts at the end of the movie the characters themselves kind of get hidden behind the action which, quite frankly, is not top quality. Like many older movies these parts are a bit cartoonish, illogical and certainly not very realistic. The special effects are also, not surprisingly, up to modern standards. I never figured out what the German captain really expected to achieve with oil drums on the deck by the way. I guess it made some nice fiery scenes at the end though.For me, watching this movie again yesterday, that was two very enjoyable hours. "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" The basic story is great and could have made an exciting film, but this is rather an inept production. I have never seen a greater gallery of distinguished British male actors in one film, but most of them are given very little to do. The only one to distinguish himself with his material is that underrated actor Patrick Allen. Unfortunately he's not on the screen for very long. Peck struggles to be a Brit, Niven is better but looking pretty awful at this stage of his life, Roger Moore is..well..Roger Moore which is just lovely but his stuff with the female spy is extraneous to the story and contributes to the film dragging out and becoming rather boring. It's the sort of film where you get up, go to the kitchen and make a cup of tea at any stage without worrying about what you're missing on screen. Overall there is a lack of quality and authenticity, and some aspects (eg the music, the special effects and the credits) are quite painful. The critical eye was clearly lacking in most facets of this production. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this any more...","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" What great escapist fun! This movie is excellent as long as you don't take it seriously, like the above critics did. Anyone who knows the Brits will understand. The two critics main complaint is that the movie is too slow getting where it is headed. My answer to them is 'It is not reaching the goal that counts but the journey itself!' Today's 'modern' movies are far too fast-paced for their own good in my opinion.Granted, it is strange to make almost a parody out of a true WW II exploit, but then again, making fun of serious matters and of oneself is the basis of British humor... The cast of course is great, how enjoyable is it to watch the likes of Gregory Peck, David Niven, Roger Moore and many others really having fun filming this flick! I very much enjoyed this cross between 'Bridge on the River Kwai', James Bond and 'Monty Python'. They don't make them like this any more... Highly recommended, as long as you don't expect a 'real' WW II film. "},{"Title":"Really Enjoyble Film","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" A great film, some of the best actors from the 60s and 70s all together in a well shot, well directed movie. Gregory Peck, David Niven, Patrick Macnee, Trevor Howard, and not forgetting Roger Moore to name just a few of the many great actors in this film. This slightly elderly cast is a delight to watch, not just a tribute to this true story, but to the actors themselves who have brought us so many great movies. I Have watched this movie many times now, and I never get bored. And why would I, it has the delightful Barbara Kellerman as Mrs Cromwell, this was a really good choice, I cant imagine anyone playing this part better. Finally RoyBudds soundtrack, cleverly blended around the fantastic Warsaw Concerto (possibly one of the most exciting pieces of music ever written) gives the film great atmosphere, and feeling especially the scenes with the cunning and ruthless Mrs Cromwell. "},{"Title":"It belongs in a museum.","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" ...We all do. No I'm not talking about The Expendables 2, but actually from the film this bit of dialogue was actually stolen from; the 1980 boy's own adventure The Sea Wolves. A classy, star-studded cast (Gregory Peck, Roger Moore, David Niven, Patrick MacNee, Trevor Howard, Kenneth Griffith and Patrick Allen) features in this rather dull, if big-scale old-fashion war-spy adventure of old men (pretending to be drunk businessmen who shower themselves in alcohol while parting on a clunker of boat) in exotic locations (in neutral Goa) dealing with Nazi radio ships who were involved in the sinking of allied ships. For most part even with its clowning nature and inspired plot threads these true World War 2 exploits come across as colourless and tired, just like its stars. The lead-up reconnaissance groundwork by Peck and Moore's characters can somewhat meander. The cast become distractions. Peck is simply going through the motions, Moore does his casual Bond shtick (being enticed by the lovely Barbara Kellerman) and MacNee enjoys standing on his head. Andrew V McLaglen's handling of the action is competent and there's a plethora of it, but simply it lacks the thrills and energy to sustain its long-winding length. McLaglen also did the similar, if much more exciting Wild Geese.Sturdy, but mechanical entertainment. "},{"Title":"Them good old boys were wearing whiskey and rye...","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Directed by Andrew V. McLaglen and adapted from James Lensor's book, Boarding Party, The Sea Wolves gathers up a gang of stalwart actors and pitches them into a war time drama. Clearly taking its lead from The Wild Geese, pic itself is based on the exploits of the Calcutta Light Horse band of men who enacted Operation Boarding Party during World War II 1943. Their mission was to scupper German ships that were sending communications to Nazi U-Boats that were sinking British merchant ships. It was a group made up of old volunteers who had the extensive army knowledge needed to make the mission a success. So who to play these wily old soldiers? Enter Messrs Niven, Moore, Howard, Macnee and, erm, Peck, who sneaks in as an honorary Brit.It's all very grand in a robust flag waving way, making the Sanatogen taking men look as heroes being an honourable thing. The formula is adhered to as the men are put through a number of familiar training scenarios whilst showing stiff upper lippery in the process. Roger Moore gets to play James Bond in a war film, in a not wholly convincing romantic sub-plot, and once the mission finally arrives, as the men storm the enemy ships, it's exciting and suspenseful. If only half an hour had been cut out of the run time! For sadly there is not enough material here to sustain a two hour movie, director McLaglen labouring to hold our attention in readiness for that finale. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The old sea wolves were mostly toothless","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Oh, I don't know...such great actors stuck in such a stinky and crappy film. I can't imagine the private conversations between them. The good thing is that this film is based on a true story. The bad thing is that from my vantage point in 2012, it looks awful, cheesy, horribly edited, grating music, clumsy special effects. Things for me started off bad from just a casual glance at the photographs of Peck, Moore and Niven on the jacket of my DVD and even on the photo here at IMDb. I cannot recall a moment in this film when Niven and Moore dressed up like German naval officers. So, why have them depicted as such in the photos? Ridiculous.Gregory Peck, one of the finest actors ever, was there ever a miscasting mistake in his career worse than this one? Atticus Finch tries desperately to sound like a lord of the manor and it is painful to listen and watch. Some actors just should not attempt to sound British and the sad joke of Kevin Costner trying to be Robin Hood in his Yankee-English disaster....is the stuff of Hollywood jokes. So no, Peck should not have been cast as a British officer. He was, strangely enough, very powerful and frightening as the evil Dr. Mengele in The Boys from Brazil. He pulled that role off with great effect. In Sea Wolves I was almost howling with displeasure.Roger Moore was apparently in between shooting two James Bond films and the Sea Wolves was the sandwich centrepiece. His debonair mannerisms were detracting. David Niven looked exasperated and embarrassed to be stuck in this clunker. Oh, the better days were way behind him. The great Trevor Howard is wasted in this film, his time on screen too short and the material just garbage.This is a film that should be remade and with a better script. And please, next time, don't include the scotch dowsing scene.....just such a sad sight to see good scotch wasted.....on such a dreadfully boring film. "},{"Title":"A reasonably entertaining film.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  A film made on location in India, with a workman-like performance from the cast. It may seem strange, but the film is based on true events which took place during World War 2. Several comic moments, with Roger Moore's raised eyebrows, and well worth watching.  "}{"Title":"ugly photography of old men looking queasy","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Andrew McLaglen couldn't direct a fat man to a buffet.An admiral says, in an apathetic drawl, Well, I suppose it's top priority, but he's mistaken. This is the sort of movie in which as many characters as possible have a nice sit-down before discussing the action sequences. In this movie they sit down during the action sequences. Tellingly, there's a running gag the ship's mechanic handles tools as if he's never seen an engine, then announces that he's going to change out a bearing, by himself, at sea. Almost as much adrift as Andrew V. McLaglen.McLaglen tirelessly overlooks any inherent value in a script, actor, or location, and faithfully underexploits every available resource. In the end, he never fails to create dull, dull, dull moments that matter as little as possible to everyone involved. After spending enough time on TV Westerns to forget what a real set is supposed to look like, and enough time in America to forget how the English actually behave, he also manages to make the geriatric cast look even older and more confused than himself. Through neglect he allows the story to develop Roadshow Distemper, a fatal swelling of the head resulting in the shooting of a scene for what could have been expressed in a shot, without an attendant gain in character or interest. McLaglen also shows here for the fiftieth time that any star could commandeer his scenes - Wayne, Stewart, Douglas all gave self-indulgent or inadequate performances under, or walking all over, McLaglen. Here Gregory Peck wanders in and out of character, accent, frame; no urgency, no focus, no stakes. No care. An adequate ensemble, all of whom have done at least decent work before, to a man look lost and bewildered. David Niven, direct to this set from working with David Merrick, must have felt that he was damned. Throughout he appears on the verge of tears, or laughter.I like seeing model ships blow up, so it gets a 2. I would have given a 3 for the appearance of Godzilla. "},{"Title":"Rarely Board","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" THE SEA WOLVES is the kind of film which, even at the time it was made, is the sort of film they don't make anymore. The plot - so improbable that it is indeed based on fact - is that British shipping is being sunk by U-boats guided by German spies using a hidden radio transmitter on board a ship interned in neutral Goa (a Portuguese colony in India). Unable to do anything official the Brits come up with the ludicrous but brilliant wheeze of sending a bunch of old duffers - from an almost defunct part-time unit called the Calcutta Light Horse - on a commando raid into the harbour to blow up the Hun ship. And their cover story that they're a drunken works outing who wanted to board the shop for a dare. Peck - stiff but reliable - and Niven - charming as ever - lead this bit whilst Roger Moore - in a beige safari suit again - does his James Bond act as he seduces a woman who he doesn't realise is a German spy. It's all jolly good fun in a rainy Saturday afternoon style; an old- fashioned yarn full of reliable old actors having - just like their characters - one last adventure. Younger viewers might dislike the relatively slow pace, the general lack of action and the absence of gore/flesh/swearing but it has a great deal of the charm, common sense and maturity lacking from modern cinema; having completed their mission they whisper poor devils whilst watching the German ships burn, instead of cheering. "},{"Title":"Good premise, but at times, contrived, and stilted, with an over the top music score.","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" (spoilers ahead) Although the cast was A list, the writing and direction was a bit over the top and cheesy at times, and hard to follow at other times. No matter how talented the cast, weak writing and direction still leave us with a mediocre story. Some of the cloak and dagger scenes were over-acted, to the point of being funny -- sort of like a kid trying to be sneaky, and we won't go into Roger Moore's love scenes, where he looked like he was puckering up to suck her face off.) However, of all the facets that detracted from an essentially good story, the campy musical score was at the top. It sounded like someone edited in some old background music used for a silent era film. I'm sorry, but playing upbeat or breezy music during a scene of intrigue or suspense tends to distract from the mood. Did the composer even score the music while the scenes played out in post-production? In the end, the film wound up looking like a low budget TV movie. "},{"Title":"The Tired Pooches","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Yep, it's another of those trans-generation pot-boilers like 'Cassandra Crossing' and 'Shout At The Devil', enabling a group of superannuated movie grandees to top-up their pension-funds whilst the new generation graduates from drama class.Although loosely based upon a true story, it hardly does the heroes credit. Gregory Peck leads a creaking cast containing Roger Moore (never a good sign), David Niven and many others in such a pedestrian actioner that there are times when it almost needs a Zimmer frame.It's a raid on some German merchant ships interned in Goa harbour. One of them is transmitting intelligence to submarines. Somehow it accomplishes this task without an aerial. That's about it. We only ever see one ship. After attaching external limpet-mines with timers, for some reason they have to board them (it) as well. Quite why is unclear, but it provides a hammy firefight or two. Tension is at best Luke-warm. The script is pretty unimaginative. Directing is by numbers. And as to camera-work - most tourists could match its ingenuity with their holiday films.Directing is the key. All of the leads know how to act. We've seen Peck and Niven working well together in the similar 'Guns Of Navarone'. Yet despite this movie being almost 20-years more recent, it doesn't pack in a fraction of the pace and tension. Old geezers don't need to be, or portrayed as, laughable old duffers. That's patronising and stereotypic. Just check-out Big Larry's Dr Zell in 'Marathon Man'. Serious and scary, or what? And couldn't they have found a couple of genuine old freighters ready for scrap and made some authentic bangs and sinkings? Apparently not; they had to raid someone's Airfix collection with fireworks. There's plenty of good Boys Own actioners out there that are really worth your time and attention. This one isn't. "},{"Title":"Amazing true story","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" This is a fascinating story, and a riveting film. If it were fiction, it would be highly entertaining, but as a true story it is unbeatable. All the lead actors are veterans and play their parts to the hilt. But I do have a few criticisms. Gregory Peck is a great actor, but I don't know why an American was chosen to play the part of a British Special Operations Executive. Surely there are enough fine English actors who would have wanted the role. The choice of Roger Moore is also questionable. His part so closely resembles Agent 007 that anyone who didn't know it is a true story would think it is another James Bond film, especially since he made two of them before and after this one.As I watched the scene where the commandos steal the barge, I wondered why they didn't just rent one, since they had plenty of money for the operation. Afterward, I learned that in the real incident, they did hire a boat, and didn't steal it. Of course, stealing one is more exciting, but I would prefer that the director had stuck to the facts. "},{"Title":"Toothless True Life Adventure","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" 1943 and those dastardly Nazis are sinking allied ships in the Indian Ocean and the British Special Operations Executive have to destroy the Nazi transmitter in the neutral state of Goa Supposedly based on a true story of derring do there's a good story in here somewhere but it never seems to take off . From the outset we're treated to some very clumsy story exposition where characters constantly refer to events and organisations that they'd know all about . You'd think these characters were appearing in a film or something and by being constantly reminded that it is a film you're constantly taken out of it . By having Roger Moore in the starring role you'll be reminded that he's a rubbish actor and a rubbish Bond and THE SEA WOLVES does feel like a sub par Bond movie Another noticeable thing is the crowd scenes where everyone wears present day clothes , well present for the late 1970s where the height of fashion is flared blue denim jeans and a colour clashing T-shirt . Distracting isn't a strong enough adjective and to get around this the director starts shooting in medium close up which is no less distracting and having to use a deserted beach as an establishing shot . If you've ever been to India you'll know that the Swastika is plastered everywhere so perhaps he deserves some credit for shooting a location scene where it doesn't feature THE SEA WOLVES is a well meaning film centered around a true life story featuring some old sweats taking the fight to the Nazis during the war but both the protagonists and the audience deserved much better "},{"Title":"Does the plot need a re-write?","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" Although enjoyable, as well as using an unusual SWW location, there is a baffling plot discontinuity which others have not referred to. Why involve the old chaps in the Light Horse in a charade, when the planned action appears to entail that they act as soldiers? I won't spoil it for others by saying any more, but another way of posing the question is to ask what is it with the Scotch? Perhaps the book on which the movie was based would clear this up. As it is, I had an uneasy feeling at the end that the story had started out in one direction then changed course. However, leaving this pedantic quibble aside ,it is an enjoyable enough B-movie, although less satisfying that a host of older British films about the War. "},{"Title":"Formulaic laziness","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":" A few contributors have suggested that they don't make 'em like this any more. Fair enough - but did they ever? It's as if a studio executive sat down and figured that people d'un certain age' would flock to see this, containing as it does a bumper load of superannuated matinée idols engaging in a romping tale of derring do. Roger Moore meanwhile is recruited to, well, be Roger Moore and provide the romantic interest. This couldn't have been a cheap film to make, so its gaping lack of period authenticity is striking. The universal absence of 1940s haircuts among the cast simply reinforces the impression of formulaic laziness that this movie exudes from every pore. And we can only wonder what possessed great actors like David Niven, Trevor Howerd and Gregory Peck to get mixed up in this dog's breakfast. If this shows up in your TV schedules, get down to the video store and rent one of 'A Matter of Life and Death', 'Brief Encounter' or absolutely anything else with Gregory Peck in it. "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining...","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  The story, although true, seems a bit absurd and the movie takes too much time to set up a rather brief payoff; nevertheless, it's moderately entertaining, thanks mostly to the lively performances by the stars (especially Roger Moore, who acts with his characteristic Bondian comic flair). Nowhere nearly as dull as The Guns of Navarone.   (**1/2)  "},{"Title":"Saving Private Madlock","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  Or maybe I should say Saving Pvt. Steptoe, it being a British-focused film. Generic, geriatric exercise in Boys' Own heroism, based on a real-life story, though dressed up with goofy sitcom dialogue and a slumming cast of over-the-hill stars.The film is an amiable-enough timekiller, but hopelessly disjointed in tone, even more so than the better-known comic war film Kelly's Heroes because it doesn't make nearly the same case for itself in terms of pure entertainment. You have two stories, neither very strong. In one, a bunch of old-timers try to do their bit for the Allied cause in the backwater of India. The other is a kind of retro-James Bond yarn featuring 007 Mark II himself, Roger Moore, bedhopping and punning like a madman. I like Moore a lot, and in other efforts of the same period with director Andrew V. McLagen, like The Wild Geese and the underappreciated ffolkes, Moore made a case for himself as someone who could deliver the goods in guises other than that of Britain's greatest secret agent. This time, he's strictly a by-the-numbers bully-with-a-cause half the time, then consigned to the background (arranging a fireworks diversion, of all things, while the central story is resolved by the rest of the cast). You wonder why Moore bothered, except perhaps for a nice jaunt in India on someone else's dime. Shoulda waited for Octopussy. Even a bad Bond is better than this.This story actually happened, as we are told, but one wonders why the producers thought it so worthy of cinematic treatment. The raid on the German merchantmen in the neutral Portugese colony of Goa is pretty routine on-screen, with nearly everyone getting shot in the arm but no serious suspense. The Germans seem too easily cowed. David Niven looks in danger of imminent angina attack in one of his last roles, while Gregory Peck struggles unsuccessfully with an English accent (apparently having learned nothing from his similar botched job in the Hitchcock fiasco The Paradine Case.) The jokes fly fast, but they creak as much as the all-fogy commando squad. There's about three upchuck routines alone as the raiders sail to Goa on a rusty old tub called `Phoebe.' Some feeble efforts at characterization go nowhere, like Patrick Macnee's Yogi character, who natters on about his Eastern philosophy a little but otherwise just sets explosives and is easily ignored.Everyone is ignorable, though, even Peck. I did appreciate Allan Cuthbertson as the game, stodgy Melbourne (a recognizable Guns of Navarone alumnus, with Niven and Peck), and the scene where the crew of the Phoebe mistakes a shark fin for a U-Boat periscope (followed nicely by a scene where the real U-Boat gets the Phoebe in its sights, only to have its captain decide the scow's not worth a torpedo anyway.) The scenery is nice, including Barbara Kellerman, who's unfortunately not as interesting in the villainness department (though I blame the script more than her.) And that's it.A film I wanted to like, but wasn't able to. And who had the grand idea of dedicating it to the late Lord Mountbatten? It's a film about blowing up a boat. How did they figure it would be fitting to dedicate it to the memory of a man murdered by that very same sort of sabotage just one year before? As Niven might have said, how awfully tacky!  "}{"Title":"This movie is entirely anachronistic and unbelievable.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  Gregory Peck's fake British accent is so off-putting and distracting that I couldn't follow what he was even saying.  Roger Moore looks as if he's just earning his money.  I know this is based on a true story, but the bad acting make it seem like a bad movie of the week.  Also, the background music is extremely intrusive. "},{"Title":"Old wolves!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, History, War","Review":"  Weak and pointless adventure which tells the real story of a group of old British soldiers in a sabotage mission during WW2 in South Pacific. Extremely predictable and boring; only the good cast is an outstanding point in this one even when Gregory Peck tries so hard to talk with a English accent. I give this a 4 (four). "}]