[{"Title":"The man vs. the myth.","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"52 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Fist of all, as far as the comparison to Fear & Loathing In Las Vegas (1998) goes, these films are completely different beasts. Fear & Loathing is a adaptation of a fictional work based on real events. Johnny Depp and Benicio Del Toro are playing Raoul Duke and Dr. Gonzo, not Hunter S. Thompson and Oscar Zeta Acosta. They are playing caricatures of real people, indirect representations funneled through HST's imagination and exaggeration. Where The Buffalo Roam is more based in reality. Bill Murray is directly playing Hunter S. Thompson as he writes his writings, Johnny Depp played a character from his writings, there is a massive difference. And as such, in my opinion, both films succeed brilliantly. Fear & Loathing In Las Vegas is a visually dazzling, imaginative, cinematic adaptation of HST's novel and Where The Buffalo Roam is a quirky, splendidly fun quasi-biographical journey and pure snapshot of life.Bill Murray is fantastic in this film. His portrayal of HST is taken from life, more realistic, more from the man rather than from his text or the legend of HST. The whole film itself, mainly because of Murray's characterization and the realistic structured style of the abrupt interconnected randomness of everyday life, is infused with a undying sense of fun and love for words, imagination, writing, and the whole creative process, which seems to me to get more to the core of HST as a man than the various vignettes of Fear & Loathing.Where The Buffalo Roam is wildly entertaining, frenziedly hilarious, and immeasurably fun. But when the general viewing audience, who presumably do not have a true passion for HST and his works, views both films and are given the choice between the legend and the man, they more often choose the legend, which is usually the trend in history.Whereas Fear & Loathing In Las Vegas has a romance for the stories and the myth, Where The Buffalo has a romance for the man and the process, and both have it for his personal style, politics and priorities. "},{"Title":"Not true Thompson, but a fun film.","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Whether you like this film or not will depend heavily on how big of a Hunter S. Thompson fan you are. On the plus side, this film is wickedly funny. Bill Murray (an actor who has been both great and terrible in his career) does a phenomenal job as the acid-drenched reporter, bringing chaos into the lives of the rigid and pretentious. The plot is peppered with respectable places being dragged into mayhem, and respectable folks trying (unsuccessfully) to cope behind plastic smiles.It even ventures into some higher themes, such as innocent kids being jailed by a heartless criminal system, and Thompson's own struggles between being a practical reporter and a fun-loving idealist (notice how Lazlo repeatedly re-surfaces just when Thompson starts to take on real jobs).It's biggest fault, however, was that it failed to achieve any of the higher accomplishments of HST's writings. What makes Thompson such a powerful writer (to me, anyway) is the way he'll often turn on a dime and deliver stunningly sober dialogs on the human animal and where he's gone wrong. Nestled in the midst of the wine, women, and song are soliloquies that drive home a more positive message, and none of those made it into this film (in fact, no significant chunks of actual text from HST's books appeared at all). It's like they shaved off the surface 50% of Thompson's work and discarded the rest.Compare this to Fear and Loathing, which was darker and more counter-cultural, and contained whole narrations excerpted from the novel. The latter perhaps has less appeal to the average viewer, but I'd think more to a Thompson fan.All-in-all, this film is a light-hearted romp into anarchy, and worth watching. But if you've never actually READ Thompson, do so, as this movie doesn't accurately represent him. "},{"Title":"And I thought Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas was great!","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" I just happened upon this movie while perusing my Bill Murray   Favorite Actors Wishlist on my Tivo. I had never heard of it before,   but since I enjoy reading Hunter S. Thompson's work and having seen   Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, I instructed my faithful DVR to record   the movie at 430 one Sunday morning.    WHAT A GREAT MOVIE!!! I cannot express this sentiment enough. From the   dead on impersonation of Dr. Thompson's mannerisms by Bill Murray to   the militant antics of 60's radical lawyer Peter Boyle (Lazlo)   throughout the movie, these two more than faithfully portrayed the   crazy antics well documented in Gonzo journalism. Please, do yourself a   favor, if you consider yourself a fan of this genre, or if you just   want to see a timeless piece of funny, witty, action filled cinema,   find a way to see this woefully under-advertised classic. "},{"Title":"A great, great film","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Most negative reviews seem to come from people who saw Depp before Murray. Pity. For serious HST readers or even those who only know The Great Shark Hunt, WTBR offered a comic relief side so sadly lacking in Depp's one-dimensional, cardboard, just quote your lines performance (and I'm a big Depp fan). As for Murray being Murray - such a comment can only come from people who saw this after the rest of Bill's work. It was one of the earliest and best - indeed laid the base for much of his 80s and 90s work. Boyle is frenetic, allowing Murray to play sidekick for a change. A great option. HST's written rants were always harsh but always fair, no doubt composed coming off a bender. Who then is to say WTBR's omission of much of these is wrong, rather than simply a portrayal of the benders. We all know what he wrote and how he wrote - I'm glad WTBR chose to portray who HST was and the chaotic situations he put himself in rather than become some art-house naval-gazing about the tortured creative process of a scathingly intelligent commentator. Mind you - I did see it as the second part of a double header with Eraserhead ! Sadly, no video copies of WTBR exist in Australia. Can anyone help me ? "},{"Title":"Not for the casual Fear and Loathing Fan","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" I finally watched this movie after watching Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas about 50 times and reading almost all of Hunter S. Thompson's books. I have to say that while I enjoyed the movie, most people won't. Unless you have a pretty thorough knowledge of HST's work, it won't make much sense, and its comedic value will not be enough to make it worthwhile. However, if you have read FNL on The Campaign Trail and Strange Rumblings in Azatlan, then the movie will probably be of interest to you. One area where this film is far superior to FNL in Las Vegas is in its depiction of Oscar Zeta Acosta, the attorney who is the basis for Carl Lazlo here and Dr. Gonzo in FNL. Acosta was actually a prominent civil rights attorney in the 60's and 70's, especially in the Chicano community in Southern California. He also was a notoriously hard partier by most accounts. This movie does a much better job of capturing his odd duality than FNL does, and Peter Boyle is quite sharp in the role - interesting to watch for those of you who only know him as the father on Raymond. "},{"Title":"F*** The Doomed, Thompson's Legend Lives On!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" This movie was great; it wasn't really as much a movie about Thompson, but more of a movie about his and Oscar Zeta Acosta's relationship as friends and partners. It gives a nice idea of what Thompson and Oscar Zeta Acosta's friendship was like, turbulences and all. Although Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas captures Thompson's writing, Where the Buffalo Roam gives more of a realistic insight on Thompson and Acosta. It also captures different stories from some of Thompson's other work, my favorite being the piece from Fear and Loathing On The Campaign Trail '72, Thompson's first hand account of Nixon's campaign for office. This movie is perfect for hardcore Thompson fans or just anyone wanting to learn about the legendary journalist. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Problems, but not all bad.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Both of the HST films have problems. This film's problem is that it is too screenwritten (Lazlo replacing The Brown Buffalo, Blast Magazine replacing Rolling Stone, etc.) and lacks the weird surrealism that a drug-fueled observation of American culture at the end of the 1960s deserves, if not requires.It does play a bit like Caddyshack, as someone else pointed out, and it's hard to get really invested in the characters. And if you love HST as much as I do, you really do want to get into the characters and in to the story, because it's as important as it is funny. Where the Buffalo Roam is, for the most part, silly. It comes off as more a bunch of sketches than anything else. I did like Bill Murray in the part. The problem is the script, more than anything else.Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, by contrast, does well with the surrealism and depravity but fails to make the full point I think Thompson was trying to get across - the decadence and over-the-top performances (especially of del Toro) are distracting, and really all of this is supposed to be about the death of the American dream, and the end of what was (to some) the best decade on record, or at least the one where people thought, for a time, they could make something of American life. Both movies hint at this but don't go into it enough, in my opinion.Where the Buffalo Roam captures a little of the sadness and the creeping hopelessness of the early 70s (along with an indication of the hangover awaiting that generation in the 70s), but both movies fall far short of Thompson's books and writing in my opinion.I was particularly saddened that both movies left out the We're looking for the American dream bit at the taco stand, because I think that was important, and the F&L Vegas story seems decontextualized without it (in terms of having a fairly serious (and sad) point under all of the humor and excess).In any case, both movies are worth a watch but ultimately unsatisfying. Thompson is still best read. I think a good film about HST can be made, but the right person needs to be at the helm.Richard Linklater or John Sayles, perhaps...someone who isn't going to miss the deeper substance underlying and buttressing the humor. That being said, there are far worse movies you could be watching than either.And like Thompson, it still hasn't gotten weird enough for me. "},{"Title":"Take a walk on the wild side","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" I only recently heard of this movie, and i'm quite surprised that I didn't hear of it earlier. Seeing as I watched and loved Fear and loathing in las vegas with Johnny Depp, I was super stoked to watch this. After seeing the first few scenes, I noticed how well Bill Murray portrays Hunter Thompson. It's completely from the same world as Depp's variation, With more of an 80's feel. This wacky story may not appeal to everyone, people looking for a deep story line or a lot of action won't like this. But if you are into Hunter Thompsons work, or Bill Murray, you will definitely enjoy this walk on the wild side7/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" This was a great movie. Bill Murray did an outstanding job of capturing HST's voice inflection and mannerisms Granted this film appears more low budget than Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (also a great movie), however that does not mean it is any less funny or enjoyable to watch. If you can get a copy with the original soundtrack, it does make a difference. Look on ebay, you can most likely find one for cheap. I got my copy for about ten dollars and was worth every penny. Just wish I could have found it on DVD with the original soundtrack, but that's something I've never seen.Gonzo Journalism is dead...RIP HST....you will be missed. "},{"Title":"A good flick","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I am a fan of Dr. Thompson's work.. I also liked this movie, tho, Fear and Loathing was a much better film.. due to the director, and cast.. Bill Murray was a great choice for this film, tho it was almost too cookie cutter, no real feel of the drugs he was hammering at that time. In F&L you have the grittiness of the drug culture of the 70's, feels more authentic.. Anyhoo, if you are a fan of HST, this is worth the watch.. hey, paid 4$ for the vid, can not go wrong.. "}{"Title":"WARNING_ Two Versions Exist!","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" The original movie was a lot of fun, due largely to the great soundtrack. I bought the DVD because I feared my old video tape would break. I discovered that the DVD version was TERRIBLE! All the great music had been replaced by awful elevator muzak. This practice should be illegal! There was NO warning on the packaging that I wasn't buying the original product. I give the original version an 8, I give the cheapo ripoff newer version a 2. So I averaged it a 5. The original movie was a lot of fun, due largely to the great soundtrack. I bought the DVD because I feared my old video tape would break. I discovered that the DVD version was TERRIBLE! All the great music had been replaced by awful elevator muzak. This practice should be illegal! There was NO warning on the packaging that I wasn't buying the original product. I give the original version an 8, I give the cheapo ripoff newer version a 2. So I averaged it a 5. "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Top performance from Bill Murray. This is a movie that has to be seen twice to comprehend some of the complexities that existed in Hunter Thompsons mind and his grasp with drugs and the negatives that uprooted the US at a very delicate yet decisive time in its history. The Nixon encounter in the bathroom was one of a kind, as was the attempted transformation of Hunters character in the plane towards the end of the flick. Bill Murray has a classic quirky comedy style that I have never seen in any other comedians, and can be compared to Peter Sellers in his uniqueness. If you happen to see the poor remake of this with Johnny Depp, you will walk away satisfied only if you see this one as well. "},{"Title":"Interesting and enjoyable","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" It was fun to see Bill Murray as HST, having only seen Johnny Depp as HST in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (I watched this movie for the first time recently, Aug 2008). I think he did pretty well, probably better than I expected.The relationship with Lazlo is very much the center of the movie, which I thought was funny/strange/interesting/disturbing, much like the relationship with Acosta in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, only more fun to watch, because Peter Boyle was a genius! How the two played off each other was excellent, and reminded me of HST's relationship with Ralph Steadman in his book The Curse of Lono, and also Ralph Steadman's book The Joke's Over Bruised Memories Gonzo, Hunter S. Thompson, and Me.Entertaining movie that could have shown more about how HST worked and how GONZO came about. I would recommend it to HST fans only, because they'd know more what to expect (drugs, insanity, bad craziness, etc.). Other people with other expectations will hate it, especially if they've never read HST, or HAVE read HST and weren't impressed. "},{"Title":"One of Bill Murray's best movies.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Why is this film not more widely known?Bill Murray turns in as fantastic performance as Hunter S Thompson and the whole feel of the movie is really enjoyable.I won't go into the detail of the movie as other users already have.  All I will say is that even if you have to search high and low for a copy of this movie it is worth all the effort.Now all we need is it to be released on dvd with the original music (note even the vhs version has been rescored!).  However I don't think this spoils the movie in any way.10/10 "},{"Title":"Chew his way through a concrete wall.....","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Dr. Hunter Thompson, who is better known as the character in the Doonesbury Comic Strips Zonker's Uncle Duke, shows what earned his reputation for Gonzo Journalism, a sort of sideways way of looking at the news.This includes such things as giving away superbowl tickets so that he can review it from his hotel room while bouncing a football of the walls. A sort of latter-day cousin to stream-of-consciousness writing....This is one of those movies that you really have to be in the right frame of mind to watch, and luckily for me it was four in the morning, trying to get my new born son to sleep.And to say that this is a straight forward movie, is not justifying the beautiful madness of what is going on.Murray is wonderful as Thompson, but Boyle steals the show as the mystical lawyer, always popping up just as Thompson has some normality back in his life.There are a few moments when you are looking at the screen thinking 'really?' And it verges on almost spoof at times, but then we have sweet set pieces like the Airplane scenes, and the wonderful courtroom scene that opens the movie.Fear and Loathing is the more psychedelic movie, and although Thompson may dislike the movie, its a thorough description of the journalist.Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Turns HST into a Caddyshack-like farce","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Murray makes a better Hunter S. Thompson than Johnny Depp, but this dull film isn't really faithful to the works of the great gonzo doctor. It details various stories from his works including the 1972 super bowls and presidential elections. Accompanying Murray on the journey is the usually entertaining Peter Boyle as Carl Lazlo (who inspired Dr. Gonzo in Fear and Loathing).Out of print for some years due to soundtrack license problems, this film wasn't really worth the wait. Despite interest for hardcore Thompson fans (whom there are plenty of), this film turns his surreal and witty stories into Caddyshack-like farces. Fans of the Doctor will probably be offended (I certainly was). Those unfamiliar with his work will be confused by the merit of it. Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas, for all its flaws, was a much better adaptation. The two leads equip themselves nicely in their roles however. (3/10) "},{"Title":"Insulting","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" WARNING Insults ahead. Now I'm no movie critic and I don't think these comment things should be taken serious at all considering the majority of the people on this thing sharing their two cents haven't spent any time in a film studies course, creative writing course, and have no real true understanding of the art of film. Everyone's a critic and thanks to the internet that statement hasn't been truer.But lets get onto the movie.Any self respecting HUNTER S. THOMPSON fan should stay away from this film. It's a terrible insult to the man and he's even been quoted as saying he liked Murray's performance but that he was very disappointed in the script. It s*cks &#150; a bad, dumb, low-level, low-rent script. Credit where credit is due Murray does a fantastic job with Hunter's mannerisms but he makes the poor guy out to be some sort of silly cartoon character. Murry certainly could move and maybe talk like Hunter but he looked nothing like him and the writing was cr*p. Now this of course is not Murray's fault since he didn't write the script, and that is his one saving grace.Jack Kroll wrote, in his review for Newsweek magazine, Screenwriter John Kaye has reduced Thompson's career to a rubble of disjointed episodes, and the relentless mayhem becomes tiresome chaos rather than liberating comic anarchy. Thats the truth right there. If you want to get a real in depth look at the man, read some of the Gonzo letters. I recommend The Proud Highway. A d*mn good documentary would be Fear & Loathing on the Road to Hollywood, which can be found on the Criterion Edition of Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas (a fantastic representation of Hunter and his work but thats for another comment board).Bottom line folks, the movie is sh*t. It reeks of bitter 80's humor and brain dead writing. Bill Murray is a great actor but he should be ashamed of this film. If you are a true Hunter fan, stay as far away from this film as possible because it degrades him to the level of a sloppy clown, which he was very far from.This movie is for the ignorant Raoul Duke duke and the poor soul who sits in his room all day watching 80's movies and dreaming they could use Doc Brown's time machine to go back to a time where they were considered normal. Now take all that I say with a grain of salt. I've only taken one Film Studies course so I am no critic of films, but I have read every single Hunter S. Thompson book and seen every documentary that has come out and I can give my honest advice, as a person well versed in the Gonzo world, that this movie is NOT HUNTER S. THOMPSON Mahalo "},{"Title":"Which One?","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  The comparison of WTBR and F & L is pointless.  Each actor brings something different to their version of HST, his lawyer etc . . . Gilliam certainly brought his own style to the more text based project, but enough of that. You'll see plenty of conflicting viewpoints in the other comments.  Which WTBR you see will determine how much you like or dislike this film will depend on which version you see.  I've seen at least three versions of this movie, and possibly a couple more.  And although essentially the same movie, they're all totally different.  The adding of a simple 30 second scene changed the entire tone of the film in one version.  In another it was just the soundtrack that was changed.  It was as though they lost the rights to the original soundtrack -- or just couldn't keep up the payments -- and had to replace the tunes with some second-stringers.  It's amazing how much something like changing the songs in the soundtrack effects the feel of the thing as much as anything happening on screen.  The original release is the only one really worth seeing.  And you're not likely to.  As far as I know, it doesn't not exist anymore.  I caught it on cable when it was fairly new.  All of the versions I've seen since on TV or video were the inferior versions that have the added scenes and or the adulterated soundtrack.  So even if you've mat have seen this movie, you probably still haven't. "},{"Title":"Bill Murray is The Man.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Bill Murray IS Hunter S. Thompson.  I loved the book 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas' and was so disappointed by the ludicrous cartoon-like portrayal realised by Johnny Depp in the film, 'Fear and Loathing'.  His Thompson was simply buffoon-like and completely one dimensional, and despite everything else being good, (especially Benicio del Toro), for me, Depp ruined the whole feel.Bill Murray on the other hand perfectly captures Thompson's eclectic, cynical intelligence and projects him as a whole 3-dimensional person who is believable, even through his substance-addled behaviour, from start to finish.  Peter Boyle gives great support as his psychotic lawyer and I just can't recommend this film more highly!  Watch it and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Although Fear And Loathing may be my favorite movie of all time, I was totally willing to go into this movie with no expectations and give Bill Murray his chance. That being said, this movie was objectively bad. The plot has no central idea or themes and feels more like a completely random series of events. At times Fear And Loathing felt random but there was always meaning to it, there was always a lesson meant to be taught. Here, there was none of that, only a bad time. I felt no compassion for Hunter or any other character. Also, every single actor in this movie is very weak. I did find some enjoyment out of Bill Murray's performance and a few events, but other than that, I really did not like this movie. "}{"Title":"an insight into the gonzo journalist during Nixon era","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Before Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas there was Where the Buffalo roam before Johnny Depp there was Bill Murray. A loose biography of Hunter S Thompsons filled with wild behavior fueled by drugs in the late 60s into the Nixon era. The stories are taken from when he was a journalist for the Rolling Stones.This movie does not have the visuals unlike Fear and Loathing known for the vivid hallucinations and images. More in depth about the late 60s turn 70s American culture. Its not all about HST but the relationship between him and his attorney.Opening scenes sets up the story with HST isolated with his dog in his cabin typing an article about his attorney. Peter Boyle plays his attorney Carl Laslo also loosely based on Dr. Gonzo from FNL. Simultaneously driving HST typing his views on America and the legal system. At the courthouse Carl Laslo defending a group of teenagers charged with minor possession of marijuana. After a ridiculous sentencing ( 5 years for a joint) an outrage Carl Laslo threw the judge across the bench telling HST to tell the world. Few years later he is covering the super bowl haven't seen Carl Laslo since the incident Carl convince him to leave the super bowl. Talking about revolution and change Carl and his group of militants loads up a small airplane with weapons leaving for the revolution but HST doesn't leave. During the Nixon Campaign plane once again see Carl attorney turned revolutionary trying to convince him but decided that he is a raving maniac. Back at his cabin finish his article and ends with one last monologue.From the beginning you can tell it was good choice to choose Bill Murray to play Hunter S Thompson copying his behavior and speech. His narrative voice-over throughout this movie displays his thoughts and views using his style that he known for. Not filled with wild antics and chaos like Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas more of an insight on the gonzo journalist. "},{"Title":"Loosely based on real events","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" The one thing that I really haven't seen anyone mention is that none of the little vignettes that Hunter goes through are things he actually did. F&L is based on his book, which is based on events that he actually reported on. WTBR is a jangled mess. Not to say I don't enjoy it, but there is very little that is taken from his works.For instance, Hunter did not go and cover the '72 super bowl. But he did cover the LA Raiders for a little while in i believe 1970 and failed covering the Ali-Frazier fight in Zaire in 1975. Which I think what this segment is alluding to.The scene were Lazlo is in court is taken from Strange Rumblings in Aztlan but that was about a murder case involving a Chicano journalist and the LA police.During the '72 presidential campaign he was covering the Democrats and George McGovern not Nixon. His only personal encounter with Nixon came in 1968 when they discussed football in the back of Nixon's car on the way to the airport.And drug/arms running to Latin America with Lazlo/Acosta? Never happened, but Hunter did think Acosta was killed under similar circumstances.I'm just saying that the movie is entertaining and Bill Murray does a very good job. But it is not based at all in reality. "},{"Title":"No plot structure but Murray is a fantastic Thompson","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" I have been a fan of Thompson as a writer and person for at least ten years now and read most of his books and articles as well as a couple of books about him. Thompson's life- and writing style is, if anything, unique and a movie about him that features a structured and clear plot would go completely against what defined Thompson. Having said that I will admit that Buffalo seems fractured and does not have a definite beginning and ending, but Murray captures a lot of Thompson's mannerisms and the episodes the movie is composed around are all interesting and fun to watch. All in all I would say that the movie is a success as it keeps the audience entertained and adapts Thompson's writing style adequately. If you are interested in Thompson and like Bill Murray as an actor, Buffalo will be right up your alley and a comparison with Gilliam's Fear and Loathing is interesting, especially when you've already watched the real Thompson in one of the documentaries. "},{"Title":"Where The Buffalo Roam","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Where the Buffalo Roam is a semi-biographic, loosely based on reality, film about Gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson. But of course, with Thompson, who's to say what's reality? While it in no way equals Fear & Loathing as a cinematic creation, Where the Buffalo Roam is a very worthy film by its own right, and as a portrayal of the actual Thompson it's probably better; Murray does a wonderful job, maybe not a eccentric as Depp but closer to the man himself; and the movie is very successful in showing just what made Thompson a unique individual, a cult figure and a landmark personality in the world of journalism. Peter Boyle is also terrific, giving depth and complexity to a character that was more a grotesque caricature when played by Benicio Del Toro in Gilliam's film. "},{"Title":"love, peace, and a little insanity","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" let's see, first of all i never saw Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas to ever hear about Thompson. Nor did ever see Where the Buffalo Roam,I got introduced to Thompson by a friend of mine who gave me the book, Better Than Sex. That was a couple of years of go, the thing about the movie is its up to par with the writing style Thompson had. its not funny to be a comedy, but it isn't that serious either. i enjoyed this movie, i thought it expressed the true gonzo fashion in its raw form. Do i consider myself a fan? Not really, i do have several books by Tompson, I like his writing style. Just remember that films, writing, music, and all other sorts of media is art. just because you don't like the movie, doesn't mean that its that bad. you're probably not educated enough to understand its content, its true meaning. "},{"Title":"A Demonstration","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  The first thing I noticed about this movie is that it seemed to be a demonstration of the the kind of weirdness that is part of Hunter's stories. It was almost as those it was screaming Hey, look what a crazy freakish thing this is!  After the first twenty minutes, it seems to try and get past this and moves on to the story.  The story is fairly average with some moments of humour (especially towards the end)  but is pretty easy to sit through.  Bill Murray is O.K. as Hunter S. Thompson, but I think Johnny Depp is better.  Otherwise, try to rent it first.  Only the really curious, fans of HST, or people who enjoy the weirdness for it's own sake.  A combination is preferable.   "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but still great.","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" HST purists may scoff, but this movie still holds its own. Not as dark as Fear and Loathing... but way more fun, this is a great party movie. In a way, its aimlessness reflects the early 70s era and Murray's performance is pretty hilarious. Not sure if there was any of his patented improvising, but he's pretty off the wall (washing his sneakers in a public bathroom and disrobing while talking to Nixon?). There's no real plot, just random adventure of HST with reocurring visits from Peter Boyle as the radically liberal Lazlo. I remember that Fear and Loathing... generated a ton of hype, but this film better captures the drunken spirit of HST and his tales. "},{"Title":"A cartoonish, idiotic romp that does Thompson's genius no justice","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" As a massive fan of Hunter S. Thompson (I don't exaggerate when I say the man is my hero), a heavy reader of his books and articles, and a Gilliam fanboy who's seen Fear and Loathing approximately 700 times, I was like a kid on Christmas when I found out that there's ANOTHER movie about Dr. Gonzo starring Bill Murray, one of my favorite actors. Little did I know the disappointment I was in for.While Bill Murray, despite not resembling HST in the least, had his mannerisms down pat in this role, this film completely mangled Thompson's character. Where the Buffalo Roam portrays him as a rebel only in the shallowest sense, reminiscent more of an Animal House fratboy than an American outlaw as he tours the nation, freaking out the squares and starting parties everywhere he goes. The film touches on actual issues such as the War on Drugs only to create the illusion of some counter-culture message, but it never actually quotes any of Dr. Thompson's biting insight on the era portrayed in the film.I could also cite how Peter Boyle was entirely wrong for the character he was playing and a number of other issues I had with this movie, but in a nutshell, the most glaring problem with Where the Buffalo Roam is that it takes some of Hunter S. Thompson's best and most insightful journalism, dumbs it down, and condenses it into a cockeyed, silly package that retains none of the power or message of its source material. This is the equivalent of Gonzo babyfood, good for a couple chuckles but little more. Stick with Fear and Loathing for your HST dose in film, Depp portrays a better Thompson, Del Toro is an infinitely better Zeta Acosta, and Gilliam as a directer just plain gets it. "},{"Title":"Fair weather fans need not apply","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Very interesting to see everybody's opinion on this film...from the Murray fan's who know nothing of Thompson to the Thompson fans who think nothing of Murray. To those who have seen both Buffalo and FnL, it should be apparent that either HST really acted like that, or Depp just copied Murray. Either way, this film falls just short of passable only due to Linson's mis-direction...The film seems to serve better as a pastiche of popular Thompson pieces rather than a cohesive succession of events...with no overarching direction, the movie dovetails into preachy idealism and disjointed plot angles that ultimately don't arrive at a narrative conclusion...Still, as has been the common disclaimer, the movie is necessary for anyone who considers themselves to be rabid HST fans...It should be noted, also, that several critics, and even HST himself, have hinted, if not completely insinuated, that his use of drugs in his work, to an extent, was exaggerated for numerous reasons, not the least of which is to expand and authoritative his voice as that of his disgruntled generation...I cringe when I see so many people who seem to be more fascinated by his drug use than his actual body of work...Obviously he used a fair amount of drugs in his life, but it seems to have cast a permanent, impenetrable shadow over his legacy, as if using copious amounts of drugs somehow solidified his credibility...I like drugs, but this misunderstanding of HST and his work is demeaning both to his family and his future... "},{"Title":"One of The Funniest Movies Ever","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Where the Buffalo Roam is one of my all time favorites. My best friend and I must have seen it and laughed together dozens of times. Bill Murray was hysterical in portraying Hunter Thompson via some of the funniest scenes in any movie ever. Yes, it was never recognized as mainstream but who cares if you love it. I did not know at the time that this was about a real person. I though it was just another comedy from the SNL alumni. I would have loved to have met and spoken with Hunter Thompson but he will not be available. Was he really like that in life? Someone please tell me. In the end it's the internal pains and struggles that some of just will not tolerate any further. Rest in Peace Hunter Thompson, your character brought me many laughs, shared with friends. Always walking around with the cocktail. I am going to my site, Mall65.com, and searching the movie merchants in hope of finding a DVD copy of Where the Buffalo Roam. Thanks for the laughs, thanks for reading me and I hope you will help this disabled person by visiting Mall65.com. Bye.. "}{"Title":"interesting look at hunter s. thompson's life","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  bill murray portrays hunter s. thompson, a 70's era san fransisco journalist who championed various liberal causes. he is also famous for consuming large quantities of drugs with his lawyer friend. (see fear and loathing in las vegas for a more fun and perhaps accurate portrayal of their weekend in las vegas.) the movie tracks what hunter did over a period of years and adds goofy antics/rebel actions for fun, but it does not dive deep into his psyche. the lawyer friend is more delineated in that we see him loosing a court case, where this young man gets 5 years in jail for having a little bit of marijuana. the movie moves like a placid stream and does not try to do more than entertain. this movie is recommended for a Saturday afternoon viewing, preferably after eating a heavy and appetizing meal. geocities.c*m/free_love98  "},{"Title":"should not be compared to fear and loathing","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  i'm a huge hst fan, and i liked both movies. the comparisons are meaningless, buffalo being about thompson himself, and fear and loathing being a representation of one of his books. i thought they were equally funny. as far as the acting, i agree, murray did a great job, almost as good as depp did in f and l. i think depp was a more realistic version, but i might have been somewhat taken in with his shaved head, which murray apparently didn't do, (makeup apparently being more sophisticated in this day and age). unlike most of the people, i liked peter boyle better as Oscar. del toro was too small, and i thought actually less intense than boyle. del toro sounded like he was reading the script as they were filming it, and seemed to emphasize the wrong words in each sentence, which i thought detracted from the meaning. also, harris from the post was a far more interesting character than any of the other sub actors in the vegas movie. if i could only watch one, i would pick buffalo.  "},{"Title":"in my case, you know, i'd hate to advocate drugs or liquor, or insanity to anyone. but in my case, it's worked","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  this was a good movie. i am a huge fan of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, and when i rented this i thought i would be getting the same crazy stuff from F&L, but i was pleasantly surprised when i saw that it actually took a more serious approach, it was still very much a comedy, but it still seemed to take itself seriously, and i liked that.i haven't decided who i thought did a better thompson, bill murray or johnny depp. i think depp was more entertaining, but murray did just as good of a job. i was also surprised to see that Lazlo was such an important character, when in fear and loathing (he was Gonzo in that one) he was important but he was pretty sleazy and was rather disgusting(what with nailing a 14 year old girl). the acting in this movie was really good. the soundtrack was also very pleasing.i wouldn't try to compare this as a movie with F&L because the two are so different, so i like them both for different reasons. i plan on reading both the books now, which will probably make the movies less entertaining, as the books are much better i'm sure, but i will always be entertained. where the buffalo roam is very unique. it comes on as a straight forward movie, yet there is an undertone which makes it very twisted, and i think that's what i liked about it. 10/10  "},{"Title":"A tribute to the unpredictable Hunter Thompson","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I would first like to say that I have never been a huge Bill Murray fan (he plays the title character) but when I saw him in Where the Buffalo Roam, I developed a new appreciation for his style of comedy. The character of Hunter Thompson is never really with reality (excessive drug use will do that to you), quirky, unpredictable but alot of fun to watch. Bill Murray does a brilliant job in this role. However what will make you love or hate this movie is the story. To be honest, the story tend to drag a little (much like Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas; which easily could have been 1 1/2 hours shorter) but the characters are what keep you hooked. I'd recommend reading a few of Hunter Thompson's short stories or bios on him to get an idea of what a brilliant nut Thompson is and then seeing the movie. You'll see what I mean...trust me. "},{"Title":"True to the spirit of Thompson's work","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Bill Murry had Thompson down pat IMHO. Wacky, sacreligious. Zany.....Kept my interest..a definate must for a Hunter Thompson fan. "},{"Title":"a sad day - a true original lost","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Apparently Hunter S. Thompson shot himself last night. I remember seeing this movie classic when I was just a kid, and I became so fascinated with Thompson's character for years. You never hear this movie mentioned when people discuss Bill Murray's best films, but it is one of his classics, and I don't think I ever saw Peter Boyle any better. I was extremely sad when I just heard of the suicide - a true American original will be missed. I never saw Johnny Depp's Fear & Loathing, but I've always heard it was good. Maybe I'll now finally catch that one. In any event though, Where The Buffalo Roam is a wonderful movie and one that hopefully won't be forgotten... "},{"Title":"True Thompson-style","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  As I've seen Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, who is based on the same story by Mr. Thompson, I saw Johnny Depp instead of Bill Murray sort of all the time. I was thinking stuff like hey!, they're talking the same way! and stuff all the time, but anyways...I'm a huge fan of Mr. Thompson, and this movie really breathes the vibes and feel of his wicked, unbelievable stories. If you haven't been introduced yet to the adventure of drugs, consciousness expansion and the developing of the mind, well here you got your piece. Feel free to enjoy every second of it, as it surely gives me 96 minutes of pleuseure. This is art, so strap in and enjoy the wicked ride. "},{"Title":"Outstanding vehicle for Bill Murray","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Where the Buffalo Roam is a great movie showcasing the irreverent life of the gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson.  Bill Murray is at his comedic best playing Hunter as he truly was, over the edge, but as reserved as his mind would let him be.  This movie is so clearly superior to the Johnny Depp muddle of Fear and Loathing.  Peter Boyle as Lazlo is perfect casting, then throw in Ralph Steadman graphics and an original soundtrack by Neil Young, you have a perfect late night festival of laughter.  Save your new release dollars and skip renting Fear and Loathing and get this showcase of Bill Murray at his absolute best. You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"a simple way of looking at a complicated man.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  For fans who thought Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas was a bit over the top, there's always Where the Buffalo Roam- a look into various different events in the life of Hunter S. Thompson throughout the 60s and 70s including an impromptu bathroom interview with Richard Nixon, a failed attempt at covering the Superbowl and Nixon's presidential candidacy among other things. This film, directed by Art Linson is more straight forward than Fear & Loathing which was directed by the acclaimed actor and director Terry Gilliam. It's easy to find the contrasting points between the two because their approaches were very different. Where Fear & Loathing makes full use of Thompson's point of view in scenes filled with hallucinogenic ramblings and drug addled visions, Where the Buffalo Roam tells the story in a more straight forward manner, from the perspective of an outside observer. Though it lacked any of the grand stylization which Terry Gilliam's film had, it did have it's own sense of atmosphere developed mostly by Bill Murray's characterization of Hunter S. Thompson - the court room only becomes bizarre after Thompson enters with a lit cigarette in his mouth and a Bloody Mary in hand.Peter Boyle's portrayal of the famous chicano lawyer, Oscar Zeta Acosta (in this movie known by the name Carl Lazlo) was a bit weak, though it surpassed my expectations - who knew straight laced Peter Boyle, who is most currently starring as the father in the tv show Everybody loves Raymond, could even get an ounce of passion into this role. Or maybe I'm just holding him to the high standards Benicio Del Toro created when he portrayed Oscar Zeta in Fear & Loathing.Contrary to the great similarities I saw between Bill Murray & Johnny Depp's portrayal of Hunter S. Thompson (they acted almost identically, with Thompson's mannerism down expertly) Benicio and Peter played Oscar Zeta in two very different ways. While Peter Boyle's Oscar was seemingly straight laced and subdued, only loud when he needed to be, Benicio's portrayal was of the drug addled, out of his mind, loud and crazy all of the time Oscar, which after reading Oscar Zeta's two books Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo and Revolt of the Cockroach People, seems much more appropriate. (both books are highly recommended reading, if you are at all interested in radical lawyering).All in all, I would say this film does a pretty good job of telling a straight forward story in a manner that's easily understandable & enjoyable. But the underlying fact is that Hunter S. Thompson was a crazy, drug addled, mostly unintelligible man - which is why I preferred Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. I would give this film a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"WATCH THIS...........","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  If anyone has seen this movie and is a little confused watch FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS and when they say AND THEN WE WENT TO.... but they do not say where put in WHERE THE BUFFALO ROAM and watch it all the way through and then finish FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS.  These 2 movies are almost impossible to understand without having seen the other, watching them in this order will shed light on both movies. "}{"Title":"Unbelievably NOT Funny","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  It's hard to believe Hunter S. Thompson's life and writings could be made in to a movie without making it funny.  Yet, Where the Buffalo Roam has done it.  Even Bill Murray, who should be perfect as Thompson, is unconvincing, self-conscious, and... not funny.  Virtually every gag falls flat as the movie bemuses you with badly it can mess up something with so much humour potential.On the bright side, it's interesting to see how many scenes Terry Gilliam stole directly from this film for Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, and how much of Johnny Dep's acting style for that film was taken from Bill Murray. "},{"Title":"Where The Buffalo Roam and The Rum Diary","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" The Sixties were an era of extreme reality. I miss the smell of tear gas. - Hunter S. Thompson Hunter S. Thompson came to prominence in the 1960s, when he wrote about his experiences as an embedded journalist within the Hell's Angels motorcycle gang. He then reported on various national election campaigns and began to popularise a form of Gonzo journalism. Part journalism, part memoir and always written in the first person, Thompson's style of Gonzo typically mixed observations, emotions and facts with wild exaggerations and bizarre humour. Some people will say, Thompson said, that words like 'scum' and 'rotten' are wrong for Objective Journalism, which is true, but they miss the point. It was the built-in blind spots of the Objective rules and dogma that allowed Nixon to slither into the White House in the first place. In blurring the lines between fiction and nonfiction, Thompson thus sought to convey a deeper truth. To shake up the status quo. Objective journalism, he believed, controlled by mega-corps, interest groups and which hid a firm political stance behind a guise of apoliticism and neutrality, is one of the main reasons, he said, that American politics has been allowed to be so corrupt for so long.Unsurprisingly, Thompson was influenced by the anti-establishment prose of Beat writers; he was hostile to the powers that be and viewed them all as the populace's enemy. In 1968 he'd witness the infamous police brutality beatings outside Chicago's Democratic Convention. Disillusioned, he'd start seeing even the Democrats as an arm of imperialism and violent repression, both at home and abroad. The Democratic Party has never recovered from that convention, he wrote. It is a wound that still festers. In 1970 Thompson would run for sheriff in Aspen, Colorado. Here he passionately campaigned for the legalisation of drugs, though all the while his pen continued to spit scorn at public figures, presidents and politicians. How low do you have to stoop in this country to be president? he wrote of Nixon, a man he'd routinely describe as a murderer, pig and idiot.Slowly, however, Thompson would grow disillusioned. Spotting the right-wing trajectory of all US parties, he became more and more convinced of his own irrelevance. He turned to drugs and alcohol, became increasingly demoralised and attempted to hide from an American political reality he found increasingly ugly. He was impassioned to make the system work, and make the system good, his first wife would say, but it's precisely the mistaken and futile belief that the system could work and be made good that contributed to Thompson's demise. He'd commit suicide in 2005, shooting himself one month after George W. Bush's second inauguration. His suicide note read No More Games. No More Bombs. No More Walking. No More Fun. No More Swimming. 67. That is 17 more years than I needed or wanted. Relax. This won't hurt. Released in 1980, Where the Buffalo Roam is a semi-biographical comedy. Drawing from several of Thompson's works (Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail, The Great Shark Hunt, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas etc), the film stars Bill Murray as Thompson. Murray perfectly mimics Thompson's distinct mannerisms and style of speech, and the film is fittingly wild, anarchic, undisciplined and irreverent, but director Art Linson is too much of a novice to make things work. The film plays like a bad Altman movie.Still, Buffalo captures a certain spirit. It's a David vs Goliath battle, albeit one in which David, like the buffalo, seems doomed to extinction. Perhaps the film's best sequence takes place in a courtroom, where we see early signs of later Anti-Drug Abuse Acts. Some of the more overtly racist pieces of legislation, such acts routinely lead to the handing out of 5 year sentences to those in possession of 5 grams of crack cocaine. In order to spend the same 5 years for possession of powder cocaine, though, you'd need to be caught with 500 grams. Why this 1001 discrepancy? Because expensive powdered cocaine is the drug of choice for upper-middle class suburban whites and white-collar bankers. Crack, meanwhile, is all black baby. In other words, the scales are calibrated to persecute based on race and socio-economic status. There are two sets of rules, one for those with power and social capital, and one for the rest. We see this even today, with cases spiralling around figures like Bradley Manning or even Aaron Swartz, the guy who committed suicide when faced with 35 years in prison for downloading academic articles, a crime apparently worse than any law breaking Wall Street CEO, Blackwater executive or corrupt politician. Dissent is tolerated up to a point, but once you trespasses upon the sacred turf of corporate profits and military power, then action must be taken.Better than Buffalo but less interesting and more conventional is The Rum Diary, which stars Johnny Depp as Thompson. Set in Puerto Rico, its another David vs Goliath story, Thompson and his band of oddball outsiders waging wars against criminal-capitalist cartels, indifferent civilians, standing up for the little guy, and attempting to turn a sell-out newspaper into a weapon of righteousness. Significantly, Thompson and his fellow prose warriors are either drunk, stoned or outright insane. They live physically in one period of time and mentally in another, ahead of their time and therefore incompatible with it. Directed by Bruce Robinson, the film's beautifully noirish, sexy and structured as an old, classic noir mystery, though such a cosy and familiar tone is perhaps unbefitting of Thompson.Strangely, both Buffalo and Diary end on a note of optimism. They pine for days before today's moribund liberalism. Terry Gilliam's Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas, in contrast, is explicitly about defeat, his Thompson reduced to just another hedonistic consumer.7/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"If you buy this film don't spend much on it!","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" I am a huge HST fan. I've read all 3 of the gonzo papers + fear and loathing, hells angels and also The Rum Diary. I bought this film cause I'm kind of becoming a completist at this stage on Thompson. I've bought everything in site of his and loved devouring every word. This film however is embarrassing. It has some really good moments but far too many Yeah man I'm like . . stoned moments. Its cringe worthy. In my opinion the definitive film on HST is yet to be made. It wasn't Fear And Loathing with Depp and it certainly isn't this. On the plus side, Murray does a very impressive Thompson but many moments in this film are just cringe worthy. Think Bill and Ted meets Fear And Loathing on the Campaign Trail. An awful shame but I would still say its worth owning if you can get it cheap. Id suggest a fair price for this would be about 10 euros. Other than that go buy a book. "},{"Title":"Where The Buffalo Roam","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Where The Buffalo Roam, is based on the stories The Banshee Screams For Buffalo Meat and Strange Rumblings In Aztland by Hunter S. Thompson. The film is about Hunter S. Thompson, a journalist with a style all his own. Hunter, along with his wild attorney Carl Lazlo, they go and have many crazy adventures with one another so Hunter can write about them for the magazine he writes for. Some scenes include a wild court case, Hunter trashing his hotel room before a Superbowl game and Hunter meeting president Richard Nixon in the bathroom. Where The Buffalo Roam, has good direction, a good adapted script, good comedic performances by Bill Murray (who plays Hunter S. Thompson) and Peter Boyle (who plays Carl Lazlo), good original music, good cinematography and good film editing. Before, I start this review I would like to state that I'am a big fan of Hunter S. Thompson's writings. I read his book Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas and loved it. I also saw the film adaptation of Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas and thought it captured the book perfectly and I loved it. Where The Buffalo Roam, perfectly captures the spirit of Hunter S. Thompson and is played excellently by Bill Murray. The film really captures Hunter's wild side and his strange and sometimes brilliant writing techniques. As a fan of Hunter S. Thompson, I was very pleased with this movie adaptation of his stories. For those who are not familiar with Hunter S. Thompson's work or for those just getting into it this is a good movie to start with. It is entertaining, has some good comedic performances and has some very funny scenes. I loved this film and think it captures his work perfectly. Sadly, Hunter S. Thompson committed suicide February 20 of this year. But his stories and work will always live on with me and his other fans and this movie was a perfect ode to him then and it is now as well. "},{"Title":"must see for fans of fear and loathing in las vegas","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  anyone who is a fan of fear and loathing in las vegas must see this movie. it's about the same man, except he's played by bill murray instead of johnny depp.  it's defenitely not as good as fear and loathing due to lack of effects and so forth but it helps with the whole storyline of hunter s. thompson. "},{"Title":"More direct approach to Dr. Thompson's life","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  WHERE THE BUFFALO ROAM is another version of the life of gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson. I thought FEAR & LOATHING was the only version but I guess I was wrong. All in all, I have to say even though it is inferior to FEAR & LOATHING I still enjoyed watching it. Bill Murray did an equally good job in playing the wacky journalist and the movie took a more direct approach to Dr. Thompson's life. Although it lacks the visuals & brilliant imagery of FEAR & LOATHING, true fans of Thompson should love it none the less.   "},{"Title":"An entertaining film on its own and a must for fans of Dr. Thompson","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  This film version of the life of gonzo journalist Dr. Hunter S. Thompson is a great intro to his works. I saw this film before I'd ever read word one by HST, and while this is definitely a lightened version of his work it is very entertaining. Murray plays an almost slapstick version of Thompson, especially when compared to Johnny Depp's brilliant (but incomprehensible) Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.   "},{"Title":"Though not without flaws, or missteps, it still is oddly funny","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" I've read, or at least heard, that Hunter S. Thompson didn't like this film when it came out. I can sense the reasons why after watching it the other night. While it takes some specific events and the times of his career in the later 60's and early 70's, there's nothing really holding it together, and the scenes showcasing his madness (of course not without its truths) are so over the top at times it's questionable what is closer to the facts or closer to a Cheech and Chong comedy. On the other hand, the fact that it is a Cheech and Chong style comedy of sorts, with our two heroes wreaking havoc wherever they go in their perpetual search for the truth or the American dream or good drugs leading to some hilarious results.We're taken through Thompson's knack for keeping his editor (here played in some good stature and tenseness by Bruno Kirby) on edge by delaying the best story I've ever written as Hunter says, his witnessing of terrible outcomes with his attorney Carl Laszlo on trial, his meetings with Laszlo in the 'underground', and his time spent on the campaign trail in 1972. The only problem is producer/director Art Linson (who is indeed more of a producer than a director, see his credits) and screenwriter John Kaye don't have the kind of structure that made Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas such a rush; there isn't much method to the madness (at times), which is true to the Gonzo form, but for the most part it is really just random acts of destruction and chaos from the Doctor and his attorney. This would be all fine if there was more truth to the characters.I think it's right how other reviewers have said that if you've seen the Terry Gilliam film with Johnny Depp and Benicio Del Toro before this film you might have similar expectations or want something that wild on the plate here. But if you've also read Dr. Thompson's writings (I haven't read the ones listed as the inspirations in the credits, but I have read Fear & Loathing in America, right from this time period), you'll see a different man than is portrayed here, who is made more of just a simple caricature than as a full being. 'Las Vegas' had him as a caricature too, but at least there the atmosphere was set-up to compliment the characters and 'real life' scenarios. Here, Bill Murray takes the Thompson persona, but his performance really works because he is, well, Bill Murray. And Murray can only take the two-dimensional, Hollywood form of Thompson only so far.On the end of the performances alone, the film scores some points against the flaws in the script; Murray's turn here is like a 180 from his turns in the recent Lost in Translation or Broken Flowers. Here he has unexplainable bouts of screeches, shoots random shots from his guns at objects, and if he's let out into a hotel room, watch out. The thing that's curious though is how the film isn't quite as funny when Peter Boyle, as the Oscar Acosta inspired Laszlo, comes onto the screen. Boyle's had some great performances (Young Frankenstein, Monster's Ball), but this isn't one of them. He's even more two-dimensional than Thomspon is portrayed; he starts out defending the little guy, but then turns completely to anarchy. One or two scenes are amusing, when he enters unexpectedly in a Nixon mask, but they're few and far between. If for no other reason to see the film, therefore, is for Murray, who brings a random absurdity of his own that somehow helps to bring a little more depth than the script allows.So, if I were to recommend which Thompson film to see first, I would go to Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas. However, if you're more of a Murray fan than Depp's, and might feel tipsy by Gilliam's style, then you might like the slightly safer insanity of Linson's film. Not a bad film, but it could've been better. "},{"Title":"Bland","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie on TV before I'd read anything by Hunter S. Thompson, and even knowing virtually nothing about his work, I knew that the movie had been watered down in the extreme. Far too much was done to try and make the characters of Thompson and Lazlo palatable to movie-going audiences and make them more sympathetic characters when part of the charm of Thompson's writing is how unrepentant he was about all the various insane/illegal/antisocial activities which he described in his writing.Not only was this movie bland, but its production values were virtually non-existent. It looks like it could have been made-for-TV.It succeeds best in the scenes where Murray portray's Thompson's casual insanity. It fails by trying to turn Thomspon into some kind of lovable rogue -- which he certainly was not. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" Bill Murray does a great job as the Late Hunter S. Thompson. But there are a few problems with this film; Peter Boyle (Funny name, isn't it?!)portrays Hunter's friend Oscar Zeta Acosta, he doesn't really fit as Oscar and hardly gets angry through the whole movie (minus a few scenes) The movie is entertaining and is partly based off of Fear and loathing on the campaign Trail. Not as dark or Bizarre as Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and Murray's Hunter wasn't as wild as Depp'(Not to knock either one of their performances). Don't expect as much drama as FALILV either (Except maybe when Thompson says that his attorney is assumed dead). This is a great Cheech and Chong type movie. Most enjoyable with a cold beer and some dorritos. "}{"Title":"Trash","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" This movie misses its mark. Awful direction helps most jokes fall flat on their faces. It's meant to be a lightweight, enjoyable, accessible movie one can just kick back to, but instead is a mishmash of ideas, characterisation and egos vying for stardom. There are some great ideas here - Hunter Thompson provides great subject matter for Murray - yet the execution is lackluster relegating the film to be untimately only for fans of Murray.GRADE C-, but not in an Ed Wood film kinda way. Its a lesser movie than one of them because it tries and so failing after that is in many ways much much worse. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":" This movie misses its mark. Awful direction helps most jokes fall flat on their faces. It's meant to be a lightweight, enjoyable, accessible movie one can just kick back to, but instead is a mishmash of ideas, characterisation and egos vying for stardom. There are some great ideas here - Hunter Thompson provides great subject matter for Murray - yet the execution is lackluster relegating the film to be untimately only for fans of Murray.GRADE C-, but not in an Ed Wood film kinda way. Its a lesser movie than one of them because it tries and so failing after that is in many ways much much worse. "},{"Title":"We need shine and glitter in order to get a trouts attention too.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  May I just make a comment that well no crap, visually Fear and Loathing... was more extravagant (so to say)... But Where the Buffalo Roam with Bill Murray portrayed Thompson in a far more realistic light. And also note that it was done in 1980, no HD TV, nor is there any product of digital work. I mean, think about other movies that are taken from works or even screenplays by writers of that generation and style (Naked Lunch, Bar Fly, etc)- all are far drabber than any of the movies that come out these days, but they are still fabulous works of art. Can I also just point out that many movies with great visual work suck a**, can I say Waterworld? I rest my case.  "},{"Title":"Bill, not HST","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Bill didn't come across anything like HST in his writings, but instead as Bill Murray. It's just the Bill Murray show with the name HST added to it. This also seemed true of the portrayal of Lazlo. If you ever have read Fear and Loathing and want to see something that tries to approximate the book, get the Johnny Depp movie. If you watch this one, be aware that it uses HST's writings as a plot device for it's own intentions. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable mess.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I love Bill Murray and Peter Boyle as much as the next, but how they got mixed up in this must be a story in and of itself. A big sprawling messy glop of a film, it's still worth seeing, and maybe in tandem with the Terry Gilliam film. This one has a better cast and better actors, that one has much better camera work, they are BOTH kind of disasters.         "},{"Title":"Pointless & lame","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy","Review":"  It would be nice to be able to say that this film suffers in comparison to Terry Gilliam's brilliant adaptation of 'Fear & Loathing In Las Vegas', but it wouldn't be accurate. 'Where The Buffalo Roam' just isn't any good. It's not funny enough to be a comedy, it doesn't seem to have any point to make & so doesn't work as satire, & it completely fails to convey the insane, savage & hilarious spirit of Hunter S Thompson's writing.Bill Murray, while doing a pretty good impersonation of Thompson's voice & more pronounced mannerisms, really just acts like Bill Murray with a cigarette holder sticking out of his mouth for the whole film. The angry, driven, borderline psychotic journalist is nowhere to be found in this film, just a kind of goofy idiot that makes you wonder why anyone would bother to make a movie about him, or why anyone would read any of his writing.Peter Boyle as attorney 'Carl Lazlo', a character better known as Dr Gonzo in Fear & Loathing In Las Vegas, or as Oscar Zeta Acosta in real life, is completely & utterly miscast. The real-life attorney was a fighter for human rights in the Chicano community who hung out on the fringes of the law, the fictionalised Dr Gonzo of Thompson's writing was a far more dangerous, drug-crazed, perverted degenerate. 'Lazlo' is neither, just a dull, pathetic fool who thinks shouting his head off in court might achieve something, runs off to hang out with arms dealers, then turns up again with some idea about starting his own country in the desert.There is no plot to speak of, just a loose collection of scenes that happen to include these two characters in some way, none of which go anywhere at all. Thompson watching Lazlo in court, Lazlo turning up again at the Super Bowl & dragging Thompson off to his ranch, & finally Thompson covering the 1972 presidential campaign & Lazlo popping up again with a dumb idea. Then the movie ends. No mention of the real-life events which would actually have made a good story - Nixon's victory, followed by Watergate, or Oscar Acosta's mysterious disappearance - just the end of the film. It's not even an anti-climax, which is often how Hunter S Thompson ends his stories, to give them a realistic, bittersweet edge, it's just the end. Nothing of any real interest has happened & the film's over.I can't really recommend this film to anyone. If you're not a Thompson fan, there's no reason to see it, & if you are, you'll just be disappointed.  "}]