[{"Title":"The film affirms that love is an undeniable force which goes beyond us...","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"99 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Christopher Reeve takes on the role of (Richard Collier) a successful Chicago playwright who is approached (in May 1972) by a very old woman (Susan French) who will alter the course of his life eternally...The thoughtful old lady presses a classic pocket watch, from a past existence, into his right hand and intensely whispers four haunting words 'Come back to me,' which will affect him forever... Eight years have passed and Richard is seeing his work incredibly sterile, gently afflicted with a case of lesser inspiration... So he packs his luggage and heads out to an island of enchanting beauty, to the Grand Hotel on the Straits of Mackinac waterfront...While waiting for the huge dining hall to open, he tours the grand old building's museum, and sees a portrait of a lovely woman... He becomes obsessed about finding the truth behind the old photograph and begins questioning the people that knew her past... What emerges is a wonderful woman who is the first American stage actress in 1912 to create a mystique in the public's eye... She is the same lady who visited him that night at the premier of one of his plays... Richard finds himself intrigued... There is so much to hear... People who knew Elise McKenna when she was young said that she was quick and bright and full of fun... Strong, willful, not at all the way she was later...Seeking help from an old philosophy teacher who had written a book about 'Travels through time,' Richard attempts to disassociate himself entirely from the present, move everything out of sight that could possibly remind him of it, hypnotize his mind, and transport himself backward into the past, into June 27, 1912, into the life of the stunningly beautiful and talented Elise McKenna (Jane Seymour).Nominated for Best Costume Design, the motion picture is a romantic fantasy that avoids any use of machinery in action... The time travel theory is completely non-scientific... The film captures the idea of a fine young man moving back among other time periods, and affirms that love is an undeniable force which goes beyond us, a force with no limit to the spiritual power, with no end to the potential of spiritual expansion... "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite movie.","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"101 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There are those few movies that make you sit back and just be amazed at the artistic excellence you've just seen. Citizen Kane, Casablanca, 2001 A Space Odyssey, Star Wars, The Godfather, Ben Hur, and The Lord of the Rings trilogy are a few of these. Somewhere In Time is not a blockbuster actioner, but is perhaps the finest fantasy love story ever made.The cast is perfect. Christopher Reeve is extremely believable. Jane Seymour is gorgeous as the young actress, as is Teresa Wright as her older self. Christopher Plummer is great as Elise McKenna's manager, and Bill Erwin affords himself fine as Arthur. The setting, music, story, and acting are all top notch! We are slowly drawn (and it's just great to take one's time to get involved) into this mysterious romance as the paradox pair of the watch and the time travel gets our hero to come back to me.Simply Superb! If you are one of the very few who has not seen this movie, please get it and watch it one time. I've seen it at least 10 times and enjoy it as much each time. "},{"Title":"Touching Time-Travel Tale","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"71 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Being one who always seems to enjoy time-travel stories, it's no wonder I like this movie so much, but it isn't the interesting time angle that draws me in it's also the fact that this is one of the most touching love stories I've ever seen. I'm not usually a big fan of romance stories, but this one has always moved me, maybe because, as another reviewer points out, it's from the man's point of view.The film is a wonderful old-fashioned type of story with a really nice feel for the period (1912) and is simply a pleasant, leisurely-paced story I found comfortable. Would kids of today like this? No. Too slow for them. Too bad, because I found the movie moved pretty well. The 100 minutes went by quickly.Christopher Reeve is the star of the film but personally I found Jane Seymour and Christopher Plummer far more entertaining. The theme song, Somewhere In Time, is one of the prettiest songs ever and that adds to the sad and frustrating romance angle of the story. The language also is quite tame. Yes, it's a bit sappy at times, but for sentimental people, this is a nice film to keep.My only real complaint is I've never seen a sharp transfer put on a DVD yet. There have been two DVDs out and both have that grainy look to them. That's disappointing because this would really look nice with a clear picture. The film deserves better treatment.NOTE A Blu-Ray of this film was released in March of 2014 and finally does this great film justice! "},{"Title":"One of the most achingly beautiful movies ever","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"61 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere in Time is a movie any sensitive person with a heart will love, I guarantee you. From the opening at the theater to the unbelievably moving final scene, I have never seen a film so passionately and yet so innocently depict the power of absolute, all-encompassing, unconditional love.The story is so simple, yet therein lies the beauty. Richard Collier, a man with no love in what otherwise seems like a nice enough life, becomes enchanted at the sight of Elise McKenna's painting and with only the power of his heart travels back to her time. Once there, he looks for Elise, and finds her. Elise is confused and does not immediately respond because of her manager W.F. Robinson, but she quickly returns Richard's love. I will not say anymore, other than that the ending made me feel so warm and yet made me want to cry. You will be hard pressed to find a movie lighter on plot, and there are many questions left unanswered, but that's perfect because Somewhere in Time is very surreal, and dreamlike even. The emphasis is not on watching events, but on simply feeling love, and this is as close as anyone has ever come to making a movie out of pure emotion.Jane Seymour looks radiant while on screen but this is Christopher Reeve's movie. Reeve, after amazing everyone with his talent, good looks, and charisma in one of the biggest blockbusters ever, could have become one of Hollywood's all-time great leading men. Instead, a series of horrible decisions about what roles to take and not take made it so that he had to do TV movies to pay the bills by the late 1980s. To this day, to 99% of the public he is the paralyzed Superman and nothing more. But this is the one movie that shows what should have been. He very convincingly depicts Richard first as goofy kid, then as empty older man, then as someone simply awestruck by love and determined to let nothing stop him from getting the breathtaking Elise. Then, in the final scenes, he portrays his anguish so remarkably it is wrenching to watch. Also deserving of special mention is Christopher Plummer, who seems to be an extraordinary actor on the basis of the two films I've seen him in (the other is The Insider). A lesser actor would have made Robinson into a mustache-twirling villain, and brought the whole production down to the level of a soap opera. Plummer, however, with his nuanced performance, makes us hate Robinson, but also makes us his feel his pain. Through his subtle mannerisms, we see that Robinson himself deeply longs for Elise's love, but has probably never been loved and never will be loved by anybody. We thus realize how incredibly lucky Richard is. I personally saw Robinson as perhaps someone whose father never loved him and whose mother died when he was very young, and he has spent his whole life wanting to truly take care of someone like Elise but it is as if he has been rendered incapable. He is still contemptible for the things he does to Richard, but he is also a tragic figure, and the script has nothing to do with that-it's all Christopher Plummer.John Barry's score is also among the most enchanting in movie history, in my opinion. I have never heard a score which so wonderfully conjured up feelings of timeless love. Jeannot Szwarc may not be a well known or otherwise accomplished director, but he does this one perfectly. This movie in the wrong hands could so easily come across as corny and trite, but instead it is such an absorbing masterpiece. Every element in this movie is just perfect, and it should be universally considered one of the greatest love stories of all time (if not the greatest, like I think it is).As it is most people have never heard of it, but it is nice to know that a small devoted following gives it the recognition it deserves. I hope it continues to win people's hearts for generations to come. "},{"Title":"Virtually the Best Movie Ever","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"72 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am a young man who grew up loving horror, action, and kung-fu movies. I hated the Victorian books we were forced to read in school. However, the one exception to the rule has been this movie.  I LOVED this movie. The story line was solid. The direction was superb. And the acting was so good, that I have always wondered why Reeves & Seymour's career didn't catapult after this film.  I have watched it many times since it came out, and ever time I am captivated. If you can't relate to this movie, I think you must have a heart of cold stone. This gets a strong KBONE rating of 10 on a scale of 1 to 10. Pay special attention to Seymour's soliloquy during the play and Reeve's facial expressions during that time as well Reeve during the last 10 minutes of the movie. I really can't say enough about this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Only for the imaginative and the warm hearted","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One day i was going through my friend's movies and i was picking some of the really good ones to watch. His wife grabbed somewhere in time and told me that it was good. I was very unsure about the movie but i watched it anyways. By the end of the movie i was in awe. The acting is excellent. The story was creative. The dialogue was extravagant. The music was fantastic. The cinematography was terrific. This movie was awesome. Yes it is a romance movie for all you people who hate romance movies but if you have to watchan origina and entertaining love story then i recomend this one. Tust me guys it not your typical love story! "},{"Title":"Fantasy Classic","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  	 	Somewhere In Time is not only a fantasy story. It is romance, science fiction, and fantasy rolled into one, based on Richard Matheson's novel, Bid Time Return, (Matheson also wrote the screenplay and has a cameo appearance in the film). Shot in 1980 and released by Universal Studios, it is a wonderful and, I feel, classic film that has stood the test of time. I am often surprised at how many persons of adult age have seen it. I cannot understand why Somewhere In Time has been panned by the critics since its release. 	Filmed on location in Chicago and Mackinac Island, Michigan, Somewhere In Time is a little long at 104 minutes. However, the story never drags so this is not a big liability. Directed by Jean Szarc, the cast is first rate, starring Christopher Reeve, (what a standard of personal courage he has set for us in recent years!) as the playwright Richard Collier, Jane Seymour, one of the loveliest ladies to ever grace either the large or small screens, as the actress Elise McKenna, and the fine character actor Christopher Plummer as the mean-spirited W.S. Robinson, McKenna's agent.  	The story begins in May, 1972. Playwright Collier is visited by a very old woman at a party he is attending at Millfield College, close to the Grand Island Hotel on Mackinac Island, which will be so important to the story later. She approaches and hands him a pocket watch. Cryptically, she says, Come back to me.' 	We now fast forward eight years to Chicago, 1980. The restless Collier, who has recently broken up with his lady friend, is drawn to The Grand Hotel. Collier drives up to Mackinac Island and checks into the hotel. The kind-hearted Arthur, who has lived and worked at the hotel for 70 years, asks him if they had met before. Collier assures him they have not. 	Collier chances upon an old photo of the turn of the century actress Elise McKenna in the hotel museum and is mesmerized by her. Arthur tells him that she appeared in a play at the hotel in 1912. Collier's obsession quickly grows and he begins research on her life. He comes across a photo of McKenna as an old woman and remembers her as the mysterious lady he met at the party. 	He discovers from her housekeeper that McKenna died eight years previous, on the very night she made herself known to him, and that something happened during her hotel appearance in 1912. After that, according to the housekeeper, she was never the same. During his visit to McKenna's home, he discovers a book on time travel that Elise read again and again. 	After visiting with the book's author and, finding his own name in an old Grand Hotel register from 1912, Collier makes an intense effort to slip into the past, and succeeds. Soon, he meets Elise in the hotel, (he has transported himself to the time when Elise McKenna is staying in the hotel, preparing for her performance), and the scene where he and she meet is quite moving. At this point, the story becomes even better because Reeve does not have to carry it by himself. Seymour and Plummer step in and, what had been a good picture, becomes an excellent one for the duration. 	Richard and Elise quickly become drawn to each other, much to Robinson's unease. Robinson, who loves her but will not admit it, has a genuine concern when the playwright Richard Collier cannot name any of his work that he is familiar with. There is an unhealthy tension between these two strong-willed men until film's end. 	There are many interesting segments through this portion of the story. Entering the hotel restaurant, Collier seems to walk forever. The shot of the beautiful Elise, sitting at her makeup table with hair down and thrown over one shoulder, daydreaming of Richard, is enough to take the breath out of any man, (certainly this one!). The kiss first between Richard and Elise is very gentle and tender, and another lump forms in the throat when Elise again unpins her hair as Richard closes the door to room 117. But, perhaps the best scene in the entire film is when Elise, caught up with emotion, seems to ad-lib directly to an equally emotional Richard, sitting in the audience, during the hotel performance. 	Now is a good time to note that Jane Seymour possesses an interesting combination of hesitation and come-hither in look and demeanor. Ms. Seymour is something you do not come across often an extremely alluring woman but very much a lady. The wholesome Reeve played off of her extremely well. 	The furious Robinson loses control of himself and has Richard beaten by thugs, causing him to lose credibility with his star forever. However, fate deals a cruel hand to the star-crossed lovers as, just when they have admitted their love for one another, Richard is abruptly returned to 1980, waking up in the same bed he was originally transported from. I won't give the story's very touching finale away, I will just say that the emotionally devastated Richard spends the final few minutes of the story attempting to return to 1912 and Elise.   	A few final comments. For fans of romance, fantasy and science fiction, Somewhere In Time will indeed be a special treat. (That the music is hauntingly beautiful only enhances the mood). It was pleasing to see Richard Matheson, author of such hard-edged tales as The Omega Man and The Shrinking Man, (to name but two), and who is seen as an astonished viewer during Elise McKenna's Grand Hotel performance, turn out such a powerful love story. 	I noticed only one glaring editing mistake, and that is an excellent accomplishment for a period story of this length. Near film's end, the heartbroken Richard lies listless and semi-comatose in a Grand Hotel guest room, pining for Elise, for a full week. When Arthur, (The gentleness of the lifelong hotel servant impressed me. I wish I could meet a few Arthur types at hotels I stay in!), finds him, the fact that he has had little food or water for days and is dangerously close to death is impressed upon us. However, when we see his face, he is clean-shaven and way too bright-eyed for a man under such a self-imposed ordeal! 	 I hope that perhaps someday Christopher Reeve's health is such that he can once again co-star with the ever beautiful Jane Seymour. Mr. Reeve's physical limitations notwithstanding, I believe they would still make a terrific screen team.					 "},{"Title":"Romance writ large---","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ---Somewhere In Time is one of the most romantic films ever. It is also a wonderful period film. Shot at the Grand Hotel on Mackinaw Island, the 1800's hotel and grounds, the background of the Great Lake and lighthouse, just enhances the romantic atmosphere. It sure made me HAVE to visit the island and spend a magical day walking around, having lunch and visiting Jane Seymore's picture in the museum room, just like in the film.Have any two people ever been filmed so beautifully? The period dresses Jane wears are so lovely.And has a score, by John Barry, ever been more romantic? Perfectly enhances the romanticism of the story. Superman Christopher Reeve is all boyish charm and wonder; when he walks towards Jane by the lake and she says Are you the one? Well, it takes your breath they are so gorgeous.Any romantic can't help but have a lump in the throat at the lovely ending - white on white - no beginning and no end - they are together Somewhere In Time. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films I can watch again and again even though one knows the final outcome. I recently acquired the collector's edition on DVD and my only regret is that the picture quality is not up to scratch but there again, the film seems to have been shot anyway through a sort of haze to give it a certain atmosphere. I have always loved films that involve time travel ( there are all too few of them ) such as this one, Time after time, philadelphia experiment, Final Countdown etc. This one is unique as that it all takes place in Collier's mind and not due to some fantastic machine due to whip across the space-time continuum. The fact that Collier is brought back to reality due to the sight ofa present-day object is - though frustrating and heart searing for the spectator - a good one and a way of closing the film. For those of you who love this film as myself, I would recommend the DVD collectors edition as there are long interviews with Jeannot Swarc, Christopher Reed  et alia. During the interviews, Reed explains that following his terrible accident, he was given a drug which caused his  soul to start leaving his body  and he explains that at the time he immediately thought of this film !! Incredible. "},{"Title":"A Classic!!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In 1984, this movie got a second life on cable after its initial release to theaters and subsequent bombing at the box office in 1980. We should all be thankful for cable! This is a classic film in every respect...well directed and acted.... but would it have had the same impact without John Berry's absolutely beautiful score? At any rate, it is a classic film and enjoys an enormous cult following as well as an annual gathering at the Hotel where many of the actors have come to participate. God bless you Chris Reeves, rest in peace "}{"Title":"My favourite Romantic film of all time.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film has often been criticized for poor acting and a lack of realistic plot, but I think it is simply breathtaking. I think that this is the best romantic film of all time because it concentrates primarily on love. For example, Titanic is a great love story but the whole fact behind the ship sinking steals the show. Or for example, in Casablanca where their is great romance between Bogurt and Bergman, World War II is going on in the background, which fades the romance. Somewhere in Time is a film where you just have to simply put your criticism aside, and view. The first time I ever saw this film, I liked it. The more I viewed it, I loved it. This film has the ability to make anybody cry if they really have a heart. The thing that makes this film so romantic is it's innocence. No huge plots going on, but simply a man loving a woman.I have to say though, that Christopher Reeve was rather poor in certain scenes where he would commonly ask or answer questions directly after they had been said. But that is just a minor film error that a lot of people would tend not to even notice. I really enjoyed Jane Seymour in this film for her charasmatic acting, and her amazing beauty. The scene when Richard sees Elise for the first time in person by the lake, will give you heartfelt chills. They both make such a great on-screen duo together, but Christopher Plummer is by far the greatest actor in this film, and one of the greatest of all time. He has the ability to play so many different characters and still acts on broadway. In this film, Plummer plays the snobbish William Robertson who does everything to get in the way of Richard and Elise's relationship. Robertson is Elise's manager and is jealous of her and Richard's relationship, wanting to settle down with Elise himself. This movie does have it's funny moments to, like when Richard is trying just to get out of the room he awoke in, in 1912. Or when in 1912, he is signing the hotel registeration book very hesitantly, hoping everything goes as planned. One more thing that I would like to add is the two running men, who appear twice throughout the film running,stopping,boxing a little and then running, which I find hilarious.(keep your eye out for that.)Well all joking aside, this film is a timeless romantic classic, that focuses on the most important thing in life, which is love. It is so romantic how a man risks his modern day life to go back in time and find what he thinks to be,his one. This movie teaches you that you should never take love for granted. I think that love is so beautiful and special that it is worth dying for. I guarantee you, that you're tears will get the better of you in the scene where they reunite outside of the Grand Hotel, after they thought they had lost each other. Unfortunately their relationship on earth is cut short to a tragic ending that will make you cry. After Richard is brought back to modern day, he is mentally dead inside. It is so tragic how he looks at the very spots where they once had been at the hotel. The John Barry score sums up the moments beautifully, and is the most romantic and beautiful music in my opinion, to ever grace cinematography. Believe me, this theme song is enough to make you cry.It is so amazing how all the little parts of the movie come together like pieces of a puzzle, and how Richard and Elise die the exact same way. I always love happy endings, and the ending of this movie will leave you satisfied. If you are a romantic like your's truly, then this movie could change your life on the perspective of the importance of love. I highly recommend this beautiful romantic, to anybody that really has a heart, and that can appreciate this kind of film. 7/10 (on film perspective) But just perfect for a romantic. "},{"Title":"Soulmates...Somewhere in Time","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  For us hopeless romantics, this kind of love story gives us the feeling that our own soulmate might have lived in another time instead of our own. It is a pleasant little fantasy to get lost in for a couple of hours anyway. For someone who analyzes the small details in movies like myself, the story has many hidden twists and turns to figure out. For example, when you consider that Elise Mckenna was 85 years old when she died in 1972, why was Richard Collier a young man in college? Was he the reincarnation of the Richard she had loved 60 years earlier in 1912? Did Richard's time-traveling professor have some connection to Elise? Why did Elise's manager warn Elise of Richard's coming? If you get too concerned with these details then you miss the overall message of the film...true love never dies and true love is worth dying for. "},{"Title":"Why didn't THIS GREAT MOVIE win even ONE Oscar?","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I remember I was 5 years old when I first watched this movie in a video. I remember my mother's tears each time she watched that movie.I almost learned it by heart even before I knew what it meant. When I grew up, I finally understood it and loved it so strongly. I think every woman in her heart dreams of living this love, this kind of passionate first kiss and this pain of LOVE and separation. This movie makes you cry in the same way Titanic did. I mean how could it get even more romantic like it did in this movie. Christopher Reeves , Christopher Plummer and Jane Seymour excelled in it.Somewhere in time is my best romantic movie I have ever watched. I have some questions though  I still don't understand how did Elise know that Reeves came from 1980? And where did the watch come from? The coin that made Reeves return to future remained with him, which means that Elise did not see the coin. So how did she know who he was? How did Robinson (Plummer) know about Reeve's coming to change Elise's life?The most touching part was the end of the movie where Reeves smiled while he was dying . May his soul rest in peace . "},{"Title":"Somewhere In Time Christopher Reeves Is Watching This....","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere In Time (1980) Starring Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour, Christopher Plummer, Susan French, Jon Alvin, Edra Gale, Patt Billingsley, Teresa Wright, Bill Erwin George Voskovec, William H. Macy....Director Jeannot Szwarc, Screenplay Richard Matheson, Based On The Novel By Richard Matheson.The man of my dreams has almost faded now. The one I have created in my mind. The sort of man each woman dreams of, in the deepest and most secret reaches of her heart. I can almost see him now before me. What would I say to him if he were really here? Forgive me. I have never known this feeling. I have lived without it all my life. Is it any wonder, then, I failed to recognize you? You, who brought it to me for the first time. Is there any way that I can tell you how my life has changed? Any way at all to let you know what sweetness you have given me? There is so much to say. I cannot find the words. Except for these I love you.Released in 1980, director Jeanot Szwarc's film adaptation of Richard Matheson's novel is a breathtaking, emotionally stirring romantic love story with a sci-fi twist the lovers are from different time periods he from the 1972 and she from 1912. Initially a failure at the box office (possibly because Christopher Reeves was preferred to be seen as Superman, this film was only one of his films that year, the other being Super Man Part 2 and because it was difficult to adapt the complex, sci-fi romance into a film without sacrificing some logic, plot consistency and other aspects) it soon acquired a huge fan base. Chris Reeves takes off his Superman outfit and dons an Edwardian gentleman's suite in the role of playwright Richard Collier, who becomes obscessed with the enigmatic turn-of-the century actress Elise McKenna, whose haunting portrait is hung on the Grand Hotel's historic room. After the premiere of his 1970's Vietnam play Too Much Spring, an elderly woman (Susan French) hands him a watch, looks him in the eye like she's known him all her life and says Come back to me. This is what he does when he wills himself back to 1912 (the year Titanic sank) to the Grand Hotel where a young Elise (Jane Seymour in a great role) is performing a play. Seymour's portrayal of this character is effortless, channeling the spirit of the actual 19th century actress that inspired the character of Elise Maude Addams. Seymour looks gorgeous in every one of her costumes and acts the part of a woman who rejects a great career in acting for love, quite well. Christopher Plummer (Sound Of Music), older though he is, is terrific as William Fawcett Robinson, Elise's Svengali, imperious and controlling theater manager, determined to make her a big star and has a professional relationship with her but who deep down, loves her but loses to the young newcomer. In this aspect, this film mirrors 1948's The Red Shoes but with its time/memories/love theme and similar time period also resembles 1997's Titanic. Look for William H. Macy in the minor role of a theater critic. I can see how when it was released in 1980, it was considered a bit of a flop. There are plot holes due to the fact a lot of the novel's material was omitted from the film. There is the general confusion with the time travel aspect. Collier is a man of the 70's and then travels to 1912, but Elise had been told by her manager that he'd come and take her away, but she is also an old lady in the 70's, magically drawing him to come back to her through whatever she read in an old time travel book. Truthfully, the romance happens much too quickly and is over far too quickly. The dialog is nothing Oscar worthy, so contrived and stilted, the characters are not too well-developed but what makes this film so enjoyable is the romantic escapism. The audience is required to suspend disbelief. There is genuine chemistry between Reeves and Seymour. It's refreshing to see Christopher Reeves in a non-Superman performance. Many consider THIS performance as a romantic playwright to be his best role. He himself was very proud of this performance. This is a maudlin, escapist romantic movie, even if short, and the cinematography is exquisite, resembling an Impressionist painting and evoking a romanticized past. The hotel is luxurious and Victorian and the costumes and music are striking. Especially spiritual are such scenes as when Reeves first looks at Elise's portrait in the History Gallery of the Hotel, a portrait cast in natural sunlight. Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody On A Theme of Paganini 18th Variation Andante Cantabile features prominently and serves as the love theme. All romantics at heart and lovers of a good romance will love this movie. It is still one of those underrated love stories that deserve more recognition. It was Christopher Reeve's favorite film and perhaps he is still watching it in Heaven. "},{"Title":"Sublime !","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A perfect Mobius strip of plotting... try explaining what happens, and you find yourself intriguingly embroiled in explaining a plot that encircles itself. Not many people get this aspect of the movie, but it's what makes it work. Cinematic perfection! Let it challenge you ... and let it therefore make you think about the multi-level parameters of love, and longing, and yearning, and loss. Mr. Reeve and Miss Seymour are perfect as the star-crossed lovers; they bring to the screen an innocence and a beauty sorely lacing in today's in your face sexual manifestos. I can watch this over over and over, and cry each time-- it is that moving 1 "},{"Title":"Not for cynics or unromantics....leave films like this to us who have a heart....","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" O.K., so there is a lot to grumble about here as far as reality and some missing plot points, but why gripe about a film that never ceases to leave me without shedding a ton of tears? Some people may complain that the constant repeat of Rachmaninoff's beautiful music is manipulative and overdone, that there is a lack of humor, and that so many things in the film just don't add up. But when you are touched by a film like this, hard-hearted critics don't matter, you forgive the mistakes, and overlook some of the sillier touches. What results is a time-travel drama about never-ending love that grabs you from the moment an old lady (Susan French) approaches aspiring playwright Christopher Reeve, places an old watch in his hand, and whispers, Come back to me.Who is this beautiful old woman with the face of an angel still wearing turn of the 20th Century get-up and why is she interested in a total stranger? Well, it takes years for Reeve to discover his own interest in her, and it is all by accident. I thought for years that the beautiful Hotel del Coronado near San Diego was the setting for it, having passed by that landmark back in the early 1980's, but further research proved me wrong, even though the original novel was set there and that they had originally intended to film it there. It is a beautiful resort right on Lake Huron where Reeve ends up, coming face to face with a portrait of the legendary stage actress who suddenly retired after a stage appearance there in 1912, ironically the same year as the Titanic disaster.Researching her, Reeve discovers she is none other than the gorgeous old woman who approached him years before, now deceased, and realizes that somehow they are connected. A discussion with a time travel expert makes him realize he must travel back to meet her, and somehow he does. She (Jane Seymour) somehow recognizes him, but her jealous producer (Christopher Plummer) is suspicious. Somehow, he knows just who Reeve is, and believes that this will destroy her. Plummer schemes to keep them apart, but time travel, as Reeve was warned, is a dangerous thing, and just as romance begins to bloom, irony strikes leading to tragedy.There is a gem of casting with Jane Seymour as the young Elise and Susan French as her in her 80's. Ms. French was everywhere in the 1980's on Dallas, Falcon Crest, Bare Essence, Little House on the Prairie and many other T.V. series. It seems to be more than a coincidence that their story is almost similar to that of Kate Winslet and Gloria Stuart's in Titanic, with a brooch the prop of history rather than Elise's watch.Reeve, following up Superman with this romantic drama, was a sensitive young actor, and he puts his whole heart into this project. Romance is the word here, and the ability to suspend disbelief is a must in order to appreciate every aspect of this sweet story. Bill Erwin is memorable as Arthur, the old bellboy whom Reeve crosses and meets as a young toddler decades before, and veteran actress Teresa Wright good as old Elise's former companion who reveals Elise's past to Reeve when he visits her.The gorgeous Seymour is a radiant leading lady, filled with both fire and femininity, and here is as far from Dr. Quinn as you can get. This film unfortunately flopped badly during its initial run due to a cynical nature of the world in the early 1980's where the rise of block-busters stood in the way of a quiet old-fashioned fantasy romance from becoming a hit. Fortunately, there are many other non-cynics who are able to see with their heart and leave their brain on pause when watching films like this, and thanks to audiences like us, this film has gotten the cult status that it deserves, even though it is far from the typical cult film as you can get. "},{"Title":"Great Classic (The much needed Good Alternate Ending!)","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's about time travel, to the past, my favorite subject. Where an old lady gave him a watch and ask him to come back. Most of the movies is well done except for the sad ending, which is why this movie bombed at the box office. Since Chris Reeve has sadly died, already the movie is revived again and since his death was seen as sad, the movie has a same them, which people should be able to view this movie better in light of what happened. The story evolves around Chris Reeve a playwright just finishing college at Mayfield with bright prospects of his future in writing plays in a graduating party has met an old lady to ask him to come back and gave him a pocket watch. Eight years later, he has a writers block, is separated from his girlfriend, decided to go out some place and accidentally rode pass by Grand Hotel and decides to stay. He is met with an old bellboy who knows the past, and he sees a mysterious woman in the Hall of History. What got him interested was that she too was involved in the play. The time travel idea began when Chris Reeve decided to see this old lady and found out she was dead the night of his meeting with the old lady, and her favorite book Travels Through Time gave him an upshot to contact the writer of the book, which was his old professor at Mayfield College. From then on, the fun begins when he travels to 1912 to meet the girl of his dreams. *********** Now for the spoilers - ALTERNATE ENDING The story could have been a lot better to get the required good ending because I don't like sad ending. Therefore, the alternate ending, during the opening scenes, where the old lady gave Chris Reeve the pocket watch, she should have said Grand Hotel, A copper penny don't take it out of your pocket, I will get it for you and you look at it! Now when the near ending comes, Chris Reeve remembers what the old lady said, and he ask the same girl in the past that's something is in his pocket, so she decided to get it for him. The penny was handled by her, she see's it's a copper penny dated 1972, shocked at seeing it she RETURNS to the future with Chris Reeve to save his life later to return to the past after resolving things that happened with him and her in this future, both Chris Reeve and his girlfriend are now living in the same house, both well known actress and playwright together living in 1980. This is the best I can come up with, but it can be improved. Hence, I prefer to remember the ending this way, even if it's an imperfect one, or nightmare with me stays with the sad ending. "},{"Title":"Call It Corny, Call It Clichéd, Call It Great","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Let me begin by explaining why I bought and then saw Somewhere In Time. It's not my usual cup of tea but I figured that between Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour, Christopher Plummer, and a John Barry score I wouldn't be disappointed. And I was right. There is something about this film I can't lay my finger on but whatever it is it makes it great.Now this film isn't perfect. It has flaws to say the least. Yes this film is corny and does feature most of the usual clichés I expected. Yet there was something different about this film. Somehow those clichés seemed pretty darn original. The premise of the film and even the time travel element might be the reason I don't know. Richard Matheson's adaptation of his novel captures a certain kind of spirit in the story. The dialogue is at times corny but yet it never takes away from the strength of the film.Both Reeve and Seymour share chemistry together that's for sure. They somehow seem like a natural couple for some reason. Reeve does well as the modern playwright who becomes (for lack of a better word) obsessed with a photograph of Jane Seymour's character. A lesser actor could have underplayed the role and made it not quite believable and a better-known actor could have made you forget about the humanity of the character. Yet, Reeve steps out of the spotlight of Superman to become this character. Seymour plays the role of an up and coming actress just as well. Considering we don't see meet her character except via a photograph for 30 plus minutes of the film, Seymour's character becomes the emotional center of the film and one is led to believe how easily Reeve could have fallen in love with her. She is a joy to watch and her chemistry with reeve sells the relationship. Christopher Plummer adds a nice element creating what one might call a love triangle. He is the physical obstacle that Reeve's character must overcome to be with Seymour. But there is an even bigger obstacle to overcome time itself. Add on to them a nice supporting cast and the cast seems to be perfect.Those behind the camera add on to them. The cinematography is excellent I capturing the mood of any given seen. The costumes sell the eras the film is set in, especially those set in 1912. The film's sets (filmed mostly at a real hotel) sell the story also. Then there is the icing on the cake John Barry's score. Barry creates a simple score that holds perhaps more emotional power in it then any of his other scores (the closest one to it in terms of emotional power would probably be Out Of Africa's). It's a beautiful thing to listen to and touching to say the least.Despite the clichés and even the corny elements, there is something great about Somewhere In Time. I can't quite explain why I have fallen for this film (having watched three times in two days) but all I know is it is a great film. Yes I said great. I might be wrong about that, I don't know. But there is something special about Somewhere In Time and that warrants it being called great. "},{"Title":"When Everything Seemed Possible","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Although Somewhere in Time is a film with a time travel theme it has (unlike, say, The Time Machine) no overt science-fiction elements. It has, in fact, more in common with the supernatural romance films such as A Portrait of Jennie or Pandora and the Flying Dutchman which were popular in the forties and fifties. Another time-travel romance with which it has something in common is the British Quest for Love from 1973, although that film does have some science-fiction content and its hero travels not back into the past but rather to an alternate present in which (among other differences) the Second World War never took place.The opening scenes take place 1972. Richard Collier, a young playwright, is approached by an elderly woman who places a pocket watch in his hand and pleads with him to come back to her. Eight years later Richard, suffering from writer's block, decides to take a break at an elegant turn-of-the century hotel (actually the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan). During his stay he becomes captivated with a photograph of a beautiful young woman, whom he discovers is Elise McKenna, a famous early 20th-century stage actress. He also learns that she was the woman who gave him the pocket watch eight years earlier, but that she subsequently died later that same evening.Richard becomes obsessed with the idea of travelling back into the past to meet Elise as a young woman, and learns about auto-suggestive time travel from his old college professor. Through self-hypnosis, he travels back in time to the year 1912, where he does indeed meet Elise, who is staying at the hotel. The two fall in love, but they face an obstacle in the shape of her obsessively protective manager William Fawcett Robinson, who fears that the budding romance will damage Elise's career.As with a number of time-travel films the plot, especially its dramatic conclusion, will not always bear the rigid application of strict logic. One might come to the conclusion that Richard's trip into the past was merely a self-induced hallucination were it not for the fact that concrete evidence survives to show that he actually did visit the hotel in 1912. His signature, for example, appears in an old hotel register for that year, and he himself was responsible for taking the photograph which came to obsess him 68 years later.This is the film which proved that Christopher Reeve was more than just a musclebound superhero and that Jane Seymour was more than just a Bond Girl. There are also good contributions from Bill Erwin as Arthur, the elderly, long-serving hotel employee who remembers meeting Elise when he was a boy, and from Christopher Plummer as Robinson. Plummer does not play Robinson, as he could have done, as a straightforward villain; it is clear that he believes in Elise and will do anything to further her career. The relationship between Robinson and Elise is reminiscent of that between Lermontov and Victoria in Powell and Pressburger's The Red Shoes; there is a suggestion that, at least subconsciously, he may be in love with her, but on a conscious level his love for Elise the woman has been sublimated into his concern for Elise the artiste.Director Jeannot Szwarc succeeds in evoking a romantic, dreamlike atmosphere, aided by the visual beauty of the Grand Hotel and its surroundings, by the radiant loveliness of Jane Seymour and by the elegance of the Edwardian costumes. Another important factor in creating this atmosphere is the lush musical score, composed by John Barry, and the use of the eighteenth variation of Rachmaninov's Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini. The use of this piece is deliberately anachronistic; although Rachmaninov was already an internationally known composer by 1912, the Rhapsody was not written until 1934, so it is hardly surprising that Elise is not familiar with it.This is a film with a loyal cult following; there is even an International Network of Somewhere In Time Enthusiasts. Cults, whether religious or cinematic, can often be incomprehensible to outsiders, and I therefore tend to be suspicious of anything described as a cult movie, a phrase which can be a euphemism for pretentious nonsense, likely to prove totally baffling to those who have not been initiated into the mysteries of the cult. There are, however, numerous exceptions, in which case the phrase can be more accurately translated as excellent film unjustly neglected by the critics, and this is the category into which Somewhere in Time falls. Upon its first release in 1980 it was not particularly successful, either critically or at the box office. Its fanciful plot and its lush romanticism were perhaps out of tune with the materialistic early eighties, and this style of film-making must have seemed rather old-fashioned in the age of Star Wars.Yet since then appreciation of the film has increased, perhaps because we have once again learned to appreciate unashamed romanticism in the cinema. The date to which Richard travels back, 1912, is significant, as it comes towards the end of the last great romantic era in our history, before the world was irrevocably changed by the mechanised destruction of the First World War. The late Victorian and Edwardian periods (often known as the Progressive Era to Americans) seemed to be an age of optimism, of progress, an age when everything seemed possible. This is a film which captures something of the spirit of those times, a film which celebrates the power of love and its ability to achieve the seemingly impossible. Seen in this light, the implausible nature of the plot need not trouble us. 8/10 "},{"Title":"No sex,no swearing.Welcome to 1912.A blissful experience.","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The Late Mr Christopher Reeves charms as the 1970's playwright who manages to wish himself 60 years back in the past to meet a woman whose portrait he has fallen in love with.Like Dana Andrews in Laura he has become obsessed by a likeness rather than a real woman,but this does not dampen his ardour.Will he be disappointed when he meets the human being as opposed to the image?This is quite an important issue to me as |I once fell in love with a girl in a drawing by the Victorian artist Frederick Sandys and I spent many an afternoon gazing at it in the William Morris Gallery in Walthamstow,East London. Like any elderly man who has lived through his share of screw - ups, the thought of visiting the past although not - heaven forfend - the future - strongly appeals.It is with this all too human predilection for making things better by simply turning one's back on the present that Somewhere in Time's appeal lies. Miss Jane Seymour is demure and beautiful,breathless and innocent as the object of Mr Reeves' desire,the hotel where they meet a masterpiece of Belle Epocque architecture.It is a movie that has the good looks to go with its charm,a devastating combination if one is in the right frame of mind. Unless you are a cynic to whom romantic is a dirty word,this movie will be a heart - rending pleasure. If your interest in stories about love conquering the Time Barrier is more than just casual read Time and Again by Jack Finney which predates the movie by ten years or so and uses the same plot device. And let your imagination soar. "}{"Title":"a timeless masterpiece!!","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As a 30 male you would expect me to have chosen a completely different film for my favourite? but no this is my favourite film of all time and i ain't afraid to say so! I love the story of how true love can shine through anything including time. This story of time travel and undying love is superbly brought together through great direction, casting and unforgettably the soundtrack! I could and have watched this film many many times and will continue too again and again. all i hope is that they do not!! do a remake as i don't think it would work nowadays and would spoil the brilliant original!!!! I never before would have thought that you could die of a broken heart till i seen this film, i do now and the way she was waiting for him at the end just brilliant "},{"Title":"I adore this movie","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie means a lot to me. I was introduced to it by a person I have loved with my soul. It was excellent the first time, Excellent the second and I have watch it so many times. People that have experienced true love can understand this movie. Is about love in life and beyond. In many ways this movie was a strenght in my relationship. However, one day I pulled a Pennie out of my pocket and my story was over. Unlike the actor I did not die but continued despite my agony. Life is beautiful and we have to accept it with our triumphs and defeats. I have learned. Back to the movie, I recommend to anyone who truly love to watch this movie. Very good tasteful movie, I will always be a fan for the rest of my life. Its not only a reminder of what love once was. But is also knowing that love carry ons forever, even if we renew our lives and move on. Every Rose has its thorns. Watch the movie, and if you are in love. Make sure you check your pockets and stay away from the pennies. "},{"Title":"A perfect 10","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Let me say this briefly. This is a perfect movie. There's enough romance to make it satisfying but not too much to make it baudy. This movie touches the heart and makes the soul surrender. Jane Seymour and Christopher Reeve are amazing. Enough said. I don't want to give it away. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Time-Crossed Love Story.","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Christopher Reeve(very good here) plays writer Richard Collier, who is met by a mysterious old woman who beckons to come back to me. Intrigued, he investigates, and finds himself in an experimental form of self-hypnosis, where he wills himself back in time decades earlier, and meets that old lady, only now she is a beautiful actress named Elise McKenna(Jane Seymour, perfectly cast, and entirely believable). They gradually fall in love, much to the consternation of her manager(Christopher Plummer, also good).Beautifully directed by Jeannot Szwarc, who recreates the period setting nicely, and creates an ethereal, melancholy air at that hotel that is most effective.Story does seem fantastic, but the performances are so sincere, and the heartbreak of the doomed romance so believable, that it works despite reservations of credibility. Ending is quite a powerful though, and may move some to tears. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"For those that love Christopher Reeve","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere In Time is probably one of the most beautiful movies you will ever see. Christopher Reeve's (Superman The Movie.) Performance is flawless. He's warm, bright, funny, energetic. This movie, along with Superman 2 which also came out in 1980, are both wonderful films. The story is straightforward. The acting is wonderful. The music is breathtaking. (The soundtrack can be found on ITunes.) All in All, for those who just flat out love Christopher Reeve, or for those who love a good love story, this is a must see. After I saw it for the first time, I went right out and bought it on DVD. For those who saw Chris guest star on Smallville as Dr. Virgil Swann and who loved him as Clark Kent/Superman in his Superman movies, are sure to cry. I know I got choked up. Although, I couldn't stop smiling. He was truly one of the worlds greatest actors, and, thanks to his books Anything is Possible and Still Me. He is one of my biggest inspirations. But, he will always be remembered by his role as the one and only......... SUPERMAN! (If you loved Christophers Superman movies, skip Superman Returns and watch Smallville instead.) "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was a huge surprise for me. I never got the chance to see this when it was new, and only just caught it by accident. I have to say this is a wonderful film. It is a bit dated, but not terribly, and Christopher Reeve is awesome! A near all-star cast, stellar performances, a fantastic storyline, and brilliant execution all come together to deliver a fine finished product suitable for nearly all ages, though I daresay younger movie goers will bore with this tragically beautiful love story.It rates a 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"REALLY good","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time last night, I'm now in love with it! My mom told me about it and she said it was a good movie and all, and since I liked Christopher Reeve I figured I'd watch it. So, I did and I balled my eyes out! It is the most romantic love story I have ever seen in my life! I told all my friends to watch it with me sometime, because it's that amazing of a movie that it has to be shared with the rest of the world. To be honest, I didn't know what to expect. The cable only rated it 2.5 stars out of 4, and it should be more like 10/4 stars! No joke, this movie basically swept me off my feet because it was so touching and moving. I love the story behind it, and the acting is incredible! Seriously, if you haven't seen it, SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"Soul Searching","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The story brings sheer joy to the heart. It can be interpreted in so many different ways. So many suggestions are incorporated. Sheer delight as the story allows us all to imagine if time travel were possible, and of course many of us have imagined this story might have happened to all of us too. This film will never age and the pleasure and message this film brings makes it Real Gem I never tire of watching Somewhere In Time The haunting music of John Barry creates the ideal background to the scenes and the location shots create mind thought and nostalgia.It was a breath of fresh air to become completely engrossed in the storyline and to be perfectly honest I really didn't want the film to end. Hopefully additional unseen scenes might be added to the DVD as I'm sure this would be much appreciated by fans of this film. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever seen","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere in time is a movie that you could see a hundred of times, it is just perfect, involves great actors, Christopher is marvelous and Jane is so brilliant emotive and beautiful, and even though the theme is not the best, what makes this the best romantic movie ever made are the emotions,good acting and beautiful music. I know it is only compliments, but those are the only ones that I can express on this movie. If you are sensitive, you will never forget it. The people that say that did not like it, it is because they resist to confess their feelings to admit it is beautiful and touched their hearts. Admit it , it won't hurt. "},{"Title":"A magical trip back into time","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This wonderful film has everything. Romance,intrigue,time travel,and a beautiful film score. Richard encounters Elise at a party for his play. She hands him something and we are started on a journey of time travel. This movie is romantic without nudity. A love story with unique twists and turns. The island hotel where they meet and fall in love is a wonderful setting. The time period is so accurately depicted you feel you are right there. This was Christopher Reeve in his prime. Handsome and sexy he courts Elise and wins her over despite the barriers of a modern day Romeo and a lovely Juliet from another time. Jane Seymour is a perfect example of gentility and grace. Torn between her career and an overbearing manager and the love of her life. She falls for him and captures the keepsake that will take him on this journey in the first place. A must see for a rainy afternoon.  "}{"Title":"Untainted Fantasy","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Experience has shown me that most people who dislike this movie are one-dimensial and uncreative androids who need everything spelled out for them in a blinding flash of purple neon.This movie encompassed metaphysics ans well as romance.  Metaphysics because he observed the rules of time travel and going into level if you will at the same time.The overwhelming effect that it had on so many people WITHOUT the use of nudity, sexual content, profanity or violance PROVES that only a person with a clear and untainted creative and thinking mind can enjoy this movie! "},{"Title":"Absolute Magic","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I don't have to think twice that this would be most serene and charming Love Story ever made. I even liked it more than the Love Story and Titanic itself because it didn't have a hint of commercial cinema in it.  A simple movie with the Most Beautiful actress Jane Seymour and Reeve is just unbelievable in his acting. Theme Music is just out of this world and everything about the Movie makes Magic. Whoever took Seymour's photo for the movie has made total magic and anyone would find glued to that Photo just like Reeve does in the movie. This movie will take you back in time!!! "},{"Title":"Love Story That Transcends Laws Of The Universe","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere In Time is a romantic science fiction film. It is a film adaptation of the 1975 novel Bid Time Return by Richard Matheson, who also wrote the screenplay. The film stars Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour, Christopher Plummer, Teresa Wright, and Bill Erwin.It was directed by Jeannot Szwarc. In Somewhere In Time,a young playwright, Richard Collier, is approached by an elderly woman on the occasion of his first triumph in 1972 -- all she says to him is Come back to me and leaves him with a watch that contains a picture of a ravishing young woman. Eight years later, he visits the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island and comes upon a photograph of the same woman, whom he discovers was an actress who made an appearance at the hotel in 1912. He becomes obsessed with the image and what the woman -- who died the night she approached him in 1972 -- meant by what she said. In a manner somewhat reminiscent of the film Laura, he falls in love with her and her image as he learns more about her life and career. Then he comes upon the suggestion of a professor at his former college that time travel may, in fact, be possible, using an extreme form of self-hypnosis to free the person from the place they occupy in the time-stream. Collier's feelings for the woman are so strong that he succeeds, bringing himself back to the hotel in 1912 on the eve of her triumph. He meets the actress, Elise McKenna, and the two fall in love despite the machinations of her obsessive, autocratic manager, who feels threatened by Collier's presence. The movie presents a love story that transcends time and space.Also,it was a passionate one that a viewer may find themselves empathy and sympathy to both Richard and Elise and may want them to end together. Credit Reeve and Seymour for their brilliant acting and chemistry.Also,special mention should be given Plummer.Although the movie was interesting from beginning to end,it is far from being a categorized as a great but rather a missed opportunity.There was an imbalance in the development of the characters especially since there is very little for Seymour to do and too much to do for Reeve as he dominated the picture.Also,the movie does not fully explore the romantic aspect which the universe cannot apply except that one has to accept it as a plot device.Also,I felt that the romance between the main characters were underdeveloped as they were made to fall in love within a day or two.It did not do well during its time of release but it became a cult classic when it was released on video.Credit the originality and the interesting premise of the story.Also,it applies more to romantic rather than people who are cynical and logical. "},{"Title":"A beautiful love story, masterfully told","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. It is a beautiful work of art. I had seen it in a theatre when I was in college, but I never forgot it. The characters and the music are so memorable, and the story is so unique that it was unforgettable. Recently I bought the DVD and when I watched it, I noticed a lot of finer things that I had not noticed in the 1980s. I was not aware that it had been a box office failure or that it had been on cable.What I love about this movie is its simplicity and directness, the subtle things, the lyrical quality, and integrity in making the movie. It was made with a very low budget, but you cannot tell when you see it. The sets and costumes are gorgeous. There are no gimmicks, special effects, CGI. It's all about the story, the characters and the idyllic surroundings the movie was shot in- Mackinac Island, Michigan. I have never been there but now I want to. The location- Grand Hotel appears truly grand. The cinematography captures the beauty and magic of the place very well, and the music is out of this world. Although I am a fan of classical music, and a fan of Rachmaninoff, whenever I heard the Rhapsody on the theme by Paganini, I think of 'Somewhere in time' first, then Rachmaninoff. The score by John Barry has made this movie truly romantic and powerful.This is a story about a young man doing time travel from 1980 to 1912 (and back)to meet a woman whose photograph he is drawn to. The director has cleverly used pastel colors in 1912 and dark/deep colors in 1980. The use of light is very effective and the 1912 costumes are gorgeous. Jane Seymour as the lead female character is equally gorgeous. She displays the 'soft on the surface, tough inside' Ellise McKenna very well. Her face is very expressive and the main picture/photograph that is central to the movie is absolutely beautiful, with a Mona Lisa like mystical quality.Christopher Reeve does a marvelous job of portraying the character of the young playwright Richard Collier- persistent, polite, charming, and heartbroken in the end. The last part of the movie is particularly touching, with Reeve expressing his deep hurt upon his loss, without a word, but using only his face, eyes and body to express what he is feeling.Christopher Plummer is splendid as Elise's manager/mentor. You hate him every time he appears to spoil things between the two lovers. He is powerful and controlling, concerned, worried, but he never becomes 'evil' (though he lies to Elise about what happened to Collier)- that's a tribute to Plummer's great abilities as an actor.Other actors who have smaller roles (the most memorable one is Arthur as a child and as an old man) support the main characters effectively.The antique watch which the old Elise gives Richard in 1972 becomes a key piece of the circle within a circle in this time travel story. Some people dislike the time travel concept, but I find it intellectually stimulating. The watch was not a part of the book the movie is based on, but it definitely adds something extra special to the movie. In spite of the deep emotions in the movie, it never becomes melodramatic or mushy. There is an explanation or everything. Everything is understated in the movie, and the director has maintained that subtle, light quality without compromise.I have seen this movie many times, now that I own the DVD. The special features and the commentary by the director are both excellent because they give a lot of background and point out some finer points about the movie. The interviews with the actors, particularly with Reeve- after his accident- are interesting.I love this movie and I recommend it to anyone who has an open mind, and likes subtle romance. "},{"Title":"The Most Romantic Movie Ever Made","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The writer Richard Matheson has done some of the best science fiction works ever. These include The Incredible Shrinking Man I am Legend, (the basis for three films, The Last Man on Earth, the Omega Man, and I am Legend,) The Night Stalker (widely regarded as the best made for television horror movie.)Duel. (Spielberg's first hit) What Dreams May Come, and some of the best classic Twilight Zone episodes (Nightmare at 20,000 Feet among others.) Yet, in the future I suspect Somewhere in Time will be the movie that he is best or most remembered for.It starts off a bit hokey with some pretty predictable and pedestrian scenes, but it gets quirky and quite unpredictable as you are swept back through time to the seemingly simple and almost Utopian age of 1912.I have seen the film five or six times and it casts its great spell on me each time. By now, I can sit back and appreciate the performance of Christopher Reeve. This is certainly the performance of his career. He is in practically every scene and he carries it off with the charisma of a Gable, Cagney, Grant or Bogart.Jane Seymour was 29 when she made this film and no actress has ever looked more radiant. The chemistry between Reeve and her is boiling. She says on the DVD that he taught her to fly an airplane while shooting the film. One can only imagine that other things went on between them... She did name her son after him.Christopher Plummer is also excellent as Reeve's rival for Seymour in the film. He comes off as a bad guy but an understandable, believable, and vulnerable one.The atmosphere at the Grand Hotel where the film was shot is magical and spectacular. So is the musical score by John Barry.Films scholars might note that Titanic steals some important scenes from this movie. It is a great coincidence that both films are set in 1912. It is probably less coincidental that both films begin with an elderly woman in the present remembering a great romance from their past. Both of these films understand that time is the great enemy of love, but time is also what makes love great. (Please give me credit if you quote that.) If you are not a naturally romantic person or if you are an anti-romantic person, you will probably dislike the film. However, for those who live their lives for love and always dream of having one great love, there is simply no better movie. "},{"Title":"Exquisite and haunting - Jane Seymour is perfect","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Everything about this movie is beautiful and magical from the setting in the Grand Hotel Macinack Island to the poignant and memorable score by John Barry. The music is one of the highlights of the movie. Rachmaninov's Rhapsody on a theme of Paganini is perfectly used here.The cast is perfect. Christopher Reeve acts passionately and with great earnestness and longing. It is his best romantic role. Jane Seymour is at her most beautiful - she really looks like a perfect doll here. Christopher Plummer adds some stature.The story makes as much sense as any time travel story can and it leaves you thinking about it for days.This is one of the great romances on film and it is no wonder it has such a following. "},{"Title":"I hate it coz it made me cry","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The movie along with Eternal Sunshine of spotless mind have changed my opinion toward Romantic Genre. Earlier I hated romantic movies. I just saw the movie. And at the end it was complete heartbreaking. For nearly 2 days I was obsessed with the movie. Thinking all the time about the love between Richard and Elise. Thinking how painful it had been for Elise for waiting 68 years. Although the romance between Richard and Elise was short. But it was very deep. The acting by Reeve is superb. Its one of the few movie which tore my heart and made me cry. The last movie which had a similar impression on my mind was Swedish film LET the Right in One. I don't know why it has been rated very low on Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritics. Now I'm gonna see Casablanca(listed as greatest romantic movie on many websites). "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Tragic!","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" i saw this movie for the first time this evening, 30 years after it's original release and i cannot even begin to describe the emotions i felt as the film drew to a close. this film is so beautiful i am not even going to say a single word about the story other than what i must say below because it is far too good to spoil.SPOILER BELOW...........................For those who said in their own reviews that it seems Richard did not travel to the past at all but merely had a dream, can you please explain to me how the old lady knew him if he had not been in the past?? i suggest keeping a closer eye on the film in future as some seem to have missed the little scene at the beginning where they first met!watching with a girl on a first date? want to get her in a romantic mood? then this is the film to watch with her ;) "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film Forever )","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film was made way before I was born. This is my father's favorite film. He always use to play this movie around the fall season. Now that I've gotten older I've learned to really appreciate the story. It really is the perfect/imperfect romance novel. We have all experienced some form of love and loss, and this story with its beautiful actors and tug of wars within the chapters, makes anyone who's not made of stone, feel and wonder about real love - finding thee soul mate - the one you would travel through time for. A story like this can never become outdated. I heard there are pilgrimages to the old Grand hotel every year. I would love to go and just soak up the aura and the imagery that film has created for so many of us viewers. I have always wanted to find a love like Collier's and McKenna (you know what i mean) but have never been that lucky. lol At least I have found the love for this movie and judging from the so many other comments - you have too. ) God Bless You Christopher Reeve "},{"Title":"A journey through time that's become a classic with time.","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ever heard this story Movie is barley noticed when it is originally released, but later develops a cult following? So it is with this stunning 1979 film, paring Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour as two lovers who must reunite after meeting, Somewhere in Time. Check out the website for the society of Somewhere in Time Enthusiasts-- it's amazing! The idea for this incredibly romantic story was apparently based on the book Bid Time Return, and the main locale in the movie is visited regularly by devoted fans (mentioned above). The real Grand Hotel,is a summer resort, open May through October, and is on Mackinack Island in Michigan. Lovers of theatre will enjoy this because of a plot that centers around a staged play, and the period sets and costumes (c. 1912). Check out the photography! Awesome things are done with reflections and shadows, and using the camera as a character's eyes. There is an absolute vulnerability to each person-- we are right there routing for them (or not, as the case might be); and because of the incredible attention to detail, we feel as though we've been transported to the period the characters are in. All this, and a gorgeous soundtrack, which has also developed a cult following, to boot. With the tragic death of Christopher Reeve, this film seems to have developed a memorial sort of status, especially for those who visit the hotel to see where it all took place. This is the film I watch whenever I want to escape for a while, and I'm sure many others do as well. If you haven't seen it, do so! "}{"Title":"No extravagant special effects, no action, just a great story ...","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think how good a movie is often depends on the person. Who are you? What do you like? What do you hate? Do you have an imagination? Do you love a great love story? If you answer yes to the last two questions, then sit back and relax, and enter this film. No no, don't just watch it ... enter it ... become the movie. Every time I watch I become absorbed by Christopher Reeve and his emotions. Every step of the way, I am captivated. When someone asks me, what is my favorite film of all time, this is it. Very rarely do I give a film a 10, but this is it. I visited the island on a vacation (for real). I feel like I am standing beside Christopher Reeve as he moves through this film. There is nothing special about this film. It is very cheaply made ... nothing spectacular, so don't expect much. It's just an awesome story, simple as that. I love it. I won't say anything to spoil it, just watch it, absorb it, believe it. Thank you for a great memory. "},{"Title":"This is a great love story for couples to watch together!","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The great thing about it is that it has something for everyone. This is a love story that men and women can watch together, which is rare. It has elements of history, time travel, fantasy, a beautiful setting - and it's told from the guy's perspective, which is unique.The casting was superb. Although I'm not a great fan of Jane Seymour, I really liked her in this. She has just the right old-fashioned look to pull off her character from the early 1900's. Christopher Reeve is just amazing - he's a man's man, but very romantic too. Again, this is why both men and women can enjoy this picture together. If you want proof, check the user comments - which I did. There are as many guys who rave about this movie as women.The music is almost like another character in the movie, it is that crucial and supportive in progressing the story.I don't ever really remember this being a box office sensation. I only ever first saw it on TV in the late 80's. But since then I have seen it numerous times (6+) and never grow tired of it. I think I appreciate the great storytelling and acting more with each viewing.Make a date with your significant other and rent (or Netflix) this movie! This is truly a beautiful love story that is timeless. "},{"Title":"Great movie for couples","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The movie was produced in 1980, but it was filmed in June/July of 1979 on Mackinac Island Michigan. Much of the inside and outside shots are done on the property of The Grand Hotel. This is a perfect location because they limit modern conveniences and do not allow motorized vehicles on the island. Everyone must either walk, use bicycles or horses.It is an interesting coincidence for me because it happened to be filmed there when I was there on my honeymoon.There are a few things such as style that give away the context of the modern period of the late 70's, but otherwise and mostly, it is a timeless movie. Not much for problems with consistencies either.Regarding the question asked about the reincarnation asked in the previous review, the answer is no - following time lines can be quite tricky when dealing with going back and forth. You have to pay strong attention to the time line from the beginning of the story. Consider the time line of the movie itself to follow the time line of HIS life.This pocket watch is critical to him going back in time, but of course he has no idea why he is getting this watch till years later. It also serves as a marker in time to assure himself that what he experience is not just a dream.A lot of men assume they won't like the movie. However, while romantic, it is actually told from the man's point of view and most guys can relate. Any guy that has seriously thought about what it would be like to go to a different time and change history or just knows he would fall in love with someone from their picture or words they've written will find some real personal connection here.I've always liked just about anything that Jane Seymour has done and her movie and television characters always strike me as something near the ideal woman. She does not disappoint here. I can't say that I've ever really liked Chris Reeves. However, this is the one exception. This is the role he was made for. "},{"Title":"love really moves in mysterious ways","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" i have always been a fan of the superman movies. christopher reeve did a great job in portraying the man of steel. i actually believed that men can really fly. but upon seeing somewhere in time, wow! he can really act. his performance was so powerful that it made me cry. to actually find true love in a not so usual way is really a mystery. i myself would rather trade what i am at present to be with the girl of my dreams. jane seymour also delivered her lines very well and she's really pretty. sweet and very charming. they are such a lovely pair on screen. all i can say is that i wish the movie industry would try to come up with more movies like this. more depth, more meaning that will truly leave an unforgettable impression to audiences "},{"Title":"A Portrait Speaks a Thousand Words","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I was only 10 when I first watched this film. Perhaps it's nostalgia mixed with the story-line that has kept this film as one of my all-time favorites. I think we've all fantasized about a world where time-travel is possible. What an amazing thing it would be to travel throughout time; to meet our great great grandparents, to discover ancient Egypt, to see in true color what we can only see on screen. This movie, then, fulfills some of that fantasy for us.The movie also explores the love of history. Studying history deeply to know passed societies as if we've lived there. As a history researcher, it's a magical thing to see played out the awakening into a different time--to experience the things only possible for us to read about. For anyone wishing for a great night at home, and a film that is interesting as well as beautiful, I recommend this to you. After watching it, or for those who already do appreciate this film, I'd also suggest Lady Jane starring Helena Bonhem Carter. It's another of my all-time favorite films; absolutely spectacular, as well as a very accurate experience of the period's events. "},{"Title":"named your top romantic movies","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Pardon my English. this is one of my favorite romantic movies and watchable. Character emotions and music score are top notch. Especially Christopher Reeves and Jane Seymour are perfect star-cross lover. John Barry score music haunting me all the time when I saw this movie long time ago. Sad and beautiful melody. Romantic movie stories sometimes absurd, but it just a movie entertainment just to make us happy, sad, satisfy and entertained. Anyway, my top romantic movies are  1. Breakfast at Tiffany 2. Somewhere In Time 3. Ghost 4. Moulin Rouge ! (2001) 5. Sleepless In Seattle 6. The English Patient 7. Pretty Woman 8. From Here To Eternity 9. Gone With The Wind 10. Picnic "},{"Title":"Simplisticaly enigmatical","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was 13 and I was not a lad who enjoyed what I called, Soppy rubbish.I watched this film and thought it simply elequent.  No special effects in this, simple lens work brought the movie to life, using a pastel film stock, it gave the film a magical rendering. When Christopher Reeves travels to the past, to a life he is not of and finds love that is almost forbidden, you are ahead of the characters, but can only sit and wait for the inevitable, as they are torn apart by time.I watch this movie now, not with a sense of nostalgia, but with a passion for Reeves and Seymour, portrayed with expression only read of in books. "},{"Title":"Elise McKenna based on real-life NYC Broadway actress Maude Adams.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Update July 2, 2015, ThursdayI still love this movie; I have seen it many times. I have a DVD, video, CD and piano sheet music of the theme melodies. My online research says that Elise was based on a real-life famous actress, Maude Adams. I read the book, Bid Time Return, written by Richard Matheson, plus some biographies of Adams herself. Robinson was really the famous NYC theatrical impresario Charles Frohman, who died on Lusitania 7 May 1915. Frohman was a powerful owner of NYC theatres, plus a theatrical syndicate in the United States. Maude was Frohman's most popular star at Frohman's Broadway venue, the Empire Theatre.In real life, Matheson saw a young-lady photograph of the REAL Maude Adams in Piper's Opera House in Nevada. Maude was a childhood traveling actress throughout the American West with her mother, long before her Broadway debut. She even played in San Francisco. Adams (1872-1953, b. Salt Lake City, Utah) was most famous for starring onstage on Broadway in 1905's PETER PAN (written by J.M. Barrie). In SIT (Somewhere in Time), Richard Collier reads descriptions of ADAMS' life. Richard is the author's name, and Collier is the name of a 1909 author who wrote articles about famous actors.Maude Adams had a fiancé, writer Richard Harding Davis, who later wrote news stories from the Spanish-American War. Maybe Frohman/Robinson got rid of him. The book has Collier meeting Elise in 1896. Davis may have been the man who hurt and left Maude herself in 1896. Later, of course, Davis gets hired by William Randolph Hearst to become a famed newspaper writer, 1898, in the Spanish-American War. Three Richards?? Richard Matheson, Richard Collier, Richard Harding Davis? I think Davis was the real Richard Collier, with the romance with Maude broken up by the controlling Frohman. Davis also wrote novels, including the Gallagher stories later co-opted by Disney. Richard Collier was a writer; so was Davis. Adams never married. She mostly retired from the stage by 1920, becoming a stage lighting inventor. 1930s/40s She became an innovative theatre professor at Stephens College, Missouri.McKenna's mother (ugly-rough-obnoxious) is in the book. Adams' mother, Annie Adams, was a Salt Lake City Mormon actress in Brigham Young's Theatre, who put Little Maudie on stage after infancy. Maudie grew up to become a Broadway leading lady with John Drew (ancestor of Drew Barrymore). Maude then became a Sir James M. Barrie actress Besides Peter Pan -- her most famous -- she starred in Barrie's Quality Street, The Little Minister, etc. Maude also starred in Joan of Arc and Romeo and Juliet.WHY DID ADAMS BECOME ELISE McKENNA IN SIT? Why has no one heard of Adams, if she was one of the most revered actresses...top-box-office draw...? Why do we only hear about Sarah Bernhardt? Some websites say Adams had no time for romance; some mention lesbianism. Maude, very wealthy, along with Frohman and Barrie, were some of the wealthiest entertainers hated pre-WWI, culminating in the 1919 Actors Strike. Other stage actresses from her era went Hollywood, such as Ethel Barrymore. Why did Adams disappear? She could have been making Hollywood movies through 1940s. She retired to a huge property in New York State (so did McKenna in Matheson's book), and donated it to Catholic nuns. Adams, a Mormon, was buried on the property. I don't know why Adams was changed to McKenna for this movie, but I still like SIT.I have a recent American History Degree, pursued with the thought of studying the background of actors and actresses of this era called The Gilded Age and Progressive Era (erroneously called the Victorian and Edwardian Eras). This includes the time period of post-American Civil War, up to and including the First World War (around 1870s up to 1920). Here are some historical musings Maude Adams was born in 1872. Her parents witnessed the 1869 Utah ceremony of the Golden Spike connecting the first complete railroad across the United States. In Somewhere in Time, Elise meets Richard in 1912. Collier only knew Elise for a few days (1-2 days?), then, poof!, he was gone. In real life, Frohman/Robinson gets killed on the Lusitania in 1915 (100 years ago this year, 2015), which major incident propels the U.S. toward World War One. Remember The Titanic? April, 1912. Richard Collier meets Elise McKenna in June, 1912. In 1912, in real life, there were silent movies, airplanes and automobiles. SIT only showed horses because cars are not normally allowed on Mackinac Island, even though Christopher Reeve's character was allowed to drive a Fiat from Chicago to the Grand Hotel in the film. Reeve, a licensed pilot, even flew his own private airplane on short jaunts in between filming this movie. Where was the landing strip? I do not know. Update July 2, 2015, Thursday, of my original 2002 review.15/10 "},{"Title":"Credit for author Jack Finney?","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I won't add to the laudatory comments about this movie but would like to raise an intriguing question. In 1970 an author named Jack Finney copyrighted what he called An Illustrated Novel named Time and Again, which I have. It is a romantic, soulful read predicated on time travel back to an earlier New York City. I have always been struck by the similarity between the time travel method used by Finney in his book, and the sort of self-hypnosis method used in the Somewhere in Time movie. They are uncannily similar! Yet I find no credit for Jack Finney in connection with the Somewhere in Time movie on either the comments posted on Amazon.com or here on IMDb.Of interest also is that the professor character in the movie who tells Richard Collier about time travel is named Finney. Can that be just coincidence, or was it intended as a kind of homage to author Jack Finney? Does anyone know? "},{"Title":"The Reeve's Tale","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is the perfect antidote to cgi, s and v, slasher movies and the rest of that ilk. A simple premise, a simple story, simple shooting, simple acting, simple values. Stately is a good word to sum up the pace for this is a movie that DARES to take its time (pun intended) to draw you into its essentially simple boy-meets-girl story. Everything about it screams care and attention to detail, for example only in retrospect does it occur to us that Christopher Reeve was never QUITE fully at home/ease in the present despite a lifestyle free from hardship and we relish the irony that once in the past, despite his incongruous clothes which are, we are told, ten years out of date thus theoretically making him something of a fish out of water, he is TRULY at home and at ease even before his deliberately delayed meeting with Jane Seymour, literally the love of his life. I recall seeing this movie several years ago fully aware that it had been slated by the critics yet surrendering completely to its enchantment and now, having just bought the DVD and fearing the worst I was captivated all over again. Hard to classify or compare but definitely in the same romantic league as Before Sunrise/Sunset. "}{"Title":"Lovely old fashioned romance, though not believable","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I admit to being somewhat disappointed in this movie as I'd had great expectations, considering its cast with three of my favorite stars, Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour, and Christopher Plummer. The old fashioned love tale is beautiful, but I felt that the context of time travel should have been managed more skillfully.The story centers around a Chicago playwright, Richard Collier, who is approached on the opening night of his first play by an old lady who begs him Come back to me, and presses into his hand a classic pocket watch. Several years later he discovers that this lady is Elise McKenna, a famous stage actress from the early 1900's, whose vintage portrait hangs in the Grand Hotel. Through self hypnosis, he manages to travel back in time to that era, where he meets the beautiful Elise and they fall in love, despite the objections of her manager. Also, despite the difficulties of being separated by almost a century in time.The actors are all wonderful in their roles, the handsome and charming Christopher Reeve playing Richard, with Jane Seymour as Elise, absolutely beautiful, elegant, and radiant in every scene. Christopher Plummer is cast in the part of the overbearing, overprotective, mean spirited, and possessive manager, William Fawcett Robinson. Though Plummer's role isn't intended to be sympathetic, his acting is of course impeccable, and he's such a favorite of mine that I can never quite picture him as the villain of the piece. Personally...don't get angry with me...but I kind of wished he'd ended up settling down himself with this lovely actress for which he obviously has unrequited feelings.My main problem lies with the time travel. This is definitely NOT a science fiction movie. While I wouldn't have expected technical scientific methods in a romance movie, surely the screenwriters could have come up with something a bit more believable than this silly self hypnosis. Though I'm quite a romantic myself, this really made the whole plot seem a little foolish. Also, there are just so many loose ends in connecting the 1912 Elise and the late 20th Century Richard. By the end, I wondered whether I had missed something along the way, so was a bit relieved to discover that a few others had the same problem. With such sloppy screen writing, I felt the producers were relying a little too much on the famous name stars and the dramatic High Romance of it all.It's all pure dreamy romance, fantasy, and fairy tale throughout. Wonderful cinematography, beautiful scenes of Michigan's Mackinac Island and the Grand Hotel, and lavish Oscar nominated turn of the century period costumes. If you can just suspend all critical thought processes, you can enjoy this movie as a haunting fairy tale, an escapist romantic fantasy. "},{"Title":"somewhere in time","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I can honestly say I have never seen a love story as moving as Somewhere In Time. Richard Collier's desperation to travel back in time to Elise McKenna and the intensity of his feelings jump out of the screen.The instant connection between them when they meet is wonderful.There could not have been a more stunning actress than Jane Seymour to play the part of Elise.She is outstandingly beautiful and Christopher Reeve's performance as Richard was a welcome surprise.Together they made you feel the love between them.This and the wonderful musical score make it a film you will never forget.I know I won't.It will always have a place in my heart. "},{"Title":"A Timeless Love Affair..","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is truly my favorite love story of all time! The performances given by Christopher Reeves and Jane Seymour is fantastic! The setting in the past, is very reconstructed very well. They really give you a sense of the feel for that time. The costumes and etiquette are very accurate for that time period. I've seen Christopher Reeves as Superman, never imagined him to play such a diverse role as this so well. The story line really captures the viewer and sends them on a quest of true love past all boundaries of time, for love has no boundaries. Start the fireplace, snuggle with a loved one or with a warm blanket and keep the tissue box handy. Guaranteed to make anyone weep in the end. "},{"Title":"His creepy facial expressions ruined this for me","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have a couple of problems with this film, the most important one being Christopher Reeve's face. I'm not talking about his handsome, chiseled features. I'm talking about his seeming inability to use his face to display emotions. Frankly, his dopey stares are creepy. I would have thought Jane Seymour's character would have thought he was a perverted stalker. I'm serious...it made me uncomfortable.And then there are the little things. It's an exclusive resort...and no one working there would have noticed Reeve's character sleeping on the veranda since he had no money??? Now I'm not saying this is a bad movie. It's okay for a romantic fantasy, but I don't give it the high marks some give it, mostly because of Christopher Reeve's acting.Jane Seymour is very good here. I also really enjoyed seeing a tremendously talented actress -- Teresa Wright, once a major star in her own right. Christopher Plummer is always a pleasure to see, even during this phase of his career when he usually played bad guys. And, Bill Erwin was interesting to see.I'll grudgingly give the film a 7. "},{"Title":"Give it a shot","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A playwright (Christopher Reeve) uses self-hypnosis to go back in time to meet an actress (Jane Seymour) whose photograph he is drawn to. Lovely, old-fashioned romance with a little bit of a sci-fi/fantasy bent. I say 'little bit' because the time travel part of the plot isn't well-explained. Apparently you can just travel through time by force of will or self-hypnosis or whatever. This part of the plot is a means to an end. I get that. Took me a few viewings over the years before I found I no longer cared about it. The point of the movie is the romance not the time travel. In many ways this is a chick flick, not what one might expect from something written by Richard Matheson. The script is good, however. Jeannot Szwarc's direction is pedestrian and makes you think this was made for TV (it wasn't). Christopher Reeve is excellent and has a nice chemistry with Jane Seymour. John Barry's score is wonderful. It's a movie that grows on you. Like I said, first few times I saw it (over a span of years), I liked it but didn't love it. This last time I really enjoyed it a lot more. "},{"Title":"Simply wonderful","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" My tenth favourite film of all time, this is the first time that I have watched it since before the death of the late, great Christopher Reeve on October 10, 2004. It's an utterly marvellous film. I adore the storyline and the love story. The script is written by the acclaimed science fiction and fantasy writer Richard Matheson (who has a cameo), based on his 1975 novel Bid Time Return. The ending of the film is extremely moving. The Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island is a lovely backdrop for the film. The soundtrack is one of the most beautiful that I've ever heard, both the 18th variation of Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini and John Barry's work.Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour - who became close friends and remained so for the rest of his life - play their roles wonderfully and have fantastic chemistry as Richard Collier and Elisa McKenna while the legendary Christopher Plummer is excellent as the enigmatic antagonist William Fawcett Robinson. The supporting cast - Bill Erwin, Teresa Wright, George Voskovec (in one of his final roles) and Susan French (who only has one line, albeit an extremely important one) - is of the same high calibre. "},{"Title":"Everlasting movie","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie first when I was a little boy. Since I was a kid I was only captivated by the science-fiction side of the movie, the idea of a time-travel in such a mind-controlling way and the horrible ending of movie made an impression on me. I've always remembered this movie and sometimes thought about it and in 2005 I bought a DVD and I saw it again. I even invited my sister and dad and grandma to watch it. It was a totally different experience. After all 20 years had passed. So the same year we all watched together the movie, my dad died and this movie sort of changed for me again, now it is a movie that brings me back good old days and gives you idea how fragile everything in life is. Lastly, the feeling of everlasting love and a hope to maybe meet your loved ones again one happy day, is the last piece of the movie that makes it complete. The sad faith of a great and strong willed person Christopher Reeve and the most beautiful actress Jane Seymour makes this piece even more valuable. "},{"Title":"Good Romance Film!","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour and Christopher Plummer star in this 1980 romantic fantasy based on the novel, Bid Time Return. The late, Reeve (Superman) plays Chicago playwright, Richard Collier who gets visited by an old woman who gives him an antique watch. Eight years later, Richard heads to a hotel where he notices a portrait of a beautiful woman, Elise McKenna (Seymour) and is love struck. He learns she was the old woman and that he was there sometime in 1912. Soon he goes back in time to find her and they start falling for each other. Plummer plays her controlling manager, William Fawcett Robinson who tries keeping them apart. This is a good romance film, Reeve & Seymour had great chemistry and John Barry's score is excellent. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"A Good Watch","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Amazing love theme, costuming very good, starts off a little slow, and then moves along at a brisker pace, but I would not have ended the movie version the way it ends.I have not seen it recently, but Jane Seymour's performance was very good, Christopher Reeve's performance, although adequate, was a little tentative.Mackinaw Island's hotel provides a beautiful backdrop for the story.Interestingly enough, there was another movie made the year before - (1979),titled The Two Worlds of Jenny Logan which had a similar theme and flavor, but a more satisfying ending. That movie is now public domain and if you do a search for it it can be watched in its entirety on one of the free movie sites. If you search ABC Movie Of The Week you will find it among a number of those movies. "},{"Title":"Nice fantasy but weakened by storyline coherence","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Definitely a nice fantasy, and desperately sad given the permanence of any separation in time as opposed to distance. The theme music (Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini) gives it a romantic longing.Unfortunately, details of the storyline (several of which differ from the original book) make it less-than-convincing which ruins the effect slightly. How did Elise become aware of the Richard's professor, and his book on time travel which she had a copy of? How did William anticipate Richard? Was he a visitor from the future too? That would have been a nice twist. Was Richard really in the past or was it just hypnosis? Did he just materialise there, and dematerialise later? Some may argue that these questions are too detailed but a coherent storyline does helps. "}{"Title":"The dreams are sometimes made","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" SOMEWHERE IN TIME is a journey into the past in an effort to consummate the affective delivery for that be wonderful that we have ever dreamed. A return to what has never been found, hope divine love and be loved. A crooked cross the barrier to imposing the right to deny us our happiness. The story, written by renowned writer Richard Matheson, began in 1972. It is celebrating a play about an old woman and the writer Richard Collier, gives him a pocket watch and says Return to Me. Eight years later, in the Mackinac Island's Grand Hotel, where they have wrought great stories, the young playwright discovers a portrait that leaves him obsessed.For those who believe in reincarnation, which have other lives and other times, this movie reaffirms all its expectations. Elise McKenna and Richard Collier will spend the time tunnel and a wonderful love story will live in 1912, sixty years before that last game. The idealized dream comes true. It transpires that affection magnanimous cornered by incomprehensible circumstances. ¡What if everything is just a dream! So what if the overwhelming reunion with the world of matter staunch refusal to what we feel. Unenforceable against the consummation everything has been done, carried out in the afterlife, in the twilight zone of though.Scenery, pictorial and dreamy picture, a musical score that caresses the deepest fibers (unforgettable John Barry) and a general atmosphere of romanticism singular, overwhelming to any viewer that disinhibit the sentiment.SOMEWHERE IN TIME was, deservedly, the Licorne d'or at the International Festival of Fantastic Film París.A movie that will leave you walking on clouds, and it occasionally is good, because land is not only what exists in the universe. "},{"Title":"Enchanting fantasy love story with a nice cast","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is an enchanting love story with a science fiction touch of time traveling. The John Barry music was lovely. Jane Seymore was beautiful as usual. I thought Superman Christopher Reeves was well casted. I am glad to see Teresa Wright in her late years got a role, a small role as it is. The time traveling idea in this movie is so fantastic that I believe I would enjoy reading the book Bid Time Return that the book is based on. The downsides were that it was kind of short that their encounter did not get elaborated enough to my satisfaction in the explanation and that the pace was a bit slow. Though the cast was appropriate, don't expect great performances from the leading roles. Overall, this movie is worth a view for people into love stories, especially tearjerkers. "},{"Title":"Refreshing simplicity.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie's progenitors would include Henry Hathaway's *Peter Ibbetson*, and, oddly enough, Alain Resnais' immortal avant-garde masterpiece *Last Year in Marienbad*. In the former case, *Somewhere in Time* tracks the earlier film's Surrealist credo that love and libido can overcome such mere obstacles as time and space. In the latter case, this movie shares with the New Wave classic a plot about a pair of lovers at a palatial hotel whose consummation is blocked by Time as well as by a domineering husband-slash-Svengali figure (in this case, an arch Christopher Plummer). It's an open question, of course, if science-fiction writer Richard Matheson (who adapted the screenplay from his own novel) and hack director Jeannot Szwarc (director of such auteurist works as *Jaws 2* and *Supergirl*) really had Surrealism or New Wave cinema in mind when they made this beautiful little film . . . though I seriously doubt Szwarc, a Frenchman, wasn't aware of the similarities to *Marienbad*, a film that helped shape an entire generation of European filmmakers. Maybe his idea here was remake *Marienbad* for a mainstream American audience. If so, I think he succeeded, despite the fact that the film flopped upon its initial 1980 release. If nothing else, the fact that *Somewhere in Time* has engendered a cult following that meets once a year at the Grand Hotel in Mackinac Island, Michigan (the setting of the movie) and even has a website and a quarterly magazine (!) proves that Szwarc succeeded in whatever he was trying to accomplish.Because of its rather simplistic nature, the movie defeats detailed analysis. After all, this is a film about a playwright who WILLS HIMSELF BACK IN TIME to 1912, from dreary 1980, in order to be with the woman he loves. Therefore, let's get to the point. The movie would be a colossal failure without two fundamental elements. Number one? A totally committed Christopher Reeve. This is a film that is ultimately anchored by his credible (and likable) screen presence. Reeve must SELL the idea that he's lying on the bed, trying as hard as he can to travel back in time to 1912 . . . and sell it he does. The other fundamental element required to make the film succeed is a preternaturally beautiful woman as the love interest. Enter Jane Seymour, at the zenith of her mind-boggling physical charms, as Elise, the stage actress who captures the playwright's heart. Attired in Teddy Roosevelt-era diaphanous gowns, she is quite simply an ethereal angel here, making it easy to see why the Somewhere-in-Time Fan Club was founded by a MAN.The movie takes its romance very seriously (no laughs here), and, perhaps for this reason, is itself not taken very seriously. But its earnestness becomes its overriding virtue, making it stand proudly aloof from the fashionable -- and wearying! -- cynicism of our modern culture. Sure, *Somewhere in Time* can be appreciated on an intellectual level there's the Surrealist angle of the human spirit transcending the limitations of physics; there's the self-referential theatricality of the thing, considering that a playwright and an actress are the protagonists (perhaps the story can be interpreted as the wistful dream of one character or the other or even both). But the movie will mean the most to those who have ever fallen deeply in love, and it will perhaps mean even more to those who lost that love. This movie ends tragically . . . here on Earth. What happens next may only be wishful thinking.8 stars out of 10. A note on John Barry's score it's justly famous, but rather wears out its welcome (there are almost no variations to its lovely but quite simple phrases), and quite frankly some of the chord changes reminded me of Nadia's Theme. I'm not saying Barry is a plagiarist; but composers, more than other artists, are susceptible to infection -- what Harold Bloom called the anxiety of influence. All I'm saying is that Nadia's Theme was ubiquitous in the Seventies, and Barry probably couldn't escape the taint. In any case, the one breather from the endlessly looped score happens to be Rachmaninoff's Variation on a Theme from Paganini. Rather unfortunately for Barry, it also happens to be one of the most beautiful pieces of music ever written, and puts Barry's own theme somewhat in perspective (i.e., the shade).Postscript Speaking of the score, *Groundhog Day*, a later film about time-travel and true love, deftly pays homage to this film when Bill Murray plays a jazzed-up version of the Rachmaninoff piece near that film's climax. Oh, and OF COURSE, speaking of influences generally -- to end where we began -- James Cameron's *Titanic* completely rips this movie off, in mood, time-period (same year! -- 1912), and in even in its finale when DiCaprio and Winslet reunite in glowing white light on the Great Cruise Ship In The Sky. "},{"Title":"I loved the movie, but don't understand why Christopher Reeve is not listed anywhere in the credits.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie in 2005 along with my husband. I got the recommendation from a friend of mine. I had been to Mackinac Island and saw the Grand Hotel. I felt that the movie was well done and very romantic. A definite chick flick. One con point is that Christopher Reeve did not appear in any of the credits before or after the movie. I was very moved by the romantic parts of the movie. I especially loved the part where Jane Seymour returns to Christopher Reeve after he thinks she has left him forever. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who loves romantic movies. The scenes were breathtakingly beautiful. The Grand Hotel and Mackinac Island are a wonderful backdrop for a romantic movie. "},{"Title":"It took my breath away. the best love story ever","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie took my breath away. it is a master piece that shows what true love is. Jane Saymour was gorgeous. I watched it at night and it was hard for me to fall asleep after. it is the best movie ever. the movie starts with a slow pace that makes you wonder what's going to happen next. Yet as the story unfolds one can easily guess it is going to be the best love story ever. the actors were both great. HOwever Jane Saymour was a real Goddess. When I woke up the second day, I was still in a state of dream. I have been to Mackinac Island before. I don't know if this factor made me love the movie more. yet what I know for now is that in two weeks from now i will ago to Mackina Island again with my brothers. It will take some time to get rid of the spell. this movie has really enchanted me and I won't recover, at least for a few weeks... "},{"Title":"Is it you?","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The ultimate modern-day four-hankie chick-flick, Somewhere In Time, starring Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour, Christopher Plummer, and Teresa Wright (in a bit part) is an unabashedly sentimental, romantic, beautiful film that never fails to bring me to tears.Reeve portrays Richard Collier, a young Chicago playwright, who, on the opening night of his first play, is approached by an elderly woman who pleads with him to Come back to me as she presses an antique watch into his hands. Intrigued, he starts to do some research and discovers that the woman was, in her youth, a beautiful and popular stage actress named Elise McKenna. He travels to a resort where she had performed, and becomes obsessed with a photographic portrait he sees on display there. (Next comes the really fantasy part) He decides he has to learn how he can travel back in time so that he may meet her, and by self-hypnosis, combined with other methods/props, they meet and fall in love. But trouble rears its ugly head in the form of Elise's overbearing and overprotective manager (Plummer).Christopher Reeve is at his handsome prime here, and his performance is wonderfully Gary Cooperish-tall-awkward-naive-in love. Jane Seymour is at her most patrician, slyly feline best (her other best performance, IMO, has been in the TV remake of East of Eden, which is actually a very fine film in its own right). Their performances, along with Christopher Plummer's, the beautiful soundtrack by John Barry, which is almost better than the film itself, and the costumes combine to make a great tearjerker along the lines of the old classics. "},{"Title":"Saw this at Universal","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Universal Studios screened this movie on the lot last year as part of its classic cinema collection.  I was fortunate enough to be a part of the screening and happily report it was standing room only.  And with good reason, as this movie is hauntingly beautiful and wonderfully romantic.I recommend Somewhere in Time to anyone who is looking for a great cinematic experience.  John Barry's musical score is excellent and so is Reeve, Seymour, and especially Christopher Plummer as Robinson. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have loved this movie from the very first time I saw it at age 12. The story is absolutely beautiful. The music is very powerful(by that I mean touching)anyone who loves this movie also knows exactly what I mean. Anyone who doesn't get the chills and doesn't grin from ear to ear when Ms.McKenna finds Richard after she thought he was gone, doesn't have a heart.....That scene is BREATHTAKING! This has been one of my all time favorite movies ever. I recommend it to people all the time. "},{"Title":"Understandably A Favorite","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen several people calling this their favorite film. It certainly is one of the great romantic films, and is very underrated and unappreciated.The film has a dream-like quality and the two leads give great performances.A very dramatic and memorable film. "},{"Title":"It's sooooo corny, but it's good anyway","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is such a guilty pleasure.  As a hopeless romantic, I couldn't help but love this movie.  Christopher Reeve is dashing, Jane Seymour is charming, and there are even special appearances by Christopher Plummer and (the best actress of all time) Teresa Wright!  BUT - men beware - this is the definitive chick flick.  As romantic as I am, and however many times I've seen Casablanca, I still have to admit that this script is as syrapy as you can get.  The story can't get any cheesier, but it's helped along by great performances.  Being a Michigan native, I have first-hand experience with The Grand Hotel, Mackinac Island and the Somewhere in Time Fan Club.  I have to say it, I've gone to midnight showings of The Rocky Horror Picture Show, but the Somewhere in Time fans are SCARY!  They dress up in 1912 dresses, pretend they're Jane Seymour, and I even met a couple who named their children Richard and Elise.  Folks, this is not normal!  At least the RHPS fans know it's a joke and don't take it seriously.  These Somewhere in Time fans... yikes!But apart from the cult following (yes it most definately is a cult-classic) it is a good movie.  Cheesy as anything, but good.  Girls, keep a kleenex (or if you're a member of the fanclub - a handkerchief) ready!  You will cry! "}{"Title":"The great character in this movie is The Grand Hotel of Mackinac Island, Michigan","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As a small child 70 years ago, my parents took me to the Grand Hotel. I still remember the horses (no cars allowed on the island even today), the real American Indian village where I met Native Americans for the first time, the long stairway to the beach, the world-known porch, supposed to be a mile long, but not really - with rocking chairs my parents adored.  This setting is beautifully recreated in the movie, and Reeves and Seymour act their parts  in sync with the hotel, the dining room especially. I remember the uniformed African American waiters and a few women waitresses. I put myself and my memories in this movie. I think Christopher Reeve was perfect for the part - understated, unlikely hero, out of place, but not really, and Jane Seymour was superb as Elise, dramatic, beautiful, and Plummer, one of my favorite actors was wonderfully mean-spirited.  Mackinac Island, Michigan, the location of the Grand is still a wonderful  place to visit ,and The Grand, in real life, is a historic landmark. The hotel is the main character and is omnipotent in every scene.. Highly  recommended for the romantic and the nostalgic movie-goer, like me.  "},{"Title":"The Love That Transcends Time (major spoilers)","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  How did they get Jane Seymour to look so beautiful in this film?Jeannot Szwarc directs Somewhere In Time, and I vividly recall some episodes of Rod Serling's Night Gallery that he had directed.  At the climax of the film, when Richard dies, it seems momentarily like it's going to be a bizarre Night Gallery love story tragedy.  However, Richard finally gets his girl in heaven.  Thus, their love really does transcend time. Hey, it just wouldn't be heaven without Jane Seymour, would it?  If it was time to report to heaven, wouldn't you like it to be like that?  I would!Watching the film from my point of view as a hypnotist, I can now see the mistake that Christopher Reeve's character makes in the plot.  His character, Richard, attempts self-hypnosis.  The key is that he tried to accomplish the time travel alone, by himself--and that's the way he comes out of it alone, by himself.  Had a hypnotist been present to assist him, he would not have crashed like that when he was suddenly shocked out of the trance by the penny from 1979.Somewhere In Time gradually became a romantic cult film, although it had a disappointing opening at the Box Office, due to the fact that it was released the same weekend as The Blues Brothers.It would be nice to see Somewhere In Time re-released in theaters so fans could enjoy it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Touching Storyline, Interesting Cast","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere In Time is excellent, drawing one into the main characters' lives exceptionally well. One eventually feels as though Reeve's successes are one's own; and his losses are equally poignant. We feel his anxiety, frustration, restlessness, and sadness, but  also his hope, excitement, surprise, and happiness. All the while, the movie's music matches the emotions we feel, enhancing them.Watchers of time-travel movies tend to be gracious in the face of minor plot holes. After all, time-travel is clearly fantasy--so how can viewers really demand that it be more realistic?  Those who watch this movie (or other movies of its type) see the movie as an  escape from real life.  If the story seems even somewhat logical in its time-travel elements, it's jolly good for us.  And this movie does flow well enough that a movie-watcher who wants escapism can get it.Last, the movie does implicitly address certain deeper issues for those who are interested the issue of aging, the quest for meaning in life, the relative importance of one's pursuit of career versus the pursuit of one's romantic interests, and other such weighty topics.The movie isn't perfect, but it is certainly worth watching. 7/10  "},{"Title":"The music steals the show","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite love story movie. The story of willed time travel is a bit hokey but if you overlook that, it is compelling and involving story of endless love. Jane Seymour is, as she always is, a vision, with a beauty that fits any time period. She is funny, sweet, sexy beautiful and totally believable as a turn of the century woman. Christopher Plummer, who plays the villain very well, is cast in a more sympathetic role as the mentor of the Seymour character. He is excellant.  If there is a weakness to the casting, it is with Reeve. He trys hard but just doesn't work as well as the rest of the cast.But it is the music that truly steals the show. John Barry's music themes are mixed with variations of the Rhapsody on a Theme by Paganini', composed by Sergi Rachmaninov. The songs and the plending of the thematic score are spectacular. It is still the only soundtrack I own. See this movie. It is a delight for all your senses. 9/10 "},{"Title":"For those who believe that love is nothing...","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This comment contains some spoilers.I can't imagine a more beautiful and meaningful representation of what Love is or what It can do A man going against the hardest barrier ever, traveling through time... And a lady, who has to faithfully and painfully wait for the course of six decades to meet him again.I just didn't fully understand one important detail where did that watch come from? Who gave it to whom? Would that apparent mistake be a metaphor, in a sense that True Love is indifferent to Time?10/10 "},{"Title":"SOOOO Good","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I first saw this movie when I was six years old, and thought it was so boring. But now, that Im older I borrowed my grandmother's copy of the movie and watched it. IT IS SO GOOD! I loved the story, the plot, the actors, and especially the music, its totally heart achingly good (i dont think that makes sense, but i dont care!) OH my goodness how i loved this movie. Okay, im a soppy person and very emmtional if you couldn't tell. But anyway, I loved the music, and plan on playing it at my wedding hopefully. And loved the acting, and the costuming. It was so good, and one all time favorite.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Music","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I actually now own a video copy of this movie, which I find deeply moving. You have to like romance I guess, and be prepared to suspend your natural disbelief regarding the movie's premise. If you are such a person and have ever loved from afar, this film will slay you. John Barry's score is one of his most beautiful and memorable compositions, in my opinion; and the performances are all superb. Get your hankie out. "},{"Title":"Romantic and Haunting","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I was a little girl I fell in love with the movie, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir. When I was an adult I lamented that they didn't make romantic pictures like Ghost/Mrs muir and the portrait of Jennie.ect. Then in the early 80's I saw this romantic gem and added a new love to my my old favorites. Christopher Reeve is not a great actor, but here he displays the gauche sincerity necessary for his role. Jane Seymour is perfection as is the music,the setting,costumes, and supporting actors. It is a hauntingly romantic picture and in such movies it is mandatory to suspend our critical faculties, and just dive into the emotions expressed by the charcters and the situation. Other films may be brilliant works of art, but usually you are unable or unwillingly to watch them over and over again. Somewhere in Time has that timeless quality that is the hallmark of the genuine Romantic Classic. This film and the ones I have mentioned above are films you feel with your soul. The human who has no romance in his soul is only to be pitied. Picking out flaws is probably why they are unable to relate to romance in the first place!  "},{"Title":"Include as a plot summary","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Richard Collier is just not happy in Chicago of the 1980's.  Even though he is a successful playwright, he feels like something is missing in his life, but he can't get a fix on just what it is.  One afternoon, while celebrating the success of his latest play, an old woman shows up at the party, hands him a pocket watch, and says, Come back to me.  Trying to track the woman down, Collier learns about transportation through time, checks into the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan, and ends up in the year, 1906.  He meets Elyse McKenna, the most highly regarded actress of her day, they fall in love, and they overcome numerous obstacles thrown up by William Fawcett Robinson, McKenna's manager.  However their relationship is not to be, at least in 1906, and they lose each other, but in the end, love conquers all.  Jane Seymour is at her most beautiful in, what I consider to be, the greatest love story of all "},{"Title":"Suspend belief and enjoy!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a romantic fantasy in the best sense of the genre. The performances by Jane Seymour) and Christopher Reeve are wonderful, and the chemistry between them seems genuine.The film captures the charm of a bygone century.  Without revealing too much of the plot, a writer from the present day (Reeve) is in a dry period. While stopping at the Grand Hotel in Michigan, he discovers a photograph of an actress who performed at the hotel's theater around the turn of the century.Finding a way to meet Elise McKenna (Seymour)by traveling back in time becomes an obsession for him. The method he finds is probably the weakest time travel method I have ever seen, but get passed it!  Suspension of disbelief is essential on that point.  However, once that is let go, the story unfolds with a pace fitting its subject and the era in which it is set.There is also a nifty Twilight Zone -like plot twist.  I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Spectacular setting, music...","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Nineteen years ago my husband and I saw this movie for the first time on cable and we were immediately captivated by it. Although it suffered from the usual problems of time-travel movies, it still was a very enjoyable movie. In fact, those flaws seemed insignificant in comparison to the beauty of the movie's setting, music, costumes, and the characters portrayed in it. We were so taken with the movie that we determined someday that we would go to Mackinac Island and stay at the Grand Hotel. Just last month, we realized that dream. It is a spectacular place where no automobiles are allowed and you truly feel like you've stepped into another time. (Special permission was obtained for automobiles in the movie). The movie is very popular there and the Somewhere In Time fan club meets at the Grand Hotel every October for their annual convention. Despite the negative reviews, Somewhere In Time fans agree...it is a classic.  "},{"Title":"A movie that you can not forget for years!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It was about 15 years ago when I saw the movie for the first time. I was just 12 or 14 years old boy that time. Until today, I never forget the whole story for years. It's so wonderful ... the story, the songs, the scenes .... and of course, the gorgeous Jane Seymour. At the time, I thought she's the most beautiful woman in the world. I told my girlfriend several time about the movie, but too bad, she hasn't seen it at all. Someday, I will watch the movie with her and I have to prepare a box of tissues for her. ) I think she'll like it ... I think most of girls will like Somewhere In Time. It's A must-see movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Most poetic and romantic","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I think I can safely call this movie my all time favorite romantic film. There is a feeling that Richard and Elise were meant to be together, soul mates if you will.  Richard then crosses the greatest distance to find her. It's difficult to picture anything more poetic. "},{"Title":"one of the very best love story movies of all time","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I cannot tell anyone about this movies without a tear or two forming in my eyes.  I think there is a little something in all of us that wants us to enjoy the magic of our imagination of what if time didn't play such a part in our fantasies.  This was a well done movie in every way.  The acting is first as is the music, setting, and wardrobe.  I recommend it to everyone who wants to see a first class movie.  Some may not like but if you are a romantic at heart and have ever loves and lost you'll love this one.  Come back to me takes on new meaning. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking romance paired with an unforgettable score.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A friend of mine rents Somewhere in Time every Valentine's Day.  He brought the movie to my attention, and let me borrow the tape. At first I was doubtful as to why the movie would be of interest to him, as the dialogue was rather dry at the beginning.  Then slowly I was pulled in by the magic of the score, and Christopher Reeves' increasing need for understanding.  The part where he says This is my most favorite music... shows to me how love at first sight is possible.  The look on his face is so innocent, it broke my heart. Also, when he kisses Jane Seymour in her room; again I was mystified by the power of romance. By the end of the movie, I had been hit by so many reminders of blissful experiences, that I was sobbing (and having a hard time catching my breath!) I recommend this to any viewer that appreciates the experience of enjoying a good pull at the old heart strings.  If the premise of the movie doesn't get you, I dare say that the music will. "},{"Title":"Elegant","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When someone asks me for a good romantic movie, I ask them have they seen Somewhere in Time.   Christopher Reeve plays Richard, who is greeted by an elderly woman beckoning him to come back to her.  Through convincing his mind of his change in spatial orientation, he transports himself back into time to meet his Elise (Jane Seymour).  In meeting her, he also faces the dangers of her overprotective manager (Christopher Plummer).Elegant in both astounding scenery and its hauntingly, beautiful score, Somewhere... is cinematic poetry.  "},{"Title":"The Ben-Hur of Love Stories","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere in Time was like the Ben-Hur of sappy love movies.I would rather be beaten with an axe handle than miss seeing Somewhere in Time when it's shown on television. It's an epic! It's great! It's fantastic! It has time travel! It has irony! It has Christopher Reeve being whisked forwards in time by a 1980 penny! Christopher Plummer's best role to date, save General Chang in Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country.  "},{"Title":"Great study of a man obsessed with a woman from the past","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great in the respect that it made the idea of traveling in time seem possible.   The movie was very well done, and really creates a unique story.  Christopher Reeves becomes obsessed with a woman in a picture in a old hotel.  Is it possible to travel in time to meet her?       "},{"Title":"One of the best romance films","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  All right, usually I don't enjoy sensitive films, but SIT is different. The story is good, with a flaw here or there, but all time travel movies have them.  There are many beautiful scenes throughout the movie, for instance the first meeting scene in Mackinac Island.  If you have not seen this movie, it is important to pay close attention to the first 30 minutes. I think Reeve was very good, especially since the story is being told from his character's point of view.  He makes it work, but it is Seymour that closes the deal.  She was perfect for the role of Elsie.  The music is absolutely wonderful, and it adds to the story.  I think I relate well to the story because it is told from Richard Collier's side.  If I had only one chance to win over Jane Seymour's heart in 1912, I wouldn't hesitate. Remember to check for the similarities of Richard and Elise's struggles to that of Jack and Rose's struggles in Titanic.  Richard does have to go back to 1912 to see the young Elise, didn't something important also happen in 1912?  Great movie to watch with a date. "},{"Title":"This is the movie that will change your life!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie that changed my life.  Twenty years after falling in love with it while being in love with Love, I revisit it again and again when I need to be reminded that love is a gentle and timeless emotion that is worth obsessing over.  This movie has aged so well that time travel is really possible because I travel back in time to twenty years ago and am reminded that the greatest thing in life is the love of a beautiful woman. "}{"Title":"Almost 20 yrs. and I'm still in awe and beguiled","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw the film in 1981, I was completely mesmerised, I still tune in every time it's showing, I feel it's a must see for everyone who loves a love story. The music is wonderful, the scenery is beautiful and Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymore are fabulous together. And I loved young and old Arthur. Do yourselves a great favour and enjoy a great film. I have been to the film's location in Michigan and it is all that. "},{"Title":"A Very Special Love Story!!!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere in Time will touch and warm anyones heart, that is looking for that certain special someone!!This is such a rich warm film full of the essences of love. I enjoyed this beautiful movie in 1980 and today in 2000 I do still LOVE this film!!! I would recommend this film to anyone!!! Somewhere in Time is aMUST SEE film!!! I have this film in my collection!!! The music is just fabulous!!! I have the music on CD!! Do yourself a favor and watch and enjoy this rich lovely warm LOVE story!!!!You cannot view this film too many times!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Time Travel to a Romantic Era","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a nice movie about time travel in the name of romance. Christopher Reeve as Richard Collier, travels from present day 1979 to the year 1912 (the same year the Titanic sunk)- a time when women were feminine and men were gentlemen.  Jane Seymour is superb as Elise McKenna, the elusive actress who is the object of his affections. This is a movie for all hopeless romantics who enjoy visiting the past.  The costumes are wonderful as is the setting (Great Lake area in Michigan).  This is a wonderful movie for a cozy night at home with someone special. "},{"Title":"The love story transcends time","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere in Time was shown for a record 222 consecutive days when it was first released in Hong Kong and remains a classic romance movie which is still sought after at rental stores. The movie still holds the record to this date (2/12/2000).  The theme music A Theme from Paganini (Rachmaninov) is a favourite  for musical boxes.   "},{"Title":"Voting from the HEART.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  We all know, there are people who vote 10 for films just because they love them, and do not judge objectively. Most of us do it.The thing is, if a film makes you cry or laugh or feel anything at all by the time the end credits are rolling, then you should give it whatever score you feel. I'm the first to admit, some of the films I've voted for are not what you would generally call classics, but I defend anyone who votes highly for something because, if they are voting from the heart, then they are voting sincerely.I know how it feels when someone gives 10 to a movie you think totally sucked. I absolutely hated The Phantom Menace, but for whatever reason those thousands gave it a 10, then they thought it deserved it. I thought it was tripe, and could argue until I'm purple why it was tripe, but if someone gets pleasure out of it, then why should I care?I'm a film student, and I know that as film art goes, Somewhere in Time is deeply flawed. But it made me cry, and in 26 years I've only cried at about five movies. If you agree with me, click on my link and see what else I like. If you don't, then take a day off and learn to stop caring what other people think so much. And remember, the only problem with the global village is all the global village idiots. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This has always been one of my favorite love stories.  Even as one who detests 'chick flicks,' I have to say that this is a fantastic movie.  The characters' depths amaze me.  The writing is excellent and the scenes are wonderfully acted and filmed.  An all around great. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere in Time is a lovely little movie full of romance and escapism. Set basically at the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, the feeling of a bygone era surrounds you.  The performances of Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour pull you into the plot line and the gorgeous sound track ties it all up in a most beautiful package.  Unlike so many of the movies of today, this movie does not rely upon violence or bad language to get its message across, but rather tells a love story in a good old-fashioned way.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Very Romantic Film, and Jane Seymour was stunning as Elise","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw the movie in 1980 when it was made.  I didn't think much about it until a saw it a second time, and then a third.At first a thought it was a little corny, that was until I understood the tragic losses of both Elise and Richard. I now see this film as so very very romantic. To think that someone would be willing to give up all to go through time for someone you love.  Jane Seymour is just so beautiful and was the perfect actress to be Elise. Christopher Reeves did a wonderful job as well.  The  location of this film was awesome. I also fell in love with John Barry's music score. It is so haunting I currently own the Soundtrack, Score, VHS and DVD. I can't ever get the recurring SIT theme out of my head, as I see the movie scenes over and over.  It is just so addicting. This past September my wife and I had the opportunity to spend a couple of days on Macinac Island and stayed at the Grand Hotel where the movie was filmed. To all of you incurable romantics out there, rent this movie.  It will truly inspire you to want to hold on tightly to the one you love.  "},{"Title":"For incurable romantics, this is a must!","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour make such a wonderful team. The film is a little slow at times but is a very enjoyable romance. Wouldn't it be great if the concept of traveling through time were possible - what a difference to my life that would make! The sound track is an absolute winner - great background music. I recommend the film to those wanting to escape for a couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"The Twilight Zone Connection","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  People should note the connection between SIT and the original Twilight Zone series -- in many ways, this picture is a movie-length version of a 1960's Rod Serling Twilight Zone episode. Richard Matheson wrote some of the best Twilight Zone episodes, and it's interesting to reflect that the time travel method employed here is typical of the original series. As seen in many Twilight Zone episodes, Matheson and Serling didn't go for the gee-whiz effects or pseudo-techinical explanations of time travel that modern sci-fi goes in for; the important thing was the plot, not the special effects. I think this Twilight Zone connection helps explain why SIT doesn't just appeal to women -- behind the excellent music and scenery, there's a highly intelligent, tightly written sci-fi screenplay that would have made Rod Serling proud. Take a look sometime at the following Twilight Zone episodes written by Matheson in the 1960's The Last Flight (with a time travel device similar to SIT), Third from the Sun (sci-fi preparation for nuclear war/space travel), A World of His Own (a wry comedic mixture of sci-fi and romance), Nick of Time (a William Shatner love story in another dimension), The Invaders (the classic Agnes Moorhead silent episode), Once Upon a Time (time travel to 1890 and back), Little Girl Lost (the well-known story of the little girl who crawls underneath her bed into another dimension), Death Ship (a mixture of space and time travel), Night Call (an elderly woman receives phone calls from her dead husband), and Nightmare at 20,000 Feet (another pre-Star Trek William Shatner cult favorite). So keep these decidedly non-chick-flick science fiction roots in mind the next time someone tries to dismiss SIT as nothing more than romantic fluff. "}{"Title":"All-Time Best Fantasy Romance Movie","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Actually, this is my all-time favourite movie.  Well written, directed, acted.  Superb on-location sets!  They don't make many movies like this nowadays, but I wish they would.  Ghost comes to mind as a close second in this classification.  This is not a spectacular film like Ben-Hur or Cleopatra, but everything is done superbly.  10 from me, and I'd rate it higher if I could! "},{"Title":"God bless this chick flick","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am a guy, and before I saw this movie a bozo had remarked Man, this is an ultimate chick flick! ostensibly in order to deter me from viewing it. If a chick flick means a movie like Somewhere in Time, then God bless the category!  I just could not believe how beautiful and touching this film was.  Hey guys, the next time someone says this is a chick flick,  give it a try. It does look like chicks know something about good movies.  Hats off to everyone who made Somewhere in Time possible.  By the way, how do I get to Mackinac Island? "},{"Title":"Most Romantic Movie I've Seen","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere In Time is far and above my favorite movie of all time.  It is a movie for everyone who has ever loved someone or who longs to be loved by someone.  I don't normally get emotional when watching a movie; however, with this movie I break down in tears every time I view it.  Both Christopher Reeves and Jane Seymour do an excellent job of portraying their characters and their love for each other.  The chemistry between the two is magical on screen.  Throw in the ingenious story line, the romantic plot, and the time travel element and the movie rates a 10 on my scale.  The beautiful setting of the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan adds to the beauty and romance of this film.  Watch it and you will likely watch it over and over.     "},{"Title":"A nice starting point for lovers of romance","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie is amiable and civilized. I've watched it twice and will watch it again. Still, this movie is devoid of cinematic merit. It's an example of the creative and technical doldrums that Hollywood was in around 1980.It's also highly derivative, which is one of the fun things about it. We can enjoy catching faint echoes of The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, The Red Shoes, It Happened Tomorrow, and other films -- if we've seen them. If we haven't, we're the more likely to join the throng who find this one to be their favorite.Many of the minor performances and directorial touches here hint at the happily farcical spirit of Rene Clair's It Happened Tomorrow, but they don't set the tone of the movie. John Barry's music hints at Bernard Herrmann's ravishing score for The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, but it doesn't double and treble the effectiveness of the movie as that score did. Christopher Plummer's role as a possessive manager/impresario hints at the central tension of The Red Shoes, but in this movie tension doesn't stand a chance.Ironically, the weakest aspect of Somewhere in Time is the one that seems, after the love story itself, to be the most satisfactory to its devoted fans the creation of an enchanted period atmosphere. One big problem is that the interior lighting is too even and generally too bright, as in many films of the time. Another is the color process. Hollywood had abandoned dye-transfer Technicolor but had not yet found satisfactorily rich alternatives, and the result was a lot of beige pictures. In this one, the filmmakers have made matters worse by choosing shades of brown or yellow for nearly everything but the rubber ball. On top of all that, the big set-piece idyll on the lawn where the lovers stroll along in a golden haze (a hint of Elvira Madigan) is shot through a filter so golden and so hazy that the scene looks like a washed-out photograph. Yet it doesn't look like an old one.Nothing looks old. Nothing seems to belong to another time, even when that time was current. The portrait photo of Elise doesn't begin to look like a picture taken in 1912, either in original quality or in state of preservation. When Richard gazes at it, there's no sense of yearning across time. Little things like the peanut machine look as if they had been whipped up to give a general impression of the real thing, like props for a school play. And everything is spanking-new. It seems that all objects in the world of 1912 were freshly minted in 1912; nothing had been around awhile. That would be all right in a farce like It Happened Tomorrow. Here, it's one more impediment to achieving the poetic texture or the sense of having been swept through time which the romantic story demands.But, yes, Somewhere in Time is amiable and civilized. It's a nice starting point for collecting favorite movies. If you feel that it's the greatest romance ever made or the best movie you've ever seen, you may have some pleasant discoveries in store for you. Please do enjoy watching this again, as I will. But please also go back in time before 1980 -- back and back -- and see what else there is to see. "},{"Title":"Watch the movie","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A romantic movie for men made 30 years ago when that was not a popular thing to do... probably why it bombed in theaters. I was introduced to it in 1989 when I was hooked on that master composer John Barry (Rest in Peace Mr. Barry - your music will live forever). I knew all of his movie work including his Bond themes, Born Free, Midnight Cowboy, all leading up to Out of Africa. And there was this one theme from one movie I never saw - Somewhere in Time. I bought the soundtrack and listened to it a hundred times until I finally rented the movie. I was not a Christopher Reeves fan, which is another reason I missed the original showing, but the man was perfect in his role. (I was a Jane Seymore fan so that didn't hurt my interest.) The storyline took an unusual path to the relationship between the characters. The two picture scenes are my favorites (although I hope they delete the framing in the second someday because it cheapens the film and suggests we are not smart enough to recognize the first). Some things are worth doing once. The irony is that this some movie is worth watching again, and again, and again... "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Charming romantic fantasy that taps into the Portrait of Jennie theme of time travel, love found and lost very well for the most part. However, it tries to be a bit too epic in its love story towards the end and it all feels a little bit exaggerated. The leads (Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour) look gorgeous together even if they don't really have that much chemistry. The musical score is nice, as are the visuals, and overall it's a fine way to spend a cruisy Saturday afternoon on the couch, but it's not really the great romantic classic it hopes to be. Recommended viewing for fans of fantasy romances like myself. "},{"Title":"the Rolls Royce of Modern Day Love Stories!","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There isn't really that much that can be added to the best comments made by perceptive sensitive intelligent viewers of this awesome picture.What other movie has ever mixed science fiction and romance so flawlessly and seamlessly into such a masterpiece of a movie? If Reeves and Seymore never made another movie after this one - they would have been able to say that they made their greatest movie together in Somewhere in Time.My wife and I have adopted this movie as our signature film and music - aaah - the music is timeless! Between John Barry and Rachmaninov - there simply is not another soundtrack out these to touch it for this genre of film.If you haven't seen this movie - do it now! "},{"Title":"A beautiful Film,","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere In Time is a criminally underrated gem from Sci-Fi writer Richard Matheson who wrote The incredible Shrinking Man, And Iam Legend the film was adapted from his own novel 'Bid time return' this film was directed by Frenchman Jeannot Swarc, who is also known for 'Jaws 2, and cult favorite 'Supergirl' this is the film he will be best remembered for, Christopher Reeve, play's Richard Collier an aspiring play write who whilst at a picturesque hotel one weekend, see's a picture of a stunning actress (Jane Seymour) and quite simply is fixated by her so much to an extent,it takes reeve's on a journey that is not only beyond obsession but also time (hence the title,with the advice of a befuddled professor he undergoes self induced hypnosis, and without the need for dazzling special effects and the like he literally goes through time to meet her,normally this sound's lame but seriously how it is pulled off is perfectly realised, Christopher Plummer play's Jane Seymour's domineering manager who does what he can in preventing reeve from succeeding, oh and do not forget the tissue's! "},{"Title":"The incredible time traveling man","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Richard Matheson's novel is one of my favourite sci-fi works.His hero was a terminally ill man whose story was a long flashback he had written it and,after his death, his brother read it.Robert had his doubts about the authenticity of brother Richard's adventure and a doctor gave him an explanation the brain tumor caused hallucinations .Nevertheless,he did hope that maybe they  were happy somewhere in time.Like for the classic the incredible shrinking man ,Richard Matheson wrote the screenplay himself with good results.He made his hero a healthy man.By introducing Elise's housekeeper and the professor ,he avoided the voice-over which would have been necessary, for Richard carried out research alone in the library or in his bedroom.Matheson's great idea (no time machine, only the thought,the concentration) has been kept and the scenes where Richard meets Elise and her manager (Elise's mother does not appear ,but it's not a problem)are faithful to the book.The last picture is perhaps the only flaw because the trick seems a bit hackneyed .The actors are excellent  Jane Seymour is Elise McKenna as I pictured her .The sadly missed Christopher Reeve display humor,emotion and warmth.Christopher Plummer is the perfect villain.And hats off to Jean-Pierre Dorleac,Catherine Deneuve's and Françoise Dorleac's cousin  the costumes are dazzling.The movie won the Antenne d'Or  during the fantasy and horror festival of Avoriaz,France.They say the audience was stunnedafter gore,monsters and special effects galore,they had forgotten that romanticism and elaborate screenplays still existed . "},{"Title":"This movie grew on me.","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere in Time was Christopher Reeve's first movie two years after his major breakthrough as Superman. Many will always remember Reeve as Superman & Clark Kent. I would bet that if you asked moviegoers what film other than the Superman movies that starred Christopher Reeve, I believe Somewhere in Time would be high on the list.Somewhere in Time is not a perfect romantic time travel movie. From the gorgeous Oscar-nominated costumes and the lush John Barry musical score to the on-location setting of the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan, the movie certainly looks good on screen.I have to admit that the story of a playwright traveling back in time to search for a woman from several decades ago certainly feels and sounds very corny. But for some strange reason, this movie grew on me. And considering that the movie has developed a huge cult following after it was poorly-reviewed by critics and was a major flop at the box office in 1980, it certainly means that the movie has a certain charm and romantic aura that stays with you for a while. For me, it has stayed with me ever since I first saw the movie on cable TV in the early 1980's. (I believe that repeat airings of the movie on cable TV certainly contributed to the film's cult status.) "}{"Title":"Simply Beautiful","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have heard comments both good and bad about this movie. I can not understand why anyone would not like this film. Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour are absolutely amazing in this movie. It is a love story that will and has lasted through time. It would be so wonderful to be able to travel through time like this and see what this era was truly like! I only wish I had of been able to meet Christopher before he passed away to tell him what a remarkable actor he is! Jane...if you ever read this...know that this movie is my absolute favorite movie and I will forever be grateful to you, Christopher and everyone else that made it possible. ) "},{"Title":"Great story, great atmosphere. Great date movie!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't know why some people felt this film was poor. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I suppose it helps to be a hopeless romantic. The movie starts with an old woman who gives Chris Reeves a watch and mumbles, Come back to me. Some years later, while on a much needed R&R he is drawn to a picture of a beautiful woman he finds in an old hotel. Much later you put two and two together and realize it's the same woman when she was much younger. He is mysteriously and uncontrollably drawn to learn more about this woman and goes on a quest to learn how to visit her back in time. Eventually, he connects. It's a beautiful story filled with some of Chris Reeve's best acting, which showcases his remarkable charm and wit. I didn't really appreciate the ending until I saw it several times. The chemistry is remarkable and the period dress, the feel of the movie and the story was something you'll remember for a long time. I still hear the music score in my head and I haven't seen the movie in over 10 years... "},{"Title":"Somewhere, some time...a Timeless Love Story","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I was rather young when I first saw this film; I found it mildly interesting and, being a science fiction fan, was drawn to the time travel aspect. I found it a bit slow and uneventful. As one grows older, priorities change, certain matters not considered when younger begin to take precedence. When I watch this film now, I find the time travel angle plays out differently for me; yes, it's still an interesting take on how to travel backwards in time, without machinery (as in The Time Machine - all versions). But, I realize now the entire focus of the story is on the mystical depiction of timeless love surfacing for the two main characters, played by Reeve and Seymour. It's a romance of the most old-fashioned kind, bridging decades, and enhanced by the whole premise of traveling further to achieve that romantic connection than most would ever dream of.Obviously, the task for Reeve's character, that of making the connection, appears simply impossible. We've all read stories or seen movies about some character traveling over half a continent or even half the world to make such a connection. We root for them, of course - for them to beat the odds. The odds here are seemingly insurmountable not traveling across land, but time itself. Well, he makes it; it's an incredible feat. And he pursues his dream, an exotic, to say the least, fantastic dream. She's worth it Seymour is truly beautiful in this film, and gets more so with each viewing. Just her photo portrait in this story manages to capture a serene, mysterious type of beauty. She's touched with a melancholy sadness and Reeve is there to balm her wound. Writer Richard Matheson knows how to write good stories, romance included, and didn't need to fall back on contrived side plots to 'energize' the script, as is often the case nowadays. It's a straightforward, unfussy story, the kind they don't produce anymore. "},{"Title":"Love conquers all","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I first saw Somewhere in Time when it was released on video and was instantly hooked. This may be the ultimate chick flick but this guy loved it. And I'm sure plenty of males, having just a flicker of a romantic side, would too if they gave it a chance. There is so much I enjoy about this film. From the unusual opening with the old woman and her plea to the young playwright, the way in which Richard is drawn to the portrait and becomes obsessed with the young woman, the time travel aspect, the unhurried pace and customs of a bygone era brought to life, the classic beauty of Elise (what a woman!), the joy and heartbreak of love found and lost, the uplifting and haunting score and the love conquers all finale. In my eyes this is the classic romance film, and I always find something new with each viewing. What are you waiting for...get the movie and enjoy! "},{"Title":"What a movie !","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I am moved to tears every time i watch this film ! It is so moving and extremely well acted but of course what would you expect with 3 such talented stars in it ? The scene where he finds the coin sends shivers down my spine !It is a beautiful Love story which should soften even the hardest heart. There are not that many films that i could watch over and over again but this is one of them, i never tire of seeing it.The music is so well written/chosen that i only have to hear a few bars of the main theme and a tear appears in my eye ! A definite 10/10 in my book, but then i am a soppy old romantic ! "},{"Title":"Beautifully sad... sadly beautiful","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Plot - Late one night following the opening of his first play, graduating college student Richard Collier (the late Christopher Reeve, may he rest in peace) is approached by an elderly woman who gives him a watch and a message Come back to me. 8 years later, Richard, rebounding from writer's block and a break up, decides to take a vacation, and along the way stops for a night in the Grand Hotel. While there he sees the picture of a beautiful actress from the turn of the century, Elise McKenna (Jane Seymour), who turns out to be the same woman who gave him the watch and the message of coming back to her. Picking a vintage suit and some vintage money, Richard uses self-hypnosis to literally will himself back in time to 1912 so that he can meet Elise, but a little snag he didn't count on was her manager W.F. Robinson (Christopher Plummer), who feels that he's invested far too much time in mentoring her, molding her, and caring for her to lose her to some tall, handsome devil-rapscallion. The beautiful but lonely Elise eventually does find love Richard, despite Robinson's efforts to stop them, but just when they are at the peak of their happiness, Richard has the misfortune to look at a 1979 penny that he accidentally brought back with him, and this throws off the time travel power that got him to 1912 - nothing modern could he directly look upon or be reminded of - then tears him back across time to his own place in time, leaving behind Elise heart-broken and alone. Richard tries to will himself back to 1912 but all in vain. Unable to get himself back to 1912 and unable to live without Elise and her love, Richard sinks into a deep depression and eventually dies. And it is upon his death that he is apparently reunited with Elise in Heaven, presumably for all eternity - to say the least the most unusual happily ever after of all time.Simply put, this film is both beautifully sad and sadly beautiful. Damn what the cynics may say, this is a very touching story of love across the ages, handled with a taste and restrained sensitivity and sentimentality that you just don't find anymore in modern Hollywood film-making. This film had me in tears, a feat few films have been capable of. Seriously, I was crying so badly that my eyes were burning red; only 'West Side Story' has ever had such a similar effect.A capable actor who was most unfairly maligned by critics and cynics alike for his portrayal of Superman, Reeve once again displays the gallant yet gentle, unabashed sincerity that made him such a winner as Superman, and believe it or not, he makes you give a damn about Richard's fate. Reeve is well matched in this film by the equally sincere Jane Seymour, very fetching with her old fashioned beauty and ethereal grace and displays a far more chemistry with Reeve than Margot Kidder ever did. Plummer provides fine support for this solidly made period piece.John Barry provides an exquisite, hauntingly beautiful score. "},{"Title":"Grandma loved it","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My grandma, who has been gone since 1995, adored both the main actors and their work (especially Dr. Quinn) and this film. She bought the soundtrack and played it so much the tape wore out. I didn't like it nearly as much as she did (the last couple of scenes to me are especially creepy) and the movie doesn't use logic too much. But all in all, a classic four hanky movie. And Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour did make an attractive on screen pair, no? "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" He spend years looking for this film, look on the premise Christopher Reeve + Time Travel. But once I found it and saw it ... everything changed. I felt ripped off (although I found it cheap on 2nd hand DVD) and completely disappointed. I know this review will have many dislikes but I do not care, that's what I felt when I saw it. It is THE WORST TIME TRAVIEL MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN. Look, I've seen all kinds of methods to travel back in time Cars, telephone booths, XIXs machines, doors, necklaces, family heritage, etc. But when I saw that in this film You can travel in time with SUGGESTION... No I couldn't believe it. No, I'm not kidding. And all this comes from the mind of novelist Richard Matheson (creator of I Am Legend and The Incredible Shrinking Man among many others).It turns out that our lead (Christopher Reeve) advised by his former philosophy teacher, tells him that only repeating to himself again and again, that we're on X date, you're gonna go to that date. We suggestion our mind and is eventually it send you back in time. Besides being clearly impossible... It's ridiculous! It's like saying that if we rub our hands we can get that our body begins to fly. Or if we hit very strong two bronze horns'll open an inter-dimensional gate... Ridiculous and impossible to develop a strong plot. This is what happens to this movie.Above all, it is a romantic drama, no one intended to make it a science-fiction movie. The script is an overdose of teenage love. He reminded me that even the Twilight saga, boy and girl who fall in love and no one thinks carefully about the consequences of their relationship, because they are too immature and stupid to think about it. Reeve falls in love with a 1912 photography of an actress. A photo!. Although everything begins with the scene of the old woman giving him the watch and her line Come back to me just start the movie. It is not until it gets to investigate (obsessively) that photo, that you just discover that the girl in the picture and the old woman are the same person (without seeing the trailer and I knew I could happened). So he decides to do everything possible to travel back in time from 1980 to 1912, from the same hotel where she was 68 years ago. Suprisely, he discovers that he really traveled back in time, when he finds (in less than 2 minutes) the 1912 guest-book to find that his name was inscribed on it. So, the fact is that after hours repeating the message... Reeve's MADE IT (Duh) and he travels back to 1912 to meet and hang out with her (Elise). And just in a day, he will conquering her and make her fall in love with him. A stranger who behaves like a slimy stalker. It seems to me that it will never works in the real world, but i worked here...My conclusion An immature script, not only by a central shaft that sinks from since the beginning, but also the characters and the purely adolescent brat plot. Best thing in the film Christopher Reeve and the score. The rest sucks.Ah the 4 is because the performance of the actors but would be a 2. Which by the way, in the making of the film, even the director himself said that he didn't know how it would sell the story to any producer knowing how the main character travels in time... "},{"Title":"Maybe it's like The English Patient ?","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I first watched The English Patient, I absolutely hated HATED Hated ! it. Then I watched it again and really REALLY liked it ! Perhaps Somewhere in Time is like that ? I have read some of the user reviews and it surely sounds like I am missing something with this one.I usually like Christopher Reeves very much. This one was made just after his starring role in Block-Buster Superman and he seems to use many of the little Clark Kent mannerisms that worked so well for him there. All he needed was a pair of horn-rimmed glasses to push up on his nose. He seemed uncomfortable and self-conscious in this one.Jane Seymour has, I admit, always left me pretty cold in everything I have seen her in and this one was no exception. The instant attraction via the photo... just didn't get it.Great to see the younger version of Christopher Plummer at work. Always interesting BUT I was distracted by his constantly worn heavy gloves. He even wore them when he was drinking coffee and smoking indoors. I did like the watch trick and gave a whoop when I realized the origin of the actual watch. Cool ! The penny was also an awwwww moment.All in all... not a re-watch (sorry no pun intended) and this one is going to the thrift shop unless I give it one more chance at success. "},{"Title":"Somewhere in Time","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Closing in on another genre month, and looking for a good romance, I settled in for Somewhere in Time. I had also never seen Christopher Reeve in a film before, so I figured I was long overdue. Although this does fit into my time travel category this month, Somewhere in Time is unashamedly a romantic movie, tugging at the heartstrings and never letting go. Director Jeannot Szwarc weaves together a beautiful story of love at first sight, and just what one man will go through to be with the one he loves.We meet the first half of our story's romantic pair, Richard Collier (Christopher Reeve), in a playhouse just after a performance has finished. The strapping man is a young writer, who has just watched a play he has written close and is celebrating with the cast. Suddenly, an elderly woman approaches Richard begging him come back to me. Richard has no idea who the woman is, and has no recollection of ever seeing her before. Perplexed, Richard emerges on a quest to find out the identity of this mystery woman. Eventually, Richard's journey leads him to uncovering that the woman is a famous actress from the early 1900's. When Richard first sees a portrait of the actress, Elise McKenna (Jane Seymour), he is instantly smitten, and willing to go to any lengths to see her again. Remembering his philosophy classes in college, and his professors propensity toward believing time not to be a linear construct, Richard visits him to gain insight on the possibility of time traveling to be with Elise. The professor, Dr. Gerald Finney (George Voskovec), explains to Richard that his brand of time travel occurs through deep self- hypnosis, and one can be brought out of the hypnosis, and subsequently the time period they've traveled to by thoughts alone. Dr. Finney warns that even the smallest reminder that one is from a different time can bring them out of the hypnosis. Richard is committed to meeting his love, and devotes himself to a study of early 1900's history, exchanges his currency, and buys clothes that fit into the time period, in hopes of meeting his great love and leaving himself in 1910. When he believes to be fully prepared, Richard puts himself under the self-hypnosis, and successfully travels to 1910, the time in which Elise was active in theatre. Although he initially has struggles meeting the beauty, due to her overprotective manager/colleague William Fawcett Robinson (Christopher Plummer), Richards's persistence eventually pays off and he makes friends with Elise, eventually winning her heart. Things look promising for our lovers until Richard is suddenly brought out of his self-hypnosis and lands back in his modern day apartment. Devastated, Richard is willing to do anything to go back to Elise's time, but can he? Can their love survive their difference in era?I was pleasantly surprised by the acting in this romance. Not typically a fan of overly romantic story lines, I was pleased with Somewhere in Time. Christopher Reeve was thoroughly convincing as a love-struck playwright. Jane Seymour played the classy, regal, actress with ease. The chemistry between the two made for a convincing story line, and was also endearing to watch. Christopher Reeve's dialogue was the best of the movie. He was funny and acutely aware of his being out of place in 1910 in a charming way for the audience to enjoy. The score was a fantastic testimony to the love story unfolding before our eyes. The costumes in the film and the production design were gorgeous, living art that engulfed the actors on screen. The camera work, with the soft fuzzy look to the shots fit in perfectly for the deepening romance between the actors. Somewhere in Time was beautifully done and a pure joy for the audience.There is a certain sentiment to this film that love will conquer all; if you love someone enough the differences you have, no matter how insurmountable they seem, will be overcome by passion. Though that does come out in the film, the message I felt more clearly was that if you find love, you should do anything to experience it to the fullest possible extent. Believe in the power of the emotion of love, value it, and chase it. No matter how unexpectedly one comes across the flame of love, you should do whatever you can to not let it extinguish. A powerful message, Somewhere in Time does much to convey the power of love, and just what measures should be done to protect it.I would certainly recommend this film to any fans of deeply romantic films. I would also recommend this film to those who enjoy period pieces, as the majority of this film takes place in the early 1900's with beautiful believability. It must also be said that any fans of Christopher Reeve's must see this film, for his acting comes off so endearing it should not be missed. A beautiful romance perfect for a single or coupled person alike, Somewhere in Time is one for the ages. "}{"Title":"The movie that inspires me","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is the movie that inspires me. Somewhere In Time fascinated me since I was a kid. The soundtrack, as the story in fact, have something that sounds like an eternal reminder, as something given, a thing without beginning and without end. Later I learned that it was Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody based on a Paganini Caprice. A film like a dream... A film that you can never forget... A film that you will carry with you ... as long you live, so... like a jewel. The most beautiful love story ever, suspended between two parallel worlds... You can not be a fan of romantic movies, if you have not watched it... You will remain with this movie in your heart, forever. "},{"Title":"delicate  portrait","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" a portrait of love. a fascinating meeting. a trip. delicate, precise, surrealistic, romantic. surprising in a manner who seduce because it is not only portrait of a meeting but portrait of few emotions who, in this case, becomes a wise translation. the science to explore the detail, the beauty of images, the skin of fairy tale who preserves old fashion manner to discover the another side of reality . Christopher Reeves does not only a great job but he seems expose the essence of a state of soul who reminds importance of self definition. because it is more than a love story. it is a beautiful film who gives only a point of start. nothing more. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi, as in scilly-film.","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I didn't know this had hypnosis as the basis for time travel in its premise - that's just silly, there's no way around it. Other than that, this is mainly just cheap romantic novel stuff with terribly unfunny humour most of the time. Though, and I'm not entirely sure, the film does seem the have done some of the ground work for 'Groundhog's day', 'Back to the future' and 'Donnie Darko'. That would be a big plus.The film is beautifully shot, has equally fine settings and costumes, and there's lots of corny but authentic looking details (try spotting 'ye olde pickle barrel'!). Why Christopher Reeve kept reminding me of Ted Bundy, I'm not sure; wasn't he superficially charming and relentless in pursuit all the time? But, who wouldn't want to see more of (Jane) Seymour? Christopher Plummer wasted time and talent for some inane part also.In some perverted way, this was fun to watch, but it's not a good film. At all. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Somewhere in Time (1980) **1/2","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" My girlfriend's favorite movie, which she asked me to watch with her. I've since learned that this is an extremely revered cult film with a devoted following. After sitting through it, the reasons why frankly perplex me. It's an ordinary film at best, and for die-hard romantics only.I will say that Christopher Reeve gives one of his better acting performances as Richard Collier, a 1980 playwright who becomes infatuated by a portrait of a beautiful young actress from the early 1900's (Jane Seymour). He is driven by a strong obsession to travel back through time and meet her. Luckily for him, after consulting a professor he discovers that time travel is indeed possible through self-hypnosis (?). So Collier dresses himself in the proper period 1900's attire, makes a home cassette tape of his own voice re-asserting over and over that this is 1912... it is 1912...1912...., closes his eyes while lying down on the bed, and -- voilà! --- he is transported back to meet his lover.Well, there's a little more to the circumstances ... such as Collier in the opening of the film being approached in modern times by an elderly woman who gives him a watch and pleads with him come back to me (she's supposed to be the same actress from the past, now nearing her death), which adds to his desire to know more about this woman. But I couldn't get past the ordinary trappings of these events, and - most of all - the unbelievable idea that time traveling is in any way possible simply by hypnotizing oneself! I am very good at suspending my disbelief when it comes to watching movies, but maybe that's if the film overall is working for me. The fact that Richard Matheson, a favorite science fiction writer of mine, came up with this idea is really odd. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Poor developed and idealistic","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Here is something about this movie that I can agree with all reviews I have read here the plot is very simple and the main idea convinces anyone to enter in the fantasy and watch until the end. I liked that each actor and actress contributed positively playing each own part in each scene. Scenes about love.Now, talking about love...A lot of movies from my age are proposing another view of love. I mean, that love is a feeling which is developed with time, knowing all defects and qualities, and loving her (him) even though all circumstances are presented. In this movie, we have that idea of love at first sight, which is acceptable and I respect. But at the other hand, it could have something else... Something more in the plot.Richard Collier was in the 60's after a play which he had written and he was surprised by an appearance of an 85 years old lady called Elise McKeena. She was visibly happy to see him, and gave him her watch and finally, in a touching scene, told him to return to her. After 8 years, he decides going to a hotel where he discovers about her past as a theater actress, but unfortunately she had died after giving him the watch, at that date 8 years in the past. He would like to know her, moved by an understandable feeling. In the way, he finds a professor which tells him time travel is possible with self-hypnosis. In the hotel she had been in 1912, he finds his name written in a visitors book from 1912, at the same date where the old lady was in a play. After that, he decides to return to the pass, understanding that he had been there. If I were resume everything, he returns to the past with her watch and wonderfully, she was in love with him at first sight. After here, it is only love, and more love without any reasonable cause to strengthen it, and then, suddenly, he is pushed to return to his time as a consequence of a coin in his pocket (a coin from 1972). That coin made him to figure out he was not in his time.As you can notice, something bothered me watching Somewhere in Time. And it is not all time travel inconsistency of he is being cause of his own time travel effect. But it is more... I felt the characters were not developed. They did not explained themselves to each other. When he was going to explain himself, he looked to the coin and figured out he was not there. He is only moved by his curiosity to go there, and suddenly, he wants to stay there forever with a woman he still does not know. They could have developed their relationship with their ambitions, since he writes and she plays. But it is easier if she recognized him as she was waiting for him and... magic love. They did not meet each other. Actually, the screenplay was more concerned with cliché dialogs than developing the proposed tragical end. Summarizing everything, about their personalities, they were too idealistic and poor developed. The end does not make any sense. "},{"Title":"Richard Matheson","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A Chicago playwright (Christopher Reeve) uses self-hypnosis to find the actress (Jane Seymour) whose vintage portrait hangs in the Grand Hotel of Mackinaw.This was not a film I had heard much about. Okay, really nothing about. And that is a shame, because Richard Matheson is one of the greatest all-time fantastic film writers. He is better known for horror (I Am Legend), but successfully manages a time-traveling romance here. How many time-traveling romances exist? I can only think of one other, The Lake House, which is very different and hardly comparable.The whole premise is a bit weird but it is also interesting and thought-provoking. Just imagine how many loops the watch must take -- an infinite amount. And how does it all work? Of course, we are not supposed to think about the logic, but it is pretty interesting! "},{"Title":"OK time-traveling romance","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Richard Collier (Christopher Reeve) is approached at his party by an unknown old lady who asks him to Come back to me and leaves him a pocket watch. Years later, he returns to the same hotel and discovers that she's Elise McKenna (Jane Seymour), a famous stage actress from long ago. He finds some of her effects including a book from Dr. Gerard Finney about self-hypnosis time travel. After much effort, he travels back to 1912 and tracks down Elise. They have an electric connection as her manager William Robinson (Christopher Plummer) tries to keep them apart.It's a romance but Reeve and Seymour are not together for most of the movie. It takes almost half of the movie before the two actors actually have a scene together. It's a very long build and I'm not convinced why he's so taken with her. It's almost a given as love at first sight for both characters without much explanation. I guess they are star-crossed lovers but the characters are a little older than Romeo and Juliet. Reeve with his leading man looks easily keeps the time-traveling romance humming. Seymour is lovely. Plummer is a fine villain. The drama is never very thrilling. It has a sweet poignant melodramatic sentimentality which serves it well in the end. "},{"Title":"VIEWS ON FILM review of Somewhere In Time","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere in Time is a movie that I somewhat embraced as a kid. I was intrigued by the whole concept of time travel (the gist of what's on screen). Also, it was unique in that it was filmed almost entirely on Mackinac Island (I grew up in Michigan so go figure). However, after a recent viewing (almost 30 years later) and a need for random nostalgia, I found the film to be a well intentioned but borderline misfire. Time tells the story of playwright Richard Collier (Christopher Reeve). He is mysteriously visited by an elderly woman while doing a play as a college student somewhere in Northern Michigan. Fast forward 8 years later and he is living in Chicago. He's still a playwright but has a serious case of writer's block and out of nowhere, decides to visit the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island. A sense of Déjà vu kicks in and Collier realizes that the woman he met 8 years ago was a famous actress from the year 1912 (Elise McKenna, played with restraint by Jane Seymour). She in fact did a play on the Island so he decides to go back in time to see her. After Reeve's character successfully realizes that he has mastered the art of time travel (he dresses up like someone from 1912 and puts old coins in his pocket. Oh yeah, he also lies on a bed and says over and over that he is in the year 1912), he goes to great lengths to find her and fall in love with her. This is all to the disenchantment of her overprotective and overbearing manager William Fawcett Robinson (a very young Christopher Plummer). If you look at Time in hindsight, it's the type of cinematic exercise that probably could have gone from being 1hr. 44 minute (film's running time) to maybe 2 hours and some change. It's weird saying that because if you ask most moviegoers about the length of a film, they'll probably say it's too long or drags too much. Time is the opposite. I'm not saying it's because it feels like scenes were literally left out on the cutting room floor. That's not the case. What I'm saying is that additional scenes could have been added to explain the general actions of the characters more. What we get from Time is something that was edited too tightly and got rushed out to theaters back in 1980. The ending, although terrific on paper, lasts for maybe 30 seconds. Then there's the musical score. It's hauntingly beautiful but it seems to come in at wrong points in the movie. It feels like a cheap solution to beef up dramatic momentum when it's obvious to anyone watching, that there isn't any. The film also has the mistake of giving the lead role to the late Christopher Reeve. He looks the part, he's in every frame, but it feels like he's trying way too hard. You can tell back then, that he wanted to break out of the whole type casting thing with his success in Superman (1978). Added to the miscasting of Reeve is the love story between his character and Jane Seymour's character. Besides the fact they are both involved in theater, there is really no blatant evidence to back up the notion that these two people would actually fall in love. They spend one day together (5 or 6 scenes in the whole movie) and there is barely any conversation between the two of them. If it was lust I'd accept that. But it's annoying that we as an audience are manipulated into thinking that these two people belong together when in fact they barely know each other. Among other things, this in a nutshell, is the biggest misstep with Time. The biggest bright spot however, is the casting of Christopher Plummer as the antagonist. He's menacing and cold. He pretty much does the whole Robert De Niro thing by out acting everyone with his eyes. Sadly though, he doesn't command much screen time and is woefully underused.Ultimately, Somewhere in Time is not a bad film. It's just the type of vehicle that had the potential to be so much better. I mean it's beautifully shot and has a great sense of time and place. But when it came to character development and a strong script, everyone involved, was somewhere else. "},{"Title":"Love transcends time","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A love story transcends time and beyond, what if you and your significant other are not in the same timeline? SOMEWHERE IN TIME tells a tale of this sort, Chicago 1972, a budding playwright Richard Collier (Reeve) receives a pocket watch from an old lady he has never met before, who asks him come back to me. 8 years later, Richard found out she was a famous stage Actress Elise McKenna, and passed away the night they met. Obsessed with her portrait in Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan, Richard opts for self-hypnosis to time-travel to 1912, when young Elise (Seymour) is going to perform in the theatre of the hotel. The film is romantic to its bones, even too much by today's criterion, love can conquer anything is the eternal leitmotif, when they meet for the very first time in 1912, instantly she blurts is it you?, as if she knows his side of story perfectly, and she has been waiting for him because they are destined to be together no matter what. But director Jeannot Szwarc decisively steers clear of the fantasy element, Elise's reaction is purely out of woman's sixth sense, and her over- protective manager William (Plummer) is pitched as the villain to debar their time-defying love. The debacle is a piece of cake in any rate (Reeve has the physique of a superman and he is madly in love with her and vice versa), they could be stay happily for ever, but the predictable separation expectedly occurs during their merriest moment over a minor incidence, Richard is dragged back to 1980, but he is unable to turn back time again, this star-crossed lovers finally reunite in the blessing heaven. It is mawkish but not entirely untenable, whenever one anticipates the plot is going a slightly annoying and tedious with its routinely corny dialogue, John Barry's empowering score turns the tide around and in all of a sudden, it becomes bearable and even marginally heartfelt to the purity of their love. Reeve, takes off his superman caper and successfully transformed into a period gentleman emanates all the necessary debonair and appropriate decorum, while Seymour is a natural beauty in her zenith, they are remarkably well-matched and made for each other, effortlessly our compassion to the lovebirds seethes when Plummer's malignancy comes to stand in the way, very accurate cast indeed. SOMEWHERE IN TIME owns its classic status by being an anomaly in the science fiction genre and at the same time, it is completely irrelevant to any gimmicks contingent on pricey special effects. Its alluring premise of the fatalistic romanticism could be someone's cup of tea, but I doubt its impact could percolate into a wider demography with time goes by. An updated remake may sound opportune as it seems the 80s-revamp fad is on fire now in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Love Story","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" You need a heart of steel not to be moved by this beautiful film. I have seen this many times over the years and never understood why it wasn't a spectacular success from the beginning. I am glad it didn't take the usual route because it demonstrated that it had the right material as people discovered it, recognized its quality, and ended up given its right place among cinema classics.With the help of a superb cast, headed by the lovely Jane Seymour, a woman able to project ethereal and eternal beauty with a simple look. There is the dapper Christopher Reeve, trying his best and giving us a suitable performance as the man in a quest to find the perfect woman for him. There is a big problem. She is in the past, and he is in the present. Somehow, they will get together, and as we see from the beginning be separated by their very interesting twist of fate.Reeves is a playwright who visits a hotel and is immediately enchanted by an actress portrait. He really doesn't understand what is pulling him, but he feels the force of an emotion that will lead him into what some might call an impossible journey. Slightly modified from the story is based upon, the hero goes through an exhaustive investigation and sets up the trip back through time. He meets the love of his life, has his dreams come true and eventually tragedy strikes, setting up one of the most traumatic lover separations in the history of cinema.Eventually things are fixed, and we get what we look for in this type of movies, but it must be acknowledged that the entire production is a pleasure, with a luscious and romantic store, an amazing level of chemistry between the two leads, and interesting, complex villain whose heart is also broken on the way to the very romantic conclusion. They just don't make them like this anymore. "}{"Title":"Will I like this film? Oh YES!!!","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I was in my early twenties when I first saw this movie on TV. My brother, four years my junior, was also there. Both of us products of a working class background and little given to shows of emotion. Not expecting to enjoy this chick flick we soon found ourselves caught up in the story and were gripped. We both had tears streaming down our faces by the end and were both manfully trying to hide this from each other. However, there was no hiding the fact that we both agreed that few films had ever unexpectedly crept up on like this one. We loved it. True, without the soundtrack it may not have the same effect, the story is a bit thin ( unless time travel has been achieved by the time you read this) and it was never a hit at the box office. However, if you have an ounce of soul and are truly man enough to not feel threatened by a show of emotion then I can honestly heartily recommend this terrific film. Hire it, buy it second hand or watch out for it on TCM. You will not regret. Truly great! "},{"Title":"Christopher Reeve's Best Performance Ever","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Richard Matheson's novel Bid Time Return is the basis for this movie. Richard Matheson, like Philip K. Dick, has been the author and the source for several movies and Star Trek episodes. The only thing really wrong about this film is that it takes 35 minutes to arrive in the past at the Grand Hotel, which is actually on Mackinaw Island. Is it plausible that one could travel back in time by will power and hypnosis? That is the only weakness in the film. You must believe this concept, or the film will not work for you. The performances of a very young Jane Seymour and Christopher Reeve are often criticized. I believe that both their performances are outstanding. Reeve shows a range of emotions not seen in any of his other roles. They have great on-screen chemistry together. I can't imagine anyone else playing these roles. Christopher Plummer plays the impresario that loves his young protégé. It's old-fashioned but effective. The ending is sad but better than the novel, where Richard Collier dies of a brain tumor instead of a broken heart. (The lover's reunion in Heaven is reminiscent of the 1947 film The Ghost and Mrs. Muir.) Like The Sound of Music it's been panned by critics but loved by its following. It was saved from obscurity by cable and video sales! Excellent 1 hour Making of DVD extra made in 2000 when Reeve was still in relatively good health following his equestrian accident. "},{"Title":"This goes beyond mere chick flick","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere in Time is nothing if not deeply sentimental; like one big romance novel hurled up onto the screen. And that unrelenting sincerity is the key to making all of this work. It's what makes you accept the silly time travel mechanics and just go with it. It's nowhere near science fiction; this is pure fantasy, set to the tender strings of a priceless John Barry score. It's also nice to see Christopher Reeve in a welcome departure from the cape (I can't help the comparison; I was reared on Superman movies).But even with all of that, you don't have a movie if you don't find the right Elise McKenna. But they did. Jane Seymour is the twinkling gem in this crown. She is every bit as beautiful as we're led to believe (and not just in the portrait). She lights up the screen with radiance. The reveal of that photograph is startling.7/10 "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie as a teenager, not in the theater but sometime during the 80's. I had a serious crush on Christopher Reeve (Superman posters in my room). I fell in love with this movie back then.I saw that it was coming up on some cable channel, and recorded it, figuring that it would have lost it's interest to me some 20+ years later. I was wrong.The love story is still so sweet, the characters still so vivid. Only now I have one of my daughters hooked on it, too. Of course there is always the somewhere in time music which ... I don't even like that kind of music! It tugs at heartstrings that I didn't know that I had.It also has great period scenery and clothing.Watch and it will hard to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"All Right, I Admit It!!!","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm a sentimental old fool. This movie kind of got to me. How can anyone who has ever been burned by love watch this movie and not be moved? Christopher Reeves plays as a likable fellow, and Jane Seymour plays a beautiful...okay, damsel in distress, since she's got Christopher Plummer being a horse's rear.This is a great love story with sort of a different slant. For those of you who say that the time travel thing wasn't done realistically, all I can say is there is no way it could be. It is not possible to break the time-space continuum. If that were possible, there would be people from the future in our midst already. If we're going to include something in a story that isn't humanly possible, let's not be picky about how it's done, okay? Let's just sit back and be entertained, and let Christopher Reeves and Jane Seymour show us how love is supposed to be done. (God, but that ending was so sad!) 7 hankies out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wish it were so","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you enjoy movies as a means of escaping life's irritations and woes, then Somewhere in Time is for you.  If you're a major critic and have an overwhelming need to pick apart a film, then you might want to skip this one.Many imdb commenters have done marvelous summaries of this film.  Read those if you want to know about the plot.I'd like to add that though time travel isn't a possibility, it's a wonderful fantasy and this film gives a terrific view of what it might be like to visit another age.  Total escapism and a couple of hours well spent relaxing... "},{"Title":"Simply....","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Outside his role of Superman, Christopher Reeve's finest screen outing. Perfect soundtrack music, perfect cinematography in and around the hotel.  Good performances also by Jane Seymour and Christopher Plummer. Nice evocation of a byegone age. Check your cynicism at the door and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Best romance, depressing ending","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Those of you who absolutely loved this film and wrote in saying so thanks. For those who chose to read into everything ( time warp thru hypnosis impossible) you have way too darn much time on your hands. I believe the mind is a very powerful gadget, capable of doing anything. The  movie was captivating, and I loved it...even as a male. I do  have one wuestion though Those who did read into this and  saw it as a dumb stupid waste, why couldnt you look that far when you saw truly decent movies like AI Artificial Intelligence? Many people said AI was dumb and stupid, that it lacked a good storyline. The earlier version of the stephen king book the shining was totally stupid and a waste of Jack Nicholsons time, though he benefitted from it financially. The latter with Tim Daly  made a lot more sense. The 1981 version proves that violence sells, and that you dont necessarily have to have a storyline as a backbone for it.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie to watch even after 22 years","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well, just met a Taiwan famous actress recently, when we talked about the most romantic movie, and our choice are the same -- this remarkable movie. My friend even dreamed about the movie twice after watching it.  Somewhere in Time is a movie that you should not miss.  The Cinema Photography is so beautiful.  The charisma between the two casts just melted people hearts. Then last year when I went to a grave of a late famous Hong Kong movie star, Betty Loh Tih, the most classical beauty star who committed suicide in 1968. Her picture in the grave was so stunning and alive, then I suddenly thought of this movie, and I now believe how a person can be attracted to a beautiful portrait picture.  That is so real.  You have to see this movie and cherish the people around you whom you love.  Don't let them disappear then you feel regret for the rest of your life.  Enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"great movie for a girls' night in","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie with my Mom years ago and we completely bonded over it. It has such a great premise and the cast is wonderful. The idea of time travel has always been fascinating to me, and became even more so because of this film. If you love tragic romances, this is a great film to see, so grab a sister, mom, or girlfriend (and a box of tissues) and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Composition","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As much as I hate to disappoint you, Barry did not compose the music for this movie. The piece somewhere in time was written a long time ago by a Russian composer by the name of Rachmaninoff. The movie music is exactly the same as the original composition. It is one of the finest films of its kind though. "},{"Title":"add me to the list","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  of one of the fans of this movie.  This also is one of my all time favorites and in my collection.  It's a very sweet love story, Christopher Reeve is so boyish and charming and Jayne Seymour is quite beaufitul.  The hotel where it was set and the feel of that era were well captured. If you think about the time travel thing too much it doesn't make sense like someone said, but heh it's a movie that is more about two people falling in love.  "},{"Title":"NOT FOR ALL...BUT IF YOU HAVE A HEART....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film, on first viewing, instantly became one of my favorite films.  Never having been one to not see beyond errors or limitations of films, the angst and joy in this sci-fi love story is a study in major toying with your emotions.  It was sort of reminiscent of the emotional ride you took with Jack and Rose in Titanic.  Definitely a formula film, but does reach your heart (assuming you have one).Jane Seymour is so perfect in the period role, you can't help but fall in love with her.  She seems born to it.  He character is charming and beguiling and beautiful.  I've always wondered if she had a pact with the devil, she looks the same now as then.  Christopher Reeve would not be my first choice to play the male lead.  He is, at best, adequate.  It seems looks to match Ms. Seymour's were more important than acting ability.  Both are very rarely found in the same proportion that Ms. Seymour possesses.  This may magnify the acting mismatch.  She steals the movie.The haunting musical score, although a bit sappy and perfect for this sort of movie, draws you deeper into the love story, providing you with plenty of emotional cues.  If you've never cried at a movie, you won't like Somewhere in Time.  If you can let your heart go, you'll love it....... "},{"Title":"What do some people want!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film is not meant to be Shakespeare so why don't those people who constantly knock & find fault with it go away and watch something boring and high brow. Go away and dissect some incomprehensible art house movie and leave the film and its wonderful memory with us intact.I remember seeing this in 1980 and feeling great who cares that Reeve is not Olivier this is entertainment, use Rachmaninov's haunting theme on Paganini was truly inspired and will always be remembered for this film as Barber will be for Platoon and Albinoni for Gallipoli.Most films these days use anonymous scores with only the blockbusters being able to afford the likes of James Horner although all original film scores sound big but vaguely familiar.  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time which I've watched over 100 times.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love time travel movies! I never really thought much about it before but most of my favorites include time travel. Somewhere In Time is however, the cream of the crop for me and I still cry every time I see it. The part of the movie where Richard finds the penny in the secret compartment of his suit and begins to vanish as Elise screams out his name gets me every single time. I make sure when I sit down to watch the movie that the phone is off the hook so I don't get disturbed. I do find something new all the time. Although I hate the part where he dies of a broken heart, I realize that this just has to be. Some of my favorite scenes include those with Arthur. Anyway, if you haven't seen it but adore love stories, then this is the one you should not miss! "},{"Title":"'Feel sorry for people who don't like this film.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere in Time has many of the flaws its amateur and professional critics have pointed out, but it is a visually beautiful, wonderfully scored, sentimental, romantic masterpiece all the same.I am pleased that at my relatively advanced age I am still not so jaded as to ridicule or dismiss such a lovely story.  I truly feel sorry for the people who don't like this film...not because they're wrong, but because it must be perfectly awful to have so little romance in one's soul!  "},{"Title":"How could anyone not love this movie","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful romantic simple little movie that somehow was overlooked at the time. The Music touched me as it did in the movie Out of Africa. It will always be one of my all time favorites.  "},{"Title":"Touches your heart","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw the movie in 1988 renting it while I was a student in the U.S. It touched me to an extent that I have spent 10 years trying to get a copy of the same in India.The movies is superb and the end will touch your emotional chords.  Full marks to Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour (she looks and acts beautifully) and the entire team.  I would rate it as 10/10 - a must see movie for all the romantic people out there. "},{"Title":"And In Time, Somewhere......","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt, one of the greatest movies of the 20th century. Extremely well done, with taste and substance.  And when one watches it for the fiftieth time, they continually pick up little things they missed before,i.e., Elisa's reflection in the window.  The music?  What can one say?  And Elisa's speech on stage...not for the mind numbed, but for those who 'should have said it' in their own life.  Not an action movie, not a 'sex' movie, but a 'movie', and one well worth the renting or buying, a 'must' for every serious collector of fine art! "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie! I bought this movie quite along time ago and I still continue  to watch and enjoy it. I especially loved the parts that were played by Jane Seymour and Christopher Reeves. I believe that this picture reflected their best work and I think it was excellent casting. I also enjoyed Christopher Plummers acting as well but I don't believe that Mr Plummer did his best acting but made the part believable. On a scale of 1 top 10 I rate it a 10 but most people I play this movie for rate it a 7. One suggestion I would make is to watch the movie and then read the book by the author originally titled Bid Time Return Then renamed after it was made for the wide screen. Good Movie!!  "}{"Title":"A touching love story","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Another user wrote that this was a time travel movie that didn't work. Wrong.  It works perfectly if you stop thinking only of the present.  It was perfectly circular.  The past created the present and the present created the past, as it should be.  By the end of the movie, everything in the past dovetailed with the present.  Neither was changed.  In this, it's similar to The Final Countdown and the first Terminator.Roger Ebert wrote that he couldn't be sure if Collier had actually gone into the past or just imagined it.  Of course he had.  It's crystal clear.  If he hadn't, he couldn't have left the watch that was given to him at the beginning of the movie.It moves a little slowly at times, but the pacing seems to be deliberate. This is not a movie that a reviewer would say  not a shot was wasted, but it is full of beautiful scenery, mostly of Mackinac Island.Good performances by Seymour and Reeve make this a touching love story and probably a classic tearjerker for many.  The final scene was echoed by James Cameron's Titanic 17 years later.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed and matched by a beautiful score.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It may have its faults but it is, by far, one of the most romantic movies you'll ever see. John Barry's beautiful score captures the sense of love and loss perfectly.If you hate love stories, this movie won't win you over but if you do you won't soon forget Somewhere in Time.  "},{"Title":"The play within the play theory...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have a theory about an aspect of effective films they at some point take us to a place where the characters themselves are viewers or participants in a drama within a drama. In Cinema Paradiso, it's the characters going to the cinema, in The Fifth Element we see the blue Diva, in The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, the players are actors, distracting the populace. In Hamlet, the title character uses a play within a play to find out if his suspicions are accurate. In Rules of the Game, the house comes alive with the theatrical shadow presentation. In Dead Poets Society, the play (A midsummer Night's Dream) is integral to the development of the characters. I say all of this to point out a beautiful, startling moment in Somewhere In Time, When Jane Seymour ad-libs on stage about the man of her dreams. In this moment she is both our entertainer and Reeve's as well. She looks to the moment and enjoys the connection for us. This recognition of how art illuminates life is then able to spread out over the rest of the film.Somewhere in Time is a gentle, sad, romantic trip to that little hotel theater by the lake...the one in all of our dreams. And Jane Seymour and Christopher Reeve bring all the dramas within the movie vividly alive. The music of John Barry tops it all off. To live is to love...and to cry. "},{"Title":"an  unforgettable love story ...","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if there is a lot of french people who know this film but I think it's a pity . Because it's very moving love story , which can't be forgotten , because for me everyone hope to find someday the man or the woman of her / his dreams ... I think it 's the best movie that Jeannot Szwarc has done in his career , and , really , Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour were absolutely fantastic (the Richard Matheson 's novel is very good too ... )  "},{"Title":"For anyone who has ever been in love.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has it all - love, passion, romance.  It is a movie that spans the boundaries of time.  I was so touched by this movie that I named my son Richard after Christopher Reeves' character.  It is a feel good movie that will stay in your heart forever.  "},{"Title":"An Uncanny Vision of an Actor's Death","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The storyline is simple an ambitious but yearning drama student is visited backstage by an enigmatic old woman, who gently presses a pocket watch into his hand with a simple request Come back to me. Eight years pass, and Richard Collier is now a very successful playwright. During a period of writer's block, he chucks it all and returns to his old college stomping grounds. On an impulse, he checks in at the local Grand Hotel, where very quickly he is drawn to a portrait of a beautiful young woman. He becomes a man obsessed and delves into extensive research on the woman, who turns out to have been an actress, in fact, THE actress who died on the very night she gave him the watch. He visits the author of a book that intrigues him at actress' home. The man divulges his frightening experience of time travel with the aid of self-hypnosis. In a particularly intense sequence, Richard tries, then fails, then tries again to pass backward through time. He eventually gets to meet the woman of his dreams, but is hindered by her mentor. Naturally, love wins out and they share the kind of love scene that most healthy woman just can't resist watching! In the end, the future rips him away from the arms of his beloved, and he literally dies of a broken heart. The ending sequence is quite beautiful, as is the gorgeous love theme by John Barry. Perhaps the saddest thing to watch was a weak, immobile Christopher Reeve at the end of the movie. Who was to know this would really come true? Even more heartbreaking is having to watch his beautiful body run, skip, and gesture with an ease the rest of us have no right to take for granted. "},{"Title":"Not even time could stand in his way.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A beautiful romantic drama starring the ever popular Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour. This tear-jerker is best watched with someone you love who, like, Richard Collier (Reeve), would not let even tim itself stand in the way of love. Award winning soundtrack and Mackinac Island scenery provide the perfect 1912 setting. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this many times and love it every time. (And I don't even like romantic movies very much.)I think that the two leading characters were the most beautiful people in the world. But the story itself was gripping and well-acted. (The book, Bid Time Return, was a good read, but not as good as the movie.)   "},{"Title":"One of the all-time great romance films...","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you've think you've seen every great film depicting the fish out of water love story yet did not see Somewhere in Time, then you've missed the very best one. Christopher Reeve gives a remarkable performance as the displaced romantic searching for the beautiful woman in the ancient photograph. Jane Seymour was perfectly casted as Reeve's object of obsession (and my word if she's not the most gorgeous girl in film at that time) and the acting and dialogue are well done. I truly believe that Cameron  ripped off the ending of this film and used a nearly carbon copy for the final scene in Titanic and it's pretty damn obvious. To compare the two films would be difficult due to the technical accomplishments and tremendous budget of the more recent Titanic, but I can say this the formula, characters, time setting & cinematography are completely identical. The screenplay credit stems from a story by Richard Matheson, who wrote numerous Twilight Zone episodes and some scenes have a subtle similarity to those old sci-fi-fantasy shows. This film is an absolute must-see for couples everywhere and for people who just love good movies. "},{"Title":"DID JAMES CAMERON SEE THIS MOVIE?","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  THIS WAS ONE OF MY FAVORITE MOVIES OF ALL TIME IT'S SWEET, ROMANTIC AND I THINK CHRIS AND JANE ARE BEAUTIFUL TOGETHER. I THINK JAMES CAMERON HAD A LITTLE INSPIRATION TO MAKE TITANIC WITH THIS MOVIE BECAUSE THESE TWO MOVIES HAVE A LOT IN COMMON, LIKE THE FINAL SCENE, THE CHARACTERS,ETC. IF YOU ALREADY SAW TITANIC AND SOMEWHERE IN TIME, PLEASE SEE THE LAST AGAIN AND THINK ABOUT WHAT I WROTE HERE "}{"Title":"If you're a romantic with taste, you'll love this picture.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good movie. It is romantic without being maudlin. The three principal players are all excellent. The mood and atmosphere are both captivating and convincing and the film score is gorgeous. This is on my personal top dozen films list.  "},{"Title":"Time for Love","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This has always been one of my favorite love stories. I always enjoy films that deal with time travel--the possibilities are endless. This is a tight, excellent written story. I seem to remember the critics panning Christopher Reeves' efforts in this  movie. I'm glad to see it get such a good rating from the viewers. Jane Seymour was stunningly beautiful as always. If you haven't seen this film, it is a great video rental for a date! "},{"Title":"Only for the very worst of the hopeless romantics","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It has a rather sweet romantic premise, but I'm afraid that unless you're a completely hopeless romantic, you'll likely find yourself constantly raising your eyebrows and chuckling.Somewhere in Time is clearly meant to appeal to emotion - particularly as it relates to love and the supernatural. It offers an interesting glimpse at the mysteries of the universe and the power of love across time, yet I'm afraid it isn't enough to cover up the silly sappiness of the rest of the film. The acting isn't the worst I've ever seen, but it wasn't good either. It wants desperately for dialogue! It has a nauseating tendency to fall into the we're going to stare at each other constantly instead of talking category of movies (which, in its defense, was a popular fad in '80s movies). The moments where there was actually some dialogue between them was great! I liked the characters, the relationship, everything... but then it went right back into we're gonna stare at each other some more mode. And the movie chooses to skim over their first real conversation via a montage! Excuse me? I like to SEE my characters developing their relationships, I don't want to have to assume it happens! Do I even have to talk about the main character? He was dull as rocks. Nothing interesting about him at all... I mean who finds themselves in the past, and only thinks - literally ONLY thinks - of finding this one pretty girl? I mean he didn't even THINK of going to check out some other stuff while he was there? A little sight-seeing? Nope... just the dewy-eyed lover boy who... stares at people creepily.And Christopher Plummer's character? Ahem? He was the only halfway interesting character, and they just left him... unresolved! No finalization, no slap on the wrist for being a jerk, nothing... I mean what? And I understand that their purpose was to keep a lot of things shrouded in mystery, but I really would have liked to know... what happens to his physical body in the present day when his mind goes back? And vice versa? Did he just disappear? And last but not least, how did the girl figure out he was a time traveler, and thus know he'd be alive in 1979 to give him the watch? That was never resolved. OH! And one more thing... she literally knew this guy for a day. And she remembered him her whole life? Now I know that's more of an opinionated issue, and it's meant to demonstrate the power of love, blah blah blah... I mean don't get me wrong, I love a good love story. I can even deal with sappiness when it is done well. This is not done well. Too sappy, too silly. "},{"Title":"Time travel and love, yes! But a thin, slow, dreamy, clunky movie, too.","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere in Time (1980)This is one huge cheesy overdrawn movie with a fabulous romantic hook and one or two spine-tingling moments. The bad overwhelms the good most of the time--except of course a very cute and virile leading man, Christopher Reeve. He's supported well by Christopher Plummer in the second half of the film, and it's fun to see Teresa Wright in a small role (at the age of only 62, but she plays an older woman).Lots of the film has lingering moments of longing or wishing or letting the lens fog up a bit (literally it seems). It's incredibly slow overall, and sometimes even predictable. The two giant twists are of course meant to be wild and they are. They probably make the trip worthwhile, but keep some perspective on it as you go.The filming interested me because I've been to the location many times--the little resort of Mackinaw Island, Michigan. The hotel is actually the Grand Hotel as the signs say in the film. The one big difference overall is there are no cars on the island, and here there are a couple (but just two or three that I could see--they didn't totally overrun the place during filming). The hotel is a wooden wonder, and largely still intact as shown thirty years ago. I remember signs about a dress code in the dining room after a certain hour. And yet there was the water and the lawns and a king of summer paradise, too. And the porch--the longest in the world (over 600 feet)--is really a sight, with its grand high ceiling as well.I see the movie gets a good star rating and good for it. I think it has such romantic appeal, like a lower quality Affair to Remember, it rises above it's critical weaknesses. Watch accordingly. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Could've Been Better","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Somewhere in Time is an interesting, mysterious film, and I must admit I was intrigued by it. This is a romantic love story and the only movie I've seen where someone travels through time without the use of a machine. I really liked the fact that it used mechanical and not special effects. The only minor flaws in the movie are small details and clarity.Christopher Reeve is very good as the young, very intelligent, well-read, mild-mannered, and sophisticated Chicago playwright named Richard Collier. Reeve is so good that we almost think he is playing himself. The movie begins at the opening of the first play he writes, when an old woman gives him a beautiful gold watch and tells him Come back to me. We have no idea what this means, until later. Eight years later, to be exact.This is the point where the movie really begins. In his adult life, Collier is an unhappy, lonely, and unfulfilled man. Seemingly empty and bored, he takes a trip to Mackinac Island to the Grand Hotel. During a visit to the hotel's hall of history, he sees the photograph of a beautiful young woman, an actress named Elise McKenna, which seems to pull him like a magnet. He becomes smitten and obsessed. After researching her life, he sees that she is the same woman who gave him the gold watch. This makes him determined to travel back in time, to 1912 when she performed in a play at the same hotel.After an exhausting trial and error, he is finally successful in his journey to the past where he meets Elise, played by the beautiful Jane Seymour. They meet, and their chemistry is instantaneous. The only obstacle is her manager, W.F. Robinson, played by Christopher Plummer in a wonderful performance as a very complex antagonist. He seems to misunderstand Collier's intentions and will do everything in his power to keep him from winning Elise over.Since there is a time loop and some confusion in the beginning of the film, the movie takes some time to sort itself out, and some of the questions are answered by the end of the movie. The only problems the film has are certain questions that are unclear and unanswered. For example where did the watch come from? Doesn't that one vital item have a beginning? Did Collier really travel back in time, or hypnotize himself into thinking he does? The movie also never really develops the romance between Richard and Elise, so there's no real transparency about what makes them tick. I also could've done without Elise's Is it you? line when they first meet. Would any woman really say that to a complete stranger if she wasn't in a movie?Nevertheless, the movie is fun to watch, and the performances are inordinate. The beautiful Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island is visually magnificent, and the photography and costumes are exquisite. I particularly enjoyed the scenes where Richard listens to a lecture in time travel from a college professor of his (played by 12 Angry Men's George Voskovec), and then successfully completes his time travel odyssey to 1912. Jane Seymour is fantastic as Elise McKenna, and Christopher Plummer is equally convincing as her manager. Susan French, as the older Elise McKenna is physically beautiful for her age and a spot on match of an older Jane Seymour.Somewhere in Time, released in the fall of 1980, was somewhat similar to The Shawshank Redemption in that it was unsuccessful in the film's theatrical showings, but it later triumphed into a popular classic after its' running on cable television and video sales/rentals. Even though that is the case, I would not call Somewhere in Time a masterpiece, but it is a good, well-crafted movie that is entertaining and interesting. The only disappointment is that with better writing and some more simplicity, it could have been a great movie instead of just a good one with great performances. "},{"Title":"Impossible Love","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Wonderful film about a playwright who falls in love with a painting of a beautiful stage actress who was born some 93 years before. Christopher Reeve plays the part of Richard Collier, a man so obsessed by the once famous thespian Miss Elise McKenna - played beautifully by the lovely Jane Seymour - that he determines to meet her any way he can! Director Jeannot Szwarc never lets the somewhat fantastic plot get out of hand. While she does allow her audience to give a little thought to its implications, she never lets the film drift away from its greatest asset, the romance. She has, to her credit, kept things very simple.Somewhere in Time is a marvelous romance about impossible love.Wednesday, July 15, 1992 - VideoThe plot to this time travelling romance may tend to wear thin after a number of viewings. However, all the plot complexities aside, it is a wonderful story of love that knows no bounds.Audiences who enjoy fantasy will derive much pleasure from this movie. For the cynics however, Somewhere in Time does not come highly recommended.For lovers of lovers only!Tuesday, February 9, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"Where There Is A Will, There Is A Way.","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It is a completely romantic idea that a person's will could be so strong that they could convince them-self that they were back in time. It is utterly ridiculous and yet, this movie is charming. Christopher Reeve plays a large part in that charm. He has one of the best smiles that I have ever seen. You will want to believe that he can will himself back in time. It is also very believable that someone would be so fascinated with Jane Seymour, she is flawless. Christopher Plummer supplies the always necessary hurdle for the lovers. That is the biggest problem that I had with this movie, all of the hallmarks of the romance genre are there and not much else. The movie would lose a lot of it's power if the time travel element was gone. But if you can get past that and aren't looking for broken ground, this movie just might charm you too. "},{"Title":"A Charming, Hauntingly Romantic Fairy Tale","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For those of a romantic bent the film works for two reasons 1) Although not a premier actor Christopher Reeve was devastatingly handsome, had a captivating, sensitive manner, a drop-dead smile, and carried himself with charm and poise. (His career-ending accident while in the prime of life and his untimely death several years later at the age of 52 was truly a tragedy.) 2) The story - as maudlin as some might feel it to be - captures the imagination of the perennially young and reminds us of the one that got away, an experience which many, many people share. The beautiful score enhances the sadness of his impossible situation when he finds - and then loses - McKenna. And then his decision to reunite with her in eternity by leaving this world and entering hers is enough to make one swoon. Who hasn't fantasized about being reunited for eternity with a lost loved one, . . . somewhere, . . . at some time. "},{"Title":"Top 5","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Okay, this movie is on my top five list of all time favorites. Everything about this movie just works. Jane Seymour shines radiantly throughout. Christopher Reeve and Christopher Plummer both give superb performances. I remember the first time I saw this movie. I was quite young, but I was hooked. Much later, I bought it at K-Mart and have enjoyed watching it over and over again. I know it's a chick flick but I can highly recommend it to all of us sensitive guys out there. Oh, by the way, great soundtrack as well. All right, enough jabbering. If you haven't seen this movie, buy it. I got my parents, grandparents, and a few friends to buy this movie. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I can only agree with Mr Findley, that this film stills hits at my core and always brings a tear to my eyes. If you never viewed the fan site devoted to this epic then I commend everyone to do so to discover the work and trouble that went into the production. I have made the excursion to the island and viewed the various sites. It has a magic that works outside of the film, once you get past the little town that is! And thank God that John Barry did create the music that truly captured the sentiments of the film. I've even requested that the main theme be played at my funeral as it says it all. I only wish more films were made and performed with the same craftsmanship.Thankyou Jane and Chris! "}{"Title":"An Exquisite movie","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" SOMEWHERE IN TIME goes on my list of all time favorites. I saw it at the show when it first came out, bought it as soon as it came out on video, and have watched it countless times since. It's been kind of a ritual between my youngest (married) daughter and me. it's one of her favorite movies as well. Occasionally when we are alone, we cozy up on the couch, box of tissues close by, and watch in awe at the beauty of Jane Seymore (she is her most beautiful as Elise). Her wardrobe is the most exquisite of Victorian fashion imaginable. She looks like a bisque doll. Her voice, her hair, just flawless. I live in Michigan and have visited Mackinac Island and the Grand Hotel where the movie was filmed, it was the perfect choice for location. The theme music of the movie is beautiful, and was played at my daughter's wedding. Chris Reeve's chemistry with Jane's was perfect. I find this movie reminiscent of THE GHOST AND MRS. MUIR, another of my very favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Most romantic movie I have ever seen","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie many years ago. I did not remember its title, but today I saw the very last part of it in one of those channels that show old movies. I immediately went to IMDb and found its title. I cannot, in my 61+ years, remember any other movie that has left me so nostalgic. It is a fascinating tought, the fact that we could go back in time and meet someone that could have been our eternal love. Someone that even when we know her now at the end of our lives, could be found in her glorious young age. The possibility itself makes your mind go back in time and wander through the past. This movie has it all, a beautiful lady that brings to our present a retrospective of our own life, and the possibility to dream about it. It is one of those movies, like The Pianist for instance, that you will never forget. It is a movie that can be seen time after time with the same interest. "},{"Title":"Mm, I really can't pretend to be objective.","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The setting and cinematography? Splendid, I believe, but what do I know? The performances? Christopher Reeve was amiable and pleasant, and did his job, and Christopher Plummer and the other actors did as well.The simple fact of the matter is that in her late twenties, Jane Seymour was one of the most luminously beautiful presences in the history of cinema. I fell in love with her on the spot -- much as Reeve's character had to do -- and she remained my iconic personification of Hollywood beauty, grace and charm ever after.Beyond that, all other factors pale, and as I said, I don't remotely pretend to be objective about the movie. Perhaps I'd twit the romance-novel fandom arising (and enduring) around Somewhere In Time, but it would be hypocritical of me to do so.8/10. "},{"Title":"A Nice Place to spend Time","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" One of the most difficult tasks in movie production is to achieve the credible fantasy. It is so rarely done that when the movie goer is fortunate enough to stumble across one, the euphoric appreciation becomes the stuff of which cult films are made. The writer must begin with a plot that is intriguing, engaging and mesmerizing to the point that his audience is willing to enthusiastically embrace it despite the fact that they know it could never happen. It must take them to a place where they would love to be, and a place that, outside that theater, they know they will never go. It must walk the narrow path, avoiding manipulation, predictability and silliness, with sufficient logic and serious thought to maintain internal credibility . The basic premise can be outrageously unbelievable as long as the events seem realistic to the viewer within that framework. When the audience can rationalize that despite the unlikelihood of the plot's premise, the events would have occurred and the characters would have reacted as depicted under those circumstances, the writer has done his job. When romance is part of the credible fantasy, the mission is doubly demanding. Here the actors must cast a spell that enthralls their audience to the point that they actually yearn for a fulfillment of the mutual attraction that exists between the characters. To do this requires exceptionally talented directors and actors. Somewhere In Time is one of those extraordinary films that reaches this seldom obtained goal. Not that it is the perfect motion picture, I'm afraid I haven't had the pleasure of viewing that one yet. But its flaws are so innocent and charming that they actually add to its appeal. In that respect, I guess it is the quintessential day dream. Watch it and enrich your life with a thoroughly enjoyable 103 minutes. "},{"Title":"The perfect chick flick","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The film 'Somewhere in Time' is a Classic love Story about a man named Richard Collier (Christopher Reeve), who falls in love with a picture of a woman - Elise Mckenna(Jane Seymour) on a Hotel wall, that was photographed 67 years before in the year 1912 and through Psychological Time travel methods went back in time to meet her. When he met her in the year 1912 and began a romance with her, he was unexpectedly forced to return to his year of 1979 and vanished infront of her, leaving her confused. She never got over his loss and and remained a spinster ever since. 59 years later she met him at a Theatre show he was directing and gave him back the same watch that he gave her all those years before - she later died that same night. 8 years later when Richard Collier realised that the lady who gave him that watch was the same lady that he was besotted with in the Hotel photo, he then went out on a limb, to travel back in time to meet her. Where does this films story begin and/or end? Nobody knows! The Pinacle of this film is the watch, as where did it come from, for the watch is floating around - Somewhere in time. Did it originally belong to Richard Collier or Elise McKenna? Who knows. This film is mind-boggling as we will never know where it came from. I suppose the watch was a symbol of there love - for they were destined to be together. The story of this couple meeting one another at a theatre in 1971 and then later in 1979 travels back in time to meet her(Elise Mckenna) in the year 1912, is a story that never ends, as it goes around and around in circles. 'Somewhere in Time' is a touching and heartfelt film, that I can watch again and again and never get board of watching it. This film is not only a romance movie, but its also dramatic and Science fictional for a time travel sequence in a love story is a genius idea of this movies film-writer, as its attracts people of all kinds to watch the movie. The story of this film, about a man that travels back in time to meet a woman that he fell in love with on a photograph is very similar to the film 'The Terminator' with Arnold Swartzeneger, as the exact same thing happened in that movie. In my opinion, this film is a brilliant love story for I'd recommend anyone to watch it. "},{"Title":"Somewhere in Time discovered by accident & fell in love with it.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Unbelievably, the same eve. after hearing of Chris Reeves death on news & never having seeing or heard of the movie, i by shear accident ran across it while looking for something to watch & i almost con't to change the channels, but somehow stayed on the one playing the movie Some where in time, i missed the 1st 8- 10 mins, of it, but i was & still am deeply moved by it, the next evening i went to the video place to rent a copy & watched it again, then quickly bought the DVD of it. i have to say that never before has any movie or novel pierced my heart as this one did, i went & got a copy of the novel by the same title & read it twice consecutively, even drove me into listening to classical music (got hold of Mahler's 6th, 9th, 10th symphonies, & am working on getting the 8th as well, others to follow later.The music is not casual & it takes a willingness to learn to listen to it  a pocket dictionary of music is very useful & is aiding me in my increasing appreciation for the music, i have to say by several listenings to Mahler is causing it to grow on me, in this way i hope to have a personal ongoing connectiveness to the Some where in Time - Elise, Richard, Authur,even Robinson, as i desire for this to live forever in me. i wish i could somehow enter personally into the experience of that degree of romance. But with the copies of the movie, music, novel, & the story of the movie by Bill Shepard, it will live on. Yes i am deeply sadden by the passing away of Chris Reeves, Susan Rose & others, the present life is poorer with them gone away..  is it you ? yes the movie & novel is it in deed & add Mahler to the score along with Rachimaninov, & John Barry. & here is to all of you enjoy this movie & novel & take it to heart as treasure...........jon "},{"Title":"A Perfect Film.","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie as a kid and was expecting special effects and Superman. I was very disappointed. I believe I even fell asleep.I viewed the film again as an adult and immediately fell in love with it. It's what a call a guy's girl film, meaning gals can swoon over Christopher Reeve and the love story aspect, while guys can swoon over Jane Seymour and also secretly appreciate the love story parts.The performances, music, cinematography, direction...they all hit the mark. It's interesting to me that James Cameron's Titanic borrowed aspects from this film, but I think this movie does the whole love story aspect much better (even though it is on a smaller scale).The movie didn't do well in theaters; probably the marketing campaign didn't quite make it appealing enough.My only question about the movie is...whose gold watch was it? It's definitely a time loop and if you think about it, no one owns the watch.Christopher Reeve, hot off of Superman proved here that he is truly a remarkable actor; his passing recently was terrible news. I am glad though that, along with the Superman movies, I will have this film to remember him by for the true hero that he was. "},{"Title":"Remembering Christopher Reeve","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  An old woman says these magical words come back to me to Richard Collier and gives an old pocket watch to him.He goes back in time to the year 1912 by using self-hypnosis.He meets a beautiful woman called Elise McKenna there, a famous stage actress.She's the same woman who gave him the pocket watch in the future.Somewhere in Time (1980) is directed by Jeannot Szwarc.It's a great romantic drama fantasy movie.I find the time traveling theme very interesting.Therefore I find this movie very interesting.A man going back in time using self-hypnosis is such a fantastic idea.I've done some self-hypnosis experiments but I've never tried to time travel with it.The acting work is brilliant in this movie.There are Jane Seymour (Elise McKenna), Susan French (Older Elise), Bill Erwin (Arthur Biehl), William H. Macy (Critic) and Christopher Reeve (Richard).On Monday I heard a shocking news that Christopher Reeve had passed away the previous day to a heart attack at the age of 52.That got me very sad.Another great actor is gone.He was paralyzed in 1995 in a horse riding accident.He believed he would walk again someday.So did I and many other people.He never did.In 1978 he became known to the world as Superman.Mr Reeve wasn't Superman only in movies, he was that in real life too.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I remember the first time I saw this film, I was totally bowled over. A sci-fi? Romantic comedy of errors? Fairy-tale? Star-crossed-lovers? This has it all, with a tragic/happy ending, and wonderful, uplifting and heart-wrenching classical music. This film taught me to appreciate classical music even though I didn't like it previously. I'd never heard of Rachmaninov. I loved the old lady at the beginning giving Richard the watch and asking him to come back to her. And I love the puzzle of where the watch came from...he gives it to her in 1912, she gives it to him in 1972, he goes back in time and gives it to her in 1912...lol. Hearing of Christopher Reeve's sad passing this morning, I'm reminded of this film - he will always be the romantic Richard to me - in his 15-years-out-of-date suit and silly bowler hat. Thank you Christopher, for giving me one of my favourite films, may you rest in peace. http//www.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2/A857676 (my synopsis of the film for the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy - Earth Edition) which I wrote in 2002.Much love, Ann Barr  "},{"Title":"This movie is refreshing","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is refreshing,nostalgic,and with my all time favorite actor. I hope to be able to visit the island where this was filmed someday soon.I have not viewed this movie in many years but will make it a point to buy myself a copy of it for my video library. I love time period movies and romantic one. It is a sad day with the loss today of Christopher Reeves. This movie will always be a reminder to society of what a great man, humanitarian,and, educator he was. He will be missed. Please help to carry on Chistophers' dream of supporting stem cell research for spinal cord injury adults. Hopefully, eventually we will meet up with Christopher again Somewhere in time. Thank you.  "}{"Title":"Contemplating the story is part of it's fascination... (Spoilers)","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time a few years ago, and was surprised that I hadn't heard more about it before. (I was only 9 when it came out in 1980.) This film definitely has a special quality to it. Personally, I have always been a sucker for time travel stories. Any movie that has characters travel from the present to the past is appealing...doesn't matter if it is through a dream, reincarnation, a machine or even a memory. I think it's the combination of time travel and powerful romance in this story that really touches people. The scene where Richard kisses Elise for the first time is absolutely breathless, and one of the best kisses in movie history! The film leaves you wanting to know more about these characters...What did Elise see happening to Richard when he found the penny? Did he just disappear? Did Elise spend the next 60 years wondering what the hell happened that day? And was she searching for him? Did the penny somehow remain in 1912, perhaps leading Elise to believe that Richard actually came from the future year 1979? Did she know from the penny to look for him in the future, which is why she found him after the play?Contemplating all the unanswered questions and paradoxes (the watch) is part of the movie's fascination. The watch has no real origin that can be traced...it just circulates from Richard giving it to Elise in 1912, BECAUSE she gave it to him in 1979 BECAUSE he gave it to her in 1912....Here is a another great question....wouldn't the Richard Collier of 1979 have memories of being in 1912, if he in fact, HAD BEEN THERE? Maybe we are supposed to imagine that Richard actually CHANGED THE PAST by willing himself to travel back there from 1979...creating a new reality in 1912.Have fun with this one, kids!  "},{"Title":"The most intense love movie of the modern age","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am a great fan of time travel movies, and if they do not break any of the common rules, and make it seem like it could be possible, the writers already have me won over. When you add Christopher Reeves brilliant acting about a man more passionately in love with a woman that he has not met than even possible, you have the greatest modern day love story around. Very tough to find in a video store, but if a romantic movie dose not turn you off, then you have just invested 2 hours you will never forget. I have only seen this movie once, 20 years ago, and am looking forward to seeing it again some day. I do not think I have ever seen a man portray love as well as Mr. Reeves dose in this film (well maybe Jeff Bridges in Against All Odds). From Billy Crystal's gay lover in S.O.A.P., to Superman, to Somewhere in time... Three completely different characters, but all played believably... this man can act.  "},{"Title":"A Great Romance film.","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  `Somewhere In Time' is a wonderful romance film with a great story line and a wonderful cast. It's a romance film that crosses the barriers of time.I really don't think many people can identify with this film unless they have experienced this to a degree themselves.  Not too long ago we purchased a box of old sheet music from 1903 to 1930. On the cover of one of the sheets from 1912 was a photo of one of the most beautiful women I had ever seen. If I could only find out who she was.  Unless you've been through something like that, you may never get this film. "},{"Title":"A lovely music box of a film","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Cynics will roll their eyes throughout virtually all of this heart-on-its-sleeve romantic drama.  However, those in the mood for an unabashedly sentimental and lushly enveloped evening of cinema will find lots to enjoy here.  Reeve is a young playwright who, on the eve of his first production, is approached by an elderly woman who presents him with an antique watch and one cryptic line of dialogue.  A few years later, when he has had his share of successes, but is tired of the rat race and the commotion of the big city, he retreats to a historic lakeside hotel.  Within hours, he begins to realize what the woman meant and what he has to do in order to fulfill his heart.  He has to go back in time.  Already, some viewers will balk at the notion that Reeve can, literally, will himself back to 1912.  However, he (and all of the other performers) are so sincere in their acting that those who can get past this will find themselves along for the ride.  Once in 1912, he meets Seymour, a stunning beauty and noted actress who is performing at the hotel.  Attempts to meet her and get to know her are continuously thwarted by her Svengali-like manager Plummer.  Eventually, they steal enough time together to fall in love and declare their devotion to each other.  But how long will Reeve be able to pull off his feat of time travel?  This movie has gorgeous scenery and settings, jaw-dropping costumes and the benefit of two stars who were at the peak of their attractiveness.  Reeve is charming and appropriately out-of-step in the past.  Seymour is breathtaking, with gravity-defying hair and grace and class oozing from every pore.  They are matched by Plummer, debonair and authoritative, yet wounded.  What really sets the movie apart from any other of its kind is the tremendous, sweeping musical score by John Barry.  It is close to the best of his already massive body of work.  It coats the film in a dreamy, beautiful blanket of aural pleasure and perfectly compliments the deep romanticism (and tragedy) of the story.  There are some minor problems in the film such as a few lame character performances and some dodgy dialogue and scripting (and the occasional unintentional moment of humor), but the film certainly accomplishes what it set out to do.  With a very limited budget, the makers managed to create a beautiful piece of film.  Sadly, it opened during an actors strike and was met by harsh critics, so it was considered a flop, but now has gained new life as a cult hit, even inspiring a dedicated fan club.   "},{"Title":"Great scenery","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't know quite what to expect before watching Somewhere in Time.  I like time travel movies and I also like movies that were filmed in areas that I've been.  Well this film had both.  So I just had to watch it.  I liked the science fiction elements more than the romantic story.Christopher Reeve drives off from his Chicago pad in search for an escape from the ordinary.  He ends up at Mackinac Island and checks into the fancy Grand Hotel.  There, he comes across a portrait of a woman who he just has to meet.  So he asks his old college professor if time travel is possible and somehow gets the act to work.  Next thing you know, he's instantly in 1912 and courting the woman of his dreams. It's not the finest movie ever made, but it is intrieging. **/**** "},{"Title":"Gets Better With Time","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie at various times throughout my life and I keep wondering when I'll outgrow it.  It was one of the first first-run movies I saw when cable came to my small town in Georgia.  I was 19 years old and thought I'd discovered the meaning of life in this 90 minutes of film. Although I cried a river of tears for the poignancy and tragedy of the timeless love story, I felt hope for the future.  I would find a love to last a lifetime...someday.A decade later, I returned to Mackinac Island older, cynical, and to my way of thinking, wiser.  I had suffered the vagaries of love a time or two and despaired that I would ever experience the ephemeral constancy of love Reeves and Seymour had immortalized as Richard and Elise.  But there I was again, shedding a smaller amount of tears, but smiling nonetheless.  They never gave up on love and neither would I.Tonight, as I waited for my husband to return from work, I discovered my touchstone playing on a cable network and decided to visit again with my old friends.  No tears this time. I smiled as the fantastical story unfolded in innocence and purity.  You see, I've found my one true love, meeting him soon after my last visit with Richard and Elise.  Like the screen couple, our timing was off and it took a while for us to get it right.  Luckily, we couldn't seem to live without each other either.When I began writing, I'd intended to discuss what a perfect amalgam of music, time, place, vision, and talent this film represents.  I'd planned to applaud the sensitivity with which the director, actors, musicians and crew crafted a timeless love story.  Instead, I'll just say sincerely that this movie gets better with time.  Richard, Elise, Christopher, Jane and I have grown up together, comforting and encouraging each other along the way. I've found Mackinac Island to be a safe and supportive place and I can hardly wait to see how I'll find it in the next stage of life.  "},{"Title":"Truly timeless and inspiring","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this for the first time on a Sunday afternoon ages ago and I think it's one of the most touching and memorable movies I have ever seen.I've always been a fan of Jane Seymour ever since I became addicted to Dr Quinn; Medicine Woman when I was growing up. I agree that she is a timeless beauty, the epitome of the English rose. I also think she looks great for fifty one.This film embodies everything that love should be. It's such a beautiful and heart warming story. The idea that someone would travel across time and space to be with the person they love is touching and the fact that the beautiful Elise spends her life waiting for the man she loves to come back to her is so heart breaking and heroic.The cast is great, the location is beautiful and the evocation of the early Twentieth century is truly memorable. Elise's elegant gowns are to die for and wouldn't we all give anything for a love story like that? Without the heartbreak of course.There hasn't been another film like this that I have seen anyway. No one could play Elise as well as Jane Seymour and Reeve was great as Richard Collier. This was an interesting role for him after Superman and I think he and Jane have great chemistry. It's obvious that they're friends.I could go on but I won't. Suffice it to say that I'd love to see this again, above any Hollywood blockbuster any day! I'd also like to see Reeve and Seymour together again as someone suggested already.I think the best line in the film isn't Come back to me but; Is it you? the question Elise asks when she first meets Richard as if she had been waiting her whole life for him. Wonderful! "},{"Title":"10 out of 10!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  From a male perspective  Probably the BEST CHICK FLICK I have ever watched. I remember seeing this movie years ago and bought it about three years ago. I watch it often.  It is between this movie and Gone With The Wind as my favorites of all time .... that is if Animal house isn't on .... ) "},{"Title":"Hopelessly romantic...","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One of my all time favourite movies.  I own it.  I love the story and I love Rachmaninov .... I adore Christopher Reeve and his boyish charm and goodlooks keeps smiling almost the whole movie.  My husband loves Jane Seymour and she is so beautiful in this movie and her wardrobe exquisite. It's beautifully filmed... filled with romance and sorrow. Keep a box of kleenex beside you when you watch this one...  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest love stories ever","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I can still remember the first time I saw this movie.  I had such a thing for Christopher Reeve from the Superman movies and to see him in a romantic movie like this was something else.I knew even then how much the critics panned the film.  Even Ebert, who I generally agree with, gave it a terrible review.  I thought maybe it was me, maybe I was too into Christopher Reeve and too young to know what makes a good movie.  Now that I have watched it MANY times as an adult, I am happy to say that my childhood intuition was right on.  This a FABULOUS movie!Christopher Reeve is Richard Collier, a playwright.  We first meet him as a young college student who is enjoying his first major success as a writer. During the celebration backstage, a mysterious old woman walks up to him and gives him a pocket watch... and says, Come back to me. (Funny tidbit. The actress who plays the old woman had quite a dry sense of humor...during one take she handed the watch to Reeve and said Have it fixed.  Too funny!) He has never seen her before and is astonished at the gift she gives him. Flash forward seven years and we see a less optimistic Richard, who is having a bit of writer's block and has just been dumped by his girlfriend from college.  On a whim, he decides to go on a trip and get away from life for a while.  He ends up driving by the Grand Hotel and something draws him to stay there.  After he checks in, he decides to pass some time investigating the hotel's Hall of History and it forever changes his life. He falls in love with a photograph of a beautiful young woman, only to find out it was taken in 1912, almost 70 years before!  From here he becomes more and more obsessed with her, until he finds a way to travel back in time to be with her.  That is enough info to grab you and not give away too much if you have not seen it already.I know it has a lot of problems, especially the logistics and whatnot of the time travel.  But, this is not a movie about time travel and all that scientific stuff.  It was not meant to be dissected in that way.  It is merely a device to get these two soul mates together in the same century.This film has some of the most amazing chemistry ever captured on film.  It is beautifully directed, costumes are great, and the score is one of the most beautiful ever written.  John Barry is one of my all time favorite movie composers.  His scores for Out of Africa and Dances with Wolves are also among my collection.I nervously watched this film with my fiancee (boyfriend at the time) just knowing he would hate it.  I thought it might be too gooey for him. He is a major movie buff as well and very critical of movies.  He really fell for this movie in a big way.  It is not just a movie for a bunch of giggly girls, but speaks to anyone who has ever loved someone or those who hope to love and be loved in such a way.  A beautiful, lovely picture. "}{"Title":" a interesting movie","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Using hypnosis for a time warp.....could never happen. The film is considered a classic but i wonder if the producers ever considered doing one on groups who believe in these time warps and how they try toplace a person into a 'alternate past and future' as part of apast lives grift cult ala 1700's france and red russia and china. This is the oldest murderous scam grift in the world next tothe taking advantage of a amnesia patient. "},{"Title":"blusteriffic myth yet a good story bad time travel.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It is impossible to start a time warp through hypnosis, simply not possible. If mind is truly related to body you could seemingly anger GOD into destroying you for blasphemy if you do this. This was one of the rumors of the watergate era. I mean if you believe in Goid great if not who cares. This film was a great love story yet, I suppose the vehicle had to be supernatural as it was more in keeping with the real life feel of the story. If he had had a actual time machine, it might have gimmicked out the movie. One of Christopher Reeve's greatest films and a film telling a tale about love through the ages, fascinating wish i could have seent eh end before going off to work and my real job. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great Love is the Answer","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere in Time, like most films, does have its flaws and some of us can easily agree that Christopher Reeve was still a bit too young for the lead in this unforgettable production.   But so what?        Hats off, once again, to Richard Matheson who wrote the screenplay from his novel Bid Time Return.  	John Barry is a composer of film scores whose work never ceases to please and charm.  His signature counterpoint of deep strings responding to the central theme reach the depths of the heart.  His contribution here is exacting.	Of all the films to which Jane Seymour has brought grace, this one might be her shining glory.  She is effecting and lovely as in this appearance and perfectly cast.  Her brief soliloquey on stage is by itself well worth the price of admission.        However, the towering success of this film is in its managing to bring light to the profundity of a great love.  This elevated plane of love, so rare that most of us never even see it for ourselves in a lifetime, much less experience it, does exist.   We all yearn for it.  It is the aerial dream of souls that have evolved to subtle levels of discernment and whose hearts have opened to Providence where all things are possible. It is for this reason that this film has risen and continues to rise to the level of a cult favorite and far above the heads of its boorish critics.    "},{"Title":"the best love story ever made","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  after watching this film once i just knew that i had to go out and buy the video. the story line is fantastic and one that has never been used before and still hasn't to this day. christopher reeves plays his part so well and as for jane seymour, well the two of them are just like two white doves!! i can't even get the music out of my head.I think that this is a film that should not be missed and will be a great LOVE story for ever and ever!!! "},{"Title":"Romantic fantasy in the grand manner...","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  True romantics will love 'Somewhere in Time' with its haunting overtones of other fantasy romances 'The Ghost and Mrs. Muir', 'Portrait of Jennie' -- and touches of 'Laura' too, with a man falling in love with a portrait. Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour are perfectly cast in the leads with Christopher Plummer giving good support. The settings are fantastic--including the Lake Michigan hotel area--and costumes, photography and music give added weight to the slight story. As in 'Portrait of Jennie', the hero goes back in time to find his true love--although exactly how he goes into that other dimension is never satisfactorily explained. There are flaws here and there, but if you suspend disbelief long enough you can enjoy this romantic fantasy for all it's worth. John Barry's score has been given so much mention from the viewers here, that I decided to check a reference book to see whether it was even nominated for an Oscar. Astonishingly, it was not! Nevertheless, it is lushly romantic in the manner of the great film composers of the '30s and '40s.Christopher Reeve's boyish good looks and Jane Seymour's beauty were never seen to better advantage--a fact made even more poignant by Reeve's current situation. 'Somewhere in Time' is the kind of haunting and somewhat disturbing film that lingers in the memory long after you've seen it--certainly the hallmark of a fine film. "},{"Title":"Very sweet and gentle; may bring a tear/lump in your throat","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One of the few films that I think about years after viewing and think that was a really nice movie.  A very sweet and gentle love story.  It may bring a tear or two or a lump to your throat- not so much that it's sad but in the sense that some people cry at weddings. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable romance flick.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. I especially liked the acting of Christopher Reeves.I remember seeing this movie way back when I was in eigth grade (about 20 years ago) and I remembered that I liked it. So, the other night when I couldn't sleep and the movie was being shown as a late night movie on a cable channel, I decided to watch it again. I'm glad I did.The movie is by no means perfect, but I'll still rate it a solid 7. I liked it. "},{"Title":"The movie works","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie on cable today (May 2000).  I had never seen it before, although I had heard the music because I like to listen to film soundtracks and I'm a particular fan of John Barry's.  I'm not a particular fan of overly romantic movies, which is probably why I had avoided this one for so long.  I would give it a 7 out of 10.  It sits in the middle as far as time travel movies (Time After Time is better).  The romance works, and everyone seems to agree that Jane Seymour is beautiful and the setting is spectacular.  I want to go to that island!  I've seen Christopher Reeve in several movies and he isn't any more than adequate.  His looks take him a long way but not far enough.  I'm glad I finally saw Somewhere in Time but frankly it's not something I'll rush to sit through again.  It's going to be one of those watch every 10 years type of movie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent time travel movie","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If you like movies about any kind of time travel, you will love this one. It's not futuristic, it's historic. Time travel to the past. The two leads in this movie are just awesome in their roles. It's just the right amount of quaint with just the right amount of science. It's believable and yet unbelievable at the same time. Don't expect sci-fi though because you won't find any here. This is a beautiful and sad time-bending love story with enough time travel to add some interest and a surprise ending. It helps you understand the true meaning of sometimes it's just not meant to be. It will hold your interest but don't expect it to move fast. It's just not that kind of movie. "},{"Title":"not bad....give this one a break","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  this isn't a movie for sci-fi fans.......so probably the people that hate this film are sci-fi fans.....and they're not wrong....because this is a romance movie....not sci-fi....and it isn't bad......it's ok for romance fans......and in general it isn't bad..... the performances are decent.....specially Jane Seymour.....and Christopher Reeve isn't bad at all...... It also contains one of John Barry's best musical scores......arguably his score for this one is the best romance score ever.....just listen to the main theme..........So for the people that hate it....just give it a break.....there are movies that do deserve to be hated....but not this one.....*** out of 5 "}{"Title":"subpar plot execution, but a decent film otherwise","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I will forever remember the first time I saw SIT.  Actually the first time, I only watched the last 45 minutes or so.  I was young, 13 or so, at the time and my first choice in movies was definitely not any sappy love story.  Well, as it turns out, my parents taped it that evening and after they went to bed, I watched the film from the beginning.I've since realized that while the plot of the film was intriguing, the movie is carried by it's music.  John Barry's unforgettable score compliments Sergei Rachmaninov's Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini perfectly. The latter piece being among the most beautiful concertos ever written.While Jane Seymour and Chistopher Reeve have good chemistry, the film tends to drag at times.  The Grand Hotel setting on Mackinac Island couldn't have been a more perfect spot, and the costume design is quite impressive also.  Christopher Plummer gives a memorable performance as William Fawcett Robinson. Somewhere in Time is a good little film for a rainy Sunday afternoon with a loved one, but don't be surprised if you're running out to pick up the soundtrack on Monday.  ***1/2 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Pretty Schmaltzy","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Because of his lead role in 1978's Superman, Christopher Reeve was a very hot actor in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and is now well known for turning down numerous roles during that period. It's too bad he didn't turn down Somewhere in Time, because this melodramatic, overblown romantic soap opera just isn't very good.Reeve plays young playwright Richard Collier, who is approached in 1972 by an elderly woman who hands him an old pocket watch, and says simply Come back to me. She dies later that night. Eight years later, Collier is a successful playwright who visits a beautiful old hotel (actually the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island). There, he falls in love with a 68-year-old photo of beautiful stage actress Elise McKenna (Jane Seymour). Somehow&#x97;I guess by thinking really hard&#x97;Collier finds himself back in 1912 in the same hotel.Collier ends up romancing the beautiful McKenna, much to the irritation of her manager William Fawcett Robinson (a snarling Christopher Plummer). After lots of mundane plot twists, Collier involuntarily returns to 1980 in the same hotel, where he pines for McKenna until he passes out dead. The final scene is a rather trite soft-focus reunion of McKenna and Collier with shimmering bright light and romantic music (actually, this scene may have been the inspiration for the endless shimmering light scenes we see in movies nowadays).Probably the best thing about the film is the scenery on Mackinac Island. The actors try, but most of the plot situations are either dumb or just not very interesting. It is good to briefly see Teresa Wright, who plays an old acquaintance of Elise McKenna, but otherwise the cast just doesn't have much to work with. This movie might be good for extremely romantic people but for me it was just boring&#x97;not to mention awfully far-fetched. "},{"Title":"A great idea not fully fleshed out","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The concept of the film, Somewhere in Time are terrific. Romance, time travel, finding a lost love and so on are wonderful. When the film came out years ago, it was perceived as a great date movie and so off I went with my then girlfriend and another couple to see it. We were quite eager to enjoy and did in parts, but found the film wanting in others. Again, this is just all imho as I know others truly love the film and are apt to either see through the flaws or not care about them.The idea of how Richard (Chris Reeve) goes back in time seemed about the hokiest. Repeating over and over again the date and then taping it became a bit laughable in the theatre and to us who were indeed there to enjoy the film. Had they come up with some other plausible fantasy idea that the audience could have bought more easily it would have served to help the audience buy into the film more so. For example, if in his search for a means of time travel he would have sought out some master from the east who would have taught him some technique meditative or otherwise that could bring him into the past. But the real catch in either case that kind of ruins the film is that regardless of the method of time travel, why could Richard summon up the same will to return to McKenna? You don't see him trying that much after his return, but rather giving up and wandering around in a state of depression. His giving up after all that didn't make sense. Perhaps it was more clearly stated in the book, but it wasn't in the film.The cast is largely good, the whole film really revolves around Reeves, Jane Seymour and the great Christopher Plummer. Plummer is fine as the protective and mysterious manager. Isn't he always good in every film? A truly amazing actor. Jane Seymour is lovely as McKenna. You believe indeed that she is a woman of the time and a great actress like the great Maude Adams, who the role is patterned after. The chemistry between her and Reeves is good. Christopher Reeve himself is very sincere and earnest in the role, albeit a bit stiff. Christopher Reeves always a very serious actor is someone who really grew in talent and skill over the years. His departure into character roles like that of Jack Lewis in Remains of the Day, revealed a future world of great possibilities of wonderful roles for this ever growing actor. But at this time, despite his wonderful charm and sincerity, I think the role of Richard Collier also needed a bit more humor and depth. I can't think of an actor at the time that might have pulled it off except perhaps Robert Redford or even a quirkier choice like Dustin Hoffman. Again, I mean no offense to those who love the film as is, or to the memory and talent of Christopher Reeve who I had the pleasure of seeing on stage once shortly before he was chosen to play Superman. And even in that role at that time, you got the very same earnest sincerity and seriousness about acting. But not a wide scope of skill. None the less, he was very charming in that role as well and serviced the part.An interesting side note to that story was that we saw Chris Reeve many months before the announcement of his taking the role of Superman. I know that afterwords there was this whole pr thing about Reeve having to work out beforehand to bulk up. I can tell you that was one thing he did not need to do. Reeve on stage was the most impressive man I ever saw, far more so than he ever was on film. His body was perfectly sculpted and formed like a Greek statue. The women I went with all fell in love with him and my male friends including me all felt like little weenies in comparison, lol. God bless, Chris.Back to the film, it was in my opinion a near miss that could have been a real movie classic. Just needed better writing and justifying of the turns of the plot. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Emotionally moving movie.","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is best viewed with someone you love. Turn the lights down low and let it absorb you entirely.Its a romance that takes you from 'present' day to the turn of the century. Two people fall in love. One who is a time traveler.The movie has such soft tone and is so touching that many almost wish they could join the two parties on the screen and aid them in their quest.I have watched many of Christopher Reeves movies, but, this is the one that not only made him real to me, but, more of an actor as well. I will always think of him in the context of this movie versus his more well known roles in Superman.  "},{"Title":"calling all romantics-meltingly beautiful haunting love story","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie will make you melt. Somewhere in time literally defines the terms tearjerker and sappy. It is about as romantc as they come and an absolutely beautful piece of work that I had never even heard of until seeing it on TV one day.I found this to be the type of movie where you just CRY. It is absolutely beautiful and the plot-traveling back in time to find your true love is not just great but made unforgettable by the two leads in this movie. Being a big superman fan it was nice to see Christopher Reeve in something else, particularly a love story and he really shows his versatility in this, I forgot this was superman I was watching.This movie works on many levels. The cinematography is absolutely lovely and lavish and the whole movie is filled with an oldstyle glamor where you'd expect this movie to be older.The chemistry between Reeve and Seymour is there and both look stunning. The love story is heartbreaking and beautiful and the whole premise is fascinating. Definitely a film for romantics-I cannot imagine anyone who hates sappy love stories liking this.The concept is so imaginative-imagine falling in love with an image of someone and traveling through time to find them. This movie may rate among the sappiest I've seen but it never feels forced and the concept never feels unreal- I had no problem buying into it. I would rate this, as far as romances go, way above average and suggest that any fan of romantic, moving dramas check it out. "},{"Title":"Why bother with new movies?","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  There is no other word to describe this movie that Wonderful!I rented it interested in the time travel stuff and can't say I got disapointed. I really enjoyed this movie for it's... how should I say? CutenessWe are so carried away looking for new movies that sometimes we forget how wonderful the old movies were.I won't say much because what amazed me was the surprises in the movie, not many but soft and well written.Go get a date to watch this movie though. It's perfect for snuggling while watching. "},{"Title":"The opening Music told me I was in for a wonderful ride!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have recently brought this film from Amazon, along with the sound track... i can hardly wait for it to arrive! I am so looking forward to the romantic, time thriller of a film! All i remember was Christopher (superman) falling in love with an old photo of Jane seymore! & then the magic of love unfolds into a timeless love story! Brilliant film! "},{"Title":"Greatest Love Story Ever Told.....","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Few movies can touch as many peoples hearts as this one has.  There's just no question about it.  The belief that love comes through everything, even time, is a premise all of us hope for.Best line in the movie is when the elderly Elyse says to Richard, Come back to me.  Will tear your heart right out of your chest.  The beautiful Rachmaninov music enhances the feeling of love these two people have for each other, and prolongs the pain once they've been ripped apart by fate. Must've been some pretty powerful stuff between these two for Elyse to sleep with this guy she's only known for a couple of days, given the sexually chaste nature of the average woman at that time (1920's).I agree with the viewer who took issue with Richard becoming so ill after he returns to the Inn though.  Seems to me a strapping young guy in such robust health could live longer than one week without food and water.Couldn't improve on this one in very many ways.  One question though... How can I get my hands on the dress Elyse wore during her play at the Inn?!! "},{"Title":"old fashioned is good","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Since I'm from the Midwest, I should add the movie was filmed almost entirely on Mackinac Island, Michigan at the Grand Hotel, which was built in the 1880s. It's a great vacationing spot. You take a ferry there to the island where they don't allow automobiles. They have horse-drawn carriages and bicycles to give the island an old-world Victorian feel. Somewhere in Time was just one of those movies that kind of grabbed me. I actually liked the time-travel element in it (but some actually thought he was only hypnotized through the whole thing.) I also liked The Time Machine, the original from the 1960s, not the remake that came out in 2002. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  this film is wonderful, a really weepy, and along with The Two Worlds of Jennie Logan is my favourite ever.i was lucky enough to have received a VHS copy a couple of years ago when my husband found it by chance in a video store.i was a bit dismayed to hear that you could get a Region 1 20th Anniversary DVD from Amazon as i don't have a multi-region player -(i love 'Rhapsody', every time i hear it i can picture myself floating me off in that row boat along with Richard and Elise. "}{"Title":"Time cannot stop the power of True Love","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie,without a doubt,is the best love story I have ever seen.Why,you ask ? The story is a bit this side of fantastic,yet never ventures away from its true purpose,Seymour and Reeves.The chemistry is nothing short of stunning.You will swear after watching this that those two loved each other more than life itself.Seymour is so beautiful just to glance at her smile is enough to take your breath away.Reeves is completely magnificent as her soul mate. He performs such romantic mannerisms that you feel as if you've watched something completely intimate every time he moves.Bravo indeed.If only we all could find that one true love to give a piece of our soul too.As you sit down to watch this prepare to begin a journey that you will want to take again and again.Being a Hopeless Romantic makes it hard to find movies that meet expectations.This exceeds all I've had,or ever THOUGHT of having... "},{"Title":"Romantic fantasy period piece","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I know this movie is hokie but I love it all the same.  The story, the setting, the costumes, the music, are so romantic.  This is one of my favorite time periods, everything is so elegant.  It is a wonderful fantasy.  "},{"Title":"A captivating tale of love....","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film a few years ago on TV and remember being captivated by this truly enchanting love story.  Strange thing is I usually try to avoid romance films.  This film has a certain charm that I think is down to the period in time in which the film is set.  I'm not sure what it is, but the elegance and the grandness of the early 1900s always seems to have a mysterious attraction to me.  This is also true with James Cameron's recent masterpiece Titanic.Christopher Reeves plays the part of Collier perfectly and Jane Seymour is wonderful as Elise.  They seem to have the on-screen chemistry that tends to be lacking in many similar films. The story, although starts off slowly, is very well told.  Although the ending is rather sad, I am sure that a happy ending would probably not have had the same effect and impact.Many have commented on the inconsistencies of the story with regards to the time travelling and this may be true but in my opinion it is not important and does not affect the enjoyment of the film.Overall this is a wonderful film which I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time..........","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is by far my most favorite movie. I love the chemistry between Christopher Reeves and Jane Seymour. This is a movie for a true romantic.......set in a beautiful place and scored with amazing music. I give this movie a 10 out of 10. Everyone should see this movie at least once.    "},{"Title":"A fabulous love story","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This love story is so moving that I am considering a trip to the island the movie was filmed on for my honeymoon.  It is a family favorite.  I enjoy time travel books/movies and this is among the best!  Jane Seymour and Christopher Reeves are both outstanding.   "},{"Title":"Ingenious, charming tale of time travel.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A gem of a film which first came to my notice by way of television. I seem to be unusually sensitive to film music, and John Barry's  score is superb - lush, haunting and totally integral to the film. Like all the very best soundtrack music, if you were to remove it you would destroy the emotional impact of the whole. Strong performances from the principals, Christopher Reeve, Jane Seymour, and Christopher Plummer, make this essentially improbable story (can you really will yourself back in time?) not only credible but also desirable - although a happy ending would be more to one's liking if one ever chose to time travel! Mention must be made of the glorious setting - the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island on Lake Michigan. Apparently the owners of the hotel were only too happy to welcome the entire film crew and offered the facilities of the hotel without charge because of the immense publicity it would generate. There are some confusing aspects which need some deep thought  the watch, for example - try to figure out where it started  its journey and you tend to go round in circles. Jeannot Szwarc, the director, has kept a firm hand on this story, and it could so easily have had audiences hooting in rather rude derision. But Szwarc persuades us to cooperate in that willing suspension of  disbelief for the duration of the film.The soundtrack of the film is available, and you can luxuriate in John Barry's lush , romantic and unforgettable theme music.  "},{"Title":"A Penny for your Thoughts","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Unusual love story that spans some 70 years with an alluring and absolutely stunning looking Jane Seymour as the 25 year-old actress Elise McKenna in 1912, who's also played by Susan French as a 85 year-old lady in 1972. Elisa got play-wright Richard Collier, Christopher Reeve,so freaked out when he spotted a portrait of her hanging at the famous Grand Hotel outside of Chicago that he went into reverse and traveled back in time in order to meet and romance her.As a collage student at Millfield Collage back in 1972 celebrating with his friends a play he wrote that's to be made into an off-Broadway show Richard is approached by this elderly woman who gives him a solid gold and diamond stuttered pocket watch. The woman tells the confused young man Come back to Me and just like that walks out of his life as fast as she came into it. It's now eight years later in 1980 with Richard having become a very successful play write but is suffering from a sever case of burn out that's causing him writers block.Going to the Grand Hotel for a much needed rest, as well as to get his mind and thoughts together, Ricard sees the photo in the hotel lobby of an obscure but strikingly good looking actress named Elise McKenna and his mind starts to go haywire on him. Checking out the local library Richard finds out that Elisa passed away in 1972 the very evening he was approached by this strange woman who gave him that valuable pocket watch and suddenly realizes that she was Elisa!Becoming so insanely obsessed with Elisa Richard goes to such incredible lengths to meet her, a woman who's been dead for eight years,that he gets in touch with this quack professor Dr. Gerald Finny ,George Voskover, who actually claims that one can travel back in time by just the use of mind control and not with a complicated and futuristic H.G Wells like Time Machine. Finny tells Richard that he himself went back to 1571 by just blacking out everything around him and concentrating on past events. This adventure on Finny's part was so draining and traumatic that he never tried it again feeling that he'll lose his mind by doing it.Richard not caring what happens to him goes full blast in attempting, like Finny instructed him to,time travel by dressing himself in turn of the century clothes and having turn of the century US currency in order to go back in time, back to 1912, to meet Elisa. After a number of failures Richard makes it back to the past at the Grand Hotel in the summer of 1912. A man like Richard who's so determined to go back in time to meet the love of his life Elisa had no trouble at all winning her over against any of his rivals for her love. Unfortunately Richard did run into some unexpected problems with Elisa's manager the possessive and insanely jealous Fawcett Robinson, Christopher Plummer. Elisa, to Robinson's utter chagrin, just wen't nuts over the tall dark and handsome Richard. This drove her now almost crazed manager to set a trap on Richard by tricking him to go talk things over with him one evening at the deserted hotel gazebo. It's there where he was ambushed, by a number of Robinson's hoods, who tied him up and locked Richard in a stable. Later a gleeful Robinson tells a very distraught Elsia that Richard checked out of the hotel that night never to see her again.This dumb tactic on Robinson's part was just that, dumb and also stupid, since Elisa didn't believe a word he told her and stayed on at the hotel where Richard, later untying himself and escaping from the stable, came back to the hotel and to a very happy and overjoyed Elisa. Living it up in the hotel eating fried chicken and gulping down bottles of champaign the two lovers plan to get married. As Richard jokingly tells Elisa about the nerdy clothes he's wearing, that were at least 15 years out of style, suddenly and out of nowhere a 1979 Lincoln penny popped of of one of his pockets! This seemed to break the spell he put himself into and was immediately teleported back to the future and away from a shocked and hysterical Elisa.Back to the future in 1980 without his love Elisa Richard not wanting to live without her went on a hunger strike locking himself up in his hotel room and eventually starving himself to death. We in the end see Richard have a kind of life after death experience as the goes into the light and onto the other side of death. It's there where there's a young and beautiful Elisa who's been waiting patiently for him since he left her in 1912. It's in this kind of Twilight Zone where they can now blissfully live, or be dead, together for ever and ever after.You get the impression that Richard didn't really go back in time but somehow induced himself through hypnosis to believe that he did. It seemed obvious to me that he snapped out of his self-induced psychological stupor where in the end reality really hit him and that was just to much for the poor and helplessly in love, with Elisa, man to take. Thats what may very well have caused his bodily functions to shut down and,like pulling out the tube or plug from a life support machine, in the end death. The only thing that confused me about the movie was the gold pocket watch that the old lady gave Richard at the beginning of the film. Was the elderly lady really Elisa or if not what did the watch have to do with anything in the movie other then telling Richard what time it was? "},{"Title":"A throwback to the fifties","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I think Vincent Canby really nailed the problem with this movie when he observed that, had it been made in the forties or fifties with the likes of Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman, it would have been just wonderful. But nowadays, who can buy into this? It can't help come across as mawkish and over-sentimental in our less naive era. This holds true when the movie was released, and even moreso today.At one point Hitchcock himself was interested in adapting Matheson's novel on which this is based, and it would have made for a more interesting film. Hitchcock's misogyny would have lent a darker subtext where Seymour's character would be a hypnotic, sinister object of obsession (ala Vertigo) that reaches out of the past to cling to, and ultimately destroy, Reeve's character. "},{"Title":"good trip through time","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie which was taken from the comic book by Jack Finney, The Woodrow Wilson Dime, and turned into aserious love story. As in all Finney's time travel books, I thought the way over to the other side of time was a bit simplistic. All the guy had to do was concentrate real hard and off he went. Of course, all one has to do is bring up the fact that time travel hasn't been proven possible, so who knows how hard it is. The end left something to be desired. Still it was an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Over-rated snorer","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Maybe, it's because I'm just a guy. Maybe it's because I didn't see it when it first came out. Maybe I've read too many reviews praising it. But Somewhere In Time mostly bored me.I agree Jane Seymour looked terrific and acted well. But Christopher Reeves was very wooden. And the film seemed a bit dated (and, no, not because it took place in 1912.)The time-travel gimmick is always a tricky one and sometimes doesn't work. This is one of those times. Why did she come to him as an old woman imploring him to come back to me? When did he get there in the first place, when he didn't do his time-travel bit yet? If he did it before, what prompted him to do it in the first place?The movie may have worked better if they just chucked the time-travel nonsense and just stuck to fleshing out a more compelling romance that dealt more than just two people giving longing looks to each other.  "}{"Title":"The ultimate chick movie","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie in a theatre with my then-girlfriend in 1980. I remember how I had to hold my tongue and not trash it on the way out, because she loved it (or maybe she just loved Mr. Reeve). I remember really _hating_ this movie, and my opinion hadn't changed when I recently saw it again on cable TV.I'm not sure why. It is reasonably well-directed and the costumes and sets are beautiful to behold. It is even competently acted, though I think that all of Christopher Reeve's work is being re-evaluated in light of his terrible accident, much as JFK's presidency is overrated because he was killed, and I think _Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman_ is the best thing Jane Seymour ever did. (Note Damnation-with-faint-praise alert for the irony-impaired.)There is something that appeals to the romantic nature, I suppose, in stories of love that survives time and even uses supernatural methods to triumph over adversity, but somehow this movie doesn't do it for me. Maybe I'm comparing it unfavorably with _Time and Again_, one of my favorite novels which I understand has been on the Hollywood back burner for a decade or so (see the IMDB entry for more information), or the 1979 _Time After Time_ with Malcolm McDowell and Mary Steenburgen.At any rate, I'd say this ranks up there with _Sleepless in Seattle_ (which I liked) as the Ultimate Chick Movie. I was also intrigued by Mr. Santiago Collazo's comment that this story may have inspired _Titanic_. The more I think about it, he's right. And that gives me yet another reason to dislike _Somewhere in Time_. "},{"Title":"Watch Kate & Leopold (2001) Instead","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Kate & Leopold has everything (1) Time travel, (2) romance, (3) good acting, (4) comedy, (4) light drama, (5) great late 19th century costumes, and (6) a satisfying conclusion that will make you think every time you get into an elevator. You have to see the movie to understand this critical detail of the movie and its characters. I forgot to mention that it stars the incredibly handsome Hugh Jackman and the lovely Meg Ryan.I would much rather watch any romantic movie except Somewhere In Time. The music in this film was so overwrought and just syrupy -- this killed it for me. Anyway, I cannot get in to this film. I didn't believe that Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour had any reason to fall in love.That montage the director inserted at their first meeting, was ridiculous. I agree with the viewer that said how could these people fall in love? They spoke to each other during the montage; however, we were not privy to what they said. It was a cheap way to hasten the so-called plot.Also, the ending was ridiculous. The time travel is ridiculous and unbelievable and I agree with whoever wrote that they liked Christopher Plummer in this movie.To me, Jane and Chris had no chemistry. I am amazed at the seemingly endless amount viewer ratings that were 10s on the IMDb website. "},{"Title":"Hokey, cheesy, corny---where are the Mystery Science Theater 3000 guys when you need them??","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Wow--some people actually LIKE this movie?? Well, I guess I shouldn't be surprised, since Nicholas Sparks sells a lot of books and movie tickets. But as Groucho Marx might say, There is nothing like a good love story. And this movie is nothing like a good love story. My wife and I watched it last night and could not believe how bad it was--slow, syrupy, unbelievable, and directed with the subtlety of a Clairol commercial.A few examplesOur Hero, staying at the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island (easily the best thing about the movie) wanders into its room of historical memorabilia. He's bending over a display case and looking at something on the wall behind it, but then he freezes...and there's a long...pregnant...pause...before he gradually turns around and slowly moves...toward...a photograph on the wall that had been behind him. What--the PHOTO has magic powers to call to him??(Oh and this photograph is of such cosmic significance to the hotel's history that it has an entire wall to itself...but they haven't bothered to replace the plate identifying the subject!)Then there's the scene where the lovebirds meet for the first time (in the past, that is) and move toward each other in a way that instantly said Clairol commercial to both me and my wife.Our Heroine says she has to rehearse all day before her performance as the star of the evening's play...but then she changes her mind and agrees to meet him at 100 (and subsequently spends the bulk of the afternoon with him). Why, when all he's done is thrown himself at her like a lovesick puppy? Well, she thinks he might be The One--the man her manager has been warning her about for years, saying that he will come along and ruin her life. Um, why would he have harped on that, accomplishing nothing but stoking her anticipation to actually meet The One? (I kept waiting to learn that he too was a time traveler, who somehow knew that Our Hero would show up---but no, that would have added some actual complexity and intrigue to the plot.)Of course, we never get to hear what they say to each other during their three-hour afternoon outing--which is a pity, because I was really curious to know how Our Hero was going to pass himself off as a man of 1912. (He wasn't making the slightest effort even to modify his 1980 speech patterns!)Oh--and how thick does Our Hero have to be to have emptied his 1980 hotel room of everything modern (except for the twin lamps over the bed) in order to hypnotize himself back to 1912...and still be listening to his recorded voice on a cassette tape player??Okay, you get the point. To summarize, this is the first movie I've seen that I would consider watching again, with the right group of friends, just to make fun of it. I can recommend Somewhere in Time on that basis--but if you actually want a good romance or time-travel story, stay far away.--------------- p.s. SPOILER ALERT I didn't realize this until I read it in the Goofs section of the IMDb listing, but the movie has a plot hole you could drive a truck through. The watch that Our Heroine, in her old age, presses upon Our Hero in the first scene is precious to her because he left it behind in 1912 when he visited her in her youth. But that means...he had the watch because she gave it to him, but she had the watch because he left it with her, so...nobody ever BOUGHT the watch! It came out of nowhere! "},{"Title":"Severely Overrated","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I really loved this movie when I first saw it decades ago. I watched it again last night, but really wished I hadn't. The movie just isn't that great. Reeves is mostly to blame, but the poor writing and storytelling is a close second. Reeves doesn't act very well-its very method-very deliberate-every motion, every expression, you can see the mechanics of his acting. It proves that he needs a good director because he didn't have these mannerisms as Superman. Or maybe Superman was OK with a little elevation to his acting. Seymour is good-beautiful, effortless, but I don't see any chemistry with Reeves-it's almost as if they are in two different movies. The script's dialogue is really poor-clunky, weak. I liked the look of it and the general story is appealing, but this is definitely no classic. Why did I watch it again??? "},{"Title":"Classic cross of sci-fi and romance.","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Okay it would have been cooler if Richard had a time machine. You gotta get past the unorthodox way these two people meet, and let yourself become amazed at the things each of them do to find the other. Everyone dreams of finding that kinda once in a lifetime love. Classic cross of romance meets sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Romance...tears...what a combo","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Before Ghost there was this low budget romantic scifi movie that is, without a doubt, one of the greatest chic-flicks of all time.Chris Reeve travels back in time and falls in love with a very pretty Jane Seymore.  Its all mush, but mush of the best kind. I am a romantic at heart and whenever I see this movie..well...I get that little tear in my left eye.This movie is far from Oscar material, but if you want to get lost in the 1920s and watch love transend all time and space..then..THEN..this one is for you!!! This movie would make Barry Manilow cry!!!... "},{"Title":"A truly beautiful story ..","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie, it was the most romantic one i have seen.. Chris Reeve and Jane Seymour were excellent in it, it made me want to be Jane's character cause i have liked Chris for a long time, and of course i cried at the ending.. it was sooo sad ... the only thing i didnt understand is about how Jane's character was able to be there in the '70's?? , otherwise it was a great movie none the less.. i highly recommend this movie..  "},{"Title":"Brainless. Soppy. Loved it.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A Chickflick with a capital C, shot in gauzy Technicolor and shot through with pounding Rachmaninoff, wherein Christopher Reeve pursues Jane Seymour through time-honored time-travel conventions. Heavily indebted to Jack Finney's novel Time and Again (nice in-joke Reeve's professor in the movie is named Finney), with touches of Time After Time, Brigadoon, Portrait of Jennie, etc. No masterpiece in terms of acting, writing, direction, but Reeve and Seymour are certainly pretty people and their chemistry is satisfying. Even better is the convincing 1912 atmosphere -- just the right clothes, songs, orchestrations, and no great errors in verbiage or deportment. That old screen lizard Christopher Plummer supplies the villainy, and Teresa Wright has a nice cameo. All in all, one of those movies where you have to put aside your critical faculties to enjoy it at all, and once you do, you'll have a good time in spite of yourself. "},{"Title":"This is the poorest excuse for a movie I have seen in along time!","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I was a young boy, I could always remember seeing parts of a movie that starred 'Superman' (aka Christopher Reeve) and having a very dreamy, almost surreal ending. 20 or so years later, I have finally had the chance to catch up with it. The film in question was 'Somewhere In Time', a typically corny romantic movie, that is badly acted (especially by my late movie hero Reeve), has a contrived storyline (based on a crazy form of time travel), while the direction from Jeannot Szwarc is to put it bluntly, disgraceful.I have mentioned before that I really hate wasting my time reviewing movies that I find have played me for an absolute idiot, and sorry to those romantic movie fans out there, but that is what this film did to me. I wish I could have my time, money and choice back, so I could go to another section of the movie store and pick a better movie to watch.It is sad to realise that this was Christopher Reeve's second movie after 'Superman', and for me I could tell that. Reeve seemed to look like he was trying to be his superhero character in a film that he simply could not be. His facial expressions were all wrong, especially when he looks at the portrait of the beautiful Else McKenna (Jane Seymour) and desires to be with her. Richard Collier did not have x-ray vision, but the movie seemed to want to make him believe he did. In my opinion, this was Reeve's most unconvincing movie role in his career. For Reeve though, he mentioned that this was one of his other favorites movies to work on. That is hard for me too accept.It is 1980 and I am back in time to stop the making of this movie. Sorry, just a joke, because I could not take those sections of the movie seriously at all. I will leave you with my rating and then go clean up the stench of the vomit that this movie left me with. What a sickening experience 'Somewhere In Time' really was.CMRS gives 'Somewhere In Time' 0 "},{"Title":"Trite and manipulative, but...","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Trite and manipulative, but what romance movie isn't?  This one is certainly a cut above the stuff usually shown on the Hallmark channel or whatever.  The acting pretty much redeems the movie, in my opinion... the music is nice to hear once, but then becomes sappy and repetitive.  The script is significantly dumbed-down from the book (if I remember right, in the book the protagonist has cancer and dies from it in the end, and there's some ambiguity to if he ever traveled back in time at all).  Overall, great if you like this kind of movie, but a real serious *avoid at all costs* to those who dislike sappy romances.  7/10. "}{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie I was expecting it to be WONDERFUL! I mean c'mon! Jeannot Szwarc(Supergirl(1984) Enigma(1982) Jaws 2(1978)) directed it! Furthermore, Christopher Reeve is in it! I couldn't pass a chance to see my favorite actor be given the chance to show a sensitive side. Unfortunatly, he was given EVERYTHING! Too much to handle! He was given all the responsability as an actor, because Jane Seymore COULD NOT ACT! The scenery was beautiful and the John Barry score was enough to keep a girl in her tears. But I'm no girl and Christopher Reeve was wasted! The film, about a man who goes back in time to find a long lost love he was with in his past life, is lacking in a logic and reason. The characters are poorly developed and Chris Reeve is the only character who seems to know what's going on! Jeannot Szwarc is remarkable when trying to keep a complete waste of paper for a script afloat! This is what happens when you hire Jane Seymore to play alongside the always reliable Christopher Plummer. She COULD NOT ACT! Awful! I wasted my time with this garbage. Thank GOD Szwarc went on to doing Enigma and Supergirl after this. THEY were good! And Christopher Reeve will always be remembered for-You know whom! No need to remember him in this! Though he was the one good actor! AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Dorian Gray Redux","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I read the reviews before seeing the movie and expected more than the film could deliver. TCM showed this on a Valentine's weekend, with a number of other classic romantic films from the great It happened one night onwards, but I found this one to be more a combination of Time Machine, Portrait of Jenny and Dorian Gray all rolled into one. There are a couple of things to recommend it, the first being the rich saturated color and quite attractive photography -- the art director alludes to a number of impressionist and early modern paintings in the shots that one can recognize in scenes. A second would be the setting of the Grand Hotel at Mackinac as the real star of the movie. A third would be Teresa Wright, who only has a bit part, but is the only one with genuine emotion and acting experience who brought more to it than anyone else in the cast.So why didn't I like it? *Spoilers ahead* First of all, the script is flat as a pancake. Never mind the clever story, how about some real dialogue? I'll skip the scenes in Chicago, and cut to the Grand Hotel after finally making it back in time, Reeve goes walking and at last glimpses the woman he has been desperately seeking, a vision incarnate, but after staring at her, what does he say? Did I startle you? Who wouldn't be startled with peepers like his? Then they start talking to each other, but instead of real speech, we get more piped-in Rachmaninoff, or violins soaring by Roger Williams they have nothing to say to each other through the whole film! what little they do say is in reaction to the negative presence of Christopher Plummer, as the Svengali-like figure of the producer. His is a thankless role, and a waste of a great voice. One forgets that with a great director like John Huston, he appeared in The Man who would be King, transcending The Sound of Music by far.Secondly, Reeve bears an unfortunate resemblance to Hurd Hatfield, that totally forgettable actor of the 1945 classic Portrait of Dorian Gray, except that Hatfield made the movie unforgettable with his masklike face and beady eyes. Enter Christopher Reeve again, from the youthful playwright in the opening, to the petrified face in the final scene, that surely is Dorian Gray redux. (So who wouldn't be startled?) Jane Seymour is actually quite lovely in the film, but, like Plummer, has nothing to work with, and her absence of inner emotion actually works in her favor as a vision from the past. Her only real scene is the one she acts out onstage, and which sets the completely wrong tone by having the audience guffaw at her maid when the scene opens.Can we look to anyone but the director for this failure of dramatic guidance? Glancing at his credits, I find that they are vitually all TV serials of some kind, and except for Ally McBeal, don't seem to have hit paydirt. By comparison, a movie like Notting Hill, which is also considered a Valentine's feature and played during the same weekend, while not everyone's favorite, has genuine dialogue (marvelously delivered by Hugh Grant and company, as only the English can deliver offhand speech), is an exuberant commentary on courtship and supportive friends, and even has its own Dorian Gray in the face of Julia Roberts, who seems like a creature from Mars who's emerged from her own personal Helix.For Somewhere in Time, half* of five *****; if the film's become a cult, it must be its surreal and not so nice nature. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the dumbest time travel movie ever","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I just caught Somewhere in Time on TBS and it's so laughably bad I'll summarize it here so you don't have to waste two hours of your life watching it.Chris Reeve is handed a watch by an 80 year old Jane Seymour, and then for no apparent reason he checks in at a hotel and sees a picture of much younger Jane Seymour in the hotel's museum. Queue the absolute cheesiest music I've ever heard and Reeve is instantly in love with the woman in the picture.  He then self-hypnotizes himself with the use of a tape recording of himself repeating it is 1912 over and over and he ends up back in 1912 to meet the young Jane Seymour. Things are going great, they're in love back in 1912 until Chris Reeve pulls a penny out of his pocket with the date 1979 on it! He immediately wakes up back in 1979 and more of that god awful music plays and it's over none too soon. "},{"Title":"What a pathetic movie!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I watched this movie is because I had been to Macinac Island and wanted to see if this movie was any good.  Boy, was I in for a bore. Christopher Reeves plays a pathetic character.  That sees a painting and wants go back in time to meet the girl in it (i have no time for a good plot summary of this movie).  So using the skill of meditation he goes back in time and tries to meet the girl and you guessed it FRANK STALONE.  No just joking its Dr Medicine women herself Jane Seymour.  This is when the true colors of Reeves character comes out, a pathetic romantic.  His performance is very poor also.  umm Ms McKenna um I am some loser from Chicago do you want to marry me?  Ok that is not the quote but who cares same difference. This all leads to an ending which is stupid.  I laughed when he flipped that penny out.  "},{"Title":"Saddest case of post retro time travel  depression  I've ever seen","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie 20 years ago as it debuted. Under unusual personal circumstance , as fate would have it           ( circumstance that I personally dont care to discuss) Somewhat, no,  quite thought provoking, (Why did Jane Seymour age and Chris Reeve did not?) I'll tell you right now, the main theme from the soundtrack (Sergei Rachmaninoff)  can make a grown man cry. I'm living proof of it. Every man has a n Achilles Heel however. Superman has his Kryptonite. Fred Sanford his bad heart. my main theme from SIT. And just as I've stated ,   I'm a 36 year old white male from the South East who has admitted Titanic 1997 to be my favorite movie, I dont care who knows this is MY Achilles Heel. "},{"Title":"Problemmatic Movie","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What determines the quality of a movie, critics' appraisals or box office receipts?  Well, we guess it depends on who one talks to. It's rather like the electorate vs. the popular vote the former symbolizes a dependency upon experts to professionally guide the masses toward the truth, whereas the latter takes its cue directly from the naked statistical mode.Consider Somewhere in Time, for example.  The Leonard Maltin critical evaluation terms it a superficial tearjerker.  That also just about sums up our personal reaction to this very pretty-looking fantasy.Yet, there's obviously something about this film that genuinely moves a lot of people.  In a recent art museum poll to determine their members' all-time favorite film, Somewhere in Time was a winner. This particular population was not in a small town, either, but in a large metropolitan city. Could it be that this is a blatantly female-appealing film?  Does it satisfy a secret longing for good old-fashioned romance?  Can it be the enactment addresses deep, amorous desires of a segment of the population which keeps drug store Gothic novels thriving, year after year?Whatever the case, Somewhere in Time has demonstrated its appeal to a very large number of people in spite of poor reviews.  Though it may rate only one critical star, it wins at least four wet-handkerchief bonanzas. "},{"Title":"Dull and Incomprehensible","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I truly believe that the viewer needs to be brought into the secret world of any movie. Fantasy require us to at least understand how and why something is done. I'm not talking even in a real sense. In this film the business of time travel is left for us to figure out. Is it time travel or dream or is it something else. Once Christopher Reeve gets to his destination, it becomes a maudlin love story. Nothing spectacular. Granted Jane Seymour is breathtaking and the period is nice to look at. But what are the rules? How did it happen. Are we fairly treated when it is all done? Personally, I don't think so. I have to be honest with. I never cared whether they would get together or not. The oppression she lives under doesn't seem all that severe, so a resolution doesn't really carry us along. Also, I Christopher Reeve was a wonderful man, but I have to say that his acting seems really stiff. If his love is looking for adventure, she has found a truly dull person with little to say than a lot of clichéd romantic phrases (seemingly rehearsed). Also, why does he feel so lost in his life. It's just not put to us. "},{"Title":"Convoluted, with a few moments of glory","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Now here's a movie that, when it ends, you want to rewind and start from the beginning. Chris Reeves plays a playwright, Richard Collier, who decides to spend a few nights of 1979 in a really, really old hotel on Lake Michigan. There, while browsing through a little historical exhibit, he is suddenly stricken by a divine portrait of 'Elise McKenna', an actress of the stage, the portrait dating 1912. In what could be described as one of the most melodramatic moments in color cinema, he approaches the portrait eyes bulging out in awe, all synced to the roaring melodies of Rachmoninoff's Rhapsody on the Theme of Paganini. After this, the movie quickly moves to where he attempts to hypnotize himself into thinking that IT IS 1912!!! YOU BELIEVE IT!!!! Of course, when he wakes up from his trance, he is in a room, circa 1912. Why does Richard do this? He desperately wants to meet Elise McKenna, who is staying there while she performs at the hotel theater. He is obsessed, to say the least.Act II starts out very well, with sly bits of movie time-traveling gimmicks. But as soon as Elise McKenna enters the film, it's downhill from there. We get involved in a subplot with Elise's manager, Mr. Robinson, who also is an oddity, nevertheless portrayed fantastically by Christopher Plummer. But his whole meaning is just a big mystery the movie never solves. The screenwriter obviously was trying to fill in Act II so they could make it a feature length film. Nearing the end of Act II, you can feel the screenwriter getting tired of trying to fill up screen time, so he has Elise and Richard have sex and then their romance is torn apart so as to end the movie and begin the sentimental tissue grabbing. And it does. The morning after, they are playing around uttering extremely stupid, flimsy dialogue. Then Reeves puts on his old suit for fun, but accidentally takes out a 1979 PENNY!!!!! OOOPS! 1912 fades away, with Elise screaming, RICHARD!, and he comes back sprawled on the floor of a 1979 room. Awww, darn! Now THAT was not a lucky penny! The movie fizzles out, and Richard dies from grief. I can kind of feel his pain were you ever suddenly woken from a really beautiful dream because some jerk roared past your house with the Black Eyed Peas blaring from his stereo? Now besides being a feast of melodrama and disappointing resolutions, Somewhere in Time has a few bright points. Arthur the old hotel guy is a great character, both in 1912 and in 1979. The guest registration book was a good bit. Sometimes the gauzy, painted cinematography worked, and the costumes were great. But other than that, Somewhere in Time was a time-waster. The set-up was just too good for the resolution. You want to rewind it and watch Chris Reeves meet Elise all over again. If you want a really good time-travel movie, rent Back to the Future. It makes Somewhere in Time look like cinematic molasses. "},{"Title":"Suicide is Not the Way","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's been four years since writer Rodney O. Lain committed suicide. Details were scarce, but friends said he suffered from depression. I think his telling quote is The ultimate price of freedom is loneliness, dreadful loneliness.Last week I visited Michigan's Mackinac Island. On the return motor coach trip to Chicago, the tour coordinator played the DVD of Somewhere in Time filmed at the Island's Grand Hotel. I've written elsewhere about the haunting feelings we all experience, call it coincidence or synchronicity or deja vu. This is the attraction the film has for many viewers in its depiction of the ultimate longing for love, the sometimes desperate attempts to find it, and the infinite despair when unattainable or lost. I too was swept up by the heart-rending drama and music, and felt my soul being grabbed. Unfortunately, upon reflection, I realized that it was, pardon the theological pun, not God but the Devil doing the grabbing, and that is why I assign the movie one star, the minimum rating allowed.In 1980, Christopher Reeve's character discovers in the hotel a 1912 picture of Jane Seymour's character, and is utterly taken in by her image. How moving, until you recognize that unless one infers some cosmic connection that the movie does not properly develop, his behavior is clinically obsessive, even lewd. Whereas in real life, fanatical pursuit of a person one barely knows constitutes stalking, in this movie it's a sign of romance. After traveling back in time to the Victorian era, he finally meets her and they soon have sex. In 1912 there was a name for an unmarried woman offering sexual favors to a man. But in 1980 the sexual revolution was well under way, and many people have since confused making love with heartfelt love. His signature in a 1912 guest register recovered in 1980 verifies his time travel. Otherwise, we might be inclined to believe that his self hypnosis technique was merely a dream. Nevertheless, when he unintentionally returns to the present, he is unsuccessful in physically reverting to 1912, but does appear to succeed in dreaming so his dehydrated body displaying a rigor mortis smile is found in his 1980 room. Then we see a vision of him and his love object in Heaven.The choice of shooting location is ironically apropos. The Island is advertised as a beautiful scene from yesteryear horse drawn carriages, delicious cuisine, lovely woods, flowing lake waters, romance in the air. Except I can personally attest that the place is overflowing with tourists, lacking space for privacy or for singles. It's been said that one may feel more lonely in a crowd than when truly alone. I can almost sympathize with Christopher's drastic need to find Jane while on the Island. A simpler solution for him would have been to go back to Chicago and seek out a single's bar.Earlier I detected the Devil's grab for your soul. For the sake of argument, let's eradicate certain plot flaws we'll suppose Chris has a reason to love Jane besides her lovely looks, he'll more subtly act out his affection towards her including eliminating the sex, and we'll pretend the screen writers better structure the time travel scenario. Alas, we still have the denouement which is the killer, quite literally. You see, please dry your eyes over the pair's celestial rendezvous so you can focus on how he got there. He endured a week without food or water, in a self induced catatonic trance. My dear reader, this was suicide!The Christian religion, at least, tells us that suicide is not the way to Heaven. Furthermore, in the Bible, descriptions of God's abode are not as heavenly as Hollywood portrays. Particularly, neither marriage nor romantic love (the two states are different for many couples) are permitted. The existence of Heaven aside, there are indeed circumstances where a person suffers such unbearable pain that suicide is plausible. I certainly cannot imagine what Rodney went through and am unwilling to condemn him.I can, however, condemn a movie whose solution to unhappiness seems to be taking your own life. Suicide is rampant today, and while I am unable to attribute this movie as a cause, it clearly leads you down the garden path. "},{"Title":"Cute but lacking","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Cute idea, good premise, but I think they should have downplayed the time travel (or nixed it completely) and emphasized past lives. Just my opinion. Of course, as a hopeless romantic I could help but like it just a little.If you're a romantic, I recommend it at least once, but for free if you can.AL "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  avoid at all costs, not SF","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film is a romance, and like the stereotypical romance novel it is awful in every way I can think of. My brain is still staggering with the awfulness of it all.If you are a science fiction movie buff, do not rent this movie thinking it might involve some science fiction.If you are a romance fan, go find a romantic comedy instead.If your SO is a romance fan, and tries to talk you into watching this film, offer to pay for dinner instead, go for a long walk, do what you can to get out of the obligation.I'm afraid I need to give Somewhere in Time a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Poor Reeve is cast adrift in a sea of Velveeta.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I really love Reeve, but perhaps the director of Bug and the nearly worthless Jaws 2 should have passed on this.  Both parties seem to have been in this project to save themselves from typecasting (it's a cinch Reeves was all through the early '80s - see The Bostonians and Monsignor).  Only 2.5 scenes work at all in this poorly directed and hammy exercise in the mechanics of tear-jerking.The scene that is pulled off halfway is the first, marred only by a pretentiousness that points to something spooky going on.  The first thing that clued me into the fact that the film was going to be more painful than I guessed was very small, but noticeable, and mistakes like it happened constantly throughout the entire movie.  A camera pans through an apartment we know belongs to Reeves, simply from having seen movies before. Something that Szwarc doesn't get at all is that 95% of those in the audience are smart enough to figure anything out because all their lives they have ingested moving images and know their language subliminally.  But this early pan, which I believe happens right after the opening credits, pauses on a group of objects so that the dumbest rock in the seats can recognize them from the prologue, and say - oh, this must be Reeve's place.Those type of directing decisions are made all along, and come in varying degrees.  I'm shocked that Szwarc directed Bruce the Tempermental Mechanical Shark at all, because in this very simple production, he can't even seem to stage a simple two-shot without doing something obtrusive or allowing something stagey to seep into the lense.  This goes from the large to the small - in one scene, Seymour recognizes Reeves from about 100 yards below and behind where he is sitting.  I thought this unlikely, but was then treated to a shot from her point of view (considerably removed from her position forward via the camera set-up), and there was NO WAY Reeves' own mother would have recognized him in that shot.  All you see is a shoulder and part of his head - and that all obscured by woodwork and bushes.  A smaller gripe comes from the strange and even lazy-seeming inclusion of a shot between Plummer and Reeves on a gazebo in which a moth suddenly flies up from under the camera and cuts a wacky line between the actors before flying away.  Why was that take even printed, and how did it make it into the final cut?  Szwarc was not reaching for verisimilitude, that's for sure - everything in this movie is so stagey and polished like a tv movie that I can't see how the moth was allowed to upstage the actors.Enough.  The sad part about this is the utterly foul performance by Mr. Reeve, NO DOUBT pushed in all the wrong directions by the director.  Many of the really bad moments are straight from the direction.  In the beginning, we see Reeves in his office, obviously frustrated about something.  Then he sits at a desk and proceeds to do every little thing a high school thespian would do he picks up the phone, holds it, then hangs up.  He sighs, leans back, purses lips, then suddenly rips a page out of his typewriter and gets up.  Ugh.The worst moments of all - the ones that made me cover me face with a couch pillow because I was embarrassed for him - come when Reeves is called upon to do anything out of the ordinary, like act nervous, talk to himself, mince around being a wiseguy, or do anything other than stand still expressionless.  And for trying to shed the Superman image, there is a leaden moment in this movie where he does the Clark Kent schtick without any disguises.  That made me cringe almost as bad as the moment where he does an impersonation of an uppercrust snob to entertain Seymour. Double-ugh.I know I've really gone after this movie with a hammer, but before I say something good about it, one more thing...  The character Reeve plays is very unlikely to begin with.  An educated, successful playwright who seems to forget everything about theater when he goes back in time.  Also, I find it incredible that what appears to be an incredible delusional psychosis crushing this man makes for anything like a fun time at the movies.  I thought it was funny/sad the way this man suddenly goes mad, wandering around like a zombie and even goes off by himself on a 'trip.'  Then the silly clothes and all the talking to himself and all the ridiculous things he says with a straight face.  I found no motivation for his sudden departure for the island where his 'adventure' takes place (and watch the shot where he stops at the 'Y' in the road and decides to go left - as good an example of bad acting as anything in Corman).  The film is trying to drop him into an obsession, like Dreyfuss and the mashed potatos in Close Encounters, but you never grasp a reason why, other than he needs to go from point A to point B in order to service the plot.  Szwarc believed endless shots of a camera-conscious Reeve staring at pictures would do the job - hardly!  All you can think of is that if you knew someone who was acting like that, you'd want them on medication, pronto.Aside from all that, the film has two good moments.  The best scene comes along near the end, where the two leads are eating on the floor of their room.  This is the only scene in this 104 minute movie that plays like anything out of a more accomplished film.  There is a well staged and edited series of shots near the end of the scene that have seemed to appear out of a film that is not so obnoxiously innocuous.  The other good moment resides in the last three shots, which have been done before and since (Titanic), but still work magic that shouldn't have appeared in something this drecky.In the end, this movie accomplishes something incredible, in that it makes Love Story seem on the level of Potemkin. "},{"Title":"This movie was ridiculous.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't believe it when I saw the rating for this movie.  There are clearly too many love-starved romantics voting here.  This is one of the most ridiculous and poorly done movies I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Let's Sort out the Logic......","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Elise and Richard lived in ages separated by 60 years. The return of Richard to 1912 was only triggered by Elise telling him to come back to her. This was later followed by Richard's self hypnotism which led him to go back to 1912. Therefore before this had happened, Elise could never have met Richard in the past. Therefore the story is entirely illogical.We can sort out the logic like thisIf after Elise had told Richard to  come back to her, he had then encountered some unusual phenomenon ( a worm hole or polar magnetic force or something), which had dragged him back to 1912, then the story becomes entirely logical. A supernatural event destined to happen in the future had then enabled Richard to meet Elise in the past and therefore she can recognize him at the present.Without sorting this simple logic out, the entire story becomes meaningless and a perfect joke. "},{"Title":"I don't think this movie is one of the best romantic films ever!","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was horrible.Well...maybe not horrible but I was wondering why I wasted so much time watching it.I actually thought that Jane Seymour did a great job. I thought Christopher Reeve was a little stiff.The music is great and the setting is beautiful. I now want to take a visit to the Grand Hotel.Christopher Plummer did a great job playing an evil character.Despite the good acting by some,music, and setting I just thought the movie was stupid. When I finished it I was wondering what the point was of me watching it.I am a bit of a romantic but I don't like movies like this. If you're looking for a great romantic movie you should see An Affair To Remember. It has a bit of the tragic-romantic stuff but there's a happy ending and it has funny parts too. "},{"Title":"Lame, Generic, TV Movie of the Week","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Reading all the glowing reviews here makes me think i must be from another planet! Really, i could barely sit through this terminally dull film. I cannot figure out what it is that all these other people see in it, unless it's a sympathy vote for Chris Reeve. I mean i'm no hardcore cynic. I like a sappy love story as much as the next sap does, as long as it's well done. But this, my God, when they got naked i cringed, and when they sat on the floor after doing the deed i wanted to slash my wrists. OK, wait, the penny falling out of his pocket, i liked that part, all 10 seconds of it, but that was it for the entire movie. You want a great film adaptation of the same author's material? See The Incredible Shrinking Man. Somewhere In Time pales by comparison. "},{"Title":"Worst film I have ever seen","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I thought this film was a load of crap! The acting was bad - yes the costumes were good (if Reeves had changed his ONCE through out the film). It was thoroughly predictable.How can they fall in love in get married all in one day!? How cheesy is that!! And I'm sorry but for a movie with 3 great actors; Jane Seymour, Christopher Reeves and Christopher Plummer - it was a load of crap. By the way, what even happened to Plummer in the film!? It was just laughably bad. And I heard someone even compare this movie to the Titanic!? Are you joking? This film was one of the WORST movies I have ever seen.Good luck to anyone who watches this film, although I do recommend watching it for a laugh. "},{"Title":"what is this?","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I was so happy to see Reeve, My Personal favorite actor, doing films, that would SEEM to be moving, and  touching, and I COULDN'T HAVE BEEN MORE WRONG!!! WHAT IS THIS, REEVE IS THE ONLY CHARISMATIC ONE OF THE ENTIRE PICTURE!!! Jane Seymore just does not know, or DID not know how to keep afloat, whereas the director, another one of my favs, was trying his best to make a real picture(but the goods on him came in 1984 when he directed SUPERGIRL ) JAWS 2 was Szwarc at a apex, but when he did this...? Saddened as I was to see a waste with two of my favs. I must give them all credit for trying. "}]