[{"Title":"A brilliant example of using narrative to bring abstract ideas alive","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was made with the cooperation of psychologist Henri Laborit. It's broken down, like a greek drama, into narrative episodes and odes where the chorus, in this case psychologist Laborit, explains the meaning of the episodes. I love this movie because it makes clear the pretenance to everyday life of a discourse which is very rich as an interpretation of life, in exactly Matthew Arnold's sense, but at the same time so abstract that most people just, for example, reading Laborit's Decoding the human message would not see the immediate relevance of what was being said to their own daily concerns. I use this film to teach psychology. I open my intro class with it every term. Learning to read this film is learning to think like a psychologist. In the film, we cut from scenes of the human characters involved in various relationships to Laborit showing how lab rats react to stress under various conditions. The result is not dry or pedantic but funny as hell. It comes off as the rats doing a low burlesque of the human comedy. We also see the characters as children and as adults and scenes from various formative episodes along the way. When Laborit says a person is a memory which acts it seems a powerful commentary on what we are seeing on screen. We see one character as a tiny girl interacting with her factory worker father. He is a communist and he is teaching his newly articualte baby girl to repeat after him USA go home. Watching this, I remember being taught to sing Jeusus loves me shortly after I started talking. This film is funny and wonderful dealing with the thing which matters most of all, the question of what it means to be a person.  "},{"Title":"MON ONCLE D' AMERIQUE IS FANTASTIQUE","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film will only appeal to two types of people 1. Resnais die-hard fans (including me) and intellectuals. This film is extremely odd and infuriating if your an average cinema goer. The film is a cinematic science lesson. But it is absolutley amazing. Resnais uses documentary techniques and surrealism and a narrator (a world renowned expert on human behaviour) who discusses the characters through out the film. It follows three people who are all loosely connected. What makes the film so superb is the fact that it is am intellectual avante garde arthouse film, that instead of isolating the viewer like they usually do. Resnais creates a wonderfully warm film. You end up really liking the characters. Who grow up before your eyes over the years. Resnais doesn't put a foot wrong.Gerard Depiedieu is great as the frustrated office worker who struggles raising a family and hassles at work.ten out of ten "},{"Title":"This film did for me what ADAPTATION could not. It pierced my heart.","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, as my summary went, Mon Oncle d'Amerique did for me, what the clever but emotionally vacant Adaption did not(could not). It impaled me.I have always had a bad taste in my mouth with that Jonze/ Kaufman offering, because it was too smug for its own good and worse, it was emotionally condescending.But here comes a classic that thumped its nose at conventional human drama and yet came out becoming more humane than most films I have ever seen. Who knew Biological Psychology/ Behavioural Science could breathe such life and heart into a seemingly inconsequential story?Anyone know where to find a transcript of the film? The last lines uttered by the Doctor summed up everything I loved about this film(and I have seen it just this once!!).Excellent.Again, many thanks to my enlightened film buff friends I have met on the net for their strong recommendation of this exceptional master work. For my experiential education in film has received that giant leap with this film.Will definitely revisit this thought provoking film to fully soak in its wisdom and movie magic. One of the best films I have seen this year!! If you can get hold of it, by all means take that leap, much like I did and be immeasurably rewarded. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, thought-provoking, mesmerizing","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this film twice.  The first time, it told me how to view the world.  The second time, it represented my view of the world.  Everyone's actions are determined by a small number of forces, it says.  Everyone's behavior fits into only four categories, it says.  And yet, it presents such a wide range of emotions, actions, and thoughts that it seems to contradict its very hypothesis.  And yet, it doesn't.  Turn your brain on and watch this; give it time to sink in, then watch it again.  I guarantee it will change your way of looking at the world.  The editing is top-notch, and Resnais is at the top of his form, as he was 20 years earlier with Hiroshima Mon Amour.  The ending is a stunner, and it encapsulates the film while at the same time extending its meaning.  The cinematography and message will remind you of Resnais' Night and Fog.  Brilliant performances from all three leads and Laborit.  Give it time, use your brain, and view it multiple times.  You will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, unique, very moving","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this - after having heard of it, seen it on video store shelves for over a decade. A movie that begins oddly, drily, repays anyone who pays attention for at least 15 minutes with something absorbing, warm, fascinating and often quite funny. It is one of the most thought-provoking movies I've ever seen in my life. I disagree that its appeal is limited to intellectuals or those who like the director (I'd seen only Last Year at Marienbad, couldn't tell hide nor tail, and that was all I thought of Resnais). Depardieu's character is one we can relate to fully as much as we do to Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman - but all the principal characters (except the cold as ice boss of Depardieu) are greatly sympathetic. This is just so moving and powerful a movie about the life we life - our work, our anger, our sorrow, our obsession, our ambition, our ideals and the way we deal with the things we want in life. Just stay with it for 15-20 minutes - you'll be fascinated. This is truly superb, truly absorbing, truly unique.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Professor Henri Laborit is one of the geniuses of the previous century. And Alain Resnais directed a movie faithful to the scientist's work.We could say about Mon oncle d'Amérique that it's a totally original film. It's impossible to compare it to any of the other movies in the history.This piece of art shows in a very elegant and clever way how we human beings behave. It's as brilliant as deeply moving.Definitely a must-see that reminds us why we used to admire Gérard Depardieu. The use of the archive footage of Danielle Darrieux, Jean Gabin, and Jean Marais are very touching in the middle of a movie that seems to be cold and demonstrative but that is not.Watch this masterpiece ASAP. You'll never regret it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding masterpiece - there's no other film like it!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Henri Laborit finishes with these words (if I remember correctly) - no spoiler really - As long as we do not understand, that (today) we use our cortex predominantly in order to dominate other people, then nothing can change (for the better).I myself coined the phrase If I had power like Hitler, then I would be Hitler.The point made here is not that I'm Hitler or want to be as little as it is Henri Laborit's point that it is allright for us to continue to use our brain as dominator over others. The point is, that if we get accustomed to power, then all we do turns out bad, in spite of 'good' intentions.There is no 'good' power. That's the simple truth. To claim so is as ridiculous as to say that there is 'good' evil or totally erase the borders between good and evil and wind up in total confusion like Bob Dylan sings about in his songs 'Ring Them Bells' (They're breaking down the distance between right and wrong) and 'The Disease of Conceit'.In attempts to dominate his surroundings, man is driven to madness and suicide. The film demonstrate this and Laborit compares rat behavior with human behavior when human lives are ridiculed by this animal quest for power instead of being allowed a quest that would be truly human (in the good sence of the word) the quest of the total destruction of all power and dominance in order to create a truly human society of decency and brotherhood.We possess a refined and beautiful cortex - why not use it for its proper purpose?, is the conclusion we find ourselves in after having seen the movie (well, not all of us). "},{"Title":"A fascinating, captivating film","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What an odd way to start a film. We seem to be hearing a lecture about the brain, and human development, interspersed with introductions of several characters who don't seem to have much in common. But then Resnais starts working his magic, intertwining the stories of three people with the behavioral theories of Henri Laborit. Human behavior is compared to the behavior of lab rats, and even turtles and wild boars, and each new idea is illustrated in the lives of the main characters. And as an interesting third layer, each character has an avatar from classic French cinema; clips from their films are interspersed to comment on the action.Too bizarre, you think? I thought so at first, but after awhile I was hooked. Fine performances, beautiful cinematography, and a captivating, multi-layered script makes this film an unforgettable experience. "},{"Title":"Despite All My Rage I Am Still Just A Rat In A Cage","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Its a lot like a Greek Tragedy, except the chorus is supplemented by evolutionary psychologist and pharmacologist Henri Labroit explaining the actions of the characters in terms of his ideas concerning human and mammal behavior; consumption behavior, escape behavior, combat behavior, and inhibition behavior. We trace the lives of three characters from birth through childhood, and into the drama of their adult lives. Their adult lives are full of struggles with career, family, relationships, intersecting at times, but only as dramatic as real life allows. Its the way Alain Resnais constructs the stories that makes them fascinating. We observe them largely as a scientist might, in terms of parents, environment, traits, and habits. At one point Labroit discusses shock experiments done on mice, in later scenes we flash back to the characters who have giant mouse heads, the effect is startling and funny, at once. The most complex human emotions are rendered as functions of the animal brain, human relationships are as simple as mice being given aversion therapy, or as complex, depending on how you look at it. Labroit and Resnais seems at odds at times, about the miraculousness and simplicity of it all, but it helps to make the movie more dynamic. Its educational and informational as a science documentary, but the drama is so well entergrated the intellectual stimulation is offset, by a real sense of attachment and catharsis for and with the characters. The problems of their lives are those everyone experiences, Gerard Depardieu is a devout catholic, raised on a farm, who works at a factory and is struggling with being downsized. Nicole Garcia is raised by communist parents, and becomes an actress and later a stylist, having an affair with the married...Roger Pierre, the head of the French Ministry of Radio, raised by an affluent family, who longs to write a book about the history of the sun. I've only seen two Resnais films, Hiroshima Mon Amour and Last Year At Marienbad(which I fell asleep while watching twice), and this is somewhere between the emotional fallout of the first and the experimental daring of the later, but its my favorite of the three. An enthralling, fascinating, and profound film, that's as emotionally disarming as it is intellectually engaging. Visually it's stunning as well. The final image of the Forest mural on the building speaks volumes. I need more Resnais in my life. "},{"Title":"Mechanisms of apparent reality","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Usually with films we supply our own model of viewing, what values and parameters we accept to matter. Here the model is built in the film itself. It's an epistemological vision of human behavior patterns, guided by a behavioral biologist. We are provided with a set of criteria that govern our actions, fight or flight, actions taken to prolong pleasurable sensations or to avoid their opposite, and based upon the scientist's research, Resnais creates scenarios to exemplify them. Theory in practice, more or less.This is the first handicup of the film for me. Resnais's consistent mark of genius has been his ability to visualize the mind as a threedimensional space, where by characters who act as our proxies into this world of the mind we can wander that space in an effort to discern the mechanisms that sustain it. How the forms we later experience as real come into being, illusionary. His vision is poignant for me precisely because it is translated as cinema, which as a blank canvas where upon it various flickering narratives are projected, is an ideal replica of the mind. He gave us Hiroshima and Marienbad, which is more than most directors contributed to the medium.But Resnais always approached his subject as a poet, with capacity for awe and mystery, whereas now his vision feels constricted to fit criteria and structures.Nonetheless the film does well to present us with situations we may know from life. An illicit thryst, frustrations at work, various ambitions for love or power thwarted, the outcomes of these don't matter. We're meant to identify the roots of suffering, how it arises in the form of sensation within the matrix that we experience as reality.So far the film is wise, in showing us to be lab rats trapped in a glass panel box which is intermittently electrocuted by unseen devices. Perhaps we come to understand by this how suffering is an inate response to life in the cage, therefore inescapable. And how the devices that produce our suffering are invisible to us from inside the cage. Even more importantly, how our various attempts to imprint meaning on the objects of our world, by naming them or pretending to arrange them into patterns or hierarchies, are merely masks we have devised to conceal simple impulses and desires. To be safe or sated, or to avoid pain.But the film is cautiously scientific, and will not venture further. The above important realization is mute for me without the spiritual. It is a dry understanding of fascinating stuff.None of which is very subtle anyway. We're lectured a bit. We actually revisit excerpts of earlier scenes so we can identify specific reactions as narrated to us by the scientist. The lab rat metaphor couldn't beat us around the head more, if we actually saw the actors with the head of a rat reenact an angry exit. Wait, we do! But none of this bothers me overmuch. What bothers me is the pessimism.Which is to say that having understood all this, the mechanisms that control the apparent reality we experience as our everyday routine, we are in position to transcend them. Our bodies may remain in the cage, yet having understood all this, how various forms of ego and desire blind us, our consciousness is already out of it. A glimpse out of the box is possible. Or as the film says, understanding the laws of gravity does not mean we escape them but we can get to the moon.This is of course a fundamental attribute of how we are not like animals. We are not even animals with the unique ability to remember and form connections between the objects of memory. We are spirited beings. The film, conservative as issued under the credence or pretence of science, does not dare to articulate as much.But then we have the final image, which says more than most films ever did. It's something I'll want to keep inside of me.We see the mural of a tree painted on the brick wall of a building. From a distance, it looks beautiful, perhaps the real thing. But once up close, we see the beautiful, harmonious shape for what it is. Bricks as particles, a structure ugly, functional, nondescript, bearing no resemblance to the overall shape.Two levels of reality then, apparent and ultimate. Order, shape, meaning from afar. Distinctions between brick and tree, as created in the eye. But once inside we understand the emptiness, the sameness of everything. How the above attributes are illusionary, imprints of the eye upon the wall. Will this image terrify or soothe you?Perhaps the film understands more than it lets out from its cautious application of science. This is one of the 5 best metaphors in the history of cinema. It's so good, it's worthy of being in Blowup. "}{"Title":"We Are Not As Naïve As This Movie Seems to Think We Are","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie contains three elements a neurological/psychological lecture, a melodrama of three intersecting lives, and scenes from black and white French movies. Presumably, these elements are supposed to add up to an artistic unity, but they work against each other instead, so that the net result is irritating. Especially confusing is the way the backgrounds of the three major characters are presented like someone hurriedly reading their dossiers.If the entire film were simply a discussion on neurology and psychology, it might have been interesting. If it were just a melodrama, it might have been enjoyable. But the combination of the two creates the feeling that we are being talked down to. Over and over we are told that our conscious mind thinks it has reasons for what it does, but we are duped by our unconscious. No doubt, that is sometimes the case. But intercut with the melodrama, this lecture condescendingly suggests that we would not be able to understand these people and what they do without the benefit of the lecture.References to American uncles are reminders that we live lives of illusion, since people express doubts about these uncles. The gratuitous scenes from old movies presumably are supposed to reinforce this notion of the illusory conscious mind.The movie as a whole is less than the sum of its parts. "},{"Title":"Mon Oncle d'Amérique / My American Uncle  One of Alain Resnais' important films which says a lot about human behavior.","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" By making Mon Oncle D'Amérique / My American uncle, French director Alain Resnais made a strong as well as serious attempt to comprehend whether human beings are same as rats ? He wanted to portray the fundamental behavior of human beings when confronted with a rival or dealing with life's tough situations. For this film, Resnais teamed up with famous French neurobiologist Henri Laborit to investigate whether the behavioral traits of human beings can be observed as precisely as those of rats in laboratories ? This film features outstanding performances by Gérard Depardieu and Nicole Garcia.In many ways, the acting performances of this film's actors is a direct tribute to the glorious past of French cinema. Each major actor is shown as connected to another colossal figure of French cinema. This is done by linking Depardieu with Jean Gabin and Jean Marais and Nicole Garcia with Danielle Darrieux.My American uncle is neither difficult nor intellectual in nature.It is a different film as before Alain Resnais no director thought of amalgamating a feature film with shades of documentary film's aesthetics. It is a film which requires viewers to display some form of intelligence in order to comprehend scientific explanations which are Raison D'être of its characters' behavioral as well as personal traits. The historical importance of My American uncle is due to the fact that Resnais' film features creators as 'real stars' as opposed to actors as 'real stars'. "},{"Title":"A Poetic Mosaic Framed by Science","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alain Resnais' My American Uncle (1980) is an exceptionally different film as a unique blend of science and art, however, it's not necessarily anything entirely new to the director himself. After all, time -- in its ontological, existential and historical context -- has always been a leading theme for Resnais. In fact, throughout his career Resnais has studied how the past forms the present and how our personal and collective memories form our consciousness and culture. Although Resnais' approach has always been more philosophical than psychological, in My American Uncle this thematic study has been taken to a whole new level it has turned into a laboratory experiment with three fictional characters whose stories both differ and coincide, leading into an inevitable fusion.In addition to this trio the film has a fourth integral character, Henri Laborit, a scientist devoted to basic research, whose evolutionary and behaviorist theories are examined in the lives of the three characters. Sometimes subtle, sometimes blatant, but always fruitful, this blend of science and art results not only in synthesis of reason and emotion, theory and practice, but also in profound dialectics of fact and fiction, reality and cinema. Above all, the freedom of the spectator is an essential element for Resnais and therefore, Laborit's commentary never works as an absolute frame of reference. On the contrary, the viewer is free to choose whether the fiction coincides with his theories or contradicts them. In close connection with the theme of time, here Resnais studies the essence of humanity. All the characters of My American Uncle, including Laborit, are introduced from their childhood to the present, and the viewer is given a point of reference to ponder what makes us who we are. Resnais asks, for example, how does biology (gender, temperament and prenatal factors), environment (the films we see, the people we admire, family and culture) and the nerve system affect our development. In brief, Resnais contemplates what it means to be a human being. Laborit himself offers a thought on this by saying that man is a memory that acts.All in all, My American Uncle is a film that has been built with precision and care. When watched right, it unfolds in an utterly beautiful fashion. The film is as if an organic mosaic -- like human life itself -- which gathers its final, though subjective, form later in the spectator's mind as the pieces come together. The stories, first introduced in collage-like photo montage, aren't finished for they continue their development outside the borders of the screen. These are the stories about perpetual failures and the fragility of happiness and contentment. All the characters are hoping for something better. Their mundane existence is characterized by a constant yearn for freedom, love and happiness. All of them are waiting for something -- for their own American uncle. "},{"Title":"an oddly structured yet fascinating film","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Truly I don't think there has ever been a film put together like Jean Resnais' Mon oncle d'Amerique. The narration by a well-known scientist, the stories of three people, interspersed with film clips starring Danielle Darrieux, Jean Gabin, and Jean Marais. Go figure.Mon oncle d'Amerique begins slowly and one becomes impatient for something to happen. Stick with it.Psychologist Henri Laborit explains his theories, punctuated by the behavior of animals, as the stories of three people who are somewhat connected are told. And we see that the humans react in much the same way as the animals do in the various behavioral experiments.The story most people will be able to relate to most is the one featuring Gerard Depardieu, a man faced with the merger of his company and impending job loss.The film runs the gamut of high drama, humor, and tragedy. Most of the characters are likable and have a good deal of warmth. They are us, some of the situations are familiar, and the take on human behavior is fascinating. Even Jean Gabin, Jean Marais, and Danielle Darrieux get pulled into it - actors yes, but portraying human beings. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, but takes an effort","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I gave this an 8 out of 10 because while I believe that the first half hour of the film is necessary to set the stage, it lost my wife who is ordinarily a die-hard Gerard Depardeu fan. When watching a film you've paid 8 bucks for, you don't have a choice. You feel a need to sit and watch and get your money's worth. But on DVD or on-demand, the lesser attention spanned may walk off before the film gets rolling.OK, that said, once it gets rolling it becomes a wonderfully astute, and touching film about our humanity. Gerard plays his usual lovable oaf and brings warmth and humanity to the film when the other characters, while sympathetic, are cold and reptilian to quote the narrator. Gerard's character made me ask whether a certain level of foolishness was necessary to keep us humble and honest.Finally, the film is very French and high culture to the point of being almost a parody of such films. It's a kind of dark comedy that's so subtle, that some people won't get it. I know my wife didn't.Finally, there are distributions available in wide screen and even HD that was magnificent. I'm sure it's still great on letterboxed but try to get the widescreen/HD version or upconverted. "},{"Title":"An outstanding film","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film does What European films are good at, making life meaningful and interesting, no small feat. No car chases, gun fights, or martial arts needed.The film is structured like a text book. First the professor lectures and then examples illustrating the lecture follow. It takes the 4 basic human drives and develops a plethora of behaviours from them. Here lies the wonder of the film. Examples that would be boring in a test book are brought to life with amazing skill and artfulness by Resnais, and the actors.The science in the film is outdated. for example, it is no longer believed that the brain is tabula rasa at birth. However, this does not diminish the worth of the film as an artistic endeavor. "},{"Title":"Relatively Cool","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On paper this isn't really my kind of movie by a country mile but I'm always ready to see anything that Depardieu decides to appear in and Nicole Garcia is not too hard to take either if anybody asks you but then you have to factor in Resnais, a loose canon whichever way you slice it, a guy who's as likely to film a Viennese Operetta with a static camera as lay a metaphysical treatise on an unsuspecting audience. He's also something of a risk-taker and here he does himself no favors in the opening minutes by giving the impression we've wandered into a lecture complete with lantern-slides. But soon you find yourself drawn into the three loosely connected stories and a little later you find you've surrendered completely to the left-handed charm. Not for the faint-hearted or the popcorn brigade. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fair Resnais","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not usually that big a fan of Resnais' films, but this dissection of middle class France circa 1980 is quite engaging. The movie intertwines three stories, loosely connected the story of a civil servant, that of a middle manager in a textile firm (Gerard Depardieu, in the most interesting segment) and that of an actress (Nicole Garcia, the least interesting one). The stories are commented by biologist Henri Laborit, who elaborates on how we respond to external circumstances in modern society and at one point compares the reactions of the characters to the pressures of society to those of rats in a laboratory. (The constant references to actors in French classical cinema is less interesting, as cinephilia seems to be a particular French obsession). Laborit's theories might be outdated or naive, but they make a funny counterpoint to the action. I came out of the movie with the idea of modern capitalist society as a pressure cooker to those who want to play high in the game - nothing new, but it's well illustrated in the film. And to those of us old enough to remember the late seventies and early eighties, is fun to see back the clothes, the cars, etc., that people use back then on the screen. "},{"Title":"The middle is original and thoughtful, though the beginning and the end are long and boring.","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just seen the film in my city's biggest cine club with just about all my cinema colleagues. When I bought the ticket I was handled a leaflet with comments of some critics and the very first sentence was it questions what it is to be French which obviously scared me. Although I much love the European country and do like many of its films, this is not a question I catch myself asking every now and then. It seemed like a Nouvelle Vague personal crisis of what am I, where I am at, and all that... and I have to say my opinion about the Nouvelle Vague is quite controversial to most of the cinema fans. When the film began, the explanation of the thesis the movies shows most willingness to prove, I all had was a confirmation and a damn-it-what-the-hell-am-I-doing-here sensation. However, I've payed for the ticket, I had slept for the whole afternoon and I didn't have money for extra beers outside the cinema, so I stubbornly decided to stay. And what a wise decision I have made! The plot goes on beautifully questioning everything (and I couldn't spot the French questions, thanks God). I actually saw questions about love and life - definitely not exclusive to the French. I saw characters that were designed with a precise care - not excessively harsh, nor excessively romantic. Real people with real problems and real solutions (for the good or for the bad). In a sensitive and reasonable balance, not in the hysterical way many movies end up going whilst pondering about such questions. I have to say I thought a zillion times on the last part of the movie that this was the time to stop, to finish. And the director kept on repeating scenes and talking about all his personal theories - which I think the viewer has the legitimate right to formulate. But it kept on going and kept on going like a brainwash. I, myself, and what I think is my intelligence, got a little offended. In the overall, I really enjoyed the film. And I am going to watch some other Resnais' work to see if his cutting skills had developed, don't worry. "}]