[{"Title":"This movie saved my life","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"170 out of 187 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was 16 years old in 1984 when I first saw this movie. I was also clinically depressed and suicidal. I had been on antidepressants for about a year (in the pre-prozac days) and I happened to see this movie on Showtime or HBO - almost by accident. Timothy Hutton perfectly captures what it's like to be depressed as a teenager. And Judd Hirsch and Hutton perfectly capture the patient/therapist relationship. There are also a few perfect little scenes that capture the problems of a family that can't communicate. Especially memorable is the scene where Calvin tells Beth about the shoes he wore to Buck's funeral. This film captures all of the important moments like this that truly demonstrate the problems the family is having. After seeing it, I read the book and I knew that if Conrad could go on, so could I. I watch this movie once every few years. It really means a lot to me.  "},{"Title":"SHATTERING","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"104 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The perfect life of the perfect family is destroyed when the older of 2 sons dies in a sailing accident, leaving the parents and his younger brother to grieve, pick up and carry on. But how they accomplish this makes this movie a shattering but ultimately uplifting (in parts) experience.Buck Jarrett drowns after he and his younger brother, Conrad, go sailing on a questionable day. Later, Conrad, feeling the guilt of his brother's death, tries to commit suicide by slashing his wrists. This turns out to be a blessing in disguise because the true personalities of his parents, Cal and Beth, as well as his own ability to grow are revealed when Conrad returns from the psychiatric hospital after a 4-month stay. Conrad is given the name of Dr. Tyrone Berger, a psychiatrist (marvelously played by Judd Hirsch) who is unconventional to say the least. He dresses casually, drinks coffee he makes in his office and smokes incessantly (this is pre anti-tobacco). And he doesn't buy into the psychobabble practiced by many psychiatrists. At first, Conrad tells Dr. Berger he wants to gain control but what he really wants is to not feel - not feel the pain of his brother's death and what he believes is his part in it. But that unravels through a series of experiences he endures as the movie proceeds. In choir practice, Conrad is smitten with Jeannine Pratt (beautifully played by Elizabeth McGovern), a fellow singer who has an ability to recognize Conrad's pain without being amazed, horrified or judgmental. And Conrad also has a friend, Karen, (played nicely by Dinah Manoff)whom he'd met in the hospital and who can relate to his experiences there. Donald Sutherland as Cal, Mary Tyler Moore as Beth and Timothy Hutton as Conrad give outstanding, Oscar-caliber performances. Cal tries to keep his feelings hidden by wearing a mask of bravado, carrying on and functioning in a world that has taken his son away. He loves Conrad and also recognizes his pain and his alienation fom his mother though he realizes he can't fix it. But it's Mary Tyler Moore's performance as Beth that is so amazing. She is plastic through and through and it gets to the point of being downright annoying and yet MTM's portrayal is perfect. Of all the characters, hers is really the most disturbed. She wants to have things exactly as they were even though she mourns the loss of her firstborn son. She can't love Conrad because he committed the one unforgivable sin - he survived while her favorite did not. Timothy Hutton, sadly, has never had a movie to top Ordinary People. He has done other work, of course, (most notably in my opinion, Taps) and can be seen currently as Archie in Nero Wolf on A&E. But his role as the troubled surviving son who rises from the pain in Ordinary People is truly magnificent and shattering. He earned the Oscar and he truly deserved it. And as he accepted his Academy Award, he remembered his father, actor Jim Hutton, who had died from liver cancer shortly before Timothy got the award. That was a classy thing to do. I hope Mr. Hutton gets another plum role like this one; everything else he has done since pales in comparison. "},{"Title":"Ordinary is the Problem!!!!!","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"135 out of 195 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The setting for this movie is seemingly appropriate for characterizing frustrations...The North Shore!!...Chicago's sequestered citadel of professional and avaricious elitism...A three million dollar home, trips to Europe, your kids going off to the most expensive colleges in the country, remodeling your kitchen every couple of years, and, your work-less, socially active wife being a permanent fixture at Marshall Fields!! All of these trademarks of success are taken for granted, and, they are merely expectations for the ultimate definition of a quiet bedroom community!! Acquisition of status is no longer excitement, it is, in fact, a given...The only devastating misconception to this entire scenario is that people living in the North Shore are not superhuman, they are merely overburdened, socially, financially, physically, mentally and, as this film so brilliantly depicts, EMOTIONALLY!! There is a prevailing mentality of a mandated and bothersome agenda that all of the characters in this movie must adhere to!!...The Jarretts (Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore and Timothy Hutton) are a family who are shattered by perpetual tragedy and isolation, each one of them does not know what to do about the fact that the other son, Buck, has died, and Conrad (Timothy Hutton) has attempted to commit suicide!! So much of this film deals with how the misunderstanding of each other is the monster that will win out!!.. Perseverence is something that the mother thinks she can handle, but, in fact, she cannot!! The son, Conrad, lacks the necessary social stamina for the incredibly tedious task of sustaining! Finally, the father needs a bevy of facts to gather up in order for him to attain a pleasant resolve by which everyone in his family may live by!!.. This catastrophic dilemma is answered with social gatherings, vacations, an inordinate preoccupation with moral facades, and expensive therapy!! The bottom line is that a tragic undermining to every critical situation in this movie continuously prevails! Ultimately, this troublesome circumstance is such whereby Conrad and his parents need more time than this movie allows to heel all wounds even on a superficial level...Director, Robert Redford, has an incredible insight in this movie, and many white collar executive households share the exacerbations and misgivings of financial competition that this Lake Forest household had to endure!!...Ordinary People won for best picture in 1980, and, it is no wonder...The despondence the Jarretts faced was a horror story that could teach Stephen King a couple of tricks... The Mother feels as though she must create an illusion of contentment to the outside world, even if it is at the risk of neglecting her family's needs...Masquerading pretenses seems to have become her self-centered pet project...The father, while well intentioned, is meager and adolescent in his approach to coping with the household's turbulent consternation..It is almost as if he expects a resolution to his family's problems to be put in his stocking on Christmas morning...The son, Conrad, just resigns himself to misery and arctic desolation!! The overall predicament in this film has a frightening simplicity... The Jarret's aggregate plight is that they are alone, unhappy and confused!! Judd Hirsch is terrific as the shrink who feels sorry for this high school kid (Conrad). Conrad Jarrett is compelled to have therapy sessions with him,(Judd Hirsch). As a psychiatrist, he knows that he has to go through professionally therapeutic procedures to actually help him out...The greatest help he can offer Conrad is that he must convey to him that his problems can only be solved one step at a time. This psychiatrist (Judd Hirsch) cannot simply utter some miracle mumble jumble like Conrad's father expects him to do!! Ordinary People is about ordinary, well to do, upper middle class people, these are people who constantly admonish themselves for making mistakes!! They perennially imitate wealthy people, which means they are continuously fighting a losing battle! Genuine problems such as a son attempting suicide have to take a back seat to endeavors which are along the line of status games and pusillanimous charades of compulsory escalation into the realm of social register advancement!!.. Just another $250,000.00 yearly income household...ho hum!!...What is bothering you? Everything!! Did we say that...We mean to say that nothing at all is bothering us....The purpose of a two acre piece of property is not to be a voice in the wilderness.. Apocalyptic human pitfalls rest on apathetic shaky grounds in Chicago's North Shore Suburbia, and, they are indiscriminately shelved off into a dubious haven of callous anonymity!! Calvin Jarrett is plagued by the shattering realization of just how pitiful it is to have to attend your own son's funeral!! Tragedy fights dirty pool when it will not even allow the Jarretts to know exactly what the unanswered questions are in their dreadfully befuddled lives!! This situational dilemma manifests itself by pointing out several acrimonious facts People who seem alright may not be. Household upheaval and family hardships will go quite awhile before they are even mollified. Also, the beautiful cinematography of the deciduous Lake Forrest autumn erupts as a polar opposite to what emotional ugliness lurks in the Jarrett's domicile!! This movie concludes at a glimmer of hope for Conrad, which symbolizes a demoralizing, and almost hopelessly rudimentary progress for the entire Jarrett Family, YES!! this is very, very, very, DEPRESSING!!! Unfortunately, this situation is extremely realistic! Ordinary People is an outstanding movie for a variety of reasons.. Mostly for the fact that it illustrates how clinical depression cannot be instantly cured just because there are only 18 minutes left to the movie!! I give it five stars out of five stars!!! "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"88 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw Ordinary People when I was very young and had a very difficult time with the storyline.However, even then I think I knew I was watching something simply remarkable. Even after all these years, it's impact has not lessened, which I guess is a mark of an incredible movie. The movie is among the most disturbing I've ever viewed and the performances, at least to me, are among the best. I can't imagine viewing this movie without feeling absolutely drained afterwards and I think I may have been a bit to young to fully appreciate it, but I can't imagine giving this anything but a 10, it was absolutely flawless in it's storytelling.I do think though, that a certain element of maturity is needed to view this, there are few I know who have not been touched or upset by the story and if one is to young or just not in the right mood to handle the heaviness(as I wasn't at the time),they may not be able to fully appreciate it. I still know people who cannot sit through this and I understand why but I hope this movie will be viewed by many who can handle it, it's impact is fierce, all the performances are incredible and Mary Tyler Moore's performance is among the best of any female lead ever. "},{"Title":"Beautiful script, characters, and flawless filmmaking. A movie not to forget. **** (out of four)","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"70 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As an aspiring screenwriter myself, I envy Alvin Sargent, the mastermind behind the script of the Academy Award winning 1980 drama Ordinary People. Based on the equally as heartbreaking novel by Judith Guest, Ordinary People flawlessly captures all aspects of great cinema. The scenes have the perfect timing; the performances are vividly descriptive and entirely convincing; the direction is efficacious and focused. The filmmaker's never pretend that this movie is easy to watch, but they sure do produce an emotional and mental response from the viewer. Ordinary People launched Timothy Hutton's career, rewarding him with an Oscar. It's too bad his career as an actor seems to be traveling downhill. Although his award was for best actor in a supporting role, he is truly the center of the movie. Hutton plays Conrad Jarrett, the son of Calvin (Donald Sutherland) and Beth (Mary Tyler Moore). The Jarretts are recovering over various recent disasters. They lost their first born son to an accident, for which Conrad blames himself. His grief eventually provokes a failed suicide attempt. As the movie opens, we meet the family. We never witness Conrad's suicide attempt, the preceding family death, nor do we see anything than happens during his hospital stay. Ordinary People knows exactly where to start and what to show. It leaves a great deal to our imagination. It gives us freedom to put ourselves in the character's shoes. This is a realistic portrayal of a crippled family trying to mend with problems. Several key characters also contribute to the rehabilitation of Conrad. Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch), provides Conrad with psychological guidance; the high school swimming coach (E. Emmet Walsh) understands Conrad's condition, but still doesn't want the swim team to lose his talent; Jeannine (Elizabeth McGovern) befriends the struggling Conrad; Karen (Dinah Manoff) another similarly hospitalized with Conrad, gives him some added confidence.Ordinary People took home Academy Awards for best picture, director, supporting actor, adapted screenplay, Mary Tyler Moore's deserving performance, and earned various other nominations, including the supporting performance by Judd Hirsch. It is clear why the film won so much praise by critics and audiences alike we can clearly identify with the characters and their situation.The characters are beautifully written. I cannot remember the last movie I saw that so vividly captures individual lifestyles and personal tragedies. Every character plays an important role in Conrad's life. His father feels his son's suicide attempt is due to his poor parenting. The materialistic mom finds it difficult to contend with difficulties and to forgive her son for what he did to her public image. Conrad's problems evolve into larger, more complex issues of love, compassion, forgiveness, and our personal differences. The actors really deserve the crown here. If there was even one who did not live up to the great expectations, they would appear obvious and subtract from the film's emotional grasp. Timothy Hutton really portrays his character well. Every emotional aspect feels real, justified, and understood. Mary Tyler Moore portrays the film's potential villain believably as well. She makes is obvious that Beth would rather run from problems instead of dealing with them. After seeing Donald Sutherland in many recent film's that seem rather terse, I formed opinions about his credibility and ability that his performance here proves wrong. He is definitely a gifted actor when dealt good material. In this performance, easily the best of his career, he captures every minuet detail of a father struggling with his past, present, and future. Ordinary People shares much in common with 1999's best picture winner, American Beauty. That was another great film, but Ordinary People contains debatably better material. American Beauty looked tragedy in the eye and found respect, mockery, and grace. Ordinary People never bestows comic material, however, but it does trace suffering to its root, and finds disorientation, embarrassment, and sorrow.  This is not an easy movie to watch, but a challenging, perceptive, tragic story that you are not likely to forget.  "},{"Title":"Great Family Drama","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"58 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a powerful directing debut from Robert Redford, a great family drama that goes every which way but down. By the end, our thoughts have been altered a bit and its a film that leaves you thinking.Conrad, played brilliantly by Timothy Hutton in an Oscar winning role, is the depressed suicidal son of a couple struggling to cope with their son's drowning death. Conrad of course feels responsible, and has already tried to take his own life once before.Reluctantly, he begins to see a shrink at the advice of his father. Dr. Berger, also played brilliantly by Judd Hirsch though there are no slouches in the cast, helps Conrad through thick and thin. By the end of the movie, the audience truly feels for all characters to some degree.As has been stated, the acting is magnificent. The story may seem simple but this type of film really doesn't need a heavy plot. Its an excellent look at the problems we all face. When I first saw this at a young age I related completely to Conrad's character. When I saw this tonight, I related more to the adults and could really feel for them a lot more than I remembered. Each character has a unique sense of reality to them. The actors really carry the film, making the characters seem like real people we've known for years.Unfortunately this movie has received somewhat of a bad reputation over the years as the film that beat Raging Bull in 1980 for the Best Picture and Director Oscars. While both movies are excellent, its sad that one has to be better than the other and people just don't enjoy both movies for what they are. Many people have preconceived opinions about this 'small' film they have not heard of. After all, Raging Bull is an all time classic. Just watch this movie with an open mind, because it really works on every level as a powerful family drama detailing the persona of many different types of people. "},{"Title":"Stunning insight into a family falling apart.","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People deserved its Oscar. There was such fierce competition in 1980 that winning the award was a real honor. The movie should have shared honors with Coal Miner's Daughter.Having said that, the reality of the movie is so heartbreaking and so real that you feel every emotion and understand the characters feelings, whether you liked them or not. Mary Tyler Moore's performance of Beth Jarrett is so powerful that you forget Moore's comedic repertoire and immerse yourself into her persona as a cold, distant wife that can not show emotion for her son. It is disturbing that Beth can not show Conrad love and it breaks your heart when you see the awkwardness as he tries so hard to get any love or recognition from her. Her breakdown scene at the golf course and the realization at the end of the movie that she is incapable of affectionate love are powerful performances.Donald Sutherland's understated and beautiful performance is brilliant. His making up for Beth's shortcomings as an affectionate human being are so touching. He does all he can to keep the rest of his family together. Why he was not nominated for an Oscar is beyond comprehension.Timothy Hutton absolutely shines as the troubled Conrad. All you want to do is hug him, love him, after his rejections from his own mother. The torture and pain he is in is portrayed so stunningly. His guilt over the death of his brother and subsequent depression are heartbreaking.Growing up in suburban America, the film rings many a truth to the insights of what people perceive as a normal family. The cocktail parties, the school activities, the socialization of Beth and her friends over the recognition of her son do happen in suburban America. Robert Redford recognized every real detail of the facades that people put up and the reality of what happens at home. They are poignantly and chillingly realized.Definitely one of the most deserved Best Picture Oscars given. Please don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Quiet, moving and exceptional","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"47 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent adaptation of a wonderful novel by Judith Guest.An all-American family called the Jarretts are falling apart. The two sons were in a boating accident--one died and the other Conrad (Timothy Hutton) survives. But he feels guilt over surviving and tries to commit suicide. He's institutionalized and the movie starts when he returns home from the hospital. His mother (Mary Tyler Moore) is cold, distant and unemotional. His father (Donald Sutherland) tries to act like everything is cheerful and fine. Conrad goes to see a psychiatrist (Judd Hirsch) to find out how--and if--he can deal with this.A multi-Oscar winner (Best Picture, Director, Supporting Actor) this is a very quiet but emotional film. Director Robert Redford (his first film as a director) doesn't push things in your face or hit you over the head with screaming or yelling--he quietly lets the dialogue and acting explain the characters and situations.All the actors are in top-notch form--Moore is superb as Beth, the mother. Before this she was just known for doing comedy and being perky. Here she plays a repressed, emotionally unavailable woman--you can see her holding back and feel her breaking--just great. She was nominated for Best Actress and should have won. Sutherland is stunning as the father struggling to deal with his son and wife. Hutton is perfection--you can see the anger and guilt in his character. I was never too crazy about Hirsch in this movie--he comes across as way too cold and critical--still his scenes with Hutton are among the best in the movie. Also Elizabeth McGovern (in her film debut) is sweet and appealing as Conrad's girlfriend.Beautifully shot, exceptionally well-acted...a truly great movie. And don't miss the gorgeous opening montage of Lake Forest IL. A 10 all the way. "},{"Title":"Impressive until the last minute.","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie in a very old theatre in Maastricht, Netherlands. I was astonished by the beauty of the plot, the character played by Timothy Hutton and Donald Sutherland. The most impressive thing was at the end. Everybody left the theatre in complete silence. People were touched and had tears in their eyes. This movie moves people. It is a story so close to reality and so well played by the actors. One really hates Mary Tyler-Moore at the end for being a bitch first class, a mother with no feelings for her youngest son. Judd Hirsch is very funny in acting as a psychologist. He plays it so naturally as if he had seen one for several years. In my opinion Robert Redford directed his best movie ever in Ordinary People. "},{"Title":"The epitome of the broken family genre.","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is an extraordinary motion picture for five reasons. The outstanding direction of Robert Redford, and the brilliant acting of Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland, Timothy Hutton and Judd Hirsch.This movie is set in suburban Chicago. The family is an upper-middle class foursome, the parents and their two sons. The eldest son, Buck, is killed in a boating accident. The other son, Conrad, survives but is riddled with guilt. His mother, Beth, who idolized her deceased first born, is cold with her surviving son. She looks at him and is reminded of the pain. Instead of nurturing her surviving child she distances herself from him. Conrad attempts suicide and spends time in a mental hospital. Calvin, the understanding father, is torn between his wife and son. Dr. Berger, a psychiatrist, is hired by the family to help the troubled young man. The scenes between Hutton and Hirsch are amongst the best in the movie. He helps Conrad understand his mother's pain and shortcomings and to stand on his own. Conrad tries to keep his family together and realizes, almost with relief, that the family's problems are caused by Beth's burying all her love with Buck.This is a fascinating motion picture. The direction and the performances are superb. It is an intelligent, moving and honest examination about a family torn by grief and pain. Don't miss it! "}{"Title":"One of the finest and most true to life movies ever","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I might consider putting this movie in my top 10 list of best movies. It's absolutely amazing that for his directorial debut, Robert Redford created such a masterpiece. Now it was not all due to him, as the story was so well-written and the acting is dead on for all the characters. Part of the reason I love it so much might be because I was a psychotherapist before becoming a school teacher (mid-life crisis, you know). And, having worked with dysfunctional families, this movie gets it right time and time again. Therapy is not a miracle cure that takes effect almost immediately (like in GOOD WILL HUNTING) and the parents BOTH have a strong role in keeping the family sickness alive. Donald Sutherland is the enabler who denies there is a problem--even after one son dies by accident and the other attempts suicide. He also cannot face that the family's dysfunction is mostly controlled and maintained by his very disturbed wife, played wonderfully by Mary Tyler Moore. She is not mentally ill but has a very sick personality, as she is cold as ice emotionally and deals with problems through massive amounts of denial as well as stuffing her anger WAY down deep. Timothy Hutton is, despite his being the patient, the healthiest one in the family, as his suicide attempt is a strong cry for help. Finally, Judd Hirsch plays the therapist--and one of the most realistically portrayed therapists on film. He has no miracle cure but tries his best to get Hutton, and later Sutherland, to work hard at uncovering their dysfunction. Again and again and again, the viewer is rewarded by a brutally honest script that is about people who would be real--not Hollywood's idea of people. The film is neither manipulative nor condescending--this is the way more films SHOULD be.In addition, as I have watched the film several times, I keep noticing just how perfect the direction was. How wonderfully framed the shots were, how wonderfully the music fit in and how unflinching the movie dealt with pain. In particular, I love the scene with Sutherland at the psychiatrist's office as he talks about his marriage....and his eyes keep looking away and avoiding the doctor as he says how much he loves her. And the great Christmas photo scene--it just screams out this is real!!. For this to be Robert Redford's directorial debut is absolutely amazing and he surely earned that Best Director Oscar.FYI--although this movie is rated R, it is only for language. There are a few REALLY CHOICE WORDS used here and there, but otherwise this is a great movie for teens. If filmed today, this would no doubt be a PG-13 film. I am a very conservative parent, and yet I found this to be totally acceptable for my 15 year-old. It's a great film to watch WITH your kids and discuss what you see.I cannot recommend a film more highly. "},{"Title":"Brutally honest look at moving on after tragedy","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I could not take my eyes off Ordinary People, a brutally honest look at moving on after tragedy. Robert Redford pulls no punches, minces no words, and doesn't sugarcoat a single, painful scene as the story of a suburban family and the secrets they share unfolds.Athletic, popular Buck Jarrett was the town's Favorite Son... and clearly a favorite son of his mother, WASP-ish Beth (Mary Tyler Moore, boldly playing against type). But when Buck dies during a boat accident, he is survived by his insecure, mild mannered brother Conrad (Timothy Hutton), who incurs Beth's passive aggressive wrath. While meek father Cal (Donald Sutherland) struggles to keep the peace, Conrad seeks the help of a hard nosed psychiatrist (Judd Hirsch) and begins his journey of recovery from survivor's guilt and learns that pain in life is always better than the alternative.What makes Ordinary People stand out from other movies is the fact that it shows, rather tells. That, combined with Moore's peerless performance, reveals how little Beth thinks of poor Conrad. Take a breakfast scene, for instance, where Conrad refuses the French toast Beth makes for him. While Beth chatters on about her plans, she roughly shoves the French toast down the garbage disposal, saying, You can't save French toast! Or a devastating scene that takes place late on a school night. Conrad's light is on when he should be asleep... and Beth breezes by his room without so much as a glance. It is powerful stuff.This is one of the best cast ensemble dramas I've ever seen. Hutton rightly won an Academy Award as the damaged Conrad. He bravely goes through torturous emotional scenes that threaten to tear your heart to shreds. Sutherland is also sympathetic as Cal, a man who has to choose between saving his son or his marriage. Moore, however, owns this movie. I wanted to write off Beth as simply a villain... but I just couldn't. This is a woman who believes in hiding ugly emotions, in placing reputation over familial love, and who flies off on vacation when things get rough. Yet Moore makes Beth someone who, at one time, might have been a truly lovable person, but allowed that part of her to die along with her son. Hirsch is darkly humorous as the rough edged Dr. Berger, and a young Elizabeth McGovern is appealing as a sweet classmate Conrad shows an interest in.Ordinary People is a complex film that refuses to point fingers or go for easy answers, but reveals how there are no happy endings in life; rather, precious moments of joy we should savor in spite of, and because of, the pain. "},{"Title":"One of the finest - if not the finest - movies of the 1980s","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An amazing movie from the first year of the decade, by a director in an unparalleled directing debut. I've always enjoyed Robert Redford more as a director than an actor, and when this movie came out, I remembered being very dubious about seeing it. (Word of mouth at the time was pretty amazing, though, and that's what prompted me to get over it.) But once seen (and re-seen several times), I have made a point of catching all of Redford's directorial efforts and I'm rarely disappointed.I won't rehash the plot, others have done a good job of that, but I will say that this is much more a character study of a family than it is plot-driven. So many character studies are somewhat contrived (Rosebud anyone?*), but this felt so *real*, real family dynamics, real behaviors, real reactions and interactions. And the simplest subtlest scenes tell most of the story. For example, pay attention to a scene early in the movie between the son, Conrad, and his mother in the upstairs hallway. The attention to detail is stunning, and yet barely noticeable unless you're looking for it. All you know is that you have suddenly grasped a whole new level of understanding about these characters. Mary Tyler Moore is, if you'll forgive the cliché, a revelation. Especially for those of us who grew up with her sitcoms.That said, as the plot does unwind through the experiences of each family member, it does ultimately pack a pretty hefty emotional wallop, as in the kind you thought you should have seen coming, and didn't. It still gets me every time.This movie doesn't get nearly the attention as a classic that it deserves. See it and I'd guarantee you'd help change that.* And for you Welles fans out there, no offense, I do appreciate that Citizen Kane represented a whole new way to make a movie and respect Orson Welles' presence in the canon of breakthrough/visionary movie makers. "},{"Title":"Most Moving Drama","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is a beautiful drama based upon Judith Guest's novel brought wonderfully to the screen thanks to Alvin Sargent's simple but balanced screenplay adaptation, and Robert Redford's splendid direction (his directorial debut).The acting in this immensely moving drama is superb and wonderfully controlled, with each character realistically portrayed scene after scene. Timothy Hutton, Mary Tyler Moore and Donald Sutherland are all excellent, while Judd Hirsch is fantastic as young Conrad's psychiatrist.The whole film is very well complimented by Johann Pachelbel's Kanon, which is beautifully arranged and used brilliantly. Probably the most moving drama I have ever seen, this winner of four Academy Awards gets top marks!Wednesday, February 5, 1992 - VideoWithout a doubt the best drama ever brought to the screen. Robert Redford's amazing directorial debut is superlative, the whole cast are brilliant and the screenplay, editing and music is all perfect.It is not enough to call this movie heart-rending. Ordinary People is so real and so moving, I find the entire film flawless. With the risk of repeating myself, Hutton, Hirsch, Tyler Moore and Sutherland are all utterly convincing. Superb!Sunday, August 23, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of American Drama","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The opening shots are the peaceful but misty waters of Lake Michigan. Why is the lake the first shot? Eventually the scenes change to the sleepy suburban area off the coast of Lake Michigan in Lake Forest, Illinois. The town is very reminiscent of small communities in New England, with the beautiful golden leaves of Fall layering the roads and the gardens. Finally the camera rests upon a high school choir singing a transcribed rendition of Pachabel's Canon. The camera pans the many high school students contributing their sound to the musical collective. This will be a story about a certain high school student among these singers. Finally the camera rests on Conrad Jarrett played by Timothy Hutton. He is an ordinary person of high school age, or is he? In the next shot, he is jumping from sleep in a cold sweat as if from a nightmare. Something is amiss...Next we meet his parents, Beth Jarrett, played by Mary Tyler Moore in not only the role of her career but a tour De force Oscar-caliber performance, and her husband, Calvin Jarrett, played by Donald Sutherland in probably his finest performance. At first they seem to be a contented happy middle-aged couple on the upper-crust of society. They go on many vacations during the holidays, they have the finest clothes, they go to expensive restaurants and plays, and they hop-nob with the social elite of the community. Calvin is a tax attorney making very good money, enough to afford his stay-at-home wife who keeps their house neat and orderly akin to Martha Stewart. When she's not placing expensive napkins on the dinner table, she is either shopping or playing golf. All seems well. Or is it? Their only son, Conrad, is having trouble sleeping and eating. He's aloof with his friends at school, sometimes not looking at them when they are talking to him. And his mother acts, well, strangely toward him--not quite a healthy and nurturing mother-son relationship. As the story gradually unfolds we gather pieces about this family and find that not everything is as it seems. One of the most brilliant aspects of this film is its pacing. Pieces of back-story are brought gradually to the forefront. Each piece of the larger mosaic, one that is much greater than the time-frame of the actual story, comes to light only with great effort. There is a sense that the characters are purposefully engaged in hiding the larger back-story away like skeletons in the closet. When Conrad undertakes to see the psychiatrist Dr Berger, he claims that family, school, aka everything is fine to which Berger replies Then why are you here? The two things we begin to gradually understand is that Conrad was not the only son but he had an older brother now deceased. We also learn that Conrad had been in the hospital because of an attempted suicide. But these raise more questions than they answer. For one thing, with all this back story, why does the story take place at this time and place? Why did Conrad attempt suicide? How did his brother die? The answers lie somewhere within the waters of Lake Michigan...This story may not only be about what happens to its characters, and the crises they ultimately must face. On one level, the story is a commentary on the false perception of ordinary or normal people. Particularly in America, we often have a false perception of the norm. People raise families, bare children, see them off to college, etc, etc. With these larger generalities we often miss the struggles, the disappointments, the trauma, and even the tragedy that many experience, but often regarded as not happening to normal or ordinary people. Ironically, the character of Beth wants to give off the false but nice veneer of normalcy. At one point, she rages at Calvin for revealing at a social event that their son has started to see a psychiatrist. Beth sees friends at shopping malls and at parties, but she could not bare to have any of her fellow socialites know about any of the things that are really going on. And even when she is confronted by her husband to deal with their issues, she wants to go on vacation rather than the face the realities around her.In many ways, Ordinary People is about secrets. The upper-crust of American society has a tendency to keep things shut within large 2-story houses with manicured lawns in front. Many have felt that if they revealed their dark secrets they would be judged as being abnormal by their peers. In many ways, the tragic message is that many others have these same problems and secrets, but they do not understand that revealing them to others could help the healing process. Ordinary people are not ordinary people, in other words, but we do not yet know this. A philosophical book once said, There are no such things as ordinary moments. "},{"Title":"A Truly Adult Motion Picture Experience...","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ORDINARY PEOPLE was a nearly perfectly mounted, intense, emotionally draining motion picture drama, based on the novel by Judith Guest which was the first directorial effort of Robert Redford, who received one of the film's five Oscars. This deeply moving drama follows an affluent Chicago family, still feeling the after effects of the death of their oldest son, and the guilt the younger son is still wrapped up in, four months after being released from a mental hospital. Timothy Hutton won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his beautifully modulated performance as Conrad, the tortured teen who feels onstage after returning to school and cannot connect with his mother (Mary Tyler Moore), who he feels loved his brother more than he loved her and Donald Sutherland is the agonized husband/father trying to keep the peace between his wife and son, clueless anymore as how to do so. Judd Hirsch also scores as Conrad's psychiatrist, who helps him to get to the root of his guilt. But what I went away from remembering about this movie was the astonishing performance by Mary Tyler Moore as Beth Jarrett. I never imagined Moore could play a character so icy and emotionally distant...so cold, almost unfeeling at times. Throughout most of the film, she refers to Conrad as he or him. She never uses his name. She has one brilliant moment near the end of the film where Hutton gives her a hug and she just physically recoils from the touch of her own son. It's a chilling and brilliant moment, perfectly executed by Moore. Sissy SPacek won the Best Actress Oscar that year for COAL MINER'S DAUGHTER, but IMO, there was nothing done on screen by any actress that year that was better than Moore's performance in ORDINARY PEOPLE. She should have won the Oscar and any other awards that were available. Just breathtaking work from a surprisingly unexpected source. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is very straight-forward and easy to understand, yet there are many deep levels that has to be explored in a film like this. This movie is very psychological and deals with a family that is torn apart by the death of the eldest brother. Each of the family members deals with the tragedy in their own way but the person that is probably most affected by it is the younger brother, Conrad.This movie is very sentimental in a good way and will leave you very touched at the end.The Oscars finally got it right this year, Ordinary People is a movie that you will not forget. "},{"Title":"Meet the Jarretts, the perfect American family","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is said that tragedy is the mettle which tests us. In this haunting, lyrical adaptation of the novel, we watch as a seemingly perfect family unravels before our eyes after a tragedy strikes them. Watching them cope, and in some cases, not cope, provides the thought provoking story of this award winning movie.The Jarretts seemed to be the perfect American family, until they lost their elder son, Buck (Scott Doebler, seen only in flashbacks), in a boating accident. Younger son, Conrad (Timothy Hutton), has such a case of survivor guilt that he attempts suicide. As the film opens, this has all taken place already, and Conrad has been released from the mental hospital he was placed in after his suicide attempt. He is trying to resume his life with his parents (Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore). This is proving difficult for him as his mother favored Buck, and seems unwilling to forgive Conrad for surviving where his brother didn't. His father is caught in the middle, trying to give Conrad the support he needs, while dealing with his wife, who simply wants to blame Conrad for all of their troubles. Added into the mix is Conrad's therapist (Judd Hirsch) who helps the boy deal with his conflicted feelings.Everything about this film is superb. The writing peels away at the layers of the story like an onion, finally revealing the tragedy at the heart of the story, and the ongoing tragedy of one whose refusal to cope with the situation holds back all of those around her.The film is beautifully shot, each scene allowing time for the audience to absorb what has happened before moving on to the next.The performances are superlative. Judd Hirsch provides an excellent portrayal of a caring counselor who helps Conrad forgive himself. Elizabeth McGovern gives a sweet performance as Conrad's love interest. Donald Sutherland excels as the father who wants to keep his family together, only to realize it can't be done, and a painful choice must be made. Mary Tyler Moore gives a stunning performance as a woman whose warmth to those outside her family is matched by her coldness to her surviving son. Moore manages to make Beth human rather than a caricature, giving the film a richness that adds to it immeasurably. Carrying the film is a young Timothy Hutton, whose pain is practically palpable, and whose personal growth at the end has you cheering for him.A haunting film, which stays with you long after the last frame has faded away. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Drama; Sterling Hutton","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ORDINARY PEOPLE (1980) **** Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland, Timothy Hutton, Elizabeth McGovern, Judd Hirsch, Adam Baldwin, M. Emmet Walsh, James B. Sikking, Dinah Manoff.  Stunningly emotional domestic drama about an upper middle-class family coming apart at the seams after a tragic boating accident kills their eldest son and the shattering impact felt by its surviving sibling (a devestatingly poignant Oscar-winning Hutton for Best Supporting Actor in his film debut).  Moore is the cold mother with chilling moments and Sutherland is emphatically low-key.  Perfect direction by first-time director Robert Redford who garnered an Oscar as well as Best Picture, and Alvin Sargent's Best Screenplay based on the best seller by Judith Guest.  (Best moment Hutton learning about a friend's sudden death by a phone call; harrowing and definetly will have you crying) "},{"Title":"Like a fine wine","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Their world is truly a perfect place; with its groomed lawns and freshly painted homes, and even the people are polite, proper, and happy with life- or so we are led to believe. Robert Redford brings us this perfect world with its perfect people only to show us the imperfections that are so well hidden and are never supposed to be seen. Ordinary People is the story of a families struggle to accept the death of a son and its consequences on all who are left. The main character that is highlighted in the story is the younger son Conrad. Having recently returning home from a mental hospital after an attempted suicide, he is the primary victim of this tragedy. He was on the boat when his brother Buck drowned, and he blames himself for his death. The parents are almost polar opposites. The father is desperately trying to keep the family together and to understand what is happening, while the mother is seen to ignore everything and continue to uphold all the pretense that is her life. Also featured in this film is Conrad's psychiatrist Dr. Burger who serves as a means of telling the background story as well as to help the family in realizing their true situation. I first saw this film twenty years ago as part of a high school field trip. The theater was filled with high school seniors and we wondered who thought up the bright idea of seeing this Boring film. This thought went on for about the first ten minuets then we were all engrossed in it. I distinctly remember the gasp of the audience when Conrad receiver the news of his friends suicide over the phone. That gasp was missing in this viewing of the film. I can only attribute it to the age of the audience. The odd thing about seeing this movie after so many years was that the first time I saw it I was seeing it from the son Conrad's eyes. This time I looked at the story and felt more for the father. I suppose age can change a perspective that one views a story from. The gasp was voiced from a room full of Conrad's twenty years ago where this time we were a room full of parents sympathizing with his plight. The ability of a director in being able to tailor a film to his audience, even years later, is a noteworthy achievement. Ordinary People was and still is a great film. "}{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't think I've ever watched a movie that has made me sit up and shake. I was laying on my couch watching this movie, and when the part where Conrad calls Karen and gets the news, I just was shocked. The gritty reality of it all was just so well done. I'm 17 years old, about the same age as Conrad, and I just connected so well with the character. Finally, a movie that makes you connect. American Beauty is pale in comparison to this movie. I personally loved the Ice Storm better than Beauty. But, all in all, Ordinary People is better than both. I love character studies, where movies are character based, and that there is pretty much one character in the movie you can relate to. Tim Hutton's Conrad was so perfect, so intensely real it made me sick to watch. Mary Tyler Moore was just excellent,and deserved an Oscar for it. Donald Sutherland played the father so softly and so calmly that at the end when he breaks down, it is so poignant and powerful, you can't help but feel for him.  Robert Redford did such a great job at capturing emotions on film, something I think Beauty lacked. That film was more plot based as someone wrote earlier, and I can agree. All I have to say, is that I've found a new favorite film, right up there with Billy Wilder's The Apartment (again a great Character movie) and Fight Club (just an all around great film). See this film. If your 17 or 45 you'll find some connection. I give Ordinary People 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An Extraordinary Film of Humanity 10/10","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film, without a doubt, is the best dramatic film I have ever seen. It is truly an extraordinary film of humanity. To start out, the film begins in complete silence and gently flows into Pachalbel's Canon in D. It has become my favorite movie and I can say with 100% certainty that it deserved every Oscar it received. I cannot truly articulate with words what this movie did to me when I first saw it. I had an epiphany-like experience. I was born in 1980 and didn't see this film until shortly after I turned 19. The events portrayed by Timothy Hutton, Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland, Judd Hirsch, Elizabeth McGovern, Dinah Manoff, and Fredric Lehne are just as powerful and relevant in society today as they were 20 years ago. Timothy Hutton's performance of Conrad Jarrett, an 18 yr-old suffering from depression after the tragic death of his older brother is extraordinary. Being the age Hutton was when he made the film, when I first saw it twenty years later, I related to the emotions on every note. Teenagers are rarely portrayed in film as realistically as in real life. In my opinion, Conrad Jarrett in Ordinary People is the best portrayal on film of a teenage boy going through the good times and the bad, but mostly the bad.  Timothy Hutton is a truly amazing actor. Mary Tyler Moore also deserved all of the praise and nomination for a role that is literally the opposite of anything she had ever played before. The way she portrayed the cold, cruel, yet emotionally-hidden Beth Jarrett is outstanding. Donald Sutherland and Judd Hirsch also gave performances that made them truly believable as Calvin Jarrett and Dr. Berger. Sutherland should have received an Oscar nomination. Elizabeth McGovern and Dinah Manoff's small character roles as Jeannine Pratt and Karen are just as vivid as in the novel. Jeannine provides the excellent uplift in the story; while Karen provides the semblance of reality that things are not as they seem. Every line and every scene in this film is as detrimental to the overall underlying theme as it is in the novel by Judith Guest. The words I love you and love have an immense importance in this film. Kudos to Robert Redford, who shows that he is not only an excellent actor, but also a truly excellent director. The color scheme, music scheme, setting in Lake Forest, Illinois and that perfect home all provide the exact backdrop to the circumstances going on between these characters and within Conrad himself. This film relies solely on the realistic interaction between ordinary people living through extraordinary circumstances. This film had an amazing impact on me and I'm sure it will do the same for anyone else who sees it. If you do not leave this film having gained that underlying insight that this film gives, then you did not truly understand the purpose of the film. You don't have to suffer from depression or go through the loss of a loved one to understand the message delivered by this film. It's definitely more than just a tissue movie. Truly one of the best films ever made.A 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Heartbreaking Drama","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Illinois, the upper-middle-class family Jarrett is living a trauma in their lives, with the loss of their beloved son Buck followed by the attempt of suicide of his younger brother Conrad (Timothy Hutton). Conrad's father Calvin (Donald Sutherland) is a good man of few words and his mother Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) is a cold-hearted woman that loved Buck and has always been bitter and never supported Conrad, who is under therapy with Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch). The greatest concern of Beth is to live her perfect life, denying affection to her son. Conrad blames himself for the death of his brother since they were sailing in a bad weather and when one string jammed in the block, he was not able to release it, capsizing the boat. Conrad has difficulties to reestablish his relationship with his friend and quits the swimming team of his school.When Conrad meets Karen (Dinah Manoff), who was interned with him in the same psychiatric clinic also for attempt suicide, he feels better. And when he dates the gorgeous student from the choir Jeannine (Elizabeth McGovern), he begins to see the world with other eyes. But his problem of relationship with his mother associated to the death of Karen, who committed suicide, brings him back to the rock bottom and he runs to meet Dr. Berger. Will the psychiatrist succeed in helping Conrad? Ordinary People is a powerful and heartbreaking drama, one of the best American dramas from the 80's. This film is also a milestone in the career of Robert Redford since it is his directorial debut. Ordinary People has top-notch direction and performances; the screenplay is very well-written with powerful lines. The timeless story is well-resolved with the realistic decision of the shattered Jarrett family. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Gente Como a Gente (People Like Us) "},{"Title":"Others may not agree, but it deserved best picture of 1980.","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most people think that Raging Bull deserved the award for best film of the year back in 1980. But the award went to Ordinary people. I strongly believed it deserved it. Raging bull, as great as it was, was nothing compared to Ordinary people. Based on the novel by Judith Greist, Ordinary people revolves around a teen named Conrad(played by Oscar winner Timothy Hutton in his first film), who is traumatized by the death of his brother. His parents(played spectacularly by Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore) aren't as traumatized, and this causes problems.This is a very powerful film. The performances from everyone are wonderful. The film, at times, is very funny. And the story is just wonderful. The performances, among other great things, are what also brings this film together. Ordinary people is one of my favorite films. I strongly believe that it deserved best picture. A lot of things make this movie great. Even it's score from Marvin Hamlisch(The Sting) is wonderful, and just every single thing about this movie is wonderful. Who'd of thought Robert Redford could direct such a spectacular movie? Who knew he could direct anything? We didn't see it coming, and we should have.Ordinary people A+ "},{"Title":"...","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this movie. It is one of my favorite movies and I thought Timothy Hotton, Donald Sutherland, and Mary Tyler Moore were wonderful. I don't understand why Hutton wasn't nominated for best actor. He WAS the movie but whatever. Robert Redford did a wonderful job. This movie was a wonderful film and I can't wait to watch it again. Timothy Hutton not only made me cry but laugh as well at the part where he said, actually sang, Your just Saying that!. I am only a teenager and saw that movie when i was taking a film studies course in high school and i loved it sooo much that i requested it to everyone. Wonderful acting, wonderful direction, and wonderful script one of the best films to date. "},{"Title":"Best film of 1980","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember reading the novel for this movie when I was a senior in high school when I had to select one book from a list for summer reading and I chose 'Ordinary People'. The list gave me a warning about the novel that it contains mature issues such as suicide. I read the book and saw the movie and it was painful to see what Conrad went through with his cold hearted mother and all Conrad wanted was love from both of his parents. It made me angry how the mother was so uncaring and hardly did not want anything to do with her son. I have known people in the past who have treated me the same way and it's very painful to bear. I think all parents should see this movie and I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A simply yet beautifully filmed drama that does not over-complicate or over-glorify the issues at hand - the film simply feels real, tackling strong emotions without the production feeling like typical Hollywood kitsch. The film does not seem like a TV melodrama either, with the quality of the acting, if nothing else, taking it to a high level. Donald Sutherland gives off one his career's best, most human performances, whilst Timothy Hutton shines as a youth who blames himself for others' problems but yet still contributes a lot of blame to his mother. Some of the scenes are really well edited too, and in fact there is little that jumps out as being a flaw in the film. Arguably, it touches on a psychological base a bit too much, and perhaps there is a bit too much maudlin music, but there is really little wrong with this film, which is perceptive, touching, and far off being ordinary. "},{"Title":"Oh, just anyway. It's a conversation starter","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Werner Herzog's Stroszek, Wim Wenders' Paris, Texas, Antonioni's Zabriskie Point, and Michael Ritchie's Smile represent a helpful cross-section of films that depict American life with heartiness, sensitivity, and realism. The best of the lot is Mr. Ritchie's movie.On the other hand, Ordinary People embodies another vision of American life that is no less insightful than these seemingly more critical films are. Further, Ordinary People stands well with the film that lost awards to it&#x97;the magisterial Raging Bull.Ordinary People has a quiet intensity that might seem to border on sentimentality but, in fact, never becomes over-romantic. It is a film suffused with tenacious level-headedness and minimalism, while the Scorsese film, for all its seeming realism, exploits hyperbole and affectation&#x97;creatively and imaginatively exploits but, nonetheless, make use of amplification and elaboration. One must judge Raging Bull in terms of its aesthetic reality and Ordinary People in terms of its artistic reality.Director Robert Redford has a sure touch with his outstanding cast. Judith Guest's novel provides a sound foundation for the narrative. Nancy Dowd and Alvin Sargent's screenplay adds depth to the characters. Consider this scene Conrad confronts his mother with the fact she never came to the mental hospital to see him Conrad You would have come if Buck had been in the hospital. Beth Buck never would have been in the hospital. That is a fine piece of work.The cast is a terrific ensemble. Donald Sutherland's portrayal of Calvin seems essential as a unifying element in the narrative. Mary Tyler Moore's portray of Conrad's mother, finely drawn and, like that of Mr. Sutherland understated performance, ostensively defines masterwork. Mr. Hutton fully earned his Oscar. Judd Hirsch caught what doing therapy is like. His is a fine piece of work as it that of young Elizabeth McGovern, whose future achievement shows clear promise here. Michael Walsh, one of our best American actors, contributes another important support performance.Cinematographer John Bailey, an American trained in Europe and completely at home with European modernism and successor modes of filmmaking, also uses understated means to tell this story. He filmed The Big Chill and Groundhog Day. Editor Jeffrey Kanew had a light touch that enhances the overall understated tone. I do not understand why his work here received little notice. Composer Marvin Hamlisch echoes the touch of sustained understatement in this work. Some critics question the use of Pachelbel's Canon, also known as Canon in D major. I do not know why. It is perfect.The film is personal to me. I identify strongly with Conrad and see the mother as my mother. Watching this film was extremely difficult for me a long time ago. Watching it the first time, I was interrupted; I was not able to return to the film for almost twenty years. "},{"Title":"How did I miss this one?","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Ordinary People' won its Oscar nearly thirty years ago, and I saw it for the first time yesterday. I thought I'd seen all the great films of my lifetime. How did this one slip through the net? The script, the acting and the direction set a benchmark. I can't really add to the praise of others, except to say that, apart from the 80s haircuts and outfits, this film hasn't dated at all. It's still superb, even thirty years on. What makes it special are the characterisations - all of them. No-one is completely blameless, or completely at fault, and even the minor characters have a depth and breadth to them that you don't see very often. Just an excellent film. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Meet The Jarretts","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At first glance the Jarrett family from a wealthy Chicago suburb seem to have the American dream realized. But a boating accident that took the life of the oldest of Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore's two boys has brought out a few monsters from everybody's Id in the family that remains. The most obvious manifestation is younger son Timothy Hutton's suicide attempt. He's know back in his posh suburban high school trying to adjust, but getting little support from home, especially from mom.Mary's in complete denial, she's one strange bird in this one, determined not to let any tragedy spoil her well ordered country club existence. Hutton's inability to cope is a reminder of something she's just put away. Sutherland's a decent man who with job responsibilities just can't deal with either wife or son.Trying to straighten it all out, especially Hutton is psychiatrist Judd Hirsch in what is probably his best big screen role. At the end of Ordinary People, some things are resolved, but the future for the Jarrett family is not a happily ever after one assured.Ordinary People got the big prizes, Best Film, Best Director for Robert Redford who really gets deep into the psyches of the Jarrett family and best adapted screenplay. Mary Tyler Moore lost for Best Actress to the Coalminer's Daughter, Sissy Spacek.Both Timothy Hutton and Judd Hirsch were nominated for Best Supporting Actor and usually that means they cancel each other out in the voting. But not this time, Hutton won the award. That's a shame in the sense that the key scene of the film is his breakdown and Hirsch's breakthrough with him after another tragedy befalls a female friend of Hutton's. The two of them are both so good in this that it's a shame that only one could win. A joint award in this case would have been in order.Ordinary People is a riveting psychodrama about the hidden things we suppress. Drama does not get better than Ordinary People. "}{"Title":"One of the greats.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford's debut as a director really is that good. From Judith Guest's novel about an outwardly prosperous American family struggling with the loss of the beloved older son Redford, and screenwriter Alvin Sargent have crafted a beautiful actor's film. This is not in the sense of a Glengarry Glenross where there is a pervasive theatrical sensibility and all is driven by the dialog. Many of the finest touches here are unspoken. It's the best-case scenario for a film directed by an actor (and one of under-rated talent at that). The performances are flawless all around. If top honors are to be awarded they might best go to Moore. Playing against well established type she crafts a superbly observed and all too believable character; a woman who has let her visceral habit of self-protection get so out of control it has utterly crushed her humanity. Hutton (who won an Oscar) and Sutherland are also superb as the the husband and surviving son, the other two legs of the highly unstable familial tripod. Look also for fine supporting work from the likes of James Sikking, Elizabeth McGovern, and M. Emmet Walsh. I confess to being a complete stranger to the milieu of the American preppy class (how ordinary are these people? I don't know anyone with a live-in maid.) but the representation of them and their world seemed, to me at least, meticulously realized - right down to maybe the most extensive collection of sweaters ever assembled on screen. Redford's done some good work since but with Ordinary People he started off at the top and found there was only one place to go. No matter. He's left us with a truly brave piece of film-making, never making easy choices, and staying true to each and every memorable character to the end. "},{"Title":"Ordinary People is the greatest  American film of the 20th Century","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When this film came out in 1980, I saw it 17 times in the first 30 days. I have seen it a total of 34 times. It is still the movie I think is the best film ever made. The entire cast was first rate and it was a shame that Mary Tyler Moore could not have at least tied with Sissy Spacek for Best Actress at the Oscars. Donald Sutherland should have been nominated and Timothy Hutton should have been in the Best Actor category. It is Robert Redford's shining moment in film history. I know that after all these years, many critics think Raging Bull should have won Best Picture, but, for once, the Academy picked the right one, unlike this year, with Crash winning over Brokeback Mountain. Ordinary People is the greatest American Film of the 20th Century. "},{"Title":"Ordinary in depicting American family degeneration but Extraordinary in being the best film on the topic","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    The debate regarding how Raging Bull should have won the Best Picture Academy Award over Ordinary People in 1980 apparently has more to do with how poorly received this masterpiece is than what a lasting effect it had.  Perhaps many viewers just couldn't sympathize with what I think is a typical problem in American families that our mothers and fathers disagree and often play favorites with their own children.  Inevitably someone will be left out and if it's you, a tough road lies ahead.  Ordinary People is a vivid portrait of this reality and it's fair to assume that Terms of Endearment, The Ice Storm, and American Beauty would not exist without it's critical success.  Ordinary People defined the American family genre and gave it the strength to march on.  Looking back on the last twenty years I can say with ease that while Ordinary People pre-dated it's present counterparts it remains the absolute best of the family genre films.  It did not require strange speeches about masturbation and over-acting by Annette Bening (American Beauty) to get it's point across.  It rose above the abyss of the TV-movie that defines Terms of Endearment.  It did not require an ice storm (reliance on plot over character) to show how unfeeling the characters were (The Ice Storm).  Instead it delved into the hearts and minds of every character and trusted enough in it's actors to rise above the top-notch material they were given to work with.  It all began when Mary Tyler Moore appeared on the screen and I thought to myself This will never work, she's Mary Tyler Moore for goodness sakes!  We adore her and she is always incredibly funny.  Was I ever wrong.  I thought back recently to all of the incredible roles we have watched that merited Academy Awards for leading actresses.  Mary Tyler Moore puts to shame the other best performances in Oscar history, Meryl Streep in Sophie's Choice and Vivien Leigh in Gone with Wind and Moore never even won.  What was so incredible was her resolve to play this difficult role as mother Beth Jarrett straight and unphased, she never smiled unless with Donald Sutherland in a scene and even when Timothy Hutton reached out to her as Conrad, the way she looked at him with so much hate said more than 1000 words could ever say.  What made the role so amazing was the ability by Mary Tyler Moore to relentlessly say with her face what her mouth could not find the words for.  And Moore did it all so effortlessly and chillingly without breaking a sweat.  Donald Sutherland has been vastly under-appreciated in his role as father and husband.  I have always been fond of his work in Ordinary People because that guy is my own father and I believe countless fathers in the United States.  He's a tax attorney that like a lot of baby-boomer dads let's his son make mistakes and go on his own path, but is there for him no matter what he does.  While Beth Jarrett breaks down because of the embarrassment that she believes the family will incur from Conrad's suicidal tendencies, Donald Sutherland acts as a life-preserver for the sinking ship that is his son's life.  He can take it because for goodness sake this is his son, and he just doesn't care what the neighborhood will think.  His ego in this pursuit is at direct odds with Beth Jarrett's and it ultimately tests the marriage.  Not enough praise can be given to Sutherland in this performance.  Certainly much ink has been spilled about Timothy Hutton in his break-out performance and first feature film and his Academy Award was very well deserved.  There is something very significant about a boy so cut off from real society because of his mother's behavior that he is forced to get her attention through extreme measures.  When Conrad tries to be the adult and dispel Beth's embarrassment about the entire situation he is shot down and he finally realizes it is all too late.  Even more sad is when his mother plays favorites and consistently shows that her love lies in the grave with her deceased son.  Sadly enough, she fails to realize that you should always love your children equally and at the very least, realize that you have a younger son left who is dying to be your favorite.  This is so true of real-life.  Many mothers and fathers ponder the misfortune of having stillborn children and children who died before they did.  They spend so much time stuck in this phase that they neglect to realize that they have a child whose alive and well and needs attention.   The film could have degenerated into a sweet hug-fest of an ending but completely refuses.  Too dark for some but very significant for me.  And did I mention that Robert Redford effortlessly directs his first feature and deservedly wins at the Oscars?10/10        "},{"Title":"A truly raw, emotional gem.","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a rainy night, curled up on the sofa movie that rings very natural and true. Hutton and Moore both give very effective performances and draw the viewer in to their respective worlds. Moore's rigidity and Hutton's simmering emotions make this film very authentic. You'll be hooked from the beginning! This is a work of art that doubles as a brilliant character study of a family dealing with a tremendous loss. Sutherland's performance is also commendable as the truly concerned father. His character balances out Moore's character flawlessly, and works as a buffer and a cohesive unit in the tragic family. This is the type of film making I live for. There are no apologies in this movie!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant, perceptive, unforgiving, warm. A special film that still holds up beautifully.","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People (1980)I managed to go forty years without seeing this movie, and not because I was avoiding it. Now, as someone older than the protagonists, and as someone who grew up in that era of orange napkins and beige refrigerators, I'm very moved and astonished by it all. The writing is extremely subtle for a script filled with excessive situations. And the acting, especially by the main three people in the remainders of the central family, is really a marvel. Donald Sutherland is the father and his delicate handling of a man who is plumbing some difficult emotions is profound. He has to handle a wife who is crippled emotionally and a son who is just bursting out of a deep withdrawal. Timothy Hutton as the son is remarkable complex, and is a parallel in a way to Dustin Hoffman playing a dysfunctional kid in a dysfunctional family in The Graduate. Mary Tyler Moore is the mother and is sharp, cool, yet likable, belying a deep emotional void. She is especially chilling and revealing because her public persona through television was as a really well-balanced, successful, single woman in a fast changing America.This isn't a happy movie at all, as you can tell, and yet it's a joy to watch. Not only is it finely made top to bottom, with wonderfully felt direction from Robert Redford (himself, like Moore, at the top of his acting career), it is weirdly warm, too. You like these flawed people (most of them) and you really want a beautiful resolution, as unlikely as it is. There might be some artifice to the flashbacks of the boat disaster, but maybe we can forgive that as the simplification of memory. Otherwise the sets and air and pace are spot on.It's nice to note there is no Hollywood ending here, not really, and that's a relief, too. A wonderful film with very few weaknesses. It's held up and still feels pertinent and honest even over thirty years later. "},{"Title":"Touchy Feely Yuppies","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Large-scale, messy, informal systems are necessary in order to develop, on top of them, precise, hard-edged, tractable systems...the human mind, and possibly nature herself, master generalised, messy pointing, inexact indication, and flailing well before they learn to individuate and count. - Samuel Delaney The directorial debut of Robert Redford, Ordinary People stars Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore as a couple of upper-middle class parents. They've recently lost their son in a boating accident. Another son, played by Timothy Hutton, blames himself for this accident. Hutton's character attempts suicide, but survives, an act which both places further strain on the family and prompts Hutton to visit a psychologist, played by Judd Hirsch.Whilst Ordinary People's title may sound like a description &#x96; a film about ordinary people &#x96; it actually means, or also means, something else. This is a family undergoing an exceptional problem and which desires nothing but normalcy; to be ordinary people. In this regard we have Hutton's character, who is consumed by guilt and who constantly punishes and self-flagellates himself. He turns his body into a crucible of pain, an object of self-hate and derision. His mother, played by Mary Tyler Moore, responds to her son's death in the exact opposite manner. Where Hutton feels too much and so hates himself, Moore cuts off all feeling and hates others. Hutton internalises, Moore externalises.Moore's ice cold character has led to audiences viewing her as a bad mother, an ice queen and an insult to women. But she's a character deserving of sympathy, Moore portraying her as a mother who is so pained by her son's death, so overwhelmed by emotions, that she responds by becoming obsessed with rigidly maintaining an air of normalcy. She wants, almost militantly, to just be ordinary people. To bolster such a facade, she must not only deny her feelings, but deny her son, cutting off all love and even feelings toward him. Eventually, as they serve only as reminders or totems of pain, she pushes everyone in her life away altogether. But she's not a bad woman, but one overrun by a very specific, psychological self-defence mechanism.What's thus interesting is that Ordinary People, itself based on a novel written by a woman, reverses the psychological responses once typically ascribed to males and females. The film's men are overly emotional, overly talkative and internal, the film's women are cold, repressive and external. Released in 1980, the film thus captures a very specific zeitgeist, in which there were growing fears that men were slowly becoming feminized and women were slowly becoming masculinized. Some feminists viewed this as a good thing &#x96; the emasculation of men, now mushy, prone to crying and in love with therapeutic healing &#x96; whilst traditionalists viewed the new man as a contemptible creature, less assertive and awash with narcissistic self-regard, and various weaknesses. Indeed, throughout the late 1970s and 80s we saw a number of reactionary films which portrayed women and mothers as ice-cold, callous workaholics who turned their backs on their families and abandoned their children (Kramer vs Kramer, Terms of Endearment?). The woman was now too busy for family, leaving a gap which the man/husband promptly fills, thereby revealing himself to be super-capable in even traditionally domestic roles; the man is thus simultaneously more effeminate and more masculine than woman can ever be, whilst she remains exclusively the enemy. As all these films ignore naked economics &#x96; the very engine which pushes women into the workplace and neuters both men and women (in a very real sense, it was debt that got women into the workforce and war which put them in trousers and turn-of-the-century factories) &#x96; and the various social factors which shape gender and behaviour, their politics are more pointless than illuminating. Cold women? Sensitive men? Who cares. Today both are perhaps representative of nothing more than the triumphs of niche marketing. What's wrong is reducing sex and gender to socially sanctioned codes to be obeyed and then ignoring how external factors relate to, parasite off of and shapes these codes in the first place.Regardless, Ordinary People explicitly deals with men talking, emoting and working things out with communication - traditionally feminine realms &#x96; whilst women take the traditionally masculine way out by bottling emotions up and running away. No surprise, then, that Ordinary People famously beat Martin Scorsese's Raging Bull to the Best Picture Oscar finishing line. This is ironic, as Ordinary People's explicitly about a family opening up, talking about and confronting their problems, whilst Raging Bull's lead character is an inarticulate goof-ball who is a seething, violent cauldron precisely because he cannot face or articulate his anxieties. Indeed, Ordinary People has a raging bull of its own young Timothy Hutton who flagellates and punishes himself very much like Scorsese's Jake Lamotta. In some ways, Ordinary People works as a critique of the Scorsese film and vice versa. See a shrink Jake. Punch a wall Mary Tyler.Ordinary People may be a bit too melodramatic, a bit too obvious at times, a bit too preoccupied with weepy yuppies, but it also captures some truths. In terms of acting, Donald Sutherland's conversations with a psychologist are particularly remarkable, and observe how Hutton covers his eyes during a bedroom conversation with his father, the kid ashamed of being seen. He then offers snap sentences designed to end the painful conversation as quickly as possible. Later he sticks up for his mother during a therapy session; he understands why she is how she is and holds no blame. Today the film is hated by sensitive Raging Bull fan-boys. Man up dudebros. Stop being wimps.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Incredibly moving and beautifully acted","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1980 saw the release of what I consider three masterpieces, Raging Bull, The Elephant Man and this film. Ordinary People I have seen people trash as the movie that beat Raging Bull, though not as vehemently as that of Shakespeare in Love vs. Saving Private Ryan(disagree with the hate), The English Patient vs Fargo(also disagree) and Crash vs. Brokeback Mountain(disliked the former, adore the latter, so I agree). Okay, Raging Bull is a wonderful movie, but so is Ordinary People.Why do I love Ordinary People? Well it is a very moving film. It deals very diligently and intelligently with its subject matter, and when I saw it with my parents first time none of us were dry-eyed at the film's end. It is stunningly filmed, is beautifully scripted and Robert Redford in his directorial debut directs very promisingly. The story is always interesting and believable, and while the film is quite leisurely because of the impact, how the characters are written and how good the acting is I never find it dull.The characters are engaging and I do care for them. Mary Tyler Moore's character is more highly strung than a piano wire and she is a bit of a bitch too, but Moore's performance is so exceptional here you do empathise with her too. Both Donald Sutherland(as the character I personally sympathise with most) and Timothy Hutton are perfect in their roles as well. In conclusion, moving and acted to perfection, while not my immediate Best Picture winner that year perhaps it is a deserving one in my opinion. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"ironic title","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I knew before watching this movie that it won an Academy Award and now I know why. This film was amazing and at times heartbreaking. I found the title ironic because although the Jared family might seem like the typical American family they are actually far from it. This movie is a good example of how everyone deals with tragedy in different ways. Although this movie was not meant to be suspenseful there are moments when I was on the edge of my seat wondering what was going to happen like with the scene when Conrad goes into the bathroom and you can see the scars on his wrists from a previous suicide attempt and you wonder if he is going to do it again. Robert Redford did an amazing job director this movie...the movie was never predictable yet the characters you could relate to. I definitely think this film deserved to win the Oscar. "},{"Title":"A Death in the Family","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Chicago, affluent Donald Sutherland (as Calvin Cal Jarrett), primly beautiful wife Mary Tyler Moore (as Beth Jarrett), and suicidal youngest son Timothy Hutton (as Conrad Con Jarrett) try to deal with grief following the accidental drowning of the family's beloved oldest son. Of these Ordinary People, Mr. Hutton takes center stage. Most events revolve around Hutton's friends, emotional problems, and visits with cigarette smoking psychiatrist Judd Hirsch (as Tyrone Berger). Although he is clearly the lead actor, billing dictated he was a Supporting Actor - which helped Hutton scoop up awards in that category. Likewise outstanding, in a lesser role, Ms. Moore won fewer Best Actress trophies.Considering the competition, the film's Academy Award for Best Picture seems arguable; but, the New York Film Critics and National Board of Review agreed with Oscar that actor Robert Redford's directorial debut was the year's best. It is, absolutely, an excellent drama, and performed superbly - but, the dysfunctional family is not adequately explored, and emotional roots of the characters' situation never reach dramatic fruition. There was something wrong before (and/or besides) the death of beloved Buck - something centered around mother Moore, who seems, in hindsight, more emotionally disturbed than Hutton. Redford allows Moore to let you see it briefly, then shuts the door.********* Ordinary People (9/19/80) Robert Redford ~ Timothy Hutton, Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Judd Hirsch "},{"Title":"A deep, important film for all of us","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I lost my father to suicide when I was 13. I loved him as I had no other, and his death shattered me into a million pieces. Like Conrad, I became withdrawn, felt as though no one could understand me, and could feel only pain and confusion inside of me. While Conrad remembered the boating accident in his nightmares I had the strangest nightmare of my father talking to me but with no sound coming out of his mouth. This nightmare continued on well into my adult life. When I saw Ordinary People for the first time it was like looking into my darkest corner, yet the beauty of the film healed me immeasurably. I am very grateful to Mr. Redford for his expertise in bringing this story to the screen. I am also indebted for life to Mr. Hutton for his masterful interpretation of Conrad. Every ounce of pain he acted in the film went through me and somehow helped me cope with my own pain. Though it has been 38 years since my father left me the pain is still inside my soul and at any moment can reappear and take over my mind and thoughts. However, because of the brilliance this film I can and do cope better. I will be indebted to Ordinary People for my entire life. "}{"Title":"A Review Ordinary People","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Robert Redford With Timothy Hutton, Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Judd Hirsch, Elizabeth McGovern Directional debut for Redford, based on the novel of Judith Guest, about a dysfunctional family where a young son (Hutton) tries to forget his past, past that hides the uncontrollable hate of his mother (Moore), hate that question her husband (Sutherland)about their marriage. It's a depressive, hard and slow film, but it never goes lost. Is veridical, non melodramatic, thrilling and, at least, human. Everyone are great in their roles, but young 19 year-old Timothy Hutton is more than fantastic. Music adapted by Marvin Hamlisch. Winner of four Academy Awards including Best Picture of the Year. "},{"Title":"A Powerful and Dead-On Portrayal of Intense Family Dysfunction","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A searing dysfunctional family drama that holds up very well today.Living on Chicago's north shore as I do, I can say with authority that this movie completely nails a certain kind of affluent north shore community that exists in Chicago suburbs like Lake Forest, Winnetka, Highland Park, etc., places where people erect hedges and fences not so much to keep people out as to keep family problems and secrets in. Director Robert Redford and writer Alvin Sargent clearly understand their subject matter. And in fact, this film so closely mirrors many of the personal circumstances of my wife and her family (my wife even established a productive relationship with a Jewish therapist who works out of Skokie, no less), that we joke that the film is really about her. Maybe it's my closeness to the subject matter that gives me my appreciation of the movie, but even without that I still think that I'd consider this film to be a superb drama, flawlessly acted.Speaking of the acting, Mary Tyler Moore, Judd Hirsch and Timothy Hutton were all recognized with Academy Award nominations (Hutton won) for their work in this film, all deservedly. Moore especially is memorable in her portrayal of a brittle power mom who must constantly hide behind a veneer of icy aloofness for fear that one tiny crack in her facade will send her crumbling to pieces. But two other actors deserve praise as well Donald Sutherland, as a suffering father who's ill-equipped to deal with his family's problems yet whose heart is in the right place; and Elizabeth McGovern, who brings a sense of normalcy and healthiness into the film like a fresh breeze off Lake Michigan.There's a lot of talk about whether this film is better than Raging Bull, which came out the same year and lost the Best Picture Oscar to Ordinary People, which only goes to show how lame award competitions are when it comes to movies -- how can you possibly compare the two? See them both.Grade A "},{"Title":"Silent Tension","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was a boy when I first saw this movie and didn't come near grasping the meaning, beyond seeing interesting character portrayals and a dramatic family story.About a year ago I rented the movie and thoroughly enjoyed it for several reasons. In fact, I got to see some of the behaviors depicted in movie in person at a girlfriend's holiday gathering. The operating principle appears to be, among many, that the family members are strangers to one another. Feelings are suppressed into a powder keg and small events drip with meaning.Have others witnessed this much tension in their own or other families? "},{"Title":"ordinary people","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie several times and I think it hits in a nerve that only a dysfunctional family can understand. Life is not perfect. We can put that facade on for others, but the truth will eventually appear. Ironically, I see a similar resemblance to my own upbringing in a Northwest Chicago neighborhood where the homes were big and envied but nothing was what it seemed. Ordinary People is an honest movie. A family that is dysfunctional needs a psychologist on all levels. The Jarretts, have a terrible time dealing with their sons accidental death. Conrad ( played by Timothy Hutton ) and Calvin ( Donald Sutherland ) are seeking to find happiness and resolve to move to the future while Beth is a constant reminder of wanting to hold on to the past. She unconsciously, blames her son Conrad, and most importantly, does not show love to him.I especially, love the scenes with Beth ( Mary Tyler Moore ) where she cannot handle the emotional side of herself. It is obvious she is a perfectionist, who loves to control her family. Mary Tyler Moore does a wonderful performance showing the nature of Beth Jarrett which is a selfish, manipulative, controlling woman. Donald Sutherland also , does an excellent acting performance in that, he shows how he is in denial of his families situation.He is torn between his wife and the love for his son. It is obvious that Calvin Jarrett is a confused man, but wants happiness in life. Conrad is stuck in a serious depression and is fighting his own demons. It is interesting to note the dynamics of the message of this movie there is a great danger in hiding your true emotions, even worse not knowing how to express them. This movie, is over twenty years old, but holds true today and is a glimpse into the world of a dysfunctional family. I recommend it , but be prepared to feel the for the Jarretts. It could happen to anyone..... every thing is not always what it seems behind the closed door of a prestigious neighborhood. "},{"Title":"Ordinary people in an extra ordinary situation.","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A family loses its elder son. Mother is smashed. Younger brother is guilt ridden as he thinks he could have averted the tragedy. Father tries to save the family but its difficult for three of them to get their acts together. This is one remarkable film. In the first 15 minutes you see everyone acting abnormally under normal circumstances. Film catches your attention immediately. Once it reveals the tragedy, story takes over completely. I really wonder how people understand human emotions so accurately. The fight between father and mother about shoes just before the ending is a masterpiece. Entire film is a trance like experience with a very emphatic ending. Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore have acted realistically and are flawless. Robert Redford is a class of its own with tight Close-ups and 'Robertish' sound effects. Its his style of film making which is very similar to 'All the president's men' and 'The candidate'. People just call anything poetry. A broad day light scene followed by a night scene with beatle sound is poetic to people. Watch this film if you really wanna know what poetry is. The detailing of every shot is like Godard's 'Breathless'. Robert Redford is one intelligent film maker that future generations will look up to. Timothy Hutton has done a magnificent job. If you like humane film you just cannot afford to miss this one. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am familiar with Lake Forest, Illinois. It is a beautiful and wealthy suburb of Chicago. Not a typical setting for a film, however. It is very obvious, from the onset of the film, that this is about an upper-middle class family in the Midwest. Donald Sutherland plays the kindliest and most caring father. He is truly concerned about what has happened to his youngest son (Timothy Hutton) since the death of his eldest son in a boating accident. Hutton will never be able to exceed this role, which he played at the age of just 19 or 20. Hutton is terrific as a being a normal teenager whose life is in turmoil with guilt since his brother died. Mary Tyler Moore is the exact opposite of Mary Richards. She plays a remote, superficial person, who can't cope with the loss and with her surviving son's emotions. Judd Hirsch is great as the psychologist who finally lets his patient know that it wasn't his fault, his brother was just not strong enough to be rescued. There was a great scene when Sutherland and Moore go to Texas, and they ended up arguing. Their friends on the golf course are mortified by their display of anger. They just can't understand what's gone wrong with this perfect couple. It is also noteworthy that the movie was set during Christmas time, when people are supposed to be happy. I think that for Moore, Hirsch, Sutherland, and Hutton, this will be the performances that they will be most remembered for. "},{"Title":"Quietly heartbreaking","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie 25 years ago, and my opinion may be slightly skewed. I was the same age as the character Conrad portrayed by Hutton and I had some of the same fears and insecurities at the time as his character displayed throughout the film. Although there wasn't any one emotionally devastating event in my life to trigger feelings of guilt, I nonetheless identified with Conrad's lost soul, and the effect on me was powerful. At that stage in my life, I was not one to be moved to tears over emotional drama...until this movie. I fought back the tears over two intensely poignant moments which I would not dare to reveal here.Suffice it to say that over the years, and subsequent viewings, this film continues to hit me in different spots as I relate events on the screen to what I have come to know about relationships. It hits home on so many levels. It seems to be one of the only films to deal realistically with dysfunction in a seemingly normal home environment. The facade is there, but the truth lurks not too deeply underneath the surface. And, when the truth is finally revealed, it is one of the most simultaneously shattering and exhilarating moments I've ever seen in film.While Conrad's journey to the core of his guilt is the emotional centerpiece of the film, some of the quietly played scenes between Conrad's mom and Conrad are as perfectly played as they are uncomfortable. I cannot remember who won the Academy Award for best actress of 1980 but the Academy made a huge mistake by not bestowing the Oscar upon Mary Tyler Moore. Her restrained frigidity haunted me and had me screaming for her to break through the ice...and at one of the rare moments where she finally does show any depth of emotion, it is a fascinating study of someone who, somewhere along the way, lost her ability to face reality.So many great moments exist in this film, and apart from the emotional turning point about three-quarters of the way through, one of the most memorable moments for me - and one that I can never forget - is a simple scene of a father and son hugging each other. You'll know it when you see it. I dare you not to weep uncontrollably when it happens. "},{"Title":"A Deep, Dark Depression Brewing","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wow&#151;Ordinary People (1980) is an eye-opener. The first time I viewed this film (on HBO in the 1980's) I was too young and naive to comprehend the depth of human suffering going on beneath the calm smirks and grins of Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, and Timothy Hutton. The sound of the choir still gives me the creeps&#151;ranked up there with the disturbing yawns of the Amityville Horror. Hutton plays a young teen named Conrad, who is coping with some miscalculated guilt over the death of his brother (during a sailing trip). Moore and Sutherland play his grief-stricken parents. If you suffer from bi-polar disorder or smoke a lot of pot DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM. The suicidal themes are well-portrayed and the background score only amplifies the extent of human depression. The highlight of this film is the stunning Oscar-winning performance by Mary Tyler Moore. "},{"Title":"Sublimely powerful.","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sublime in its understatedness, a portrayal of the veneer of propriety as love is Ordinary People. I suspect that its title was intended to be ironical, as, if economic class and privilege were a measure, this family should have been above such harsh realities of ordinary life. Survivors of such love may prefer to have been pummeled by Jake LaMotta!? One recovers from such -- usually, anyway. Not so with the agony and emotional loss of subtle parental neglect, indifference, and/or worse! It may not be as cinematically dazzling or as gritty, but it is righteously the better drama and Best Picture winner, as was Redford's direction. With the superb performances throughout, it's an indelibly memorable viewing experience! "},{"Title":"Timelessly Haunting","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's not a false note or performance here! It's quite extraordinary how this is played out. It's quite amazing to see how Conrad keeps everything bottled up throughout most of the movie yet shows so much more under the surface even during these times than the most verbose speeches could have rendered. The thought that came to me about his attempted suicide after his brother Buck's drowning was that it wasn't just guilt that drove him to that but I believe he may have sensed that his mother wasn't willing to love him (her only surviving child) even after that so he may have done it as a last ditch attempt to win her love by doing what he believed she may have preferred all along. Timothy Hutton definitely earned his Oscar here and it was good of him to dedicate it to his late father Jim who became terminally ill with liver cancer during the film's shooting.Mary Tyler Moore played Beth as far more complex and with more depth than she might have been played by a lesser actress. Even though Beth is quite hypocritical- saying and doing many selfish and heartless actions, there IS a humanity in her character so that even when she leaves without so much as mustering a goodbye to her still-fragile son, one can sense that she WILL be missed by both her husband and son even though both have had to come to conclusion that she never genuinely loved either of them. Her scenes with her parents, brother, neighbors and trick-or-treaters showed she WAS capable of having genuine affection for others but NOT for the most important people in her life. Perhaps, Beth feared getting too close to those who knew HER faults all too well. One must ask though, how could Conrad have known that his mother had had to uproot and replace the bathroom sink and tile work because the blood from his suicide attempt proved indelible unless he overheard her or she outrightly TOLD him so?! And then,too, the scene at the golf course when Beth berates Calvin for having the temerity to wonder if the suicidal Conrad was okay and wanting to phone him after so many days alone (accusing Conrad of somehow manipulating his father's emotions for HIS sake ) was quite outrageous as was her chastising Calvin for tactfully imparting the news about Conrad's current therapy to a concerned neighbor saying that Conrad's problems had to stay within the family- yet having two VERY public outbursts about Conrad in front of total strangers! The scenes in which she was discomfited by Conrad's walking into Buck's room as though he had deliberately disturbed her worshiping at her personal shrine and when she utterly recoiled when Conrad hugged her and told her how happy he was to see her were quite chilling indeed. It would have been easy for Beth to been played as an utterly heartless, vindictive witch but, even during Beth's worst, Moore showed us Beth's humanity! It should be noted that Moore now admits that her relationship with her only child Ritchie Meeker was somewhat strained during his teen years. However; they DID reconcile and became close by the time she made this movie and he lived to be her escort for the premiere. The movie must have been quite cathartic for BOTH to see. However; Moore's comfort would prove tragically short-lived as Meeker would die from an accidental shooting at age 24 a few months after this premiered! The late Donald Sutherland as Calvin was perhaps the most compelling of the main roles as he alone earnestly wanted everything to be alright for all members of his family to the degree that he refused to see Beth's flaws until almost too late. Sutherland made him quite believable without having Calvin become 'touchy feeling and overly sensitive'. It should also be noted here that Dinah Manoff shined in her solitary scene as the one-time fellow patient Karen whose suicide would prompt Conrad to desperately seek out help to save himself from his own demons. Karen also faked being cured and happy but the viewer couldn't be fooled by this bravado thanks to Manoff's intensity! It's too bad Manoff has since opted for comedy instead of revisiting her dramatic heights. This isn't a 'chick flick' but one of humanity in all its best and worst. However; the themes of suicide and parental rejection may be too upsetting for small children. "}{"Title":"Powerful and beautiful","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is a drama about a family that is coping with the death of their oldest sibling, and the changes that take place over a time period in which they come to terms with the sadness of such a loss. I am sorry for all you Scorsese Worshippers out there who think this movie stole the Raging Bull (6/10) Oscar, but have you seen this movie?! It's been many years since I've seen Ordinary People, and even though I know how it ends, I am still captivated by the film's power, and think it's one of the few movies that was deserving of an Academy Award. It was in 1980, and I was too young to have seen most of the movies which were released, but it's Judd Hirsch and Timothy Hutton together that makes this movie so powerful. I say screw the over-hyped ad-libbing, somewhat amusing performances in Raging Bull and accept the fact that in the year 1980, Ordinary People was actually the better movie. I hate the Oscars, but every once in a while they're right. If you don't feel anything in the final 20 minutes of this movie, then obviously it hasn't struck the same emotional chord as it did for me. "},{"Title":"Outstanding acting, heart-wrenching screenplay, and superb directing","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Could contain SPOILERSThis movie is one of the most underrated films of all time. This tear-jerker about a family in turmoil is superbly written by Alvin Sargent. His adaptation of Judith Guest's bestseller added more emotional depth and realistic dialogue to provide extreme credibility to the story.The acting is exceptional. Timothy Hutton's performance of a young man struggling with the guilt of surviving is heartfelt and real. Mary Tyler Moore, who is more accustomed to playing more emotional roles, does a fine job as a mother who is almost incapable of displaying affection after a personal tragedy. Donald Sutherland's portrayal of a father who is trying to keep his broken family together is earnest and impressive. The best performance must have come from Judd Hirsch who plays a sharp-tongued psychiatrist, Dr. Berger who tries to explain to Conrad (Hutton) that its acceptable to feel pain. In the most poignant scene of the movie, Conrad doubts the goodness of life, but Berger reaffirms its goodness. When Conrad asks how he knows this, Berger simply replies, Because I'm your friend. Good acting does not come without good directing. Robert Redford handled Sargent's script beautifully and brought career performances from each of the four main characters. You would have to be a good director to get an Oscar-nominated performance from Judd Hirsch. Ordinary People established Redford as an actor's director.  "},{"Title":"Did You Ever Think That Maybe You Were Stronger ?","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People was the best movie I ever watched.  The movie kept me on the seat of my pants throughout the entire movie.  Unlike many of the recent films, nobody could walk out of the theater without a sense of awe about how their emotions were just pulled out of their bodies.  Also, the movie was fairly representative of a few friends' families.  Many of us can see different parents who have great trouble expressing emotional thoughts with their children.  The movie portrayed that trouble very well.  Two lines at the end of the movie said it all I should have had a handle on it When I was a kid, I use to think you had a handle for everything "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film without knowing anything about it, except that it was Robert Redfords directorial debut, and I was truly stunned.Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Judd Hirsch, Elizabeth McGovern, Dinah Manoff and especially Timothy Hutton´s performance blew me away completely! There is, in my opinion, not one moment in this film that feels false or acted. Utter realism, all the way. The dialogue is extremely well written, but Redford´s not afraid to use silence as well.I´m surprised it didn´t recieve more Oscars than it did (Best Movie, Best Screenplay, Best Director and, oh yes, Best Actor in a Supporting Role Timothy Hutton. Fantastic Performance!), and even more surprised to find out that Donald Sutherland wasn´t even nominated! I have never, ever seen a better ensemble performance in a film, except for perhaps Magnolia. Nah, it´s a tie, I refuse to pick a favourite!This is not a movie I would pop in the dvd player on a first date, because I cry like a baby every single time I watch it, it´s that beautiful. "},{"Title":"A movie that nobody should miss!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorites. Ordinary People is the best family related drama in film history. Robert Redford, the director did an excellent job of describing a family drama through film. Mary Tyler Moore, and Donald Sutherland are also excellent, and the academy award winner for best supporting actor (who totally deserved it) is Timothy Hutton. His portrayal/acting of the character Conrad was EXCELLENT. If you haven't seen... I really urge you to rent it. "},{"Title":"Realistic, Haunting Depiction of Trauma and Recovery","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was in my early 20s when I witnessed the violent death of a family member. Having had this experience and subsequently being treated for it, I believe that, although somewhat dated, Ordinary People depicts the process of trauma and recovery in a young person with a great degree of accuracy. The dynamics of the Jarrett family, struggling to survive after the tragic loss of Buck, are portrayed both sensibly and realistically.At the center of the film is Conrad, a sensitive, misunderstood youth played marvelously by Timothy Hutton (who won Best Supporting Actor for the role). Conrad's nightmares, flashbacks, anxiety, and rage are all too familiar, as is his painful, desperate isolation from his friends and family. It hurts too much to be around you, he tries to explain to a once best friend. His relationship with his father is bittersweet but typical, and his numerous attempts to reach out to his icy mother are particularly gut wrenching.Donald Sutherland won a well-deserved Best Actor Oscar for his portrayal of Conrad's loving but misguided and somewhat naive father. If you are a bit tired of seeing Sutherland in sinister or odd roles, rent this film to see him in a rare depiction of a genuinely kind and sensitive man.In stark contrast to warm and loving father Calvin (Sutherland), Mary Tyler Moore is cold and distant as Beth, Conrad's complicated, perfectionist mother. The scenes where she painfully interacts with her number two son are particularly moving. One feels alternately shock at her heartlessness towards Conrad, and pity for her inability to deal with her own grief.Judd Hirsch is fabulous as the quirky, chain-smoking psychiatrist  Dr. Berger. With his compassionate, no-nonsense approach and use of free association, he offers Conrad no glib answers or quick fixes... only real solutions to real problems, as he aptly puts it. In contrast to the actions of Dr. Maguire (Robin Williams) in Good Will Hunting, Dr. Berger does not force physical contact on the troubled Conrad; he waits for the young man to embrace HIM, the strategy of any respectful and thoughtful therapist. Real life trauma survivors should be so lucky to have a doctor of his caliber to wrestle demons with.The supporting cast compliment the main characters well, from the boring jocks (one of which is a young Adam Baldwin) and the unbending swim coach (M. Emmett Walsh in a typical role), to Conrad's female friends Dinah Manoff (Empty Nest) in a short but poignant role as Karen from the hospital, and Elizabeth McGovern in a bittersweet, believable performance as a potential girlfriend.Great performances by all... one of my favorites of the Drama genre! "},{"Title":"Donald Sutherland as a respectable actor.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After watching this movie for the first time about 10 years ago, Donald Sutherland (and his identical son) became my favorite actor. What everybody says about Mary Tyler Moore, Timothy Hutton and Judd Hirsch, and how wonderful/painful this movie is, is correct, but the highlight of this film for me was the personal swings of Sutherland, and his realization towards the end.Although Donald has gone on to type cast himself in a corrupt prison warden role for some reason, this movie shows his brilliance as an actor IMHO. "},{"Title":"one oftenly overlooked, but needs to be checked out","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The depths of this movie reach far beyound the mental capablities of the common person, and is therefor overlooked by most people and critics. This is without a doubt the greatest movie ever made, bar none! on no level, tech,writing, or acting is there any flaw!and i defy anyone to find one.  "},{"Title":"Pure perfection","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How can one describe what made one of the greatest films of all time so wonderful?.It's the fantastic performances, the flawless direction and the superb writing that makes this one of my all time favourites. Timothy Hutton won the supporting oscar though he should of got an actor nomination. Robert Redford's directorial debut couldn't have been better. "},{"Title":"A Classic Character Study","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that everyone probably forgot about a few years after it was made (I bet Shakespeare in Love and Forrest Gump will soon follow.)  It's great, and doesn't deserve to be forgotten.  It should be in the top 50 on this list.  This is probably the best movie I've ever seen that has such a slow moving plot.  People compare it to American Beauty, though they're really quite different.  Ordinary People has a much better message and is less plot-driven than American Beauty.  The characters are excellent.  Everyone in this movie deserved an Oscar, especially Mary Tyler Moore, in what is, by far, her strongest performance (and pretty much what is her only major serious performance.)  Mary Tyler Moore and Timothy Hutton's few scenes are the highlights of the movie, although the rest of the movie is also wonderful.  If you want to see an emotionally manipulative movie that uses simple, unoriginal Hollywood ideas that have been used a billion times, go see a movie like Pay It Forward, but if you want genuine emotion and a good message, go see this movie.  I hope I've made the point I was trying to make.  10/10 "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very interesting story about the emotional roller coaster that a dysfunctional family went through because of the tragic, premature and accidental death of one of their children. Conrad Timothy Hutton (French Kiss) very deservingly won an Oscar for the part of the surviving son.  Conrad was a very sensitive young man, who learned how to cope with depression after the death of his brother,  and was trying to learn how to deal with the complete lack of communication between him and his mother Mary Tyler Moore (Flirting with Disaster).      His mother, Beth, was a perfectionist. Her house was immaculate. The drawers were perfect. She made life difficult on herself and everyone around her. Such as for the funeral of her son, she asked her husband, Calvin Donald Sutherland (Without Limits)  to wear a different pair of shoes than the ones he had picked. All she did was for appearance, what others would think! I wonder how Robert Redford (A River Runs Through It, The Legend of Bagger Vance) decided to pick that story for a movie. Brilliant! That shows his genius as a Director. He won an Oscar for the his directorial debut, after no big studio would support this project. We are talking Robert Redford here.  He did this in a very tight budget.   This is a classic and timeless movie; Redford's first master piece. This movie will endure the test of time. I recommend it! This movie scores a ten! My favorite Scenes When Conrad realized that he needed to talk to someone and called his psychiatrist. It was very mature of him. When Conrad was singing in the choir. Conrad practiced vocalism after Jannine complimented him for his nice voice.  My favorite quotes Berger A real problem and has a real solution. Recognize that she has limitations. Conrad Like can't love me! Berger No, kiddo, no! Like she can't love you enough. Don't blame her for more than she is able. Conrad Anyway... Jeannine What?  Conrad Just anyway, is a conversation starter. Jeannine Catchy! Conrad I thought it would get to you. I have been working on it all day.                                               "},{"Title":"Sudden bursts of emotion","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love the way the fragile veneer of civilized politeness gets stripped away over and over again throughout this movie, as the upper middle-class, ultra-WASP characters find themselves unable to hold their emotions in check any longer.  The excruciating embarrassement and shock felt by everyone in the aftermath of these outbursts is palpable.  I think Timothy Hutton gives the performance of a lifetime; I don't know anyone who didn't relate to his portrayal of Conrad Jarrett in this film.  The other leads, Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore, are superlative as well. One of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Could be best of 80's","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People vs. Raging Bull. It's hard to decide which should've won the best picture oscar, because they both worked on different levels. Raging Bull was excellent, framed by the DeNiro-Pesci-Scorcese team that made Goodfellas and Casino hits. However, though it was powerfull, the emotion that was put into Ordinary People and the emotion that it gives off is stunning.          Calvin and Beth (Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore) live in a quiet town, have high social position, and are well off. The perfect life,right? Not even close. The two of them and their son Conrad (Timothy Hutton) have been at their emotional breaking point ever since first born Buck drowned at Conrad's fingertips during a boating accident. Conrad has just attempted suicide and is always on the edge. Beth is completely unreachable and just wants to go on as though it didn't happen. Calvin is just the block between the two of them, preventing them from further emotional breakdown and trying to get the family together before they  shred each other to pieces.        The performances are all around excellent. Sutherland gives an emotionally trying performance as the string that pulls the family together, Moore gives a completely turned around performance as the cold and evil Beth, and Hutton is oscar-worthy as Conrad (he justly won an oscar for it)       Go out and see this movie, you won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Much more than an ordinary movie","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the heart of Ordinary People is actually rather ordinary people.  In this Robert Redford's directorial debut, the film focuses around the Jarrett family, a typical American upper-middle class family.  Calvin (Donald Sutherland) is a determined, successful provider, Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) is an organized, efficient wife and their youngest son, Conrad (Timothy Hutton) is a bright, intelligent student.  However, underneath is a family being torn apart by the pain and tragedy of the death of the oldest son, Bucky, in a boating accident.Redford's film has become more than just a movie, but rather a reflection of America's dysfunctional family.  It is full with the emotions that is common to every human experience of suffering and growth.  There are even times and scenes when the movie is so good and real that it is utterly disturbing to watch.  Yet, there are even times and scenes when it is so emotionally enjoyable it's difficult to keep your eyes.  Both times (good and bad) demonstrate the emotional versatility and strength of this >film.Out of the hundreds of movies I've seen over the years, so few have delievered with such real feelings and emotions as this film has.  Robert Redford's directorial debut is a rare gem and doesn't appear to look like any director's first movie.  In fact, he delievers a seemingly flawless film and is given superb performances by each of his cast members which complements Alvin Sargent's award-winning adaptation of the novel by Judith Guest. "},{"Title":"Superb Adaptation from the Judith Guest Novel","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Words fail to describe the power of this movie! One of those little sleepers that just creeps up on you and knocks you between the eyes with an emotional punch. Superbly crafted, produced and directed (with understated prowess) by first time director Redford & played to perfection by the ensemble cast, in particular Mary Tyler-Moore as the aloof Mom & a young Timothy Hutton who went on to win Best Supporting Actor at that years Academy Awards. It's about the struggle of a family who have to come to terms with the premature death of a son and deals with how they cope with the situations and circumstances as they innevitably interact with each other.Sounds like a TV movie? Don't be fooled. It's a real gem...one of the best, and sadly nowadays truly under-rated. Good support too from Sutherland as the supportive father and Judd Hirsch as Dr. Berger. Intelligent film. See it...it will change your life forever!! "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever Made","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I consider myself to be in the upper echelon of movie goers.  My interests run the complete gamut of films - from Wizard of Oz & Sound of Music, to Pulp Fiction & Goodfellas.  Of all the movies I have ever seen, Ordinary People ranks on my list as the BEST movie ever made.  It is a movie without a single flaw.  The storyline, pacing, acting, directing, sound track, & ending are PERFECT.  Although it won its fair share of Oscars, the fact that more people don't live for this movie is astonishing to me.  How, for example, could it not have been in last year's AFI's Top 100 Films.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies I've ever seen!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People is a great movie, that everyone should watch! The actors are all terrific first of all Timothy Hutton, with an Academy Award performance, but also Mary Tyler Moore (Who deserved the Academy Award instead of Sissy Spacek!), Donald Sutherland and Judd Hirsch. Robert Redford as a director is great. A great lesson of acting!!!  "},{"Title":"A festival of performances","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People is one of the most WELL-ACTED films I've ever seen. It's tragic to see the pathetic downturn that Timothy Hutton's career has taken since this film, but this one performance, almost 20 years ago, makes me believe that there is a great deal more in him than we have witnessed in the years since Ordinary People. Redford's directing debut may not be a cinematic masterpiece, but it the acting is absolutely SUBLIME. Timothy Hutton, Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland, and Judd Hirsch share the spotlight in this film with incredibly ease, generosity and they all display that they are truly gifted. This film is one of those few perfect projects to me, because it seems like one of the few films in which no one is trying to steal a spotlight, but all of the actors are working together to tell a very REAL and incredibly powerful story. "},{"Title":"A perfect film","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As to the controversy about Ordinary People winning the Oscar over Raging Bull, in my opinion there was infinitely more power in the quiet Ordinary People than was found in all the violence and vituperation of Raging Bull. Every scene in Ordinary People is a masterpiece of film making. Every interaction between the characters is a memorable movie unto itself. While the scenes with Conrad and Dr. Berger are particularly moving, even the smallest interactions are incredibly absorbing. Conrad and his swimming coach. Conrad and Lazenbee. Calvin and his business partner, Calvin and Dr. Berger. On and on. My emotions have never responded to a film as much as they did to this one. This is easily one of the best films of all time. "},{"Title":"..and I said to myself what a wonderful world!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" every time I see this movie I feel free to feel! I believe that Robert Redford knew exactly how a psychologist react on such cases and of course how the actors should behave. Furthermore the actors on the leading roles where marvelous, especially the performance of Tim Hutton who was breathtaking. In brief this movie should be a paradigm to other film-makers as the only thing that really matters is to show ordinary feelings on ordinary situations (and not how hard would be the survival of a hero during a terrible war between the great empire of the tomatoes with bla bla bla or something like that!) (unfortunately I can't be more specific because I find it difficult to chose what I liked most on the film and of course to use the English language for my comments!) I undoubtely recommend this film to every cinefil(semi Greek word subscribing people who love watching movies) "}{"Title":"Woud Have Been a Great After School Special","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not a bad film, but I find it very hard to believe that this won both Best Picture AND Best Director, not to mention Best Actor and Best Writing Oscars! IMHO, this should have been one of those After School Specials. The Best Writing Oscar is th hardest to believe. All of that cliché ridden Why does everything always have to be about YOU?! What about me? I don't know if I love you anymore type dialog is just sickening. All of the emotion is so predictable and overacted. It even features a scene with the angry young son acting out and running away from everyone, right to his psychiatrist. Classic After School Special fodder. I'm not sorry that I spent two hours watching it, but through the whole thing I just kept saying WOW. FOUR Oscars? No way!. It might seem stupid, but I would have enjoyed it A LOT more if this was just another Ordinary Movie that didn't win such big awards. "},{"Title":"deserves a higher rating!","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film deserves more respect! the comment of worst academy award winner is so fightable)! Shakespeare in love people!!!!! Ordinary people is a ten all the way down the line. I have noticed that a lot of the very best perfect lil films out there really upset people, especially drama's. Is a film bad cause it's upsetting. The movie itself answers you let me tell you something about feelings, don't always expect them to tickle. and also when Conrad says i'm supposed to feel better, right? and dr. berger answers not necessarily. Also hated I feel are slice of life films which really this is not, but also most non fantasies are. Slice of life to me feels like when there isn't really much of a script perhaps and the pace is rather slow and it just shows day to day life. This story is powerful well written and scripted and yes scary, you have to climb into the Jarrets pain, which is ultimately left still unresolved, especially for Beth.I love this film it deserved best picture and Timothy Hutton deserved best actor.Timothy's father actor Jim Hutton had recently passed when the young actor took this role, I feel that has to be in there, also it is HUGE that actor Robert Redfords directing helped gets the amazing performances we see on the screen. The 4 main actors despite the heaviness which they tackle so bravely are a total treat to watch. It is my wish that this giant of a film reach at least an 8.1 in the near future. The book and the movie has helped so many people grow and heal. it is very special! "},{"Title":"A Deeply Affecting Film!","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford's 'Ordinary People' is A Deeply Affecting Film, about an upper-middle class family, who are anchored by sadness & grief. Redford executes a deeply disturbing tale, that is gut-wrenching & heartbreaking, but never anything lesser than stunning. 'Ordinary People' Synopsis The accidental death of the older son of an affluent family deeply strains the relationships among the bitter mother, the good-natured father, and the guilt-ridden younger son.'Ordinary People' is complex, saddening & ultimately bleak. But, the Screenplay Written by Alvin Sargent, is so arresting & affecting, that I was in awe by the time this story ended. The Screenplay isn't verbose, but the characters are so well-defined, that even without one single heavy dialogue, their grief is greatly visible. Sargent has done magic here!Redford, the legend, is at his creative peak here. 'Ordinary People' is an examination of a broken family & his hold over the film, is simply captivating. John Bailey's Cinematography is excellent, capturing the claustrophobic mood, most accurately. Jeff Kanew's Editing is flawless. The Late/Great Marvin Hamlisch's Score is haunting.Performance-Wise Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Timothy Hutton & Judd Hirsch are astonishing. They deliver solidly from start to end & prove to be a dream of an ensemble. On the whole, 'Ordinary People' is pure intensity on celluloid, depicted with complete power. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Counselor Review","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched Ordinary People last night and it was stunning. Robert Redford directed Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, and Timothy Hutton in an Academy winning film. Best Picture, Director, Supporting Actor and Writing were the Oscars this one, plus a grip of Globes and other accolades.From 1980, the images of affluent middle class suburban family life feel like St. Elmo's Fire or a Ralph Lauren catalog. The music is all comforting and pleasantly familiar melodies. The family dynamic reminded me of Catcher in the Rye. The Favorite Son's death causes family dysfunction to be exposed through the incorporation of psychoanalysis. The therapy never took the forefront of the film but was surely the facilitating catalyst that sets into motion the tempest of the films crescendo.Judd Hirsch's therapist uses a Hollywood mix of Person Centered approach and classic analytic therapy. He engages young Conrad at face value; opening up a common ground where there is no hierarchy anymore. Conrad is brought to emotional breaking points and when he holds back information, he is prodded to open up and share. The break through comes in a scene of transference. Timothy Hutton (Conrad) re-enacts the boating scene where he lost his brother with Judd Hirsch (the therapist) in the role of Buck, the lost brother. By allowing Connie to role play that scene that he had buried within himself it open up repressed memories of it.The movie was good; worth watching, and it was a good representation of the therapeutic processes that are described in the book. Reading them and assimilating the knowledge into my repertory is now cemented by this effective, visual and emotionally representation. "},{"Title":"A Triumph","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Somehow I missed this 1980 film when first released. Today, thirty-five years later, this work comes across as a timeless contemporary drama that penetrates below the surface of its suburban characters.Everything works in this Robert Redford-directed family drama. Mary Tyler Moore's challenging assignment is remarkably successful, as she penetrates a woman who has been severely hurt and has erected a safeguard wall of protection. Nineteen-year-old Timothy Hutton's performance is complete and penetrating, creating as full a characterization as one could imagine. Donald Sutherland's contribution is subtle and painful, a moving dramatic portrait.The Oscars won by Redford, Sargent and Hutton, as well as the Golden Globes awarded Moore and Sutherland are all well-deserved. Lastly, Judd Hirsch's psychiatric counselor is likewise memorable.This is a brilliant piece of work. Kudos to all! "},{"Title":"Redford's Awesome Directorial Debut!","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is about as great of a directorial debut you are going to get. On paper, this film shouldn't have been so great. I mean, it's just about the ordinary lives of ordinary people, but perhaps that is why this film is so special. The characters are elevated by the actors who portray them and thanks to the acting, a very strong script, and the directing by Robert Redford, this film takes a look at the life of an ordinary family.In Robert Redford's directorial debut, this is about the Jarrett family and how the family disintegrated after the tragic loss of one of the sons in a boating accident.The acting is very, very good. A film like this needs good acting to save the audience from boredom. The acting made the characters interesting. Anyhow, Timothy Hutton was phenomenal as the younger son, Conrad who is contemplating suicide. Donald Sutherland is fantastic as the patriarch as the family and likewise can be said for Mary Tyler Moore, the cold mother of the family. Finally, Judd Hirsch was excellent as the psychiatrist who gets Conrad to open up to his feelings.Overall, Ordinary People is a monumental success because of how this character-driven story is. It's a realistic look on how a family can fall apart because of tragedy. As said before, this movie should have failed. But because of the talent this film has, it does not. This film is very somber, so be prepared to shed some tears. This is the film that defines the career of Robert Redford. This movie is that good. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant character-driven drama","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brilliant character-driven drama. Incredibly emotional and psychologically intense. Explores how one event can change the lives within a family, and the repercussions of those changes.Script is solid but it is Robert Redford's direction that makes the movie. The lingering, haunting looks, the perfect body language of the actors, the pacing. Despite being a movie with little action, so to speak, mostly dialogue, there is no padding, or drifting. It is never boring, and always very enthralling.Great performances all round. Nobody puts a foot wrong. Timothy Hutton, in only his second cinema movie, got a Best Supporting Actor Oscar, though he was arguably the lead actor in the movie. Mary Tyler Moore got a Best Actress nomination and Judd Hirsch a best Supporting Actor nomination, and both of these were well-deserved. Moore's performance was probably the standout in the movie, especially as she was predominantly a comedy actress. There was nothing funny about her performance here its intensity sets the tone for the movie.Donald Sutherland's performance is no less great, despite the lack of nomination.Good support from Elizabeth McGovern and Dinah Manoff. "},{"Title":"Thank you","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Thanks to whoever made this movie. It was just all the right things at the right time and I'm not sure how they made a movie like this that was so right, but it was just amazing. Wow. speechless. i guess the best line he said was I don't want to feel anything because when I do I just feel lousy. and how everyone around him was just pushing him to go faster, do better and get good grades and then how he was arguing with that psychologist and saying why did you let go like he was talking to himself, but he had no one else to talk to and he just wanted someone to explain why his brother died and then after the psychologist said because I got tired and he said well that's too bad you jerk. And then he said he was scared. There's just so much about this movie that is perfect. "},{"Title":"What we've got here is failure to communicate...","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This last shot of Donald Sutherland's teary eyes while he just heard his son, played by Timothy Hutton, telling that he loves him, followed by an 'I love you, too' while they embrace is the emotional triumph of Robert Redford's directorial debut. No words can describe the impact of this conclusion, except maybe the melting of my heart in an ocean of tears as I could perfectly respond to the torment of Conrad Jarrett, the son, and his relationship with his father. Relationships&#x85; this is the challenging theme of Ordinary People, a psychological journey in an American suburban bourgeois family, mourning the precocious death of Bucky, the older son. Bucky was the pride of the Jarretts, the one that immediately reconciled everyone, Calvin, the father, Conrad, the brother and more than anyone, Beth, the mother and officious family leader, Mary Tyler Moore in an exceptional performance that probably deserves more regard if her figure wasn't too much associated with TV. With Bucky, it's the strongest link of the Family that went forever, and caused a series of disorders undermining the harmony that used to prevail. Harmony, God what a meaningless word when it comes to human relationships.The movie opens with the sight of a beautiful forest in an autumnal setting, it's one of these peaceful little towns, whose suburbs are occupied by the upper-class. Beth, the mother best exemplifies this universe with her constant obsession with order and social integration, as if everything in her life had to be planned and embody the same peace and harmony of the place she chose to live in. Socially, she's perfectly integrated, and with a husband as kind and understanding as Calvin, never was she contradicted. In a certain way, everything seems to point Conrad Jarrett as the true and only troublemaker, the one who committed suicide as a protest against his own failure to save his brother. As the movie progresses and the flashbacks give us more insights, we're plunged in the depths of Conrad's trauma and understand that he blamed himself for having survived the very incident that caused his brother's death.But the film takes its time to let us assemble the puzzle and this is the remarkable achievement of Redford, he's not just a talented director but an amazing storyteller. He doesn't use the core of the story, which is obviously Conrad's guilt, as the reason to be of the film, but on the contrary, to speak much more important statements about the failure to communicate within the Family circle. This failure is not meant to put the blame on someone, we're left with what we see, and no character seems to behave in the right or the wrong way. But as we get to know more about Beth, Conrad and Calvin, we understand that an evolution needs to be accomplished in a way or another. Hutton is sublime in his Oscar-winning performance as Conrad, the heart of the story, and far from the clichéd awkward teenager who slams the doors at his parents, he loves his parents, and he's aware of his behavior and tries to fix it by consulting a shrink, Judd Hirsch, Oscar-nominated as the Dr. Berger.Conrad's journey involves a sweet romance with a girl from his choir, Jannine (Elizabeth McGovern). Whether from Berger or Jannine, the therapy has a direction and it leads to the knowledge of the truth and the roots of guilt, meanwhile, the Jarretts couple takes a slowest evolution. It seems that Beth is still leading the show, but Calvin, inclined for more generosity and empathy, understands that there is a problem within his own marriage, a sort of sickness that made him follow his wife with a blindness that never questioned what was the place of every one in Beth's heart, apart from Bucky, who was naturally, the highlight of her life. The film beautifully portrays the irony of an adult couple too afraid to face responsibilities, with a woman in constant denial and a man afraid to ask the right questions. After visiting Dr. Berger, Calvin is asked about his relationship with Beth, he says that everything is all right, with a nervous smile. The next scene is pivotal in the evolution of Calvin, when he asks Beth why she was so careful about the way he would dress for Bucky's funerals.Ironically, the most immature and tormented character took his responsibilities and achieved his own catharsis, but the intelligence of the script and its extraordinary realism allow all the characters to face their responsibilities. In the heartbreaking climactic moment, Calvin finally opens his heart to Beth and delivers one of these monologues that make you wonder how Donald Sutherland didn't even get an Oscar nomination. After courageously admitting that he's not sure of his feelings anymore, Beth goes to bed, and has for the first time in all the film, a moment of weakness. Mary Tyler Moore sublimates the figure of a strong mother whose throne vacillates, she opens her mouth, she's about to cry, to shout, to breakdown, but she restrains and decides to leave. Incapable of changing, she voluntarily banishes herself from the house and leaves for a while, not as an antagonist, but as a victim of her own blindness. The two men stay outside and their exchange proves that they changed, and would start to face life with serenity, bravery, more confidence and less guilt. And this leads to one of the most beautiful conclusions ever shot in a film, and a tribute to those who consider the film didn't deserve to win the Best Picture award over the much more iconic Raging Bull or The Elephant Man. I couldn't care less about these considerations after having seen the shattering and magnificent Ordinary People. "},{"Title":"Its all in the casting.","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is such a powerful family drama. I have watched over and over again and I am amazed at how many pitfalls this movie could have fallen into but managed to avoid. The plot involves a family coping with the aftermath of the elder son's death from a boating accident and the grief stricken younger brothers suicide attempt because of it. This movie could have been handled poorly by giving into melodramatic clichés but doesn't for two reasons. First, the masterful direction of Robert Redford and secondly and more importantly, three principal actors at the top of their game. I will celebrate them each individually.Donald Sutherland. Plays Calvin the patriarch of the this upper middle income family who desperately wants to keep his dissolving family together but doesn't know where to even begin. Despite his vigilance he always seems to be the last to realize what the others are all too aware of. He has an epiphany speech at the end of this movie that is so moving and sad you cant help but sympathize with the man.Mary Tyler Moore. The wife and mother that seems to have everything under control on the surface but is just using that as a facade to mask how unable she is to show any genuine affection for her remaining son. This is due to the fact that she had invested all of her love and feeling into the older son that died. Moore is flawless in her delivery of this empty shell middle aged woman that has nothing left inside to give to anyone.Timothy Hutton. I saved the best for last. Hutton's performance as the guilt ridden and shattered remaining son, Conrad, is truly one of the best performances I have ever scene. He doesn't come off as overly morose or pitiful but as someone that just wants to be let of the hook from his brothers demise. He feels that his having survived went against the natural order. That his bother was the obvious favorite and therefore he should have been the one to drown. A lesser actor could have easily overplayed this with false sentimentality but Hutton brings far more to the table. He doent just break down into tears every scene but has a wide range of emotions to explore as he sorts out this terrible ordeal.I don't want to neglect the other actors like Elizabeth McGovern and especially Judd Hirsh as Conrad's psychiatrist, Berger. They bring a great deal to the movie as well. All and all see this movie. It will not disappoint. "}{"Title":"The film is about an upper middle class family that has two sons, and one of them died in a boating accident.","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is a film that was written by Alvin Sargent and Nancy Dowd. Ronald Schwary was the producer and Robert Redford directed the film. The film is about an affluent family that has two sons, and one of them died in a boating accident. Donald Sutherland played Calvin Jarrett and Mary Tyler Moore played Beth Jarrett. Calvin and Beth with their sons Conrad and Buck lived in Lake Forest, Illinois. Calvin and Beth's oldest son Buck died in a boating accident. But Conrad, their youngest son survived the accident and felt responsible for his brother's death. Conrad went into a state of depression and tried to commit suicide, he was hospitalized due to his injuries. Timothy Hutton was played by Conrad Jarrett. After leaving the hospital Conrad started seeing a psychiatrist. Conrad's parents and friends found it very difficult to communicate with him, because of his mental condition. Beth awkwardly struggles to connect with her son, and it appears to have loved Buck more than Conrad. Calvin noticed the relationship between Beth and Conrad was getting worst so he tried to intervene in an attempt to resolve the situation. But refuses to comprehend her loss and struggles to maintain her composure, which put a strain on her relationship with Calvin. Ordinary People is an amazing film that looked into a family that struggles to make themselves appear to be so normal, but in reality is incredibly dysfunctional. The novel was written by Judith Guest in 1976 and published by Penguin Books. The combination of reading the novel and watching the film gives me a detailed synopsis of the chain of events. Even though a very important part of the novel was not mentioned in the film, Robert Redford and Ronald Schwary delivered a dramatic film. The fact that Calvin grew up in an orphanage was very relevant to the theme and plot of the novel.Unfortunately, that was edited out of the film. Timothy Hutton did an amazing job in his role. He played the role of the mentally disturbed teenager so well that you felt connected with his character. The low key lighting in the film really increased the dramatic intensity and allowed me to feel the importance of each scene. If I had to choose between the film and the novel, I would have to say the film. What made the film so different from the novel are the motifs, the high-key lighting, and the indirect subjective point of view that was employed in the film. The sequence of the scenes and the way Robert Redford manipulated and distorted the sound puts me inside of the character. Ordinary People is an American drama film that I truly enjoyed. "},{"Title":"As nearly perfect as a film can be","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many other reviewers here have already done excellent work in describing the superlative acting and direction of this film. I will not attempt to top any of their efforts here by trying to do so myself. Instead, I would like to merely describe its effects on three movie lovers who just can't shut up about film.I saw Ordinary People with two other people a friend (we are both male) and my sister. The three of us saw a minimum of fifty movies, mostly together, back in the year 1980 Breaker Morant, Raging Bull, Coal Miner's Daughter, Berlin Alexanderplatz, Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears, and dozens of others. Afterward, we would discuss the various plots, performances, direction, and relative merit of each movie, sharing insights excitedly, comparing each to whatever film or performance it had best approximated. Our lively, often boisterous discussions would begin as soon as we left our seats, sometimes while still seated.Not so with Ordinary People.We rose from our seats, avoiding eye contact with one another, and left the theater in silence. We walked the hundred or so yards across the parking lot to our car, heads bowed, and quietly got in. Then I heard my sister sniffle. Immediately we all started crying in that car, as if on cue. The emotional tension had finally been broken. All we could manage to say between the sobs was how powerfully we had each been moved by this film. It was literally dumbfounding to the three of us. After several minutes, we considered going out for ice cream, but decided it would be too difficult to swallow from the tightness in our throats.We all have certain expectations of the movie watching experience, don't we? We will enter a theater, choose a seat, and be entertained for something over an hour or two. We can expect that there will be a point at which our disbelief will have to be suspended. We do not reasonably expect to be devastated, to be humbled, and to be emotionally wrenched by a few hundred feet of celluloid.Again, not so with Ordinary People.This film hurts you. This film leaves a hole in you. Yet it rewards you. It must also be added that it also has genuinely funny moments, and they are every bit as starkly human as its brutal drama. With all the truly great films that have ever been produced, none can ever really be any better than Ordinary People. It is, perhaps, a perfect film. It must be seen by everyone who wants to know what great film is all about. Great film moves people. And over thirty years later, Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Timothy Hutton, Elizabeth McGovern, and director Robert Redford can all still proudly claim that their finest work can be seen in this masterpiece of American cinema. "},{"Title":"Mentally Riveting","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is a film Directed by Robert Redford about one family's struggle with the death of their oldest son, and the attempted suicide of their other son. This film was released in 1980, when the world was different and families were very conservative. The family portrayed in the film was upper class citizens with 2 teenage sons. The eldest was killed in a boating accident right in front of his younger brother. Buck was a star athlete and the apple of his mothers' eye. When his death happened, it affected each remaining member of the family differently. The mom became aloof and distant, the father was in denial and Conrad tried to take his own life. Conrad was a troubled adolescent that knew he would never compare to his brother. As the film played out, the mother confirmed his thoughts by basically not acting like a mother at all. As Conrad tried to carry on with his life, he struggled and decided to seek professional help. His father supported him, while his mother was embarrassed. She felt as though this truth was something that needed to stay within their home because their friends wouldn't understand and secretly judge them. This was a slow paced film, but was very deep with the points that it made. Death and psychiatric help are tough issues that people have trouble admitting when it hits too close to home. This film forced you to emphasize, but in a way that was enjoyable and entertaining. "},{"Title":"A raw '70s documentary look at dysfunction from a 1980 movie","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film when it was released as a sophomore in high school and was blown away by its candor and raw emotional truth. Come to think of it, I can't recall having seen an American movie prior to Ordinary People that really delved into repression of feeling and associated family dysfunction, and coming from a family very much steeped in that, it was quite refreshing...like, oh, I guess I'm not crazy after all to see how insane this situation really is. I think that note, and especially Timothy Hutton's transcendent performance, accounted for it's popularity among adolescent audiences of the time. The performances by all three principles are nothing less than revelatory, though. Donald Sutherland once more proves his chops as perhaps the most understated actor of our time...he can communicate more with a few looks than most actors can in paragraphs. Mary Tyler Moore takes a truly unredeemable character (in the book, especially, Beth was portrayed as a hysterical, spoiled, selfish woman-child) and actually generates pity and some sympathy for her character.Being from the North Shore myself, the movie really gets the insulated, isolated settings right (and in fall of all seasons, perfect). Apart from his beautiful work with the actors, Redford really brings the town of Lake Forest alive as a character here. His composition is marvelous, the lighting iridescent. There's such an immediate sense of realism to many scenes that it really feels like you're in them smelling the smells and feeling the textures of the landscapes and buildings. Best one-shot overhead POV of the breakfast table Beth sets two glasses down at once, then waits a beat and sets the third.The supporting cast is just as incredible the underrated Dinah Manoff (Let's make this the best year of our whole lives....we can you know!), M. Emmett Walsh (I wouldn't have let them put electricity in MY head!), Frederic Lehne, Meg Mundy, Adam Baldwin, and of course Elizabeth McGovern, who lends a much-needed blast of honesty and innocence in one of her earliest roles.And of course, last but not least, Judd Hirsch who brings a completely unaffected air to a role that could have been really sappy and maudlin.You just can't get better drama than Ordinary People. That it was Redford's first time out as director is almost impossible to believe. And that Tim Hutton never was able to find source material to measure up to this is sad and equally incredible. "},{"Title":"Coming to terms with loss and pain.","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is directed by Robert Redford, based on the novel by Judith Guest and stars Timothy Hutton, Judd Hirsch, Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland, Elizabeth McGovern and M. Emmett Walsh.Conrad Jarrett(Timothy Hutton) is a teenager who does well at school and is on the swim team, however he has a painful past because he recently tried to commit suicide following his older brothers death.His mother Beth(Mary Tyler Moore)is emotionally reserved and distant following her eldest sons death and Conrad's attempted suicide. Conrad's dad Calvin(Donald Sutherland)is trying to make sense of what has happened to their lives and trying to connect to Conrad.His parents send him to Dr Berger(played by the wonderful Judd Hirsch) a down to earth, honest therapist who tries to get Conrad to open up and confront the pain of the past. The scenes between Conrad and Berger are some of the best in the film as Berger tries to get Conrad to face up to the tragedy of his brothers death.A very moving and well acted film about emotional pain and suffering and how some people can't carry on as normal after a bereavement. The young Timothy Hutton gives the most memorable and impressive performance in the film as the distraught Conrad. There's fine support from Mary Tyler Moore as his emotionally distant mother and Donald Sutherland does a good job portraying a man struggling to help his child. Downton Abbey fans will have fun spotting the Countess of Grantham herself Elizabeth McGovern as Conrad's shy girlfriend. "},{"Title":"Great representation of a challenging subject","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Back in 1980 when I first noticed that someone had made a film version of the highly-regarded novel Ordinary People, I felt especially interested in seeing Mary Tyler Moore play the part of the mother, Beth Jarrett. Like many other viewers, I guess, I associated Mary Tyer Moore with her comedic television roles of Laura Petrie (Dick Van Dyke Show) and Mary Richards (The Mary Tyler Moore Show). I couldn't easily imagine her (though Mary Tyler Moore apparently could) in the serious role of a sophisticated wife to a successful tax attorney and of a deeply troubled mother to two boys victimized by the same tragedy.Mary Tyler Moore's acting in an unfamiliar role -- superficially invulnerable but internally agonized -- did impress me, though ironically it also represented, in my opinion, the film's only fault. In reaction to a teenager who, within less than a year, has seen his brother drown and has survived a suicide attempt, the other characters, especially adult friends of his parents, could have expressed themselves a little more sympathetically, while still showing their reluctance to broach the topic of Conrad Jarrett's attempt to kill himself. The support that character Conrad Jarrett does not receive, however, actor Timothy Hutton (in a lead, not a secondary role) does, from actors who, like Mary Tyler Moore, show their versatility. Donald Sutherland, an atypical, if not a little eccentric, soldier in such films as Kelly's Heroes, Mash, and The Dirty Dozen, does a very touching job as an exemplary businessman and genuinely concerned father; and Judd Hirsch, the nonchalant, down-to-earth member of the otherwise wacky staff in the television series Taxi, comes across just as credibly as the astute, controlled yet compassionate, and very professional psychotherapist.Other significant members of the cast, too, demonstrate their skill. E. Emmitt Walsh, the insensitive swimming coach; Adam Baldwin, a mean-spirited classmate and fellow swimmer; Fredric Lehne, the conflicted longtime friend; Elizabeth McGovern, the unconditionally kind love interest; and Dinah Manoff, the disingenuous acquaintance from the hospital, each becomes the individual s/he portrays in this nearly flawless movie. "},{"Title":"A great film from Redford","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The accidental death of the older son of an affluent family causes stress among the relationship of the bitter mother (Moore), good-natured father(Sutherland), and guilty-feeling younger son (Hutton). The film is done very well by Robert Redford. A classic drama from the early 80s. I liked the simplicty in Redford's approach, letting the characters get through to the audience. This film has some great lessons as well as good performances, and had the potential to be very over-the-top and annoying but it wasn't. It was actually pretty realistic and done well. I liked watching it, and im not usually a big fan of heavy dramas, but this story was appealing to me.--- IMDb Rating 7.7, my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Emotive and explosive","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can't handle mess, Donald Sutherland tells Mary Tyler Moore. That's the theme of Robert Redford's masterpiece. A somewhat earthier way to put it is the well known S**t happens. Indeed it does. This movie explores what happens when a wealthy, successful but repressed family has to deal with it.Timothy Hutton turns in the best performance of his career as Conrad Jarrett, youngest son of Calvin and Beth (Sutherland and Moore). Conrad's older brother Buck has died in a boating accident, one that Conrad has survived. Conrad is all but consumed by survivor's guilt, and has just rejoined his family in tony Lake Forest, Illinois, after hospitalization following a suicide attempt.Hutton and Moore give electrifying performances as the son who desperately wants reassurance and acceptance by his loving but emotionally crippled mother. Beth (Moore) can't let go of her beloved eldest son's memory, and regards Conrad's pain and feelings of guilt as weakness. Sutherland is wonderful as the kind but ineffective Calvin, who can't quite get a grip on what's happening around him. Though his performance is spot-on, Sutherland gets blown off the screen by Moore and Hutton.Conrad finds refuge in the office of Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch, who uses his impeccable comic timing to maximum advantage as a sardonic shrink). Berger helps Conrad to acknowledge his pain and feelings of guilt (and frustration with his parents), helps him to feel acceptance of the situation, if not approval. This upsets the dysfunctional balance of the family, however, and the outcome is not surprising but still painful.Redford focuses the camera like a laser-beam, and the result is totally believable. It would have been far too easy to go over the top with any of this movie's themes, but Redford always modulates the character's emotions down to a WASP-y, clenched-teeth ferocity. No one except Conrad actually loses his temper or shows raw emotion -- the others suck it in and pretend that all's right with the world, when it's clearly not.There was some grousing after this movie won Best Picture in 1980, but after one viewing I think that any sane person would agree with the accolades. "},{"Title":"Second time around...","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My initial viewing of this was somewhat lackluster.. Yes I thought it was a good movie, but Oscar winner? Then I saw it a second time and suddenly, like someone turned on a light, I go it! My revelation manifested itself in the performance of Mary Tyler Moore. My first viewing left me wondering what the big deal was about her in this movie.. My second viewing found a wonderful performance that in my opinion certified her entire career.. I thought she was that good! Her cold and distant demeanor engrossed the screen whenever she was on it.. Does this woman have a pulse? does she have blood running through her vines? This movie is a dark journey into the heart and soul of dysfunctional family USA... So many can relate to the emotions that were flowing through this family.. The setting may change but those feelings are universal... "},{"Title":"A film about ordinary people","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mary Tyler Moore and Donald Sutherland give a stunning portrayal of suburban alienation in 1980's Ordinary People.Growing in the suburbs myself I have seen many families like the Jarretts. As in American Beauty, what matters most is giving off the impression that they have it together, that there is not the tiniest crack in their facade. No one feels, they just do. No emotion can be shown, and when it does, every moment turns in to a violent outburst. I can't tell you how many times I wanted to scream just take the f**king picture during yet another tedious family photo session.Timothy Hutton gives a remarkable performance as the only son left.. returning from the psych treatment center only to face the suspicions and taunts of his classmates, not to mention his mother as deftly played by Moore.A cinematic tour de force. "}{"Title":"Why does Raging Bull and Ordinary People have to come out the same year?","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is just one of those twists of fate that so many superb films that all deserve an Oscar all come out in one year. I am glad that Ordinary People won, in that year I was only a little older than the protagonist, the character Hutton played, and I connected so deeply with this film at the time. I remember my mother was worried about me being such a fan of the film, thinking at the time that somehow I equated her with MTM's character's emotional problems (I didn't, of course). If anything, I was jealous of Sutherland's rendition of a father (I had a male version of Beth for *my* father). I just got done watching it again fully 25 years later and it packs just as big an emotional punch as it ever did, perhaps more for me now that my parents are gone and even this painful glance into family life in the '80's brings on more than a little nostalgia for me (even the clothes, the music, the language...the cars! - all remind me of my teens). And yes, I fell in love with Elizabeth McGovern all over again (she was so sweet as the understanding girl friend in this piece) - so Liz, get divorced and come back to me! "},{"Title":"Hallelujah","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Consider the beginning for Lynch's 'Blue Velvet' we are in the midst of a picket fenced, clean cut community... but somethings wrong... What lies beneath the surface?Well, it's the same thing with the (earlier made) Ordinary People. We see trees, a peaceful ocean, Pachelbel in the back and some youngsters singing Hallelujah on the chords. But then, this one guy with a bit of a red face stands out...It's Conrad (Timothy Hutton), an intelligent and athletic guy who's living with his parents Calvin (Donald Sutherland) and Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) in a huge house in what seems to be a nice community. But, as in Lynch, something is wrong. We know it, we feel it.Compare this to what I feel is the Ordinary People of nowadays American Beauty. It starts off with a beautiful lane, but right there and then Lester Burnham fills us in he's gonna die within the next year. Ordinary People isn't as clear or cynical as that, but I see that as a good thing.Back to the story then. The burden the family is carrying is that of the death of the oldest son, Buck, a pricewinning, popular and beloved guy. Conrad blames himself for the death of his brother, and has tried to kill himself out of guilt. When the movie starts he decides to see a shrink for it, Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch).The movie tells the remarkable and emotional tale of how to keep a family together that can't be held together, how to deal with death, how to rejoice again, how to love... Director Redford and all the actors (with Oscar-winning Hutton as a standout) do this so well, I feel not ashamed admitting I cried a couple of times during the movie. I cannot recall any movie that ended with the words 'I love you.' 'I love you too...' where that just seemed about right and honest. Oh that ending... you try and keep it dry!I cannot praise or recommend this movie enough. To speak with Melvin Udall this must be as good as it gets...10/10.  "},{"Title":"Top-notch acting.","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ORDINARY PEOPLE, based on the novel by Judith Guest, is about a family in ruins after the eldest son Buck (played only in flashback sequences by Scott Doebler) is killed in a boating accident. The other son, Conrad (played terrifically by Timothy Hutton), attempted suicide not long after the accident, and left his mother Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) and his father Calvin (Donald Sutherland) lost and unsure what to do to help the family anymore. That is, if anything can be done at all.The story of ORDINARY PEOPLE is very troubling and sad, but it's really the acting that makes the movie as good as it is. Timothy Hutton is excellent and truly gut-wrenching in his role as Conrad, showing more emotion and range in one movie than most actors could show in three (and at the mere age of 19). He was definitely deserving of his Oscar. Mary Tyler Moore is wonderful as well as the cold, unforgiving mother, managing to be perfectly despicable but still sympathy-provoking. Donald Sutherland takes a bit of a backseat to his co-stars, but still delivers a strong and emotive performance. Judd Hirsch is also good in a more minor role as Conrad's psychiatrist, Dr. Berger. This film is one of those rare cases in which the movie overshadows the book, and this is due largely in part to the acting.However, although the acting is top-notch, that's not to say that this movie is perfect. The directing, screenplay, and cinematography are all wonderful, and there are many moments that are heart-breaking and poignant. But there are also several moments that are rather... well, lame. The scene in which Conrad sings, Hallelujah, for example, is cute at first, but a little too drawn-out, as is Calvin's jogging scene. The use of flashbacks is also very overdone in this film, occurring either with voice-overs or actual footage. Sometimes this technique is used well and appropriately, like when flashbacks involving Buck or Conrad's friend Karen (Dinah Manoff) are shown. But sometimes the technique is out of place and unnecessary altogether, like when Calvin is running and reminiscent voices go through his head. That's my main complaint about the movie.However, ORDINARY PEOPLE's strengths outweigh its flaws by a long shot. It's a good old movie with excellent acting, wonderful story-telling, and a troubling plotline. But it's not quite the powerful tearjerker it could have been. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not an ordinary movie","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some of the best films are films about people, ordinary people. Ordinary people dealing with life the best they can, learning from it and moving on - all the while giving us an insight as to who they are and hopefully, making us care about them. I cared for the people in this movie.A young man dies in an accident and his brother and parents try to come to terms with it and live life. But each of them has a different approach to 'dealing with it'. And as the film unfolds we learn more and more about these people and the strength (or weakness) of their relationships with one another. For me the film doesn't end on a happy or sad note. It just ends a few months ahead of where it started in terms of the timeline of the lives of these people. For the brother, the few months bring about a better understanding of who he is as 16-17 year old. He discovers issues buried within himself, some involving the brother's death but some that are just triggered by it. He confronts them and come to terms with them, in the process learning to love himself and forgive himself for things he cannot change or control.For the parents it brings about issues that seems to have been lurking around for a longtime but since these mature adults fulfill their expectations as model citizens in their community, they never address expectations of themselves or of each other.  Ordinary People is more about the journey than the destination, the process than the end-result. Sort of what life is all about. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about the emotion of the human spirit","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  During the first 10 minutes of this movie, I felt quite bored and thought that the movie seemed somewhat dated. Yet, as the movie progressed, I became sucked into it. The character development is superb as is the acting by Timothy Hutton. Undeniably moving and powerful, if you enjoy movie that make you think, check this one out. We are all ordinary people, no matter how crazy things look in our own eyes... "},{"Title":"An underrated Oscar Winner","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Today, as of when this is written, Ordinary People is being released on DVD. I noticed a number of reviews mentioning that the film was a fine drama and, despite some well-deserved praise, it shouldn't have won Best Picture over Raging Bull. I would've agreed with that statement if I thought Raging Bull was the best movie of all time. As two stand alone movies, both are outstanding movies. Arguably, some other movies released in 1980, that were as strong, if not stronger, include The Elephant Man, The Stunt Man, Melvin and Howard, Coal Miner's Daughter and The Empire Strikes Back. Oh, the tragedy of a movie being chosen as Best Picture.I was impressed with Ordinary People when it was first released in 1980. And after over 20 years, it still has an affect on me. With the exception of Quiz Show, I don't believe Robert Redford has directed a movie with such care since his debut with Ordinary People. The movie had some powerful, ground breaking performances by Oscar winner Timothy Hutton, nominees Mary Tyler Moore and Judd Hirsch and non-nominee Donald Sutherland. (I still find it somewhat tragic that Sutherland didn't get the kudos he deserved for what I believe was his best performance of his career.)This might be unintentional, but I believe Ordinary People presents a powerful message of how important it is for families to communicate. After any tragic event, it's probably better talk about it and find ways dealing with it than ignoring it. "},{"Title":"A powerful well done movie..","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Timothy Hutton stars in this drama about a family coping with the tragic accidental death of one son and the suicide attempt of the other.. Superb acting by all, especially Mary Tyler Moore who is outstanding as the emotionally detatched mother..  The debut directorial effort by Robert Redford is a winner, as was he for best director and the film for best picture.. Also a fine debut for Elizabeth McGovern 10 of 10  "},{"Title":"Excellent Directoral Debut by Robert Redford","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie features Mary Tyler Moore and Donald Sutherland as fine as they have ever been, and a fine debut by Timothy Hutton (who has not been better since)....a searing family drama of hurt..hidden emotions..i was floored by it the first time and it gets better with each subsequet viewing! "},{"Title":"Absorbing story, well told.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Repeated viewings have not diminished Ordinary People's impact for me.  Seeing it for the third time recently, I was again thoroughly involved by this story of a family trying to hold together after the loss of a member.  Though I've not had to experience a loved one's death, there's still much here about life and family and growing up that is easy to relate to, probably, by anyone.Conrad (Timothy Hutton) is a young high school guy going through a confusing time, and he seems so real and familiar on a gut level that it's occasionally uncomfortable to watch him.  While his story is central, a fair amount of time is also given to the perspectives of his parents, Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) and Calvin (Donald Sutherland).  The most common situations &#150;- eating breakfast together, driving to school &#150;- are at once totally familiar and obvious at first; and yet just as in reality there lurks another life in their silences, in what is not said, and in their body language and choice of words.  You as viewer are invited to read these people; the movie respects you as an active participant, rather than constantly telling you what the heck is going on.The supporting roles are realistic in the same manner, especially Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch), Conrad's psychiatrist, who could have easily been just a plot device in a lesser movie.  This one, thankfully, succeeds in giving anyone who wanders onto the screen a fair shake, a real representation.  Conrad's chorus mate, Jeannine Pratt (Elizabeth McGovern) for instance, receives less screen time but still gives every indication of having her own life outside of the events in the movie(even if that life doesn't include practicing her bowling stance). I suppose all the realism in the world wouldn't matter if you didn't want to spend time with these people -- if you didn't identify with them or find a good amount of merit in them -- but I did, and it's likely you will too.Some credit for these strong portayals surely goes to director Robert Redford, whose straight forward, matter-of-fact presentation somehow gives more power to the emotions underlying the story.  As much as I enjoy Scorsese's dynamic camerawork in Raging Bull (another Oscar contender for 1980), I also take my hat off to Redford for his seemingly simple approach.  The fact that he lets his camera sit still and allows the actors to ACT earns him my respect and makes me wish more moviemakers would just do this simple thing.  Further, he seems to know how long to let a scene go &#150; he gives you enough of it to draw information about the characters and story, and not so much that you're ever looking at your watch. Now I'll leave you with one criticism, which has to do with the story's outcome and not the technical aspects or acting/directing.  (SPOILER AHEAD, skip to next paragraph.)  My girlfriend and I agree that, while it's generally even-handed, the story ends up slightly villainizing the mother, Beth.  Sure, she is (agonizingly) more reluctant to show troubling emotion or to deal with the problems underlying the surface of her relationships with son and husband.  But she is still shown to be a sympathetic, wounded and understandably confused person, and I think her husband is a bit too damning and dismissive of her in the end.  It just seems their relationship is put into more jeopardy than is warranted, given what we have been shown of this couple and their feelings toward each other.  I guess I was convinced they did in fact love one another and could have worked through the situation, and so I was a little frustrated at the possible ending of their marriage.  But maybe the separation turns out to be temporary and mendable, so who knows&#133;Ordinary People is refreshing as a straight drama.  Most dramas made today feel compelled to give us an ironic wink now and then, as if to appeal to our sense of cleverness in case our hearts are not all that engaged by the story.  Ordinary People doesn't wink or blink; it just presents these people and their story with sensitivity and intelligence.   I know I'll watch it again, and I recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Superb, beautifully-crafted study of familial loss and repression.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A trenchant, emotionally-charged story of an upper-scale suburban family (father, mother, teenage son) detached by tragedy, trying to come to terms with the loss of an older son/brother years ago - each in their own, different, self-destructive ways.An Oscar-winning directorial debut for actor Robert Redford, he shows startling aptitude and intelligence for this delicate genre, anchoring the drama with four masterful performances.  Purposely bathed in a quaint, tranquil New England setting complemented by a soothing, reflective score that belie the ensuing conflict, the central family seems almost cushioned by an eerie normalness as they blindly go through the motions of everyday life again (attending civic functions, community plays, business luncheons and swim meets), but things are getting worse.     Donald Sutherland offers one the most subtle, multi-layered performances of his career as Calvin Jarrett, a caring but unassertive father trying to hold together the remnants of a family unit ripped apart after the drowning death of Buck, their beloved son.  Sutherland is all pallid restraint as he resigns himself to quiet despair, running out of answers.  It's a soft, unflashy side we seldom get to observe.  Likewise Mary Tyler Moore, in an astonishing, about-face career move, who tosses her sunny TV disposition by the curbside as Beth, the poised, orderly, emotionally void matriarch whose strong outer facade masks a deep well of insecurity and denial.  Putting on a pleasantly composed front in spite of the family mess, she has buried every ounce of feeling and passion with her dead son and now lives on a cool, private, impenetrable reserve, refusing to allow or even acknowledge the need of outside help for her or her family.  Cal's climactic late-night spill of emotion and Beth's near-breakdown scene is jarringly effective, almost intrusive.  Director Redford deserves special kudos for these two bold casting choices.Judd Hirsch as the sobering, confrontive psychiatrist who tries to get through to Calvin and Beth's remaining son, a potential suicide, is a strong and convincing presence here.  Hirsch gives the melancholy film a positive boost as he resorts to assorted tactics in trying to steer the teenager toward a healthy closure.   But it is Timothy Hutton as Conrad, the sensitive, saturnine son, who is the primary focus here (despite winning a supporting Oscar), a disheveled, unresponsive shell of a boy isolated by guilt who succumbs to suicidal urges to quell the pain.  As the idolizing younger brother who bears heavy remorse for a boating accident that took his popular sibling's life, Hutton gives full dimension to Conrad, wringing truth out of every frame &#150; especially when he unloads at an intense midnight session at his psychiatrist's office.  Hutton has never been better.    Several lesser roles lend considerable poignancy to the proceedings.  Elizabeth McGovern (film debut) is warm and touching as Conrad's high school classmate and possible date material who becomes a catalyst for Conrad in rejoining the human race.  Dinah Manoff makes her one scene  memorable as a former patient also on the mend from trying to off herself, whose actions indirectly sets Conrad on a road to recovery.  M. Emmet Walsh as a hard-assed swimming coach and Frederic Lehne as a concerned once-tight school buddy, make the most of their small scenes.  The ending is touching and hopeful but still uncompromising, with some family members making breakthroughs, others not.  Anybody not moved to tears by this extraordinary Ordinary People must have a heart of stone.  A Best Picture winner in 1980, it is a rich, unforgettable experience. "}{"Title":"Ordinary People makes for an Extraordinary Film","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Films have ventured into all sorts of territory they have shown us Wars and the Holocaust, but all of those things have seemed distant to me none of it felt real, but ordinary people feels all too real.  This film is driven by its characters and this film shows them all flawed and troubled in their own ways.  Mary Tyler Moore plays the mother, Donald Sutherland plays the father, and Timothy Hutton shines as their troubled son Conrad who can't handle his guilt over his brothers death, and his contempt towards his mother for not loving him.  Judd Hirsh plays the psychiatrist who helps Conrad come to terms with his life.  The truly mesmerising performance in this film is definitely by Donald Sutherland, the character he plays is one that I have never seen on the screen before, which is a caring father who realizes he has to take control to solve his families coping.  He struggles to keep his family together, and the scenes between him and Hutton are top notch.  We see how he takes pride in his son and isn't ashamed of him like his wife is. The film works together beautifully thanks mostly to Redford's steady paced direction and the vibrant script.  Never has a film felt so real or so honest. "},{"Title":"Story based on real event","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story is based on the death of two guys I went to high school with. Four of my classmates went out on a boat in Lake Michigan during our senior year (1969), the boat overturned, two drowned.  The high school (St. George in Evanston, IL) was scheduled to close that year (and did). It was a traumatic event for the school - to have two seniors die during the last year of the school.  Watching the movie, even though I had also read the book and it was more than a decade after the real event, was difficult.  It's a very good movie, and I recommend it to anyone - just a bit too personal for me.  I haven't watched it since that first time. "},{"Title":"Wear all your closet's skeletons like finery...","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As most reviews will attest, the oddest by-product of this movie is that everyone seems to empathize with it.  As movies about 'regular Joes' go, it's the pinnacle.  I, too, was able to project myself into Hutton's Conrad (though oddly not by situational similarity).  That's the beauty of this film the emotions and situations in which we are placed find resonance in the superb acting by ALL the cast.  There have been comparisons to this film and the recent American Beauty, and though I think of Kevin Spacey as one of THE finest of actors, it's an unfair comparison.  This movie is raw, real, gritty, unglamorous, embarrassing and hurtful.  It's real life without the movie.Any film that can well tears up in my eyes (there have been few) needs to be seen.  Truly an overlooked jewel. "},{"Title":"A Psychological Work of Art","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     It is hard to believe that this is Redford's directorial debut!   There are lots of movies out there dealing with the human mind and its problems within society and change, but this is THE ONE to watch!  Timothy Hutton, in his film DEBUT, earned a well-deserved Oscar for his performance of the troubled Conrad Jarrett.  Judd Hirsch, his psychiatrist, and Donald Sutherland, his father, give powerful performances and go far beyond the one dimension that these types of characters usually limit themselves too.   But the real gem of the film is Mary Tyler Moore.  Here we see America's Sweetheart, the bubbly little thing that gained laughs from us for years on TV by crying Oh Rob! and Oh Mr. Grant!, become the stone-hearted woman who never sheds a tear.  We see every inch of her cold soul and identify her with someone in our own families.  It is a real performance and one in which we see that Mary Tyler Moore is indeed an actress of no equal.    Everything about this movie is perfect---the lighting, the music, the excellent camerawork creating a sense of the character's often fast-paced feelings to correspond with those of the viewer.  Sheer perfection and truly a work of art! "},{"Title":"Anything but Ordinary--EXTRAORDINARY!!!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film in one word is incredible.  I was born the year that this film won best picture in (1980) and after twenty years it still maintains its magnificence.Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland, and Timothy Hutton are wonderful as three family members who begin coping with the loss of Hutton's older brother long into the aftermath.  Judd Hirsch is also sensational as Hutton's doctor.Moore plays the cold, unfeeling mother with acute accuracy and heartbreaking realism.  Hutton is a standout in this ensemble cast.  At the ripe age of 20 he won the best supporting actor Oscar. Hirsch was also nominated in the same category.  Hutton is extremely believable.  He plays his vulnerable role with realistic simplicity, never overacting for Oscar.Redford must also be commended.  He proved he is not only a great actor, but also a great director as well.  The use of Pachelbel's Canon in D provides a perfect tone for the film.This film lead to other great motion pictures on the subject of the dysfunctional family, The Ice Storm and  American Beauty to name a couple.This film is timeless and a must see for all movie fans. "},{"Title":"What do you say...?","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You know  the deep sorrow of this psychological drama after the first few notes on the piano as this film opens.  A story of a dysfunctional family that grows apart after the tragic death of one of two sons belonging to an upper class family in the northern Chicago suburbs.Learning to forgive is a great message here; the psychologist is brilliant in helping the subject of this film understand the how's and why's of the growing trouble in his family. He guides him to recovery and understanding of the shortcomings of his family, especially his mother who begrudges the fact that her favorite son was lost in the accident.In the end, a redemption of living is acquired by the subject, learning that each one of us are fallable by nature and that forgiveness is essential to the human spirit.10/10 "},{"Title":"Hauntingly real. Very real.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie reminded me very much of myself and what my family went through while I was in high school. What is remarkable about this film, besides the superb acting, is how realistic and unsentimental it is. Nothing is romanticized and the film makers do not try and make a happy ending out of the story. The movie is deeply moving because it does exactly what it sets out to do, it examines how depression and death affect an ordinary family.Hutton's performance is extremely compelling, in fact he is remarkable. I was very moved by him, the expressions on his face, the way he carried himself, everything was believable. This simply is a remarkable movie, nothing seems overdone or left out. I can not give any movie higher praise. I am glad to know that there are other people out there who understand depression and death and how they can affect ordinary people. This is a very humane movie. "},{"Title":"Sheer emotional power and a brilliant Timothy Hutton propel it into greatness.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching Ordinary People is an ordeal in itself.  The film, about a family being torn apart by the death of its elder son, is the very definition of heart-wrenching.  Timothy Hutton gives an astonishing performance as Conrad, the remaining child and sole survivor of a horrible boating accident.  Although Hutton's role was the main character, he was nominated for Best Supporting, not Best Actor.  I'm glad the Academy did this, however, as both he and De Niro deserved Oscars that year.  Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore are also excellent in the roles on Conrad's parents, and Judd Hirsch is wonderful as the psychiatrist Berger, who teaches Conrad to forgive when he needs to most.While Raging Bull is inarguably a better film, Ordinary People beats it out in sheer emotional intensity.  This--and Timothy Hutton's incredible performance--will ensure that Ordinary People is always remembered as a great film, even if not the greatest of 1980. "},{"Title":"An Enormous Skeleton in the Family Closet","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is the story of a family struggling to right itself after an enormous tragedy, the death of the eldest son, Buck. Drown in a boating accident, the fair-haired boy of the town was expected to be the most successful ever, especially to his parents (Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland), and most obvious, to his younger brother, Conrad (Timothy Hutton). Buck died, Conrad lived, and the guilt of having survived eats at Conrad to the point of attempted suicide and hospitalization. For his mother, Beth however, the loss of her favorite son is more than she will tolerate. Beth is from good strong stock, stiff upper lip, and don't let the neighbors know what is going on within the family. She is cold, withdrawn from her surviving son, and unwilling to recognize Conrad's suffering. To comfort her son would mean she condones his survival, and it would be the ultimate betrayal of Buck, the good son.Robert Redford in his directorial debut paints a bittersweet portrait of such ordinariness as the norm, it is a slice of the era before the self-indulgent me generation. Normalcy in the affluent middle class mid-western family does not include psychiatry, a situation Beth wants hidden from their friends. Beth grasps at the belief that what is not discussed in the open will go away, including Conrad. Moore as the flawed Beth gives a master performance by an actress known for her comedic talents in the role of a repressed, bitter, and prejudiced woman. She is devastating in a portrayal of a self-absorbed, controlling, emotionless wife but not a sympathetic mother. Timothy Hutton as Conrad is a wounded puppy, floundering for attention and affection from his rebuking, accusatory mother and weak father. It is a heartbreaking performance that is all raw emotional subtlety to view. Donald Sutherland is the kindly father trying to salve over the open gap that the death of his son has left in their family, yet overlooking the ultimate wound that keeps reopening as his surviving son is rejected by his mother again and again as he remains silent.So much dysfunctional emotions are analyzed by Judd Hirsh as Contrad's psychiatrist trying to jolt his patient from his depressed state and self loathing for all that is not perfect in his family's personalities. In the end, Ordinary People leaves the audience as it began, leaving somethings known, yet ultimately, ambiguous for any true resolution to life. "},{"Title":"Only Redford could start off behind the camera this way!","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another reviewer said it best when they wrote that Redford let's the story address its elements, issues and character chemistry in its own time. That's one of the most effective, and ultimately most moving, characteristics of this film - it begins and ends with the ironic name of the film. We watch the lives of a family slowly unravel and re-align, thinking all along that it would never happen to us, and yet it does, over and over again, in ways both great and small. And that is the strength of this story - that it touches everyone in a way that makes some people uncomfortable, others relieved, and still others enlightened.The conventional wisdom is that someone nominated for a Best Supporting role has one or two specific scenes that beget the nomination. I would submit that for Judd Hirsch, it's the final scene with Timothy Hutton. Conrad is teetering precariously on the edge of his personal abyss once more, crying out for a human touch-point. He wails, Are you my friend? Hirsch replies, I am! Count on it! Similarly for Mary Tyler Moore, it's the last line she gets to utter, this time to Donald Sutherland - I feel the same way I've always felt about you. Her portrayal of a woman who can't bring herself to simply love her family, notwithstanding all their faults, is riveting, and serves notice that she isn't just Laura Petrie or Mary Richards anymore.In my personal list of Top Ten films, this one is #3 (behind only The Seven Samurai and Breaker Morant). It should be near the top of the list of anyone who appreciates the power of a totally human narrative. "}{"Title":"Simply an Extraordinary Film","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First, Ordinary People should have made AFI top 100 hundreds films of the last century. This film has excellent performances by Timothy Hutton, Mary Tyler Moore, Donald Sutherland, Judd Hirsch, Elizabeth McGovern and Dinah Manoff. The story could have been another movie of the week but it stands out from the rest with subtle brilliant heartwarming performances during a family's difficult time. Timothy Hutton plays the role of the son with such depth and brilliance. Besides the tragedy, the film is about a family who are just ordinary people. Ordinary People who are just as complicated and troubled by life's hand. The fact that Robert Redford directed this film makes it even more worth watching. He does a fabulous job with the actors and actresses in this film. You will forget Judd from his Taxi role and Mary Tyler Moore from her television days. This film is worth watching even on WE. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     I had heard that this movie was very good and seeing how it won best picture for it's year finally got to see it when it came on TV (which isn't often). Timothy Hutton gives a great well-deserved Oscar winning performance as Conrad, a teenager recovering from attempted suicide and, more importantly, his older brother dieing. Beth Jarrett (Moore) plays a character unlike how we normally see her. We expect that she will change but she remains cold towards Conrad and Cal (Sutherland) throughout the whole movie. Dr. Berger's (Hirsch) character also wasn't hidden from the film. Playing the psychiatrist who is trying to help Conrad deal with the death and the mother.     I have looked for this film on peoples top 100 lists and also I.M.D.B. top 250 list and am astonished to find that it wasn't on them. I think that people are focusing more on new up-and-coming movies that are happy (if you will) or action packed than films that really mean something. I am currently reading the novel also to see how it differs from the movie.    I give this movie 10/10 stars all the way "},{"Title":"Stunning cinematic achievement","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is in every way a stunning cinematic achievement.For his directorial debut, Robert Redford chose the Judith Guest novel concerning the inner goings and emotional struggle of an ordinary financially well off family.Incredibly emotional in it's simplicity, whether in dealing with Hutton's ineffectual relationship with his mother, the father's struggle to get beneath the surface of their problems or Hutton's relationship with his doctor. Never overblown or high strung dramatically speaking, everything is toned down and therefore giving us a more real look at a family torn apart.What makes all the difference here are the exceptionally well written and defined characters and the acting performances. Hutton is simply sensational as the son who's guilt ridden about his brother's death and attempts to take his own life. So powerful, yet very subdued, one of the few acting bits that make me sense how bad he's feeling at times. No less impressive is Mary Tyler Moore as the aloof mother. Brilliantly portraying a multi layered character, a woman who quite simply dies in a big way along with her older son, all the love and affection she had for him, and for everything else around her, went with her son to the grave. Donald Sutherland and Judd Hirsh are also superb in their roles.What's magical about this movie for me is that every time I watch it I seem to get to know the characters better each time. I remember seeing Moore's character as being nearly a bad one, but as I get older (and hopefully wiser) I understand her a lot better, and she deserves sympathy rather than resentment. It's like that with all three characters, like most people we know in our own lives you have to get beneath the surface to really know them, and this movie accomplishes that in my opinion.My absolute favorite movie. 10 out of 10. A 100 out of a 100. "},{"Title":"Not just an Ordinary Movie","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I absolutely ADORED this movie. After seeing it, it's obvious how both American Beauty and Good Will Hunting were heavily influenced by it. This has to be the best movie of the past 25 years. Simply breathtaking. It made me laugh, it made me cry. It really stuck with me.Timothy Hutton truly deserved his Oscar for this performance, which is probably the best I've seen by a youth. Donald Sutherland proved once again why he's one of the most underrated actors working today. And Mary Tyler Moore instantly shed her characters from The Dick Van Dyke Show and The Mary Tyler Moore Show, to play a heartless mother who may love her son, but doesn't like him.What a spectacular picture. I wish more were made like it these days. "},{"Title":"A Ten","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw it went it first played in theaters in 1980 and used to watch it yearly when it was on network television. Now it's on DVD and I just re-saw it and it's as impressive now as it was over 2 decades ago. A teen-ager (Timothy Hutton) is torn apart by surviving a boating accident that drowned his older brother. Entire cast is flawless and it deserved the 4 Academy Awards, plus more Best Actress - Mary Tyler Moore (nominated and an abomination that she lost, it's her all-time best performance in any medium, and one of the best of last century), Best Actor - Donald Sutherland (not even nominated, but a wrenching portrayal), Best Supporting Actor - Judd Hirsh (would have been nice to tie with Hutton, who's really the Lead, anyway). The music, mostly Canon in D, is beautifully realized, Robert Redford is a masterful director. Nothing is pat or predictable, with almost expected resolutions and reconciliations not materializing. In the scene where Moore sees Hutton on the lawn chair and request he put on the jacket to escape wintry cold, while the Canon concerto plays in the background, one expects it to end triumphantly for both parties (who've been clashing), but not here. And special mention must be made of Dinah Minaff's riveting acting. In only one scene with Hutton (as a former hospital patient), she plays a character who looks and acts normal, but one starts to feel that she is still not quite right (she never even drinks her Cola). Her and the picture are outstanding. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie with wonderful acting","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's been a long time since I've seen a movie more moving than this one. Timothy Hutton is a wonderful actor who receive a well-deserved Oscar for his role as Conrad in this movie. Mary Tyler Moore was convincing as a cold, distant parent to her grieving son, and Donald Sutherland role as a caring father was also very believable. I would give this movie 4/4 stars. "},{"Title":"Deserved Every Award It Got-But MTM Was Robbed!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People is an extraordinary film. It completly deserved all its awards. Even though it is not a happy movie, it is a life affirming one. Timothy Hutton deserved his Oscar as tortured teenager, Conrad Jarrett. He might just be the very best of the best supporting actors. Donald Sutherland was completly snubbed by the academy, which was a real shame. His confused father, Calvin Jarrett, is probably his most nuanced and heartfelt performance.But the real Oscar tragedy was the loss of Mary Tyler Moore to Sissy Spacek for best actress. Moore deserved that trophy. Her emotionally crippled mother, Beth Jarrett, the organized, efficient epitome of suburban perfection, shocked moviegoers everywhere with her uncompromising performance. Although the film is built around Hutton's character,any discussion of the film will quickly go to Moore and her performance. Spacek may have been playing a real person,but Moore was playing a complicated, often nasty character, and she did so with unflinching bravery. The award should have been hers. One of the biggest mistakes in Oscar history, as far as I'm concerned.Using Canon in D as background music was a brilliant idea, as well. All the elements come together to make Ordinary People one of the finest films of all time. Definitly on my top five favorite movies of all time list. "},{"Title":"In THIS film, the foul language is a part of LIFE","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must respond to the comment recently made regarding the use of profanity in Ordinary People.  Remember that this movie was made in 1980 - it is now 23 years old.  I was 19 when it came out, having recently lost both my parents and struggling with the grief that covered my life.  For its time, this movie was EXTREMELY realistic - the R rating was exclusively from Conrad's outbursts with, not directed at, his therapist.  Much of it was his own anger against himself, his guilt for simultaneously loving, yet hating, his idolized brother.  When profanity is merely inserted into a movie a certain number of times to drive up a rating, increasing its market appeal, it makes the movie trashy.  But Ordinary People showed us the real depth of pain in Conrad's soul, and that is why it won Best Picture and Timothy Hutton an Oscar.  Even today, it chills me to watch Beth react so coldly -A person in this much pain in a therapist's office will do anything at first to appear normal, especially a young person.  Could we reasonably expect Conrad, in the moment of crisis during the last 30 minutes of the film, to stop and say oh no, I can't say that - it's bad!  I don't think so.I do agree that many movies today HAVE deliberately inserted profanity to gain a bigger market.  But Ordinary People wasn't one of them.  I would suggest, though, that children under 13 or so not be allowed to see it because it could frighten those younger, even today.  "},{"Title":"Sutherland grossly underrated","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Donald Sutherland's performance is one of the grossly underrated efforts not receiving an academy award nomination.  Mary Tyler Moore is chillingly appropriate in her role as the mother totally alienated from life and removed from her family after the death of her favorite. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably good--doesn't get any better","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not a genre of film that I normally enjoy, but this is the best. Collect all of the laudatory adjectives for actors, directors and cinematographers and apply them here and Timothy Hutton's performance is the best of the best.  Don't rent this film--buy it.   "}{"Title":"Heartbreaking and memorable movie-making...","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When you come from a dysfunctional family with all kinds of emotional problems, this movie will be a shockingly realistic experience. Sadly I can relate to too much of the movies theme - but happily I can say I must have gotten even so much more from seeing it. It was gutwrenching to watch the tormenting of young Timothy Hutton's character. So powerful, and so real, that it ripped up parts of my own past - reminding me clearly of my own family's confrontation with tragedy and battles with subsequent psychiatric problems. It is so good it can only have been written by someone who experienced what Sutherland, Moore and Hutton's characters endure in the movie. In relating I can say one thing about this powerful masterpiece that I wouldn't say about any other any person giving this movie a bad review is WRONG! In any case that would surely mean that they don't relate to the subject of the film and therefore don't have the faintest idea what they're talking or writing about. Next to other modern classics like One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Kramer vs Kramer this is the very definition of a MOVING picture. Hats off to the solid acting of Hutton, Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore, and to everyone else involved in the realization of this family drama. "},{"Title":"great   work","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" it is one of my favorite films. for its honest portrait of a family's crisis. for the high performances. for the exploration of confuse universe of a teenager. for the wise manner to define the need to be yourself. and for its message. a film about life who could be sentimental or bitter. it is only honest. like a testimony about choices, words, secrets and need of the other. about selfish and courage to see the other. Robert Redford does a brilliant job. and that is the axis for a drama who seems special for using a large category of crisis. because it suggest more than propose. because it not gives answers but few questions. Conrad of Timoty Hutton is one of characters who discovers many hidden aspects of the viewer's life. to suggest is the key of its strange beauty. and the precise construction of each scene. a film about solitude and guilty and truth. remarkable altogether. "},{"Title":"compelling performance of compelling character","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Jarretts are a well-off family in suburban Chicago. Only son Conrad (Timothy Hutton) is struggling and sees psychiatrist Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch). His older brother Buck died in a sailing accident. His parents Calvin (Donald Sutherland) and Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) don't talk about it or anything of deep substance. Conrad starts dating fellow student Jeannine Pratt (Elizabeth McGovern) and quits competitive swimming.Timothy Hutton delivers a compelling performance for his demanding character. This is all about the secret and the rolling revelation. Unlike other movies, it isn't too cute with it. It's hidden for a reason. It fits the characters. They can hardly say his name out loud. It's a bit slow in the first half but it's never boring. As Conrad breaks down, the movie goes to another level. It's a skilled debut for Robert Redford as the director. "},{"Title":"An excellent piece of cinema that should be more important for today's public","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film that, in a personal opinion, reflects one of the best periods of U.S. cinema, that I like to call it the real people films. A genre that was took in the 90's and then added crazy elements like fantastic vacations or animals talking. Don't get me wrong , I like those movies too, but sometimes someone somewhere needs to write something that is related to us (such as feelings, relationships or even social status). Unfortunately if you ask people what are the best movies of the 80s, they're probably going to answer you a fantasy-big budget- pop culture- cult classic(that I also probably enjoyed) but they won't say this kind of marvelous and wonderful pieces, just because they don't know it or don't care(or both). Films like Ordinary people, Terms of Endearment, Kramer vs. Kramer, Heartburn, Moonstruck, etc. are movies with strong characters, beautiful settings and stories that seem simple but are one of the most deep and profound things you are ever going to watch in a movie, because in some ways you can see some of you in it. I'm not saying that they don't make movies like this anymore. Of course they do (Little Miss Sunshine, The Royal Tenembaums, Boyhood are good examples), but the public doesn't seem to had an impact as big as they did in the 80's or 70's. Not to mention the box office. But, if you find just someone who also enjoy this kind of films, it's gonna be great to debate and talk with him/her. "},{"Title":"some films you watch, others you feel.","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The accidental death of the older son of an affluent family deeply strains the relationships among the bitter mother, the good-natured father, and the guilt-ridden younger son. Beth, Calvin, and their son Conrad are living in the aftermath of the death of the other son. Conrad is overcome by grief and misplaced guilt to the extent of a suicide attempt. He is in therapy. Beth had always preferred his brother and is having difficulty being supportive to Conrad. Calvin is trapped between the two trying to hold the family together. Roger Ebert wrote Director Redford places all these events in a suburban world that is seen with an understated matter- of-factness. There are no cheap shots against suburban lifestyles or affluence or mannerisms The problems of the people in this movie aren't caused by their milieu, but grow out of themselves. And, like it or not, the participants have to deal with them. That's what sets the film apart from the sophisticated suburban soap opera it could easily have become. Each character in this movie is given the dramatic opportunity to look inside himself, to question his own motives as well as the motives of others, and to try to improve his own ways of dealing with a troubled situation. Two of the characters do learn how to adjust; the third doesn't. It's not often we get characters who face those kinds of challenges on the screen, nor directors who seek them out. Ordinary People is an intelligent, perceptive, and deeply moving film. Ordinary People is a deeply profound and moving experience that stays with you for quite some time. "},{"Title":"Haunting, forever","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Real people doing really nasty work on each other, is how I would sum this up in one sentence, since that's what stands out, in spite of instances of people being really nice to one another as well.Took my breath away when I watched it the first time. And even though the subject is (almost completely) dark, this tale of an upwardly mobile dysfunctional family living in the suburbs is gut- wrenchingly moving and honest at the same time, thanks to almost every aspect of great film-making coming together to demonstrate their belief in the craft.Definitely made by, and populated with, people who felt strongly about the source material, this one, like many great works, doesn't pull any of its punches, and lets them land real hard. It will be left to audiences to react, and they did, surprisingly giving it their vote of confidence. Timothy Hutton, in perhaps his best known work at that time, acquits himself perfectly, and Donald Sutherland is perhaps the best father ever to grace the silver screen. Mary Tyler Moore is absolutely note-perfect, which made it difficult for me to watch this one, since what her character does throughout is pretty reprehensible, yet not away from the realm of reality, with certain characters being just wired that way to respond. And what's up with Judd Hirsch? Robin Williams' character, in 'Good Will Hunting', has so much in common with who Judd plays in this, that they could be as spiritually close to one another as the Vega brothers. I know he's body of work's pretty decent, but why did he not just go Huge after this role? Might just remain a mystery to me.All in all, a tough watch, and yet, perfect. "},{"Title":"iTunes is now missing this classic film","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This Academy-award winning gem of a film has recently been taken down from iTunes. I have no idea why this is the case, but everyone should contact Paramount to let them know. (Note please do not confuse with another film of similar title, which is still available.)Anyhow, the film is unbelievably moving. It provides the best acting by Moore, Sutherland and Hutton -- all three -- of which I am aware. Redford's direction is superb and brilliantly understated.We need to revere these classics, making them as widely available as possible... My generation only wishes it could attain to film-art such as this. "},{"Title":"If you can't feel pain, you're not going to feel anything else either","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first half of ORDINARY PEOPLE is uneventful, focusing mostly on the ordinary daily life of this Middle American family who, though they suffered a great tragedy in the death of their older son several years earlier and are now struggling with their younger son's depression and suicidal tendencies, seem at first like the Brady Bunch in their normality. That being said, I'm not so sure the Brady Bunch were as quite as normal as their creators intended. The first hour is so quiet and routine that it's easy to overlook the big conflicts going on beneath the surface, not just with the troubled surviving son but with the ordinary parents. Though things intensify somewhat in the second half, this film may not appeal to many of today's audiences who want a lot of fast action, twists, and suspense. The acting is also rather wooden by modern standards, but I think that may have been intentional as all three members of the family are slowly, subtly revealed to be not so ordinary after all. Mary Tyler Moore gives a memorable performance as Beth the mother, a polite, apparently painfully everyday person who's entirely severed many basic connections with the human race. Calvin the father (Donald Sutherland)is the most wooden of all, but the way he's revealed to be the most neurotic in many ways, something realistically unfitting for a tax attorney, makes him convincing in the end. Likewise for younger son Conrad(Timothy Hutton), who appears to be such an everyday kid that it's easy to forget that he recently tried to off himself. The true heart and soul of this film, however, is Judd Hirsch as Berger the psychiatrist, a truly one-in-a-billion character.ORDINARY PEOPLE is a mass of contradictions. Not a lot of big events for a two-hour film, and some will inevitably find it just plain boring. Yet, more in the way of dramatic action--longer, more detailed flashbacks to the older son's drowning and Conrad's suicide attempt, etc--would somehow have detracted from it. The mood is consistently somber, like an unusually good soap opera, but there are some truly hilarious lines scattered in, and for today's audiences the 1980 styles (particularly Calvin's plaid golf trousers) will also provide some comic relief. Some inconsistencies that still work because they fit the theme of the film so well As Calvin puts it, I guess the whole of life is an accident. ORDINARY PEOPLE often seems like a sort of 1980s After-School Special for Adults, with a number of too-easies, but even if it isn't entirely convincing, there's something nonetheless real about it in a way that can only be accomplished through fiction. The loaded dialogue is full of hackneyed pop psychology phrases, but despite, or even because of, the frequent corniness, ORDINARY PEOPLE succeeds at being truly touching.Disturbing subject matter and lots of realistic profanity, but nothing else (no sex/nudity or serious gore/violence) that really justifies the R rating. "},{"Title":"A competent and compassionate movie that, as Best Picture winners go, could have done more to distinguish itself from the pack","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most people who watch Ordinary People today, 35 years on, surely do so because they're Oscar completists. For a lot of people making their way through the list, it's probably one of the last Best Picture winners they make themselves sit down and watch. It's acquired an unfortunate reputation as being one of the Academy's notable mistakes, since it beat the more stylistically-challenging Raging Bull. The reason that's unfortunate is that it's unfair to the movie, which taken on its own terms is a perceptive examination of a family's grief.In honoring Ordinary People with the Best Picture and Best Director statues, Hollywood awarded for the first time one of its most genial figures, Robert Redford. As his directorial debut this is, appropriate enough, a genial movie. But it is difficult to explain why it is a good movie without explaining why it is not a great movie. It is a serious film that deals with death and suicide and broken homes, but it must be acknowledged even by the sympathetic reviewer that its handling of these issues is not much more serious or creative than a Very Special Episode of some '80s or '90s TV drama. It focuses squarely, all too squarely, on the humanity of its characters, and it hand-holds the audience through the plot all too gently. It feels, if not preachy, then like a therapy session that we've been assigned to attend because we have not been sufficiently attentive to the pain within ourselves and others. The always-on, always-sensitive tone of this kind of storytelling can be exhausting because it lacks the temporary relief that a little cynicism and distance can provide. The movie demands that you care for all of its characters all the time. This is a tough ask under the best of conditions, but especially when the characters hew too close to stock stereotypes. The high school students all fall pretty neatly into the standard categories of brainless jocks and quirky loners, and the parents are the overly-busy, clueless, grown-apart kinds we've seen before. At the beginning, Redford's directorial style, with its straight-on symmetrical shots of a dining room table and a camera that looks back and forth at people having a conversation like a crowd looks at a tennis match, seems equally unoriginal, but this decision actually pays off toward the end when the same pace and simplicity are used in cross-cutting a flashback sequence. The person having the flashback is really having a long-delayed, straightforward dialogue with himself, and the visual style suits this culmination well. Yet it is, after all, much the same as other revelatory and epiphany-making flashbacks in film and TV.The ordinariness of Ordinary People is probably held against it more than it would be had it not won its Oscars, but at the same time far fewer people would probably watch it today had it not won them. And that would be a shame, because despite its shortcomings, it is an occasionally very perceptive film. For all the times it is too on the nose with a song choice (Hallelujah when a character is happy) or a line of dialogue (how many times has I miss him too, you know! been declaimed on screen?), there are also moments of real observational insight, as when an introverted character presses the close door button on an elevator rather than risk a social encounter. That rings true, and thankfully it happens without being directly commented upon. The movie also casts Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore against type, which is interesting to see. To watch Ordinary People is to be reminded that Redford is, by all appearances, a refreshingly warmhearted and compassionate celebrity in an industry that too often rewards egoists and borderline sociopaths. I may be in a minority, but I frankly think it's nice that movies like this can and do win Best Picture over movies that are superior in technique but colder and bleaker in outlook. "},{"Title":"A Failing Family Unit","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film has to be one of the most realistic stories of an American family trying so desperately to ignore it's blemishes, one being the ever so taboo subject of suicide. Poor Conrad struggles so hard to be normal after his release from a hospital after cutting his wrists in an attempt to commit suicide. He's a teenager dealing with the death of his brother, who happened to be his mother's favorite. What's so heartbreaking is the mother's (Mary Tyler Moore) obvious discontent for Conrad (played brilliantly by Timothy Hutton). It's like she blames him for his brother's death even though it was an accident. The father (Donald Sutherland) is the middleman. He's trying to please his wife and do right by Conrad. He seems to be oblivious to what's going on until his wife's treatment of his son can no longer be denied. It's at that time he becomes even more supportive of Conrad and less of his wife. As a parent it's difficult to imagine how anyone can treat a child in this manner; I absolutely despised her from the beginning. Conrad, no matter how he tries, just can't seem to do anything right and as a teenager (which is difficult in itself), has to live with his mother's hate, blame, his own guilt and shame not to mention not feeling loved by his mother. Conrad finds the help he needs through a therapist (Judd Hirsch). During his therapy, he is forced to face his demons which in the end helps him to move forward. It's a truly heartfelt film that reminds us that even the most perfect of families have problems. I think it's a film that should be shown in High Schools to show kids who are having the same feelings can get help. Sadly, depression is still swept under the rug. "}{"Title":"Not An Ordinary Movie","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford directed this Academy Award winning(best picture and director) adaptation of the Judith Guest novel that stars Timothy Hutton(Academy Award winner for best supporting actor) as Conrad Jarrett, a troubled and depressed young man from an affluent family who suffers from survivor's guilt after the accidental drowning death of his older brother, who was the favorite of his mother Beth(played by Mary Tyler Moore) though his easy-going father Calvin(played by Donald Sutherland) has enough love for everyone. Judd Hirsch plays psychiatrist Dr. Berger, who tries to help Conrad, though simmering conflict at home, plus a cruel twist of fate with his girlfriend(played by Elizabeth McGovern) threaten to drive him over the edge... Devastating film with superb performances by all, and a most intelligent script and exquisite direction really sneaks up on the viewer, and delivers a wallop. Most deserving of it's Academy Awards! "},{"Title":"A hugely influential work","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Robert Redford, the 'ordinary' people in question aren't actually that ordinary. I think that's the whole point. On the surface, they are your typical well-heeled American family. The house is big but not flashy, the dad (Donald Sutherland) is a tax attorney and the mum (Mary Tyler Moore) is the model of a suburban housewife. Yet, as is so often the case with these suburban family dramas, it's the children who see through the middle-class smokescreen of respectability. Conrad (Hutton) is still suffering from the loss of his brother in a boating accident, and refuses to take part in his mother's increasingly desperate charade. Partly as a result of this, and partly because Conrad is, in her eyes at least, the lesser son, the relationship between the two of them is strained. As the veil of normality slips, all three of them have to truly come to terms with the tragedy that they have so far avoided.It's a slow, brooding film that gradually reveals the extent of the trauma that Conrad is dealing with. Ground-breaking at the time for it's frank treatment of mental health issues and suicide, Ordinary People is a hugely influential work. It's clear to me now where The Perks of Being a Wallflower got most of its inspiration from, along with elements of Donnie Darko, Good Will Hunting and innumerable others. There are, of course, hints of Holden Caulfield in Conrad, yet Conrad has far more genuine cause for a breakdown that Caulfield did.In a film full of sad stories, the saddest is Conrad's mother, Beth. Come the end, it seems that she is the only one without any foreseeable chance of redemption. Perhaps this is because she was hit the hardest by Buck's death, and has the toughest journey ahead of her. It's an incredible bit of acting from from Mary Tyler Moore when, at the end, her mask of emotional repression slips. And it's an unusual scenario - the mother fleeing her family rather than the father.As much as I enjoyed Ordinary People, I would still have given the 1980 Best Picture Oscar to The Elephant Man. "},{"Title":"An Impressive and Affecting Family Drama","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is one of those movies where you think it'll be one thing, but turns out to be quite a different experience altogether. Coming from the very well written novel by Judith Guest, and adapted by Oscar winner Alvin Sargeant, this movie very much deals with the harsh reality of a post-tragedy family in America. With great acting, and a very impressive directing debut from Robert Redford, it became something more than a cheap drama a lot of people think it is at first glance.The story centers on the Jarrett family, consisting of Calvin, Beth, and their second son Conrad. Their eldest son, Buck, recently drowned in a boating accident and Conrad is still reeling from both survivor guilt and a recent suicide attempt. Both Calvin and Beth are trying to keep going through life and take care of their remaining child, but also try to comprehend what they are actually like and if they really care for one another. Conrad seeks help from psychiatrist Dr. Berger, who helps Conrad to deal with his still festering grief and his seemingly abandoned feeling from his mother.The acting is truly noting short of excellent in this film. There is not one false note in the list. Donald Sutherland gives a truly fine portrayal of Calvin, who really is trying to connect with Conrad, but doesn't quite know what Conrad wants or how to assert his opinions in arguments or even see what Conrad is feeling even though its in front of him. The fact that he wasn't even considered for an Oscar is truly bizarre, and I see it as one of the worst snubs in Oscar history. Timothy Hutton (who won the Supporting Actor Oscar) Conrad too is complex. he is trying to deal with his grief, but with the world at school who see him as a freak both in general, and after his suicide attempt, it doesn't help his cause. But with Berger, he works through defense mechanisms and vague desires to the root of the problem. We both laugh and cry during his journey throughout the film, which is always interesting.But the most complex of the characters in the whole story is Beth. She is played by comedienne Mary Tyler Moore who completely breaks that mold and shows of her very good acting skills here. Beth is the one everyone loves and likes being around, and a kind of person who keeps up the appearance of both a loving mother and a good housekeeper. But as the film progresses, it seems that she really doesn't love her son Conrad, and even her own husband. She seemed to pour all her energy in Buck, who many saw as the other version of herself. There is one heartbreaking quote about her character during an argument with Conrad and Calvin. Conrad shouts that even though she never visited him in the hospital she surely would have visited Buck, with her responding, Buck would have never BEEN in the hospital. Even at the end when Calvin questions her love for him, she breaks a stoic exterior but immediately puts the mask back on, revealing a very broken and vain woman who wants everything to look good, even at the cost of love and connection with her family.Both Sargeant and Redford do not use drama and the occasional slip into the melodrama for the sake of doing so, but because it helps tell the story and reveal the motivations and idiosyncrasies of the characters. There is no special music or camera tricks to emphasize anything, making the movie seem far more natural and pure than anything else. As a great actor himself, Redford knows how to get his cast to react in a natural way, but not appear to be in a movie.Even though many consider Raging Bull to be the biggest pass-over in Oscars, it really wasn't looked highly upon as a movie back then and this movie was selected for Best Picture, and Redford beat Martin Scorsese for Directing. I see both of them as equal, just on a different level. I consider them both to be the Best Pictures of 1980. I also wish that Mary Tyler Moore won Best Actress, she so deserved it.This movie is a fascinating character study of ordinary people put in a situation which is a far cry from something remotely ordinary in life. Each deals with it in his or her own way, which leads for some touching and affecting moments, and an ending that seems open-ended in one way, but closes the book in another. Chekc it out, and guess for yourselves. "},{"Title":"Pretty great","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pretty great film, one that's mostly remembered as the film that undeservedly beat Raging Bull for the Best Picture Oscar. Now, I don't think it's quite as brilliant as that one, but it's still a really great film. It has a really focused script, sensitive and nuanced direction and some really fine performances. Tyler Moore and Hutton are the obvious standouts here and both do so much with the material. Another thing that surprised me was the unflinching, dark ending. I was not expecting it, but it rings true and very honest. I applaud it, well the novel that it's based off of. Too bad Hutton never became a bigger star, such a great talent. "},{"Title":"Ordinary People","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had a heard a little about this film before reading it in the book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, mainly that this was directorial debut from actor Robert Redford (Quiz Show, The Legend of Bagger Vance), and he won the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Director, and it won Best Picture as well, so I had to see if it was deserved. Basically upper middle class suburban Chicago family the Jarretts are trying to return to normal life following the death of teenage son Jordan 'Buck'(Scott Doebler) in a boating accident, and shortly after this his brother Conrad (Oscar and twice Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Timothy Hutton) attempted to commit suicide and spent four months in an psychiatric hospital. Conrad has returned to high school and senior year, he tries partaking in activities such as swimming and choir, but feeling alienated by lively but awkward father Calvin (Golden Globe nominated Donald Sutherland) and denying and secretly cold mother Beth (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Mary Tyler Moore) he restarts psychiatric therapy outside the hospital with Dr. Tyrone Berger (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Judd Hirsch). Calvin tries a few attempts to connect with his surviving son, while Beth tries to stay composed in order to maintain perfection and normality for the family, and Conrad, going through unorthodox session with Dr. Berger still finds difficulty communicating with his parents, but he starts dating fellow student Jeannine Pratt (Elizabeth McGovern) who gives him optimism. Conrad and mother Beth often argue, and Calvin in the heat of the moment often takes sides with his son, but discovering his after school psychiatric session an argument becomes very heated, and later taking a trip to Houston an argument ignites between Beth and Calvin, he has a rage, and she explains feeling repressed. Conrad has a breakdown when he finds out fellow psychiatric hospital friend Karen Aldrich (Dinah Manoff) has committed suicide, but a breakthrough session with Dr. Berger helps him to stop blaming himself for the death of Buck, as he was there with him, and in the end Beth leaves home following a last emotional talk with her husband, so Calvin and Conrad cope with their new situation and try to connect at last. Also starring M. Emmet Walsh as Coach Salan, Fredric Lehne as Joe Lazenby, James B. Sikking as Ray, Basil Hoffman as Sloan, Quinn K. Redeker as Ward, Mariclare Costello as Audrey, Meg Mundy as Grandmother and Independence Day's Adam Baldwin as Stillman (no relation to Alec, Stephen or the others). Tyler Moore gives a great performance as the elegant woman socialising and putting on a smile but is actually suffering within, Sutherland is interesting as the father who is cheerful but perhaps equally stressed, Hutton is deserving of his accolade being the distressed teenager trying to feel loved and make sense of where he is going in life, and Hirsch is likable as the psychiatric doctor with unusual methods to get into the mindset of his patient and bring out true feelings. When I know films like The Elephant Man and Raging Bull were released the same year during Oscar season, I question the wins for Best Picture and Best Director, but I can understand why they went to this film, it is scripted well and has the right level of emotion and poignancy to tell a story based on therapy and life following tragedy, a most watchable drama. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama, and it was nominated for Best Screenplay. Very good! "},{"Title":"Wouldn't be surprised if I remember Canon in D for this movie for the rest of my days","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've gotta be honest, this is probably the greatest character study I've ever seen. Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Timothy Hutton and Judd Hirsch all give outstanding performances (not to mention Redford's terrific direction), and this is one hard-hitting suburban family drama. Moore is a twisted marvel of repression as her household crumbles under a cheery veneer, Sutherland the desperate husband, and Hutton is just unbelievably tortured. His breakdown in Hirsch's office is utterly soul-crushing, and I was a blubbering mess by scene's end. I will never forget this scene.I'm 32 and I'm glad I waited until now to see this. I tend to wonder what my reaction would've been ten years ago (right place, right time?). But this is one hell of a movie - one of the best I've ever seen. It's a mind-boggling debut from Redford. Well-written, directed and extremely well-acted, Ordinary People is one emotional title fight. Jesus this is a hell of a movie. Just an extraordinarily well-made film. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A family coming apart","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm really conflicted about this movie.On the one hand it's well-written, directed, and acted. On the other hand, it's an absolutely soul-sucking depression fest. In what I guess amounts to high praise for her action ability, I hated the mere sight of Mary Tyler Moore by the end of the film.The storyline is not terribly deep. An upper-middle-class family in the Midwest loses one of their two sons in a boating accident. The resulting survivor's guilt of the other brother drives him to attempt suicide. After the unsuccessful attempt, he's hospitalized and - while making his re-entry into normal life starts seeing a shrink.The mother - played by Mary Tyler Moore - is very distant and cold to her surviving son (the deceased one having been her favorite) and eventually her lack of concern for her son drives a wedge between her and her husband (Donald Southerland). The plot is very realistic as is the acting and dialogue. But the result of all the well-done film making is a work that will likely bum you out for the whole day - if not the week.I've seen it twice now, once when it premiered, and now just a day or two ago. The first time I was out on a date with a pleasant young lady, but after the movie we couldn't even talk to each other, and I dropped her off at home, never to see her again. The other day when I watched it again, thinking I must have misjudged it, I was so depressed afterwards that I couldn't get out of bed the next morning.So, if you're in the mood to see a well-made, tremendous downer of a movie, I highly recommend this one. If you'd prefer to remain somewhat positive about life in general, I'd advise against it. "},{"Title":"Incredible Movie","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Quite simply this is my favourite movie of all time. Not because it is an easy or comfortable film to watch - it is certainly not that - but because it touches the emotions in a believable and honest way.There are no evil villains here - not even Beth, the mother who finds it so hard to express her love for her son - just 'ordinary people', captive to their own personalities and characters who are 'found out' by tragic and unforeseeable circumstances. Nor are there any 'happy endings' here - just a sense that, in admitting the truth, some of the characters may be beginning a new chapter in their lives.Watching this film is an exhausting experience! An amazingly mature performance by the young Tim Hutton underpins an excellent cast and Redford's directorial debut is remarkable. Confusing initial images and flashbacks slowly fit together and make sense as the film progresses. I come back to this film at regular intervals and it never fails to stir me.Watch it!! "},{"Title":"People not ordinary, rather from upper middle class","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is from times when Academy Awards were given for natural problems and deep acting, not for fast actions and visual effects. The plot is quite depressive and not interesting in the modern sense of comprehension, but issues like mourning, alienation, selective love/care, perfunctory socialization etc are common in almost every family.All the major actors are great and Hutton deserved his Oscar for sure - I wonder only why his part was considered as supporting; he appears to be more on the screen than Sutherland and Tyler Moore as his parents. The story itself seems to spin around Hutton's character as well.Recommendable to those fond of good classic psychological movies, without unnecessary glitter and thrill. "},{"Title":"Heartbreakingly real","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is a rare and exceptional movie that realistically tackles the dysfunction, pain and lack of communication in the typical American home without resorting to clichés or taking the easy way out with one diensional characters. This film deals with the Jarret family and their attempts to deal with the tragedy of the oldest son Buck, who was killed in a boating accident. The focus of the film is the journey of the younger son, Conrad (Timothy Hutton), who is dealing with the pain of survivng the accident as well as an attempted suicide. It is not just Conrad's sorrow over the death of his brother that makes the film exceptional, it is the relationship between himself and his parents, who are also dealing with the fallout of their oldest son's death. His mother Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) is also dealing with the fallout of Buck's death and treats Conrad with a subtle contempt and coldness. His father Calvin (Donald Sutherland) struggles to keep the family together but is unsure how. Hutton's portrayal of Conrad's pain is very subtle and realistic. The overwhelmingness of Conrad's pain is at times difficult and almost unbearable to watch. The sense of his despair, confusion, hurt, isolation and loneliness is the heart of this film. It is also his relationship with his mother that makes this film stand out. In our reality, there are many things that should be that aren't. We like to think that mothers are compassionate, kind and caring. But mothers are human beings too and in Beths case it is clear she is not capable of showing the kind of love and compassion that Conrad needs. It's not that she does not love her son, she is incapable of showing it.A film is only great when it does not take the easy way out. This is a film that takes a painful topic and deals with it in a sensitive way. Alienation and angst during the teenage years is something almost anybody can relate to. Despite finding his strength by looking for it in others, he finds it in himself with the help of his therapist.Conrad's relationship with Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch) is the driving force of his devlopment. Berger's sensitive yet blunt counseling helps Conrad to confront his guilt and shame and begin the process of eventually forgiving himself. He also finds The films ends on a bittersweet note. Enough time has now passed from the tragedy for Calvin and Beth to discuss their real feelings. In a final scene Calvin confronts Beth about his feelings on their marriage. Beth decides to leave, presumably for good. The film ends with a very moving dialogue between Calvin and Conrad openly discussing their feelings and embracing each other as father and son. "}{"Title":"Quintessential Modern Tragedy","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The greatest difficulty in life is to conquer your inner demons; generally humans prefer to veil themselves behind a facade and assume their masks to be their true identity. I do not blame most people for doing so &#x96; it is extremely painful to face yourself, because the world will continue to move at its pace. Conrad Jarrett finds tranquility behind the white walls of the hospital. People listened to his problems &#x96; they were paid to do so. The outside world does not really bother about him, and he knows the world isn't at fault. Conrad has to face his fears, and though a psychologist does guide him, he himself has to find the answers. When he is in such a dilemma, he cares not for anybody. He wonders how shallow people are around him &#x96; a general feeling of those suffering from mental conditions. They worry about petty things, ramble senselessly and enter into flippant conversations about the most worthless things in life.Robert Redford puts forward a mirror in front of the audience and asks Are you being true to yourself? Can you really love? Do you really care?.... and he does not wait for an answer. It is for the people to answer to themselves. His 'Ordinary People' is a bold, shattering and in-your-face experience that never preaches any ideal but only presents a case of contemporary lifestyle. Many may find it implausible &#x96; how can we be imperfect when we are so 'perfect'? What is perfect, really? Is anyone truly perfect? But it that an excuse for losing your place in the world? To give up your external sheen and expose your inner sanctuary? Such are the questions posed by Robert Redford and the author of the book of the same name. The movie can be named one of the finest in its genre &#x96; not satirical as American Beauty but very plain and realistic.Pauline Kael had criticized the characterization of Mary Tyler Moore's icy Beth Jarrett. Not many people are like Beth, right? But there are people just like Beth who themselves won't admit the 'Beth' they have in them. Beth is not an emotionless mannequin, she is a person conditioned to behave in this manner. I have a relative who is so unreasonable with her children for some reason, another who does not want to even hear anything sad &#x96; not even if it is a true sad story, another who is disliked by her own nieces but does not appear nasty at all. How do you explain such characters and their traits? Mary Tyler is not one dimensional; her character is layered based on all her past experiences. She seems hurt, not only by her son's death but by her life itself. But one can't be a sad sack in front of other people; gossips take no time to spread. Her character is not able to show her affection openly to her son, and she has her reasons.Calvin Jarrett played by Donald Sutherland is someone whom many people can empathize with. My mother herself is like Jarrett. He, like my mother, believes that everything will be fine and therefore tries to understand his afflicted son. One can almost feel Jarrett's fatherly nature towards his son &#x96; there is an invisible barrier between them because of this blood relationship. One generally tends to hide things from the person they truly love. That's why Conrad is so open with his counselor.Coming to Conrad, Timothy Hutton gives probably the most believable portrayal of a troubled person. The constant fidgeting, dwindling eye contact, shaky legs, blank stare and coldness &#x96; everything is immaculately done. Even the other girl from the hospital does her part naturally. In fact, everyone, right from his girlfriend to Conrad's male friends dutifully play their characters. It is as if you are watching actual lives being filmed. No wonder some people vehemently praise the 80s, saying that campy movies were given unnecessary importance. I believe them now &#x96; Ordinary People made me believe them. I only felt that Timothy's performance was too precious to hand him a supporting actor award. He should have been nominated for Best Actor instead.And Judd Hirsch himself was so fine as the psychologist. The suffocating setting, with most of the action taking place in single rooms gave the right feel for the movie. There was symbolism expressed in the movie too, through dialog, incomplete conversations, frequent camera cuts (or shifting, whatever you call it), objects, long pauses etc. One only has to see the film with an open mind. It will certainly be an eye opener.My Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Powerful taste of childhood","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dark, sensitive and melancholic movie. About an age, a war and a country, about values and game, dreams and escapes. Lesson about the rules of existence, beyond the masks, words and lies.Travel in the heart of memory,on the carpet of the time of contemplation. It is not a fairy-tale but only the magic may create the limits of real discoveries. The powerful taste of childhood, with fantastic friends, the smell of Christmas Eve, the toys and the dialogs with theirs, all are parts of this film. The history and the myth. The fight as dream. The freedom as a chuck door, the death as sign of victory after a long combat. Same Manichean vision about Civil War, same recipes of good and bad. In fact, a world, old, ugly, boring. And the science of Redford to give a subtle sense to the ash of days. "},{"Title":"Ordinary People Certainly Not Plain People ***","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No wonder Timothy Hutton won the best supporting Oscar for his role as the guilt ridden brother. He gave a phenomenal performance, and we can say that this was one patient who beat out fellow nominee, Judd Hirsch, his psychiatrist trying to get him not to have guilt feelings regarding the accidental drowning of his brother in a boating accident. Of course, it didn't help when a girl, who Hutton is starting to like, kills herself.Mary Tyler Moore, as the mother, is engaging. Her cold veneer comes through in a grand fashion. She cannot love, and husband Donald Sutherland, seems miscast as the husband, who has flashbacks what has happened.We're dealing with a WASP family. When grandma hears that Hutton is going to a psychiatrist, her first response is to say-The therapist is Jewish of course! Moore readily agrees.Here is a family in crisis. Well directed by actor Robert Redford, who copped an Oscar along with the picture and Hutton. Moore, though good here, still has that voice of Mary Richards from the Mary Tyler Moore Show. Surprising that she never made many films after this one. Sissy Spacek beat her out for best actress that year in Coal Miner's Daughter. Spacek was better. "},{"Title":"Ordinary People is No Ordinary Film","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know there are probably tons of reviews for this outstanding film, but I would like to add this Starring Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Judd Hirsch, and Timothy Hutton in an Oscar-winning performance, this is one movie not to be missed. Their life is shattered when Buck the oldest son is killed in a boating accident, with Hutton the only survivor.Robert Redford won an Oscar for directing it and giving a very straight-forward and honest take on real people, who really are far from ordinary. He brings us into their lives and makes a study of their motivations, thoughts, and dreams fascinating viewing. Despite its obvious tension and somewhat unsettling tone, there's something so cleansing and pure in its adaptation of Judith Guest's book. (Maybe it has to do with the fact the people involved go through therapy, too.)There was somewhat a to-do over the fact this won the Best Picture Oscar over Raging Bull. But, while Raging Bull was about one larger-than-life person, this is about everyone and anyone. I have seen this many times, but not in a long while. So, when I recently saw it again, I was completely immersed in their world and couldn't get over just how good this movie really is. Alvin Sargent's Oscar-winning script has a lot to do with it, I'm sure. They all deserved the recognition they received.If you've never seen Ordinary People, do yourself a favor and see one of the best films of the 1980s, that is really a timeless story of us all. "},{"Title":"Emotional and tough love family drama that proves the past can haunt you leading to change and departure.","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1980's family drama Ordinary People directed by legendary Robert Redford is highly respected by many, yet displeasing to many others. I for one will not call it the best movie, still it's a memorable emotional family drama to be remembered. As watching this film it shows painful flashbacks and you will feel the heavy guilt ridden theme that the Conrad(Hutton)character faces.Anyhow it focuses on a well to do Chicago family who have been dealt a painful loss and the parents Calvin Jarrett(Donald Sutherland)and Beth Jarrett(Mary Tyler Moore)have tried to block out the memory of their lost son. On the other side other son Conrad(Timothy Hutton in a superb performance) feels all the guilt and responsibility as he feels it's his fought that his brother drowned. As this film flashbacks with painful memories for Conrad and it foreshadows with dreams of escape and romance for him. Along the way this both destroys and tightens his relationship with his parents as in an odd twist the mother Beth ends up leaving.Overall Ordinary People is a good emotional drama that proves just how the past can affect someone and shape their life. Oddly it proves life is complex and sad as many face an unexpected breaking away. Many may find this drama as to much of a sad feel I for one think it teaches emotional growth, unexpected ways, and departing change. "},{"Title":"Difficult yet honest psychiatric profile of the troubled suburban family","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The way Ordinary People depicts the family is tough to swallow. Is the Jarrett family really ordinary? They suffered a horrible loss when their eldest son died in a boating accident and their youngest has recently come home after four months in the hospital because he tried to kill himself. These are not ordinary circumstances per say, but these are how once-ordinary people would handle such tragedy -- how any of us who can identify with feeling ordinary would handle such tragedy. That's the beauty of Alvin Sargent's script, Robert Redford's sensitive yet powerful direction and humbling performances from a terrific cast.I personally took to Ordinary People more quickly because it takes place and was filmed where I grew up in north-suburban Chicago. Although that personally brought it home more easily, there's something that everyone can connect with in this film. If nothing else, it addresses family intimacy, which every family has varying degrees of, and it will guaranteed make you think about that from a different perspective or maybe even awaken a greater need for that in your own life.The Jarretts, Calvin (Sutherland), Beth (Moore) and Conrad (Hutton) appear to be a very pleasant and agreeable family in the beginning, but look closer and you can see the tension. Family discussion is like a formality and Conrad and Beth in particular have a completely shattered relationship. All three actors master the script's subtext and create believable and complex characters and relationships. Their profiles are so comprehensive in fact that they can't easily be summarized.The focus is namely on the Oscar-winning debut of Hutton as Conrad. Hutton inherits one of the most psychologically complex film characters ever and he bottles it all in and somehow it manifests itself into this touching and fragile performance. Conrad has nightmares, he feels out of control, he's lost touch with his high school buddies and the swim team, he has romantic needs that he wants to explore, family troubles and he's harboring an incredible guilt. The sympathy he generates is immense, which is part of what makes the film so compelling.It might in fact be Judd Hirsch playing the psychiatrist, but the tension in Hutton's performance will turn every viewer into someone desperately wanting to help Conrad. In fact, Hirsch is a bit non-traditional as well, playing a more provoking and edgy shrink as opposed to a warm and sympathetic one, which makes us feel even more like the one person who wants to really listen and help Conrad and help him.There isn't really a dramatic plot arch to Ordinary People. The basic idea is that Conrad starts seeing a psychiatrist and he comes closer and closer to confronting what he has to in order to truly overcome his troubles. The drama builds through increased conflict as more and more small events occur that push the characters, thus breaking the family's shaky but operational status-quo a bit at a time.Sargent's brilliant script is built around this natural rise in relationship tension. You can feel where the film is going to go from one scene to the next because the conflict causes obvious cracks that create logical next steps for the action to take. Part of this is also Redford's near- flawless transitioning. We're so clearly in the heads of these characters that each scene is so clearly the cause of the next and an effect of the last. He picks great moments to move from one to another and it keeps momentum going in a script without many dramatic events. There's only slight over-dramatic compensation in Redford's directing at times for this lack, but most of the time he's spot-on.But the enduring effect of Ordinary People on its audience is the portrayal of the family and its relationships. Each character has a psychological file folder that's overflowing and their interactions with each other are consequently so complex that you feel right away that this is the stuff of real relationships. No character sits permanently in a nut shell and more importantly is the realization that no one person is to be blamed or feel guilt for any one event. Ordinary People has such a firm grasp on the essence of family conflict and it shines through in an otherwise ordinary film.~Steven CVisit my site http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"The final has the last word","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bett Jarrett. She is like a robot, she is heartless. She wants to be happy, no problem, but only herself. When her happiness is in danger because of anything, she cares about nothing, but herself. She is one of the people who think only themselves. Yes, if we always think about the past, if we always live with the past, that would be wrong, but this is different. She does not try to forget the tragic event which is OK so far, she tries to forget her alive son! She can't help him. Bett Jarrett doesn't like having children, having youths, having sons. Calvin Jarrett. He is a pretty good father, a good husband, he is loving, nice, polite, but also too patient. This makes him weak at the same time. He is meek, so he has not any control over anything in his life. He cannot change any situation as he cannot turn anything wrong into anything right. The psychologist tries to help the son, but he cannot replace Calvin Jarrett. The father should do something as soon as possible! Otherwise, they may lose their only alive son. There is a sudden death in the middle of the movie which was harsh, but also very realistic like real life. The direction is not a work of art or not powerful, but professional and flawless. At the end, there is one of the most unexpected and unforgettable finals ever made and it has the last word! I think what makes this movie a masterpiece is especially and particularly its final. As for A Donald Sutherland, he gives an unbelievable, stark and realistic performance. "},{"Title":"Devastating - Mary Tyler Moore's Best Role Ever","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A shattering movie. I'm glad I saw it, but don't think that I'd want to see it again.Remember when you were young and you asked your parents the question, Who do you love more, me or my brother/sister?. Your parents always gave you the pat answer I love you all the same. Well, this movie exposes that lie in a devastating way.Other reviewers have commented more on the specifics of the movie. I'll leave it to them to give you more details. This has to be Mary Tyler Moore's best performance. Confronted by the death of her favorite son, she just can't cope with her loss. An absolutely brilliant performance by this actress.I consider movies to be great when they ask questions that we'd really not want to answer, or hadn't thought about. This movie does that. Just don't go to see it if you have issues about parental love, otherwise you may have to confront the reality that Mom/Dad really does like your sibling(s) more than you.10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Nice theme song","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I only saw parts of the film, so I really can't review it. I did like the song Theme From Ordinary People, also known as the Canon and Gigue in D major for three Violins and Basso Continuo. (Pachelbel's Canon for short.)So I just thought someone should comment on the review by dataconflossmoor. Impressive use of polysyllabic words, but I just have to ask Do you have your computer programmed to insert two or more exclamation points anywhere you don't (over)use an ellipsis? By the way, the expression is time _heals_ all wounds, or perhaps it's wounds all heels.Other than that, an outstanding review. I hope they gave you an extra chill pill when you were done writing it. "},{"Title":"i loved every minute of it,","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" but it poses a dilemma that most films don't.you,see,the thing is,usually you can pick out certain actors and say so and so is the best,or the worst.in this movie,though,everybody is a standout.in this case,that's pleasant and all too rare dilemma.Donald Sutherland shines in his role,Mary Tyler Moore is exceptional in her performance,Timothy Hutton is outstanding in his first feature role.in the supporting category,i thought Judd Hirsch was terrific,although i wish he had a bigger role here.the film win four academy awards and richly deserved them all.i have to warn you,though,it's not one of those shallow surface,blink and you miss it type of movies.this one rich in depth,in story characters and dialogue.it is driven by those elements,so if you're not into heavy drama,steer clear of this one.it really had an impact on me.for me,Ordinary people is a 10/10 "}{"Title":"Absorbing, intimate family drama","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a crisis you learn things about people, and about yourself, that you would not otherwise know. This movie illustrates that quite well. The Jarrett family (son Conrad, father Calvin, and mother Beth) live in an upscale neighborhood outside Chicago. We join the story six weeks after Conrad has been released from a mental hospital, where he stayed for four months after attempting suicide. Before the suicide attempt Conrad was an intelligent high school student who had friends, was on the swim team and in the glee club. Suicides, and suicide attempts, are often mysterious and it piques one's interest as to the motivations. Upon hearing such news the first question to come to mind is almost always Why? That is one of the hooks that keeps your interest in this movie--in a neat plot device we come to gradually understand the motivations behind Conrad's self-abnegating act only in parallel with his psychiatrist, Dr. Berger.The movie opens with a sequence of serene, melancholic images of the Jarrett neighborhood, with trees in fall colors. From that we segue into Conrad singing in the glee club with lyrics like, Free from all the world's desires free of all fear and anxiety sung to an arraignment of Pachelbel's Canon in D. We are shocked out of the reverie created by the opening scenes with a scene of Conrad in his bedroom being awakened in a cold sweat by a nightmare. Soon thereafter we get a brief flashback of a boating accident in a storm, presumably involving Conran. It is then that we realize that this film is going to have some complexities.In very short order we are thrown into the nitty-gritty of the Jarrett's family dynamics, which are difficult to say the least. We find out that Conrad's brother Buck was lost in the boating accident and that has precipitated a crisis in the family.Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) is the most difficult to understand and sympathize with. By the time we meet her she is obsessed with public appearances and the privacy of her family, at the expense of honest communication. She has a clear image of how things should be and rejects any evidence to the contrary. The complicating issue is that, in a flashback, we see that she was open and affectionate with her son Buck. Was Buck the only one who could break through her rigid conceptions of how things should be, or was it that he just fit into her world-view? Was the way she dealt with her son's death to retreat into an obsession with trying to control her world? Does she have deep emotions and is afraid to let them out, or is coolness and a desire only to skate on the surface a defining personality trait? You are inclined to believe the latter when Beth makes statements to her husband like, Don't try to change me. If I can't go around hugging everybody all the time the way you do, then I'm sorry. I'm me, this is my family. If we have problems, then we'll solve those problems in the privacy of our own home. Whatever the case, Mary Tyler Moore creates a striking characterization in her Oscar nominated performance. The hug that Conrad gives his mother toward the end has the be the most awkward ever recorded on film.Calvin (Donald Sutherland) means well but, until the crisis precipitated by his son's death forces him into it, he has never tried to piece together what is going on with his loved ones and how he can make a difference. He has never paid much attention to some fleeting concerns about Conrad. The crisis brings a lot of questions up for him and he struggles for answers. The crisis has changed him and watching the gradual changes brought on by his beginning to ask meaningful questions about himself and others is one of the delights of the film.Timothy Hutton is brilliant as the tortured Conrad. Seeing this performance by such a young actor almost makes you think that he could go on to be another James Dean--he truly shines in the most intense, dramatic scenes. Even though Hutton has had a good career, he has never achieved the status of superstar. Maybe that is not what he ever wanted, but he can be proud of this Oscar winning performance; he makes you care about Conrad as he works through his problems.Then there is Judd Hirsch as Dr. Berger. No Freudian stuff going on with him. No fancy office, no couch, no delving into early childhood complexes. Berger simply wants to address the problems at hand head-on. Would that we all had a Dr. Berger in our lives.Since this family could communicate only when repressed emotions boiled over, they were probably doomed from the moment of their tragedy. The film goes beyond the family in its analysis of the adverse effects of how social pressures restrain people from saying anything near the truth. When Calvin is asked at a party how Conran is doing, he says, Great, just great. Only under extensive questioning by Dr. Berger can Conrad come clean. And Beth seems unable to say anything to her friends more than what she thinks will present a good image.You don't want to unload your problems on people at every opportunity, but this movie makes the case that being as closed down as the Jarretts has serious consequences. "},{"Title":"An Extra Ordinary film","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ******SPOILERS*******There are so many reasons I love this movie. To begin with, there's Robert Redford's direction. I can't think of another movie he has directed that I'd call memorable, but he certainly got it right on this one. From the opening shot of the lake, more meaningful for those not viewing the film for the first time, somberly presented with the delicate first notes of the Pacobel Canon. Then the picturesque scenes around Lake Forrest in all it's Autumnal glory, as the music gradually builds. A perfect upper-middle class neighborhood, with perfect houses and perfect lawns. But we soon learn that all is not perfect in this scene as Redford cuts from Conrad Jarrett singing with the glee club, to Conrad Jarret suddenly sitting bolt upright in bed, gasping for breath and drenched in sweat. The cause his brother died in a boating accident, after which Conrad tried to commit suicide.A few scenes later Redford tellingly begins the breakfast scene with a shot of Beth's hands setting glasses of orange juice on the table - first two glasses set down together, then the third glass very deliberately placed on the table by itself. In this simple gesture we get an immediate sense of Conrad's feelings of isolation, even in his own home, and Beth's idea of his position in the family. It is in this same scene that we first witness Beth's callous attitude toward her youngest son. The way she immediately takes away his French toast when he says he's not hungry, not even giving him a chance to change his mind, and brusquely shoves it down the garbage disposal. When her husband Calvin protests she coldly tells him, You can't save French toast. Possibly a metaphor for how she feels about her damaged son. Then comes the condescending attitude, when she asks him if he wants her to sign him up for a golf tournament. He says, I haven't played in a year. She counters with a judgmental, Don't you think it's time you did? In other words, Beth thinks it's high time her weak son got over his suicidal angst. In this deceptively simple scene Redford neatly sets the tone for the 3 main characters troubled, isolated Conrad; supportive, puzzled Calvin; cold, unfeeling Beth.The acting is brilliant. Hutton is easy to identify with as Conrad. The scenes where he courts Jeannine Pratt ( an engaging Elizabeth McGovern) show his warm and endearing side. He also skillfully captures Conrad's emotional turmoil. His scenes with Dr Berger (Judd Hirsch) show great range and depth. Their emotional breakthrough is honest and touching (and, by the way, copied almost shot-for-shot in the film Good Will Hunting). Donald Sutherland hits the right notes as Calvin Jarrett. His big emotional scene at the end rings true precisely because of his steady, supportive characterization throughout the entire film. I love the scene where he talks to Beth about the day their son died. Hirsch is also quite good as Conrad's psychologist.Top acting honors, however, must go to Mary Tyler Moore as Beth Jarrett. It would be easy to have Beth become a stereotypical monster mother whose rigid, demanding, unloving personality have probably contributed as much to her son's mental state as the family tragedy they have endured. But MTM's Beth isn't one dimensional. We see her warm moments, mostly with her husband and in a couple of key flashbacks. She's that good friend you think you're close to, but not really. Moore has so many great moments in the film. The scene with Conrad in the backyard, when she tries to draw him out, then quickly retreats when he mentions his dead brother. There's the picture-taking scene, which begins like a Kodak commercial, endures a blow-up by Conrad, and ends with the unflappable Beth casually saying, Smile as she snaps a picture. There's the big Christmas tree scene, where it becomes obvious that one sure way to draw Beth's ire is to let a friend find out personal family info before she knows about it. I also love the scene where she has lunch with Calvin in the department store. They're discussing private family business when a waitress intrudes. The way Moore cuts off her sentence, gives the waitress a curt, superficial smile, then resumes her sentence after the waitress leaves, is shear genius. But my favorite scene is the big golfing blow-up, where we see Beth go from being a lucky golfer to a screaming harpy in a matter of seconds. You have to feel sorry for her brother, Ward, when he steps in and tells her everybody just wants her to be happy. He should know better, having grown up with Beth. Her scathing reply make it clear she knows a lot about being unhappyHappy? Ward you tell me what's happy? But first you better make sure your kids are safe. That none of them have fallen out of a tree, or been hit by a car, or drowned in that pool you're so proud of! Then you come to me and tell me how to be happy!I think Mary Tyler Moore gives a near perfect performance in Ordinary People. With apologies to Sissy Spacek, MTM deserved the Best Actress Oscar.One criticism of OP that I've heard is that it ends too neatly. Their complaint was something along the lines of, Not every kid gets better. I don't see how this applies to OP. Sure, Conrad was helped by his therapy, and at the end of the film he is better, though I get the sense he is far from healed. As for his family, it has been devastated AND strengthened at the same time. OP is a hopeful film that deals with complex issues in a very satisfying manner. I think it has aged well over the past 30 years, and it still ranks as one of my favorite films of all time. "},{"Title":"Moving if Sombre Human Drama","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are a number of directors who have succeeded in making a masterpiece on their directorial debut; the examples who come to mind are Orson Welles (Citizen Kane), Sidney Lumet (Twelve Angry Men), Bryan Forbes (Whistle Down the Wind), Stuart Rosenberg (Cool Hand Luke), Kevin Costner (Dances with Wolves) and Sam Mendes (American Beauty).Like Costner, Robert Redford is better known as an actor than as a director, but he too had a remarkable success with the first film he directed, Ordinary People, which won the Best Picture Oscar for 1980. Like Kramer v Kramer, which won the same award the previous year, it is a family drama. It is also remarkably conservative for an Oscar-winning film from such a late date. We tend to think of the late sixties and seventies as a revolutionary period in Hollywood history, a time of ground-breaking or experimental films such as The Godfather, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest or Apocalypse Now. Redford himself had acted in some of those films, such as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Ordinary People, however, harks back to the days before the cinematic revolution. It is made in what I think of as the filmed theatre style, concentrating more on dialogue than on physical action and with most of the action taking place indoors. Although it was based upon a novel rather than a stage play, it reminded me both in style and content of those Tennessee Williams adaptations such as Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, which were popular in the fifties and early sixties.The film tells the story of the Jarretts, an affluent Chicago family. As the film opens, Calvin and Beth Jarrett are trying to come to terms with the attempted suicide of their teenage son, Conrad. From Conrad's conversations with his parents, and his sessions with his psychiatrist Dr Berger, we learn that his suicide attempt was motivated by a sense of guilt stemming from his involvement in a sailing accident in which his elder brother Buck was killed. Even before the accident, Conrad suffered from feelings of inferiority towards Buck, who was a gifted scholar and athlete and clearly his parents' favourite. Beth, in particular, makes little secret of the fact that she preferred her older son. The tensions in the family eventually lead to the breakdown of Beth and Calvin's marriage, but Calvin and Conrad are able to reach out and forgive one another. The film has some similarities with Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, which also ends with a father-son reconciliation. In that film too the son has been troubled by guilt feelings stemming from a death, in that case the suicide of a close friend.Although this style of film-making may have seemed out of tune with the seventies Zeitgeist, there were occasionally some good examples from that decade, such as Robert Mulligan's Same Time, Next Year from 1978, and Redford here shows that the style has some solid virtues. It can be an excellent way of making films which concentrate on character, psychology or human relationships, which rely on good writing and acting rather than on spectacle, and Redford is here well served by his actors. The casting of Mary Tyler Moore as Beth was inspired. She was, of course, best known as an actress in television sit-coms, but her character here is essentially a sit-com character who suddenly finds herself in a serious drama. When tragedy hits her family, Beth goes on behaving as though she were the perfect all-American housewife and mother from a sit-com, retreating into a world of housework and charity to avoid having to confront her emotions. As Roger Ebert put it, Beth masks her inner sterility behind a facade of cheerful suburban perfection.I have to say that I did not agree with Timothy Hutton's Oscar for Best Supporting Actor, because he was obviously playing a leading role rather than a supporting one, and was presumably nominated in this category so that he did not have to compete against the likes of Robert de Niro and John Hurt for Best Actor in a Leading Role. (Kate Winslet's recent Best Supporting Actress for her leading role in The Reader shows that this sort of manipulation is still going on). There was, however, nothing wrong with Hutton's performance, which is a fine and sensitive one, revealing the agony and grief which are destroying Conrad's life.I also liked Judd Hirsch as Dr Berger. Psychiatrists are often shown in the media either as godlike healers of the soul or as comic characters, funny little men with goatee beards, Germanic accents and an obsession with sex. Hirsch's portrayal gets away from both these stereotypes, showing Berger as an rounded human being, honest and caring but not flawless or omniscient. My favourite performance, however, came from Donald Sutherland as the agonised Calvin, desperately trying to cope with the disintegration of his family. Calvin is a flawed individual, but he has an inner strength and warmth which his wife lacks. I was very surprised that Sutherland was the only one of the four main actors who did not receive an Oscar nomination.Ordinary People would not perhaps have been my choice for Best Picture of 1980; my vote would probably have gone to The Elephant Man or Polanski's Tess. Nevertheless, it is a fine and moving, if often sombre, human drama, laying bare the tensions that can exist at the heart of even seemingly perfect families. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Even Since 1980, It's Not Regularly In Mainstream American Movies That We Get Characters Who Confront These Sorts of Trepidations.","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like a much more accessible Ingmar Bergman film, this simple, honestly titled film begins in a way I wish more films would, just as all of the chaos is falling apart. If you would imagine your life in a dramatic form like that of a movie, you would realize that the drama never really ends. Problems become history, people do as well, but old wounds open up, residual pain affects behavior in unsuspecting situations and characters are forever changed by what one would perceive as over according to classic linear film structure.This moving film's essential problems revolve almost apprehensively around the complications and density of love. It doesn't cerebrally analyze it all. It is almost nervous about the core of its subject matter. Two upper-class parents and their remaining teenage son all love each other, sure enough. But the father's love for the son is genuine though also tongue-tied, virtually reticent. The son's love for his mother is opposed by his certainty that she doesn't really love him, that she only loved his older brother, who was recently killed. And the love between the two parents is one of the most realistic loves I've seen in the movies of my recent memory, a long-time marriage which is one of those stable realities that both accept and presume and neither has ever really assessed or examined.This drama, Robert Redford's directorial debut, develops this triangular emotional standoff in the course of an autumn and winter. What I respect most about this melancholy family tragedy is that it truly does expand its characters and the transformations they experience. It shows them doing a very complicated element to accomplish in narrative, characters that change, understand, and intensify. They may augment, they may diminish.Integral to the transformation is the surviving son, a young Timothy Hutton, who won an Oscar for his performance. He is enormously suffering as this novel-based insight opens. He is dictated by worry and phobia, with no self-worth, and the accepted opinion that he is not loved by his mother. He starts going to psychiatrist Judd Hirsch. He condemns himself for his brother's death. He's something of an outsider at school on account of his suicide attempt. He does have a few friends, a girl he met at the hospital, and another girl who stands behind him at choir practice and who would, ordinarily, of course become his girlfriend.The instability concentrates on the mother, played by Mary Tyler Moore, superb casting for this specific character, in which the role veils her hidden barrenness behind an outward show of merry uptown aptness. She's magnificent at keeping her commercially ideal house in order. She's socially active, she's an operator, and so her impression is that she's a model family woman, apart from that to some deep-seated degree she is deficient in the fundamental maternal instinct of a woman. She's self-centered, she can't really give, and she has, indeed, always loved the dead older son more. Donald Sutherland is one of those fathers who wants to do and feel the right things, in his own clumsy manner. He goes through one of the saddest changes, becoming conscious that his wife cannot sincerely take care of others, he doubts his own love for her for the first time.Redford depicts a suburban environment with an unassuming understatement. There are no presumable implications against suburban lifestyles or material comfort or characteristics. The problems of the people we are shown aren't attributable to their scene, but breed from themselves. Furthermore, they learn they have no choice but to face them. That's what sets the film aside from the high-class soap operas of today in which melodrama is born out of cancelling a wedding or overeating or infidelity. Each character in this accomplishment is imparted the occasion to look within themselves, to doubt their own reasons in addition to the intentions of those around them, and to try to mend their own ways of coping with a difficult point in life, not spending a year flip-flopping on whether to forgive a cheating husband or sweating over a bridal gown. Two of the characters do realize how to change. We wish we could say the same about the third. Even since 1980, it's not regularly in mainstream American movies that we get characters who confront those sorts of trepidations, nor mainstream American directors on their first time at the helm who hunt for them&#133;and beat out Scorsese at the Oscars as a result! "},{"Title":"Still resonates","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this tonight on TCM. It is still a perfectly crafted analysis of a family in meltdown, with a directorial deftness of touch that handles the material quietly but insistently, never shouting. Mary Tyler Moore, for instance, gives a perfect performance as the Stepford mum - or Mom - who refuses to lose control and give way to the mess of life and emotion, seeing that as unseemly turmoil. Sutherland is, as ever, excellent. And Hirsch turns in a great performance as the psychiatrist, though I believe some professionals felt it too one-dimensional. I disagree, though I'm not a shrink.I was thinking while watching it, if you were asked to name your top ten movies of each decade from the 40s on, you'd have little trouble - from All About Eve, Rebecca, Key Largo etc through to Cool Hand Luke, Cincinnati Kid, Dr No, Saturday Night Fever, Mean Streets, The Godfather I and II, Once Upon A time In America - I could go on all night - you'd have troubles when you came to the 80s. All that springs to mind is slightly embarrassing crap like Footloose, Top Gun, Dirty Dancing and so on.This film - albeit probably shot in the 70s, just - makes you realise there was a lot of good to come out of that much- (and often rightly) maligned decade.One last point - watching the credits roll I noticed that Redford didn't bill himself. Unusual modesty or what? "},{"Title":"Semiotics","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 2. The cinematic codes used in this film were, I believe, the ones that pursued greatly a major contribution to the general theme and primarily created the atmosphere that was appropriate and all-encompassing. Of course the camera work, as I have mentioned earlier, helped a lot in terms of the creation of spatial relationships between characters and also in making good use of the actors' capabilities. But the one thing that stood out in my observation as something that had given a lot of significant meanings all throughout the film was how every shot was lit.It is interesting to note how the lighting changed when two of the major characters, Beth and Calvin, were talking outside the house (when Calvin just arrived from visiting Dr. Berger). They were positioned in such a manner that the light coming out of the door from the house seemed ghastly but cathartic. By this time, Calvin was trying to talk to Beth about Buck's funeral &#150; one of the major things that she was avoiding ever since Buck died. What I thought about this was that the exterior was lit in the way that only the face of Calvin was highlighted and everything else was dark. Beth was right beside the door and in a few steps, could go to the dark-lit part where Calvin was standing or go right inside the house where the light source was coming from. The significance of this to the general theme was Beth's avoidance of the dilemma represented by her trying to go inside while Calvin tries to force her to talk about it and stay in the darkness. Also, Beth was trying hard to convince him to go inside and not talk. The lighting, in this particular scene, created a two-sided inference of whether the major issue should be confronted or not. This was represented by the dark and the well-lit sides of Calvin's and Beth's and how it opposed and contrasted each other.Also, another group of scenes to note is how Conrad was lit every time he visits Dr. Berger. His first visit, it seemed like additional light sources were used. Fluorescent lights inside Dr. Berger's office and the ones coming from outside the windows highlighted the characters and the set. Conrad was well-lit in this particular scene and it is interesting to note that this created a sort of irony in the sense that his first visit was actually the time where he concealed most about what he feels regarding Buck and his agony towards his death. In comparison to this, the second and third instances of the visits actually made an interesting shift from being well-lit to highlighting only a portion of his face with orange as the dominant colour. The third visit, specifically, was where he was shown lounging on a chair and this was the moment where he tried to open more about his feelings. He was then more comfortable talking about Buck's death and in some sense, he already trusted Dr. Berger. Then in the succeeding visits, it goes back to being well-lit paralleled with his again, trying to swerve from discussing his feelings and actually denying his problem and neglecting the need to confront it. After this, the lighting sort of varies with his decision to open up or deny his inhibitions. Furthermore, his last (and considerably most emotional) visit to Dr. Berger was the most darkly-lit of all instances. This was particularly where he told him everything &#150; about how he felt when Buck died (it was shown as if he was talking to Buck through Dr. Berger) and what has become of his relationship with his mother. "},{"Title":"An intense emotional drama made up of a witty script, brilliant performances, and great direction by Robert Redford","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The main reason why I rented this movie was because I wanted to see whether it was better than its two big Best Picture nominees in 1980 Raging Bull and The Elephant Man. After seeing, I can understand why it was the Best Picture winner. To describe Ordinary People in a phrase, it is an intense emotional drama of a family torn by tragedy.I love all the actors' performances in this movie. They each made a character of their own. Mary Tyler Moore is detached as the mother Beth Jarrett, who can't stand her suicidal and depressed son Conrad (Timothy Hutton). Conrad sees a psychiatrist (Judd Hirsch) by his father's suggestion (Donald Sutherland) who tries to keep the family together. The one of several things that blew me away about this movie is Hutton's performance. He isn't theatrical or rehearsed in his role as a troubled teen. Rather, he becomes his character. He did so well that I can sympathize and relate to him (as a person myself who has gone through a rough time in my teen years). His Oscar was well-deserved though I still wonder why he was considered supporting instead of the lead (since he was in most of the movie). Donald Sutherland, an actor who I don't care much for, delivers an extremely grand performance as a father who is willing to do anything to help his son and wife. I'm surprised he didn't get an Oscar nom. Judd Hirsch is not in the movie a whole lot, but every second he is in it, he delivers fluent lines of wisdom and humor to the troubled Conrad. Robert Redford's direction captures the film brilliantly, pulling you into the drama and characters' feelings. His Oscar was well earned. Ordinary People is an emotional drama delivered by a witty script and brilliant performances in which many people living the American dream can relate to. However, it is a very depressing movie since its topics are on suicide, tragedy, loss, depression etc. It's not a movie for everyone but it is great nonetheless. I will be honest though, I still like the Elephant Man more. "},{"Title":"Ordinary story extraordinary treatment","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another great movie from 80s, hints at how complex a relationship between a son and mother can be which is believed to be one of the strongest relationship among human beings. The movie has been well casted, father does a great job of trying to keep his family together, pretty close to being real indeed. All the characters have been well developed including the psychiatrist. The director has done a great job at putting together the dialogues, the acting & the character. Nothing in the movie seems like an abrupt addition. Couple of shots where the mother just explodes, were well walked to, you can see it coming. Another theme the movie touches is no matter how wealthy you are, your peace of mind is not guaranteed. It is hard to say who was the best actor in the movie but son would be my call since he reflects how hard it could be for someone to be a teen who already have their own problems of understanding how to deal with the outside world, which they have been just exposed to. And on top of that if you just loose one of your loved ones, a guilt sprouting out of that and a mother you do not get along well with. A well treated movie and hence the Oscars.. "},{"Title":"The drama of real life","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are films that are made of cherished moments and there are others who don't have any and they really are betting more on the work of the actors or the entire structure of the film in general. Ordinary People can put it in the final classification, because when I'm writing this I think of some really memorable scene within the film and I don't remember any specific that has impacted me, but I may say that history is well made because the intent of Robert Redford, as director of the movie, is met by a simple way showing that the common life is also full of drama and that ordinary people also suffer, laments and dreams with a happy life.The problem with this film lies at times because in some moments is too slow the characters evolution and the moments of crisis takes a lot to appear, something that happens in real life but would have been helpful for the public if everything had happened so more agile. Another detail that for me seal the film is the three main performances because there lies the story, unfortunately, although Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler plays at the level it needed to move feelings, one like the comprehensive father who fights for being a happy family and she like the mother who blames her son for the death of the firstborn, but not happens the same same thing with the Jarret's son, played by Timothy Hutton, whose acting, or rather say over acting, makes the impact on the death of his brother less credible and transforms the film in a soap opera.Even with some details the balance is tilted more toward the virtues of the film that makes enjoyable the drama of real life. "},{"Title":"Far superior to 'Raging Bull'.","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very compelling and emotional drama about a family falling apart. I found it especially compelling due to how much I relate to Conrad Jarrett. His emotions and his reactions to those feel like they came right from my life, as did the relationships he had with his parents. The mother who didn't seem to care; the father who cared so much, but didn't know how to help. It was almost painful watching the film because I was scared of seeing how his life was going to turn out; for the majority of the film it seemed to only be getting worse and there's one scene that had me glued to the screen but completely afraid to see how it would result. It's an absolutely stunning film with highly emotional scenes that are going to stick with me for quite some time. The writing is realistic and sharp, with a few chinks here and there. But it's really the performances that make the film. Donald Sutherland is effortlessly perfect in one of the biggest snubs in Oscar history. His lack of a nomination is baffling. Mary Tyler Moore is frighteningly cold. But the star of the film is the young Timothy Hutton who gives one of the greatest performances I've ever seen. For such a young actor to realistically portray such strong, painful emotions both internally and externally is absolutely miraculous. "}{"Title":"One of the best ever best picture winners to be forgotten","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Conrad is the youngest son of Cal and Beth, and recovering from clinical depression and a suicide attempt after a boating accident killed his elder brother, Bucky. The family is fractured and both Cal and Beth are on auto pilot through their daily lives, of the two of them, however, Cal is the only one slightly aware of it.The family itself is from a middle class background and the film examines what happens when something goes wrong for one of these oh so ordinary and perfect families for whom tragedy is an unexpected and unknown visitor. Beth hates Conrad for both surviving and for not coping as Conrad is most like her, Cal is desperate to look after Cal and not lose what he's got, while Conrad himself wants to regain control outwardly, but what he really longs for is not to feel any more, feeling that he is responsible in some way for his brother's death.As the film progresses and Conrad's therapy starts we learn more about the family before the accident, with the oh-so popular Bucky appearing more like a foolhardy Jock that, perhaps, in hind sight, wasn't as great as the more laid back Conrad, with things finally resolving and reaching crisis point at the same time.This is one of the great forgotten best picture winners of the last thirty years that is full of award winning performances, with Judd Hirsch as Condrad's Doctor, played with both warmth, conviction and professionalism, Timothy Hutton's Oscar winning turn as the shattered Conrad who sees, feels and recollects the tragedy that has occurred ever single day, but the towering performance coming from a Mary Tyler Moore so unlike anything she has done before as she is incapable of growing and moving on from what has happened.Robert Redford's direction is subtle, combining the coming to terms with tragedy with the bland ordinariness of daily lives, with the handling of Conrad's depression being especially touching (The echoes of which can be seen in the 'okay' Good Will Hunting).A touching and emotionally connecting film that once seen stays with you, long after the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Truly heartbreaking and great acting","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the greatest movie in the 80s. The character is 3 dimensional and the story is well told. Timothy Hutton in his best role in his career deserves an Oscar. He conveys how a depressed person is by his eyes and his facial emotion. That is a great character study from someone that young. Mary also plays well as cold, emotionally repressed mother where her emotion is not shared to anyone. She doesn't want to face with the problem directly and just wants it to be just fine. The kind of perfect mother who is actually flawed in her emotion. totally deserving Oscar for that role which is a very complex one to play. The direction is superb by the multi-talented Robert Redford. Some of quotes are worth quoting for psychiatry profession too. Great Great movie. However, I think the movie is a bit too slow...that's all I can say about the flaw... "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable and pure films ever made.","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find films like this very enjoyable, the ones that deal with death and people trying to go on with living and having more problems as they go along.This film is so true and real, the story is excellent and the cast is great with some very good directing by Redford and just the overall feel of this movie is something amazing.It's a feeling that only a few films have captured, five easy pieces being one and the feeling is something of a entertainment while you are seeing tragedy.Kinda like a john Irving book, where there is such horrible things going on and people having to deal with them and yet you find yourself very happy and that is because the film or the book is done so good that no matter what happens it will be great.This is also do to the characters in ordinary people, who are just ordinary people that have the problems we all have and feel the emptiness we all do sometimes.When a writer or director can capture that it's great, and ordinary people is one of the best examples at how that is executed almost perfect. "},{"Title":"Not the best picture of 1980, but still good","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I finally saw the movie that beat out Raging Bull for Best Director and Best Picture. While this wasn't a bad film at all, I have a hard time seeing why this movie beat Raging Bull in either of those categories! Anyways, onto the review...Ordinary People is about a seemingly ordinary family. However, you quickly see that their family is anything but ordinary. The oldest son recently died in a boating accident in which the younger son feels responsible for, so much so that he attempted suicide and was just recently released from the hospital. Also, the mother doesn't show affection for her son as the older son was clearly her favorite. And the father desperately is trying to keep his son happy and his family together. As the movie progresses we see each member of the family try to cope with their problems in their own way and try to get back to an ordinary life.Timothy Hutton does a magnificent job at portraying the son who only wants to know that his mother loves him. This is a very good first directorial effort by Robert Redford, as it tugs at your heart and really makes you think twice about how you treat people. I must warn that it is a pretty depressing movie, but is important as it shows the importance of showing your feelings and not holding them inside. Again, it's a really good movie, even if it did win a few more awards than it should have. ;) "},{"Title":"Redford's first step of the way","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The industry loves Robert Redford; they really do and they've always have. So when he directed his first feature, he had to be in the spotlight. It's not like he wanted to, but it was a matter of fate. Maybe Scorsese's fans still feel disappointed today and maybe this is isn't the greatest film in history, but it is at least a proof to show Redford was a gifted director from the beginning and that he chose a very strong and interesting topic for his first piece Ordinary People.The fact that the characters of the film are so palpable and human makes me think. And it's not the first time with this movie; today, each time I catch a movie about real daily lives, I pay attention to all the elements I want it to be real, because those are the films I like more. When this picture commences, you can perfectly listen to a Canon. It is not original music, but even when there's a composer, music is what this movie uses less. The opening credits are also seen with the sky as a background, quickly, desperate for the movie to start. The passion for making films can be felt.Now the story is being told, in the words of Alvin Sargent, screenwriter who based his thing in a novel by Judith Guest, and his adaptation is remarkable, because the tension can be felt, the chats don't seem fakes. There's no intention of complexity or poetry in some words, but that's exactly what had to be done. I was eagerly thinking, although, in today's screenplays of these type. Cameron Crowe and his natural way to say things; Paul Thomas Anderson, when he does not try to be Shakespeare&#133;.Good or not (very good for me) the story tries to show us what this family lives, with no special intentions. It could have been any other, and this one sadly has very important issues to carry with. When Conrad's (Timothy Hutton) brother die, he felt guilty, but he just doesn't say it. He knows that, and he also knows he is violent, boring and a little dangerous. He begs for control and the one who'll help him is Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch), during sessions of very well written talks. Sargent analyzes this relationship and the one Con has with Jeannine and other people comparing each word, each position, with cameras and settings.And it doesn't work only with Conrad; it works with the other main characters. Calvin Jarrett's (Donald Sutherland; a fine performance but not as strong as the others) life involves friends reunions and encounters, his relationship with his younger son and the memory of the elder's dead, and the most powerful element maybe of the whole film, his relationship with his wife Beth (Mary Tyler Moore); who also has to deal with her brother, her now only son and everyone in the society.The screenplay doesn't miss a thing, and hits hard when Beth tries to talk with Conrad outside, or when he tells her his good grade in a test, or the disturbing moment when Cal wants to take a picture of his wife and son together, and she refuses to stand still, asking for the camera. She can't hug her son for the photograph, her smile is faked. With a lot of noise and movement that keep Cal from taking the picture, Conrad suddenly shouts Give her the f***in' camera!. Then there's a family discussion about family caring She never went to the hospital to visit, because she was in her trips to Europe, Conrad tells his father referring to Beth. But if Buck had been there, you would have visited, right?. So Conrad goes quickly upstairs, but not quickly enough to miss his mother's scream Buck would never have been in the hospital!. Because Calvin cares for everyone, but Beth fears that people finds out his son sees a psychiatrist&#133;See the difference?Performances are key to the movie's success, and although Mary Tyler Moore carries the thing, the supporting portrayals highlight the most. Timothy Hutton trapped focused driven representation of a screwed up kid is wonderful; you can tell he's trying to improve. However, it is Judd Hirsch as the understanding psychiatrist the one who makes the best out of the screenplay for me. He says everything fast, in the same tone of voice, like he didn't care; and that seems easy. But when the strength is required, he accomplishes magically.Redford's camera is the other main character I didn't mention. His first film already had elements he'd repeat later in his few directed movies. The golf this family played would be the central theme of the astonishing The Legend of Bagger Vance. The ones who doubted of his directing talent should also see the perfectly crafted Quiz Show. Besides directing the actors perfectly, because he is an actor, he makes the camera the important element not many care about. So he places still shots, so the camera can wait for the characters and watch them do their life&#133;In conversations between two persons, he just shoots the face of each of them when they are speaking, he is studying the characters. Characters and life&#133;Two words instantly related.A lot of things happen in Redford's debut, including a conversation I feel tempted to reveal, but even if I spoke, it would be up to you. It would be up to you to decide what each of the characters think, what they've buried, what they feel, and most importantly; why&#133; "},{"Title":"Don't admire people too much, they might disappoint you.  - Calvin Jarrett","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Few films are so emotionally involved with it's subject and audience that it's almost too painful to watch. 'Ordinary People', Robert Redford's directorial debut, is a perfect example of these kinds of motion pictures. I've wanted to see this film for the longest time because of all it's positive buzz from both film critics and film buffs, and it's cast of incredible actors such as Donald Sutherland, Judd Hirsch, Mary Tyler Moore and Timothy Hutton was also appealing. I came across a copy of it at my local videostore and I knew I had to get it to see if it lived up to all it's hype (after all it did win Best Motion Picture of the Year over Scorsese's electrifying boxing biopic 'Raging Bull'). After I finished 'Ordinary People', I wasn't disappointed one bit. The film actually turned out to be better then I expected, with great directing (Redford won the Oscar), excellent writing and some of the finest acting a film has ever had. I guess you can say 'Ordinary People' succeeded in winning me over. Winner of five Academy Awards including Best Picture, 'Ordinary People' is a powerful and captivating story of a family's struggle after loosing the eldest son to a freak boating . The film mostly surrounds the surviving son, Conrad 'Connie' Jarrett (Timothy Hutton). Conrad blames himself for what happened to his brother because he was there with him on the boat the night he drowned, and couldn't do anything to save him. We find Conrad fresh out of a mental hospital after a severe attempt, dealing with loss of his brother, his rocky relationship with his parents and his natural tendency to blame himself for everything. Conrad's father, Calvin (Donald Sutherland) is always supportive and tries to be there for Conrad, while his mother, Beth (Mary Tyler Moore), who finds it impossible to show much needed affection to her guilt-ridden son. Conrad starts seeing a psychiatrist, Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch), to talk about his guilt issues, his friction with his parents and trying to get on with life. As the film progresses you see that Conrad isn't the only person in the family going through troubles, both Calvin and Beth have a hard time dealing with their eldest son's -- Calvin tries to talk about it and get passed it, while Beth tries her best to ignore it. 'Ordinary People' follows the struggle of this seemingly perfect wealthy Surburban household's struggle to get back to normal or something resembling it.Although I thought 'Raging Bull' should have beaten out 'Ordinary People' for Best Picture, I can definitely see why it won. 'Ordinary People' is a film a lot more people can relate to, then 'Raging Bull'. It deals with an issue that every parent fears more then anything in the world, and the struggles and hardships to recover or try to get past it. Robert Redford does a fabulous job with his directorial debut, while Alvin Sargent delivers a screenplay so moving, well-written and powerfully realistic that it's no wonder he picked up a much deserved Oscar for 'Best Adapted Screenplay'. I feel the best quality of this Oscar winner is the acting. Donald Sutherland gives such an incendiary and heart- wrenching performance that it's an absolute abomination he didn't receive an Academy Award nomination for Best Leading Actor. Mary Tyler Moore is magnificent in her startling turn as the unloving and emotionally scarred mother, while Judd Hirsch is perfectly cast in the role of the caring psychiatrist. However, the best aspect of the entire feature is definitely the astonishing and utterly amazing powerhouse of a performance of young Timothy Hutton (who rightfully received an Oscar for Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role). Hutton does such a flawless job creating a character as complex, conflicted, heart-broken and confused as Conrad Jarrett. Everything about this film is -on except for it having some pacing problems towards the beginning. I urge you if you haven't already to take the time to sit down and view this stunning motion picture that I guarantee will move you emotionally. Grade A-MADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #115 "},{"Title":"Family deals with grief over loss of son","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Story of a family dealing with the loss of a son shows that such a circumstance is an ordeal for all surviving loved ones. Mary Tyler Moore, playing the mother, has the most difficulty going on with life, unable to cope with the fact that her favorite is gone, growing ever colder toward her other son, who in turn suffers from the mother's lack of affection towards him.Timothy Hutton (in the role of the surviving son) won an Oscar for his portrayal of a sensitive teenager caught in the middle of family frictions. Donald Sutherland also gives a memorable performance as the father who eventually saves his family from the emotionally destructive forces stemming from the grieving mother.This is a powerful account of a circumstance affecting more people than we may think. When someone dies (especially if it was a sudden, untimely death), a big part within the loved ones dies as well. There is a strong advocacy for grief counseling, urging people not to go it alone. There is nothing ordinary about Ordinary People. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Conrad is surrounding by many realistic problems; a main one, being his own mother.","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are an enormous amount of flashbacks in Ordinary People. Whenever there were flashbacks, there would be absolutely no music playing at that very moment. There is very little soundtrack throughout the movie which leaves the audience in more suspense. There is music in serious and emotional parts; this makes the audience get a lonely feeling or sense. Redford did an excellent job not showing Buck, Calvin's brother, never alive but he was still shown in Calvin's memory. The movie ends with Calvin's dad saying, Don't admire people too much, they will disappoint you sometimes. This is referring to his wife, Beth, who is utterly rude and disrespectful to both her husband and especially her own son. This movie definitely led the audience to feel how they wanted to feel and it was interesting to see the different relationships among people, and the different ways you can react to a certain situation. "},{"Title":"a catharsis for the viewer","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some films evoke emotion from the watcher, but they can only be watched once. I'm not sure why that is - I know as much as I loved The Way We Were, I can't go through that pain again. Ordinary People is not that type of movie. It is one that people go back to, sometimes yearly, relive, and cry their faces off. I know I do. Maybe it's because we can relate to all of these characters so strongly.Beautifully directed by Robert Redford, this film is filled with brilliant performances. Mary Tyler Moore's stands out. The perfect woman, the perfect homemaker, the perfect socialite...on the face of it, that is. Moore's Beth is a woman who lost her capacity to love her younger son, or to connect, really, with anyone, because of his unforgivable sin. Though others commenting have mentioned some strong scenes, Hutton's coming to grips with his sin in Hirsch's office is the one that always leaves me breathless.This movie should be in the top 250. It's one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"It holds up well","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A lot of movies become dated after 25 years, but Ordinary People could have been made today. When I saw it in the theater in 1980, I hadn't been out of high school long and Timothy Hutton, who graduated a year after I did from the same high school (Berkeley High), was only 19. He was the youngest man to win the academy award (for Best Actor) at that time. It was well-deserved. Yesterday I watched it in a high school Health class I was covering, with students who weren't even born when it was made and haven't heard of the actors and actresses in it (I pointed out that Donald Sutherland is Keifer Sutherland's father). The pained expressions on some of the faces watching told me that it still has emotional impact. One thing I noticed this time around is the similarity of Hutton's performance to James Dean's in Rebel Without a Cause especially his scenes with the psychiatrist and with his father.  "}{"Title":"thought-provoking, moving...you can feel the pain and relate","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are over 75 Best Picture winners out there...and Ordinary People is probably one of the least discussed of the bunch. What a shame...because it is one of the best.A fractured family...an uncaring mother...a father who wants to make it all right...a tormented son. All lead up to a difficult decision for the father.Donald Sutherland as the father of the family easily gives the best performance of his career here...even better than Klute. If this fine actor was ever going to earn a Best Actor nomination is would have been here...but his years of anti-establishment ways apparently have doomed him in the Academy's eyes...much like Paul Newman was prejudiced against before he finally won one. Sutherland gives an incredibly emotional performance as the father trying to understand and save his tortured son. I mention his performance before anyone else's because all the others get the ink and his is the chain that holds them all together and he never gets his due credit for it.Timothy Hutton emerged on the scene as a wonderfully gifted young actor with his deeply moving performance of the guilt-ridden and tormented son. He fully deserved his Best Supporting Actor Oscar (which he won over cast mate Judd Hirsch) and you would have thought he would have shot to super stardom from here...but he went the way of other good actors and settled into supporting roles as an adult.Mary Tyler Moore usually gets most of the accolades for this film...but it is her character which I like the least and therefore that leads me to say that she deserves the applause. Usually given perky roles in TV and the cinema...this is an incredible departure from type for her and she pulls it off exceptionally well as the cold, incapable of feeling mother.Judd Hirsch also is very good as the shrink who tries to help Hutton's character figure himself out and straighten out his life...and Elizabeth McGovern makes a name for herself as the tender girlfriend of Hutton's character who is a sounding board for him and his problems.First-time director Robert Redford earns the Oscar here that he could never quite nab for acting. His work is exceptional here and his understanding and handling of the material is of the first-rate caliber that Orson Welles displayed his first time out with Citizen Kane. He skillfully brings Judith Guest's emotionally charged novel to the screen and involves the audience in the story to the point where you feel for each character. Ordinary People, indeed...as they could be YOUR neighbors. Ordinary People...but an extraordinary film.I must also make note of the beautiful opening montage and the splendid classical piano&string piece which accompanies it. I forget the name of it...but I sought out the sheet music and copied it after I had heard it in the soundtrack. It is THAT good.Please don't overlook this gem. It doesn't get the credit it deserves. A 10 in my book.  "},{"Title":"Stunning performances, heartbreaking story","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am presently watching the final credits scroll down, after watchingthe video of Ordinary People. I checked it out from my library, it hasa wonderful selection of videos. This is the second time I havewatched it since bringing it home (watched it yesterday also).I found this site when I looked up Timothy Hutton. For me, hisperformance was the standout, but this is very hard to say when Iconsider Mary Tyler Moore's or Donald Sutherland's. Whatimmense talents these three have!When I first saw Timothy Hutton in this movie, he was singing inthe choir and seemed okay. But slowly the story unfolds, likePachelbel's Canon, layer after layer. Timothy's character, Conrad,carries around a load of guilt that would choke an elephant. Hisolder brother, Buck, drowned accidentally when an unexpectedstorm overturns the boat he and Conrad were sailing. Conradfeels responsible, and it tortures him. He attempted suicideabout a month before the start of the story. His mother, Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) does not allow discussion ofthe accident or Buck or anything uncomfortable, so she is no help,and his father Calvin (Donald Sutherland) is no help either, he isso good-natured and easy-going that everyone seems perfect to him. Conrad eventually goes to see a psychiatrist, Dr. Berger(Judd Hirsch), whose patience and sensitivity helps Conrad to seethat he was not at fault. But things keep happening in Conrad'slife. He quits the swim team, where he excelled; he just couldn'tkeep it up with all his inner turmoil. His friend from the hospitalwho herself had a problem, kills herself and he finds out when hecalls and the person answering the phone tells him. He fallsapart, and turns to the doctor to help him. It is heartwrenching.Timothy Hutton gave an astounding performance, when youlooked at him he LOOKED like someone eaten up by imaginedguilt. His huge eyes looked like they might dissolve any moment,always on the verge of tears. He looked like a squashed person! And Mary Tyler Moore's character, Beth, looked so perfect, was socharming in public, but completely superficial with her family. Sheseemed to me to be always on the verge of a primal scream. Eventually she did something that revealed her way of dealing withlife, I won't say what.Donald Sutherland came across as a dear, sweet man, so kind. He just could not see anything negative in anyone. So he let hiswife get away with not communicating her true feelings. He likedpeace and quiet.This was a terrific movie, it burned holes in the three maincharacters' facades and you saw them turned inside out as thestory peeled away. I used a bit of Kleenex with this one!  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard a few negative comments regarding this movie when I was in high school (less than two years ago).  People my age found Ordinary People dated or otherwise a miserable, aimless, pointless movie.Yes, the movie is old--older than I am.  But that doesn't affect it at all.  Its subject matter is surprisingly more relevant than I could imagine it being 20 years ago.  In terms of quality, this film contains some of the best acting I have ever seen.  Timothy Hutton was quite young here, and this is one of his earliest roles, and it's clear even Donald Sutherland is having a hard time keeping up with him.  It's a crime against humanity that he hasn't had a good role like this since.  Also, the directing is top-notch.  I believe this is the first movie Robert Redford ever directed, and he won Best Picture for it--certainly that should tell you something.In terms of plot, no, it doesn't have a solid story outside of family trying to overcome extreme tragedy.  And yes, it's quite sad.  After watching it, I can't imagine you'd want to go out and have a good time.  You couldn't.  The movie has that much of a deep effect.Ordinary People is a haunting film with amazing acting and excellent directing.  It deserved every award it got and more.  Don't be turned off from this movie by its age--if the age bothers you that much, go watch The Fast and the Furious or some other recent movie that doesn't require much thought or emotional strain.  Because that's what all the movies produced now-a-days are like. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented the movie becuase i didn't read the book and have a test on it tomorrow.  However, this is an amazing film.  Robert Redford has crafted a magnificent film.  The score, which is a slow somber yet ultimately beautiful version of Pachelbel's Canon at first seems an odd choice for a movie of this nature.  However, it fits perfectly.  The performances are amazing.  Sutherland is particularly good as a man who's watching his world fall to pieces and he can't help it.The story is that of a family who is still recovering from the death of one of it's sons a year ago.  The other son attempted suicide and now has been home from an aylum for about a month.  See this movie.  This is a predecessor to the family disfunction genre, which antithisized with the great American Beauty. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh man, this is probably one of my favorite films of all time.  This is truly an extroardinary film off of an even better book, truly wonderful. It deserved the oscars it got and i highly recommend it to anyone who won't get depressed easily. "},{"Title":"Shouldn't have won the oscar","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People is a very good movie. It's very poignant and moving; Robert Redford doesnt try to shove the message down your throat. However, as good as this movie is, I just wonder; how could this ever beat Raging Bull? I'm sorry, but Raging bull in my opinion is one of the greatest movies ever, and Ordinary People can't compare with it. After all, Raging Bull was voted the best movie of the 80's. Ordinary People is a very good movie portraying the way people deal with loss and pain, but it should not have won the Oscar. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking, hopeful","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was deeply touched by this movie.  I was also stimulated by the incredibly fine writing, acting, directing, editing....everything.One thing of note; This movie would appear to be part of a long line of public service messages for the psychiatric profession, including The Seventh Veil and Good Will Hunting.  Amazingly, profoundly, the film suffers not a whit for being a benign shill for the view that we could all use a little time on the couch.Were it not for its naturalness, the pacing of this movie could be said to be textbook.  I was on the edge of my seat, waiting for the secret at the heart of the opening family interactions.  This was unfolded in good time, in an appropriate and eye-widening manner.  Compare this masterful writing, directing, and editing with the fumbling attempts to achieve the same effect in Shyamalan's Signs, which also opens with strangely affected family interaction scenes.  You wait for resolution, and it never really comes--not to the satisfaction of this eager and expectant viewer.  Ordinary People shows that it *can* be done, and done right.  No excuses are acceptable.It's funny to think of, but perhaps Ordinary People is what psychological thrillers are *supposed* to be.  Which, insofar as my characterization is correct, makes it a sort of tour de force.  Can someone name some other movies that achieve the same thing?  I'll be sure to rent and watch them!  "},{"Title":"A good movie spoiled by gratuitous foul language","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I applaud this movie for its subtle characterizations of the various members of a dysfunctional suburban family.  But I blame the movie for its not-so-subtle use of profanity.  Having never read Judith Guest's novel, I don't know to what degree the dialogue reflected the language of the book. I do know that the screenwriters seem childishly intoxicated with the new-found freedom to insert four-letter words in a mainstream film.  The bad language added little and detracted much from this movie's power.  It also set an unfortunate precedent, which may be summed up as follows  to achieve dramatic effect, simply direct the actors to yell and cuss at each other. Too often, as in parts of Ordinary People, this technique serves as a crutch for lack of substance.        "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the most touching film I have ever seen.  It is one of the most profound, affecting movies I can think of.  This is such an inspired film it seems like watching real life.  I have watched again on my VCR and it still haunts me.  Everyone in the cast did an incredible job; certainly Timothy Hutton earned his Oscar.  Robert Redford began directing at the top of the mountain- this is just phenomenal. "},{"Title":"Powerful and depressing","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People (1980), Robert Redford's directorial debut, proves that Redford is not only a good actor, but also an excellent director.The movie is a very powerful and depressing drama, based on the novel by Judith Guest. It deals with death, suicide, adolescence and the delicate relationships inside the family structure.  It won 4 academy awards Best picture, best director (Redford), best supporting actor (Timothy Hutton, in his first feature film, at the early age of 20) and best writing. It was also nominated for best leading actress (Mary Tyler Moore) and best supporting actor (Judd Hirsch).Two sad and ironic incidents that happened prior to the filming may be counted for the superb acting The tragic death of Mary Tyler Moore's only child, Ritchie (an accident caused by a defective gun) and the passing away of Timothy Hutton's father, actor Jim Hutton. Also appearing Elizabeth McGovern, M. Emmet Walsh, Adam Baldwin and of course, Donald Sutherland in one of his best performances (which definitely deserved an Oscar too). You'll probably recognize the famous (and non-original) theme, composed by Johann Pachelbel. 9/10  "}{"Title":"Brilliant Performances","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  but especially from Mary Tyler Moore who is so frozen here that it is hard to think of her comedic roles.  Here she is the focus in every scene she is in, not connecting with anyone, carrying the memory of her beloved older son so deep inside her that her life becomes a series of automated responses and actions.  It takes an incredible ability to convey all of this, but Mary does it and I am left to wonder why she did not assume more dramatic roles.  Perhaps it was too draining in that this part reflected so much of her own personal tragedies. Judd Hirsch excels as the psychiatrist, so does Donald Sutherland as the emotional, caring father and Timothy Hutton as the lost and angry younger son. Not to be missed. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A Milestone Of Classic Film!!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Judd Hirsch, and Oscar winner Timothy Hutton give first-rate performances in this fantastic movie. I first saw Ordinary People a few months ago. I am a major movie nerd, and I have a goal to see every Oscar winner for Best Picture from 1970 to the present. So I checked out Ordinary People from the library. I was completely blown away by this movie. It is a very moving character study that I think anyone can relate to in some way. All the actors give great performances, but the two stars of this movie are definately Mary Tyler Moore and Timothy Hutton. Moore gives a fantastic, Oscar nominated performance as the cold-hearted and emotionally dead mother, and Hutton shows that he really deserved the Oscar he earned, playing the guilt-ridden son. Ordinary People is definately a film that every person should see  "},{"Title":"Have lots of kleenex on hand!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Few movies have affected me as deeply as this movie did when I saw it shortly after its release. It is a movie I will never forget. The performances....especially Hutton's were extraordinary! I went to the movies to see it and I was sorry I didn't bring a box of kleenex with me.Though the quality of the movie is top notch, there is a disadvantage to seeing it under certain circumstances. If you have a tendency toward depression this may not be a good movie to see until you are better. I have a history of depression and it simply made it worse.  Otherwise enjoy the intensity, depth and wonderful performances it offers. "},{"Title":"Too good for me","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film on TV some time ago and it's so close to the real thing it made me feel very strange. I lost a sister after a car accident some 15 years ago, I was there too, and witnessed the whole thing, 10 years old. Everything started falling apart after that. My parents didn't play the exact roles in the film, more like they switched roles constantly, but everything was there dead-on (me too, my role was more like Hutton's). Many years have passed, and I spent a lot of them in guilt and pain and sorrow, before starting to realize that when a beautiful thing is torn apart by life, there's no way you're gonna be able to put it back together the way it was before. You grow up and draw your own new life, but if you try to glue together a broken mirror the mended image always looks like sh**. And you can't save others, you can only help those who want to be helped. I've lived through the struggle of being in a still moment, as if nothing happened, but when something horrible happens in a movie and you try to press pause to stop the pain or the fear, it has already happened, and you will be living still forever with that fact, instead of letting everything heal. To much of my story, perhaps. But I needed to state all this because may be you would understand now if I say that this film made me feel sad but not depressed, it made me feel I'm not a freak as a I thought from time to time when I was really down. That someone else understood the whole situation, that it was normal to react in that way. After all it's just a story about ordinary people (only now i fully understand the meaning of the title!) "},{"Title":"Poignant, brilliant, and moving, but cannot call it the best picture of 1980.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There will ALWAYS be controversy surrounding this movie. Why? Because the Academy honest to God thought that THIS was better than the best movie of the decade, and in some people's opinions, of all time. Before I decimate it with how it SHOULD NOT have won, I will point out its pros. Two words Timothy Hutton. I have no idea why he is not one of the top thespians in the country today. Hutton IS Conrad Jarrett, and that made ME Conrad Jarrett. It is one of the most painfully realistic pieces of acting I've ever seen on film. It's innumerable how much I identify with him. His whole performance is brilliant, but the scenes that won him the Oscar for me are the ones when he has a showdown with the cold-blooded Mary Tyler Moore(in an OH MY GOD brilliant performance), the scene where he breaks down in front of Judd Hirsch after learning that one of his friends has committed suicide, and the scene where he explodes on Adam Baldwin after a smart ass comment. Judd Hirsch is also perfectly cast as the doctor who actually gives a damn, Donald Sutherland not being Oscar-nominated for this role is a mystery, and the chick that can turn the world on with her smile scares me to death with her cold heart. Moore does not give two s***s about Hutton, and makes no effort to hide it. Scary. Scary performance. Although this has kind of been diluted over the years to an Oscar-winning Lifetime movie, it still packs a punch, mainly because of 1980's best supporting actor. He needs to be in more movies.               However, as brilliant as this movie was, I cannot call it 1980's best movie. As good as it was, Raging Bull was 100 times better. Martin Scorsese achieved ART on film in Raging, and it is egregious that he and the movie did not win the Academy Award, and even more conspicuously bad and offensive that he doesn't have one at all. And if you want to argue that Hutton made the movie what it was, Bobby made Bull what IT was, the best movie of the 1980's. Hutton and De Niro both won Oscars for their brilliant performances, but Raging Bull is number 24 on AFI's 100 Greatest Movies list. For a reason. A better than Ordinary People reason. I will give OP best suppporting actor and best adapted screenplay, but RB takes home best picture and director along with actor and film editing. And this is how the MAJORITY feels, on this, trust me. "},{"Title":"An unforgettable film","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit I first saw this movie over half my life time ago at the ripe age of 20.  I have never forgotten it. It is in fact my all time favourite and most memorable film.Enough has been written by others about the plot but I would like to add that to me Beth's character's remote coldness towards her son was not borne out of hatred for him or resentment that he was the surviving child, but that the loss of her other son rendered her spiritually 'dead' and therefore she was incapable of 'feeling' anything. She is an empty shell of a person simply living via remote control.  In the scene where Conrad embraces her and she visibly freezes, I believe its because she cannot (will not) let herself feel his embrace.Donald Sutherland is outstanding as the father trying to carry on as if everything can (and should be) normal. His realisation and reaction to the true state of his family's problems is subtle but profound.All the characters are deep and complex but at the same time totally believable and very real. Add to all of this a moving and magnificent (deliberately simple) musical score, a believable script and clever directing by Mr Redford and you have a movie that is truly well deserving of its Academy Awards and many accolades.I have yet to see better.  10/10  "},{"Title":"Ordinary People is an EXTRAordinary Motion Picture","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently view the film Ordinary People and loved it. All characters were wonderfully played(especially Timothy Hutton as Conrad and Judd Hirsch as Dr. Berger) Robert Redford's Direction was great as was Alvin Sargent's brilliant screenplay. The film is about a family's struggle to go on with life after they are torn apart by the death of their son/brother.The movie is Excellant and it delivers a very powerful message.As for what should have won best picture I could not tell you but I'm sure that Raging Bull is just as good as this film. I would recommend this film to anyone who like very serious Dramas concerning everyday life.Out of ***** I would give Ordinary People *****. SEE IT you won't soon forget it.    "},{"Title":"A classic on it's own but I wanted more","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A classic on it's own. The acting is superb and the directing is exdordinary but I wanted more than what it gave me. I don't know but I wanted it to be 2 hours and 40 minutes instead of 2 hours it was just to fast. Maybe it was a little bit over the top for me but I recommend it to anyone who is a Robert Redford fan. I give it a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Portrait Of A Family Falling Apart","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mary Tyler Moore (best known as the great wife and mom Laura Petrie from The Dick Van Dyke Show and the single, happy career woman Mary Richards from the Mary Tyler Moore Show) is the shining star of this movie about a family struggling to rebuild itself after the drowning death of an older son, and the attempted suicide of the younger son (played by Timothy Hutton), who can't escape the guilt of having survived the boating accident that killed his brother.Moore's very presence gives the impression that this will be, somehow, a feel-good movie; that, somehow, everything is going to work out in the end. It's just what we expect from Mary Tyler Moore. And casting her in the role of Beth Jarrett as the bereaved mom who loved her deceased son son so much that, with his death, she has no love to offer to either her husband or her remaining son, was the most brilliant decision of the movie. We expect things to work out for her. They have to. This is Mary Tyler Moore, for goodness' sake. But they don't. And we're left gasping at the end.This is an emotionally heavy, draining movie. It is not for one of those days when you need a light piece of fluff to pass the time. Director Robert Redford does an admirable job of building the emotion slowly (perhaps at times a bit too slowly - my only real criticism) and drawing us into this portrait of a family falling apart. In addition to Moore, the cast is great. Timothy Hutton offers a powerful performance as the younger brother (Conrad) who survived the accident and who just can't move on. Judd Hirsch offers a solid performance in a somewhat limited role as the caring psychiatrist (Dr. Berger) trying to help Conrad carry on. Donald Sutherland struggled a bit as Conrad's dad (Cal) but still offered a decent enough performance. The only disappointment for me was Elizabeth McGovern as Conrad's potential girlfriend. She just didn't seem very natural to me in this role.There is a point near the end of the movie which sums the whole story up.**POSSIBLE SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD**Conrad, with the help of Dr. Berger, finally seems able to come to terms with the fact that his mom will never love him as much as he wants her to. In spite of her lack of affection for him, he is able to go up to her and give her a big hug. (I got worried for a moment. Oh no, they're going to spoil a great movie with a sappy ending. But only for a moment.) As he hugs his mom, there is THE LOOK. Mary Tyler Moore offers THE LOOK! As she's being hugged by her son, Beth gets this look of absolute (how do you describe it?) shock, fear, even horror at the fact this this child, who had the nerve to survive when his older brother - her pet! - had died, has the nerve to actually hug her. Marvelous! Absolutely marvelous! There will be no happy mother-son reconciliation here. She can't stand being hugged by this boy. THE LOOK lasts perhaps three seconds, but it sums up the whole tragedy of this movie, and leads logically to the conclusion.It's emotionally draining, sometimes unpleasant, but quite brilliant really. Definitely watch it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A film that understands its' subject instead of poking fun at it.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Losing a loved one is no laughing matter and Ordinary People shows why. The story follows a Chicago surburban couple, Calvin (Donald Sutherland) and Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) and their only son, Conrad (Timothy Hutton) who are struggling to get over death the other son, who drowned in a lake and also was the older one.Conrad blames himself for the incident and nearly takes his own life. His mother won't pay any attention to him and that leaves his father in the middle, trying to keep the family together and happy.  But he finds some much needed help from a variety of people from Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch), a psychiatrist, his swimming coach (M. Emmett Walsh) who's deeply concerned and a couple of friendly high school classmates, Karen (Dinah Manoff) and Jeannine (Elizabeth McGovern).This film marked the directing debut for actor Robert Redford, who lets the movie go at a fair pace and chose a pair of reliable actors like Sutherland and Moore to be in the film is quite a success.  Alvin Sargent makes a solid attempt in adapting the story from Judith Guest's novel. Even the music and photography are terrific here.  However, the movie's treasure is Hutton hands down and his character is one that I won't forget.Ordinary People snagged a few Oscars that included Best Director (Redford), Best Supporting Actor (Hutton), and a real surprise - Best Picture.I recommend this movie for those who were extremely let down by American Beauty.        "}{"Title":"Excellent acting. Amazingly real characters. Familiar emotion.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People was amazing. Timothy Hutton was amazing, as were Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore. That one scene where the mother was trying to get out of having to pose with her son in a photo was real and somewhat familiar to me. It will be etched into my mind. Timothy Hutton's character was right on target too. I could really identify with him. I'm not ashamed to say that this movie made me cry. I strongly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"is there really a modern eqivalent?","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A good number of people have tried to say that this movies modern counterpart is American Beauty. This notion is really silly because the only two things that those movies have in common is that they are about a suburban family that is falling apart (note that they are falling apart in a completly different way than the burnams). One person even tried to say that the counterpart to this movie is Good Will Hunting. This notion is even worse. The only thing that Ordinary People has in common with Good Will Hunting is that there is a psycologist in it (and note that even his role tends to be a bit different. in Good Will Hunting the Psychologist bluntly gives Will the answers, where in Ordinary People he only Points Conrad in the right direction.Thematically this movie is totally diffrent from both. Love, Suicide, Blame, Guilt etc. Ordinary People treated all of these themes in a tasteful and mostly accurate way. Timothy Hutton was wonderful in his role as Conrad. His acting made me want to get past the scenes without him real fast. But truthfully all of the actors did well.Though Some people would say that this movie is boring, i think that is false. There are some scenes that are not chalk full of dialauge and might seem boring, but most of those scenes are focused on facial expression and mood, rather than dialauge. The other reason that it might be considerd boring is that there is almost no music used. For some people this really brings down a movie. I did like the lack of music and felt that it helped to accentuate what was actually happening in a scene, rather than dramatizing everything. i give it a 7.8.  "},{"Title":"Ordinary People - EXTRAordinary classic","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The subtle masterpiece and Academy Award winner for best picture of 1980, `Ordinary People', is a heartbreaking tale that evolves around the lives of an upper class, suburban family in Chicago. The troubled son, Conrad Jared (played by Timothy Hutton), must make an awkward and difficult transition into high school and home life after months in a mental hospital for attempted suicide. He is still haunted by his past and desperately longs for a connection with his distant mother (played by Mary Tyler Moore), as well as a sense of belonging and normalcy, which he searches for during his weekly interactions with his psychiatrist (played by Judd Hirsch), who slowly unlocks the boy's inner pain and mysteries.`Ordinary People' is carefully crafted, incredibly honest, and touching. Each character is depicted with great depth and sincerity. Hutton delivered an intense, thoughtful and true performance, receiving a well-deserved Oscar for best supporting actor, although the title, best actor, would have been more suitable. Another highlight is Mary Tyler Moore, who tackled her first dramatic role successfully, surprising audiences with her profound portrayal. Hirsh and Hutton had great chemistry together, and Sutherland also gave a notable performance.This is Robert Redford's directorial debut and by far his greatest. The winner of four Oscars, Ordinary People, is a classic that cannot be missed! It is a breakthrough, flawless film that is true to reality, yet is well balanced with comedic relief, suspense and a little romance. Although the movie may appear to be simple on it's exterior, accompanied by only one instrumental piece, Pachelbel's Canon in D, it has many heavy layers that are thrilling to explore. I feel this film, among other things, is about humanity; what regular people are capable of doing to others. This is a vital movie for every teenager and adult to see. "},{"Title":"Familiar People","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A little while ago, I can't remember the specifics, I saw something on TV about Steven Spielberg meeting some kids who laughed out loud during a High School screening of his film Schindler's List. They explained how they couldn't cope with the imagery on screen and had to relieve the tension one way or another.There's a scene in Ordinary People, were one of the characters starts to laugh out loud during a rather embarrassing moment. Later on, she gives the same kind of explanation the kids gave Spielberg.I could totally relate to that. During the final fifteen minutes of this movie, I shifted uneasily in my chair and struggled to hold back a laughing-fit. Hell, my identification with these characters was the reason I felt so uneasy in the first place. I could identify with all of them. Beth, Calvin, Jean, and, especially, Conrad. I've never lost a sibling (thank God) and I've never tried to off myself, but a lot of Conrad's confusion, desperation, and anger sure ringed a bell.A lot has been written on this film and I guess this is one of the few films that benefits from being analyzed to the bone. You actually gain something with each viewing (like the fact that Conrad is so uptight, he even takes a glimpse at the lyrics while singing the last word of the Pachelbell piece -hallelujah- by then you can already tell things aren't as peachy and picture perfect as they, at first, seem to be). I don't think I can add something new or insightful, but this movie made quite an impression on me and I think it's a triumph of acting.There's an, I guess inevitable, Is American Beauty better than Ordinary People discussion going on -- in my opinion, they're are both strong films, but, OP beats AB any day. The only thing they have in common is the premise A family, incommunicado, is about to fall apart, facing the sad fact that, so to speak, the curtain must fall on the play they have brought to the stage for years and years. In the end, both films have the same goal, it only takes different means to reach it. In the end, both AB and OP are about the pain and joy a family picture can give us, about finding beauty amidst the tumult of every day life, mostly simple and/or recognizable things like a hug, the weight of unnecessary guilt gliding off your shoulder, or watching a plastic bag blowin' in the wind (The answer, my friend...).But whereas AB is a dark satire with saturated colors, events, and characters. OP is a straight drama, more sober and down to earth, with confrontations that are more subtle. OP has been dismissed by some sources as a soon to be answer to a trivial pursuit question, but it is actually more daring than AB as it dares not to be hip and doesn't need to go through the roof to get across the message. So, in OP, there is no F**k me, your majesty-scene, no 'naughty' scene involving characters smoking dope, and no cliche characters such as the friendly gay couple next door, the 'weird' new kid on the block, the daughter who is embarrassed by her father, the husband who lets his go-getting wife walk all over him, or the G.I. Joe who is anti-homo to such a degree, it's suspicious. OP's means consist of a boy haunted by unnecessary guilt, while still trying to go on with his life and trying to 'survive' the awkwardness of a first date, and a visit to an off beat psychiatrist which makes him feel like someone on the wrong side of the bars; A mother whose love and lust for life was buried along with her oldest son; A husband loving both his wife and son and failing, no, not wanting to see the tension between them, although he isn't entirely oblivious to this as he is bothered by something both trivial and vital why his wife asked him to wear another pair of shoes on the day of their oldest son's funeral.Wonderful, strong stuff. Don't bring any popcorn.**** out of ****  (*** for American Beauty) "},{"Title":"Always the strong one","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like many of the other commentators here, I too was born theyear this movie was released and have just now seen it. I knew alot about it before because my parents really like it, but I wastoo young to really understand the entire driving force behindthe film.Having been involved in the types of conflicts and trials thesecharacters go through, I can tell you that this movie hits homeextremely hard.  It's incredibly well-crafted.  I have neverseen Mary Tyler Moore in such a chillingly cruel role as themother of the family.  I was disgusted when she tried topersuade her husband (Donald Sutherland, who is great as well)to go to on vacation for New Year's and leave their fragile,unstable, once-suicidal young son behind, a son who we have seenattempt to cope, bury and explode with his feelings of  wronglyblamed guilt, hurt and anger due to his elder Golden Boybrother's death (when the two were in a boating accident) andhis mother's unloving and ignoring demeanor since then.Timothy Hutton's portrayal of the son, Conrad, is incredible.  Ithink Moore deserved the Oscar nomination she received andSutherland deserved one he didn't get, but Hutton is the keyplayer here and clearly earned his Oscar.  I found myselffighting back tears during the final 20 minutes of the movie,especially during Hutton's final scenes with Judd Hirsch as hispsychiatrist, Dr. Berger. Everyone can relate to this movei inone or another and anyone who says they can't probably justhasn't unearthed all the feelings they have buried. RobertRedford does such an amazing job with the direction here and asothers have mentioned his choice to use Pachabel's Canon in Din the film perfectly captures the fragile and strong balance ofe "},{"Title":"Always the strong one","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like many of the other commentators here, I too was born theyear this movie was released and have just now seen it. I knew alot about it before because my parents really like it, but I wastoo young to really understand the entire driving force behindthe film.Having been involved in the types of conflicts and trials thesecharacters go through, I can tell you that this movie hits homeextremely hard.  It's incredibly well-crafted.  I have neverseen Mary Tyler Moore in such a chillingly cruel role as themother of the family.  I was disgusted when she tried topersuade her husband (Donald Sutherland, who is great as well)to go to on vacation for New Year's and leave their fragile,unstable, once-suicidal young son behind, a son who we have seenattempt to cope, bury and explode with his feelings of  wronglyblamed guilt, hurt and anger due to his elder Golden Boybrother's death (when the two were in a boating accident) andhis mother's unloving and ignoring demeanor since then.Timothy Hutton's portrayal of the son, Conrad, is incredible.  Ithink Moore deserved the Oscar nomination she received andSutherland deserved one he didn't get, but Hutton is the keyplayer here and clearly earned his Oscar.  I found myselffighting back tears during the final 20 minutes of the movie,especially during Hutton's final scenes with Judd Hirsch as hispsychiatrist, Dr. Berger. Everyone can relate to this movei inone or another and anyone who says they can't probably justhasn't unearthed all the feelings they have buried. RobertRedford does such an amazing job with the direction here and asothers have mentioned his choice to use Pachabel's Canon in Din the film perfectly captures the fragile and strong balance ofe "},{"Title":"Excellent, excellent, excellent!!! (spoilers ahead)","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In fall 1998 I took a skills for college life course during my first quarter in college. I remember the professor was talking about family dysfunction and showed us part of Ordinary People. He showed us the scene where Conrad Jarrett (Timothy Hutton truly earned the Oscar he won for this role) finally unleases his anger, deep hurt, helplessness and guilt about his brother's death to his therapist. That scene always stayed with me and I wanted to see more. It wasn't until about a year and a half later that I was finally able to rent Ordinary People and watch the film in its entirety.I've heard debates about which movie is better all around this or American Beauty. Personally, I loathed American Beauty and I'll take Ordinary People any day. I prefered Donald Sutherland's Calvin, a truly loving and unselfish father and husband who will do anything to keep what's left of his family together and move on and try to be happy over Kevin Spacey's selfish, lusting Lester Burnham any day. I don't understand why Mr. Sutherland wasn't given any Oscar or Golden Globe recognition for the role. He was truly brilliant. And I much prefer Mary Tyler Moore's (Beth) calm, collected callousness over Annette Bening's shrieking hysteria. And Timothy Hutton as the tormented young man is far and above anything Thora Birch and Wes Bentley portrayed in American Beauty.The concept of the Jarretts' conflicts and such is simple this family cannot stay together and function without their oldest son, who was adored by everyone. The love Conrad and Calvin want from Beth is gone for good her love went with her son who died...and in the end she'll lose them for good. The sole conflict in American Beauty was the father's midlife crisis and the mother's extramarital affairs.Ordinary People is a true character study and doesn't use sex to glorify the film. This is one of the best movies I've ever seen. I highly recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Ordinary People- Awesome Drama at it's Best !!!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful film, powerful & emotional. Robert Redfords first time as a director, what can I say...BRILLIANT. Mary Tyler-Moore plays the cold sub-zero distant mom perfect. It's the best acting I've seen in Timothy Hutton. An excellent movie and a must see for real drama.  "},{"Title":"Ordinary People deserved its Academy Award","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An awesome dramatic film portraying the struggle of a family who must cope with the loss of the eldest son.  Timothy Hutton made Conrad, the younger brother, a character to remember and Judd Hirsch made Berger, the psychiatrist, extremely realistic.  It's clear to see why this drama won an academy award. "},{"Title":"SPOILER *** Wonderful movie.............","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I ever saw this movie was about a year ago and ever since then it has been one of my favorite movies. All of the actors in this reveal exceptional talent. Mary Tyler Moore is wonderful as a selfish, superficial mother who devotes her time to everyone except her son, Timothy Hutton, who is extremely believable as both depressed and disturbed due to the death of his cherished brother. Donald Sutherland does a beautiful job of showing a father who is torn between his unforgiving wife and emotionally-scarred son. And then there's the brilliantly confrontational therapist, Judd Hirsch, who enables Hutton to get through the anguish and pain he so obviously endures. This is a movie everyone must see at least once in their lifetime. Many people will most likely be able to relate to this movie in some way or another due to its universal representation of family loss and pain. Definitely a must-see!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "}{"Title":"Suicide in suburbia","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary people is a wonderful movie about the aftermath's of a suicide attempt. It's the story an ordinary family struggling to deal with the drowning of their eldest son and the suicidal fixation of their youngest son. It's very realistic in it's depiction of how suicide effects everyone the parents, the extended family, family friends, etc. It also touches on society's perception of the topic. More importantly, it realistically illustrates the uncertainty and confusion such an act ensues.  "},{"Title":"An uplifting experience","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without a doubt, Ordinary People is my favorite film. I've seen it countless times, yet it never grows old. On the surface, this family seems to have it all, but they're really just falling apart. It's kind of sad the number of people who wrote in talking about how they'd never heard of this film. I hope it doesn't slip into obscurity. Whenever I sit down to watch this film, I feel all the better for having seen it. It's quiet and understated and beautiful. I hope more people discover that.  "},{"Title":"One of those movies that after you've seen it you wonder why you had not previously","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie needs to be discovered by the current generation. Unfortunately, movies not on the New Release shelf do not always get the respect they deserve.  This movie does an incredible job of accurately portraying dysfunctional family dynamics as well as the client-therapist relationship.  The other reviews do an excellent job of explaining the movie, but I have not seen one explore Hutton's relationship with Hirsh and how that affects the family.  Hutton comes to therapy to gain control, because he has little over his life as learned from his father's lack of command over the family.  Through the therapeutic relationship, the dynamics of the family change.  Moore is clearly the head of the family as Sutherland cares most for his son but is being sabotaged by Moore.  As Hutton continues therapy and empowers himself, the family shifts.  Hutton tries to take control, as Moore tries to reign Sutherland in to her side.  She sees her power slipping and seeks alliance with Sutherland.  But Sutherland soon sees through her veneer.  Moore does not care about anything other than appearances, and seems emotionally void of any real ability to care since her first born died tragically.  Hutton must then face the responsibility of forgiving himself and taking the responsibility of survival.  Finally, Sutherland, seeking counseling himself, sees Moore for who she is and fights again for his son.  Moore, seeing she has lost her battle for control, quietly moves out leaving Hutton and Sutherland to finally be able to heal.This movie is definitely pro therapy.  Moore is a precursor to Benning in American Beauty, just as Sutherland is to Spacey.  Dare I say it, this movie is better, because the dialogue and the acting moves the picture so beautifully, without trying to appeal to popular culture.  That makes this movie timeless, whereas Beauty is amazing, yet dated.  Plus, any movie that begins with silence, you know has to be dope. "},{"Title":"The depth of emotion in things that occur regulary.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film in 1997, and instantly fell in love with it.  I'm a guy, and don't ever cry at movies (not even that crap-fest titanic), but(stop reading if you want to know nothing about the movie) by the end of Ordinary People, I was all mushy and whatnot.  Timothy Hutton's performance more than deserved the oscar, as did the film.  Redford proved his talent as a director as well.  Utilizing Johann Pachellbel's Canon in D for the score was a stroke of genius.  My point here is that all families, of any size or class, have secrets, have pains.  By dealing with them, we can begin to live our lives as we want to, to see ourselves as we are and love it.  The film plays out like a quiet tale of redemption for conrad, and most importantly, he sees that for himself.  A beautiful film. "},{"Title":"the will to survive after a traumatic experience","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The young gymnasium student wants to commit suicide because he was present when his brother was drowned.His father will try to make his son recover by appointing a psychiatrist. The phychiatrist-patient relation will grow strong.The patient will resist the help of the doctor but at the end he will recognise his valuable concern in curing the pain coming from the tragic accident.The mother-son relation is deteriorating and the parents will confront each other. Psychology plays an important role in this movie. The design of every moment is very smooth to keep each spectator satisfied with the contents and the evolutions.Character depiction builds a unique way of understanding the continuum of the movie. Everyone has to be objective in the way he wants to judge the characters.Emotion,duty,science,effortmeanings that will struggle in the search for life.What do they want?Do they try to survive or do they try to conquer life?Maybe,it is difficult  to find the difference between the two concepts. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished reading the book Ordinary People, and had no idea it was a movie until I was browsing in a local video store and saw it on the shelf. Ordinary People is one of the most brilliantly made films I've ever seen, and the best film adaptation of a book I've ever encountered.  The emptiness, the false sense of everything's okay, and the void left from the death of the eldest son in the family can literally be felt in almost every scene.  Sutherland, Tyler Moore, and Hutton give astounding performances.   The worry and regret the father feels is subtly but perfectly depicted by Sutherland; the evocation of the mother's snobbery and coldness is surprisingly strong and clear, and at times, Tyler Moore's depiction made me want to jump through the screen and shake her senseless. Her performance of this character is amazing, and very surprisingly so, for it is not a typical role for Tyler Moore.  Hutton's portrayal of the troubled younger son is equally affecting.  I could feel the despair and hopelessness the character was feeling.  Ordinary People is the first movie I've ever cried at, and I highly recommend it.  You will be touched and moved in a very unique way.  "},{"Title":"Hutton.  You've done it!!!!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  I liked how Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore and last but not least Timothy Hutton played in this movie.  It is sad and it is very good.  I like this movie because it shows true love and sadness.  This is a must see movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Why aren't more films like this made ?","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film does nothing special it doesn't have any special effects or groundbreaking ideas. It is a family drama that benefits from superb direction, casting, writing and acting.Many people won't have heard of this film at all and it isn't often seen repeated on the tv, but it deserves a lot of respect. It's critical acclaim was massive but it is still underated.Redford's direction deserves special mention I feel. There a few  first time directors that handle a movie in such an accomplished way. His direction is recognisable throughout the film and always subtly done. Mary Tyler Moore was an inspired piece of casting in the role of the cold unforgiving mother. Donald Sutherland gives a powerful yet understated performance as the caring father and Timothy Hutton is every bit as full of pain and angst as James Dean ever was. It desrved its Oscars and it was good to see that a film of such quiet quality can be appreciated by the industry. Wonderfully observed and simply told the film keeps you gripped from start to finish. I was amazed when I first saw the film that I hadn't heard of it before. Hopefully it won't be too long before the rest of the world catches on.  "},{"Title":"Why don't they make movies like this anymore ?","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I caught this movie on cable this weekend. What a great piece! About real relationships and real people. Excellent acting, casting, editing and use of sound. I especially liked the way the boating accident scenes were interspersed through the film, and the appropriate minimal use of sound/music in certain scenes. It's amazing how a film without high-adrenaline visual or sound effects can keep you so engrossed.Thank you Mr.Redford.  "},{"Title":"fine debut film","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Adept adaptation of Judith Guest's novel.  Redford works in a somewhat muted way, all for the better the slight, pat moments (especially between Hutton and Hirsch) have more weight than they probably deserve.  Mary Tyler Moore and Donald Sutherland, cast against type, are superb; when oh when is Sutherland going to be recognized by the Academy when he acts well? Hutton and Elizabeth McGovern are each terrific as well.  Only Hirsch seems to be coasting -- or at least, he doesn't deviate from what we already expect from him.  Good photography, and some outstanding scenes.  Moore's character, Beth, is absolutely unaware of her own evil, and it's a real evil rather than a cardboard movie knife-wielding evil; she cares about pretense and how things seem, even to the expense of her own humanity and the souls of those around her -- almost like a much, much darker Willy Loman.  It is a remarkably courageous performance, and she sticks to it clear through the end; Moore never once lets the audience know that she -- the actress -- is on to her character and above it.Not the best-made movie of the year -- yes, that goes to RAGING BULL -- but that brings up a fascinating comparison I would suggest that ORDINARY PEOPLE's Beth is all bull in the china shop of her family's hearts, more of a monster than LaMotta who 1) repents; and 2) is not encouraged by society friends to remain unchanged, who perceive that nothing is really wrong. By giving us a real contrast to this monster (especially as Sutherland's character undergoes transformation, waking to a woman he realizes he never knew), the film is ultimately more edifying, entertaining, and life-informing than Scorsese's directorial masterpiece, which ultimately teaches us more about film than people.  I'll take PEOPLE.  "}{"Title":"One of the best, and quietest, films ever made.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People is a rare film in which talented people come together to make a film disregarding what is popular.  Would a film of this quality, power, and message be made today?  Probably not.  Sutherland, Moore, and Hutton play a normal American family--notably absent are sarcastic exhanges and detached teenage children of 90's family dramas.  These three actors create tension that most of us are all too familiar with in our families, but could never put into words.  That look from your mother that makes you want to die, the hints of guilt a father may feel about his parenting choices, and a teenagers inexplicable feeling of hopelessness.  All of these are portrayed effectively, yet normally for lack of a better term. There is nothing Hollywood about this movie, and that is what makes it so good. It is about a normal family, everyone's family.  When you watch, you cannot help but cringe from the unspoken tension, awkwardness, and sorrow that these characters feel.  We all have been in one of these three roles and can fully empathize with the characters.Timothy Hutton's performance is absolutely remarkable.  It never goes over the top, but never underplays it.  He truly gets in touch of what it is like to be a teenager ridden with guilt and depression.  Nobody really understands him, and this is painfully obvious.  Hutton must have been physically exausted throughout filming.  He performs some of the most emotional scenes ever put on film, and does it like the veteran that he was not.Donald Sutherland plays the father trying to make it all better.  He does not know how to reach out to his family after the tragedy.  Sutherland saves his character from being pathetic and portrays a man of intense love who does not know what he should do.  This character is a testament to all the men out there (the majority I might add) who do NOT cheat on their wives and think only about money.  Unlike many movies, Sutherland's character is a loving and nurturing father who will do anything to help his son.  it is a wonder how Sutherland did not receive an oscar nomination here.Mary Tyler Moore stuns with this dramatic turn of character.  She plays the mother to such precision that you actually forget she is playing a character.  Moore's mother could have easily been played as an easily hated character; instead, she portrays a complex woman who simply does not know how to deal with imperfection.  It is not her fault for how she reacts to Conrad, for she does not know HOW to react.  With the social circle she and her husband are in, there is little help or instruction on how to deal with tragedy.  So, she deals with it the best way she knows how to put on a smile and move on.  A tremendous performance that should have won the Oscar.The movie is a tremendous accomplishment on all levels, and Robert Redford's genius directing should be noted as well.  A wonderful movie that will hit you in the core of your heart.  "},{"Title":"Subtlety at its best","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The key to the greatness of its film, is not as much the story (which is surprisingly psychologically accurate), but the level of subtlety achieved by the actors. There are scenes in this film that take one's breath away, they are brilliant. Whether it be Timothy Hutton barking sporadically at his mother after telling her how much he wanted a dog, or the breakdown gorgeously performed by Mary Tyler Moore, or virtually any scene with Donald Sutherland, these scenes give the movie an extremely veracious edge. It is very hard not to become involved in it, and in the least not to respect the reality it portrays. Wonderful film, and i'm still as hell surprised that it came from Robert Redford. "},{"Title":"Excellent Dysfunctional Family Drama","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie that works on so many levels because of the fine acting by most of the characters. (See exception below) Timothy Hutton, Mary-Tyler Moore, and Judd Hirsch deliver their richly emotional performances, which made Ordinary People the well-deserved Oscar winner.My only problem with the movie is Donald Sutherland's portrayal as Calvin Jarrett. While well-meaning and sensitive to the tragedy of his family falling apart, Calvin is seen as SOOOO weak that a strong wind would blow him over. As a consequence, Sutherland's character becomes more of a wuss than the sympathetic and concerned father that Robert Redford wants him to be and is demonstrated in Judith Guest's outstanding novel on which Ordinary People is based.In rare instances where Calvin does show backbone in this film, it becomes forced and superficial as if the scriptwriters and Redford wanted Donald to Get angry or yell on cue in this scene here. (Because the lines in the script require you to do so.) Calvin's mood swings seem forced, whereas the other protagonists act very natural and real. This prevents the film most of the time from disintegrating into soap-opera material.SPOILER ALERT It's almost surprising that it took the death of Buck for Calvin and Beth to drift apart. Given the control-freak that Beth is and her cold demeanor against the emotionally weak Calvin. I could see her walking all over him within months after their marriage and a break-up occurring long before the time mentioned in the film.END OF SPOILER ALERT However, this is certainly a film with watching and provides many underlining and often times depressing experiences.Note I changed the rating from an 8 to a 9 on re-watch. "},{"Title":"Heavy movie but very compelling","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this psychological drama, a young man deals with the aftermath of his older brother's accidental death. As the story progresses, we see that his parents are affected just as profoundly as he; it's just that he, being younger, is more willing to admit it.Conrad Jarrett (Timothy Hutton) is a high school student reeling from the accidental drowning of his older brother Buck. Conrad had to be hospitalized for a while, but now he is out. However, he finds that his problems are just as persistent. He is unnerved by a new psychiatrist, Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch), and cannot relate to his mother (Mary Tyler Moore). His father (Donald Sutherland) seems to be the only normal person in the family.The only people in whom Conrad feels he can confide are Karen (Dinah Manoff), who was in the hospital the same time he was, and a high school classmate (Elizabeth McGovern) with whom he hopes to become romantically involved. Gradually he also begins to trust Dr. Berger, but Conrad cannot seem to get over his hang-ups with his mom.I haven't seen a whole lot of other movies from the year 1980, but I would say this one deserves its Oscar. Stunning, compelling...it's a movie that you really get caught up in. I give it a 9 out of 10---actually, a perfect 10 if you're interested in psychology. "},{"Title":"Moore as Ice Queen","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is a story of what appears to be a happy family. On the surface, The Jarretts look like a happy, loving family. Underneath the surface shows a family that is so broken than nothing can fix it. Calvin (Donald Sutherland)and Beth (Mary Tyler Moore)look loving, but Beth is an Ice Queen. She may look loving, but she has a problem dealing with disorder in her life ever since her 2 sons were in a boating accident. Her firstborn, Buck, did not survive. Her other son, Conrad (Timothy Hutton), survived and has incredible guilt. So much so that he had attempted suicide. His father is worried about his son, but cannot get his wife to open up about anything and is constantly trying to keep his family together. Beth's feelings toward her surviving son is disturbing she shows no love, no comfort, no feelings toward him. She only reacts whenever he does something that she isn't happy about (Like when he quits the swim team without telling anyone. Her only reaction is what everyone else will think.). With the help of Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch), Conrad learns to accept the fact that what happened was an accident, that he should not feel guilty for the tragedy that is slowly tearing his family apart.Robert Redford managed to get great performances out of all of his actors, particularly Mary Tyler Moore (MANY degrees from happy Mary Richards!)and Timothy Hutton. The film is gripping from beginning to end, as we watch a family slowly disintegrating before our very eyes.Other great performances includes Dinah Manoff and Elizabeth McGovern, as Karen and Jeannine, 2 young girls that will make an impact on Conrad's life.If you haven't seen this film, then you should rent it. A must have in your collection. "},{"Title":"Long and slow, but a great story","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's a great story behind this movie, a story of familial despair that reminds me of Bergman's Autumn Sonata, but it's long and slow. This movie could use some editing. The story would be gripping if the movie weren't tedious. Some things are said more times than necessary. Some things are said that could be left implied. Too much foreshadowing becomes telegraphing and this movie telegraphs. Elizabeth McGovern should have one less scene. A good editor could cut 15 to 20 minutes from this film and make it great. I saw this movie first run; I've never seen it on TV. This is one movie where a butchered TV version might be better.Oddly, I found Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore the weakest actors in this film. Moore's son had just died, and she may have had too much to use, leading to her two dimensional character. Sutherland may have been miscast; he seemed to be searching for how to play the character, so his performance comes off uneven. Hutton, McGovern, and Hirsch gave surprisingly good performances. "},{"Title":"Psychobabble for codependents","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The performances are good, the movie is captivating, but the underlying psychological premises are deeply flawed. The biggest flaw is making the psychologist a kind of Messiah. What a contrast with Equus where the psychologist himself wrestles with truth. This movie seems to be saying GET THEE TO A THERAPIST, PARTICULARLY IF THOU ART WEALTHY! Unfortunately, only the rich can afford it. And why is it that suburbanite's problems are somehow more moving, and they are more sensitive and troubled? When will movies lavish compassion and dignity on the poor and the dark-skinned, whose psychologist comes in the form of prison bars? No sensitivity to them brutes? Another problem is the psychologist's emotional coldness. He looks at the young man as if he were a bug, with a chilling, ruthless objectivity that's unintentionally comical. And if the shrink knew the answer all along, why does he withhold it for so long, making the poor wretch (poor only in a figurative sense), go through such agonies? Perhaps because going through agonies is the only way out of them? How convenient for the shrink's pocketbook. This movie is a good illustration of the fallacies of psychiatry seeking to reduce everything to one single emotion, as if grief were not a panoply of emotions, as if everything weren't about everything. I saw the movie twenty years ago, and my reaction then was the same. This is from my then diary While better than most movies being made today, it wasn't good. It looked like a long commercial for psychoanalysis.  It's title could have been Shrinks are swell folks, or If you haven't been to a shrink, you don't know what you've been missing.  The all-knowing, compassion-overflowing shrink is the central figure of this movie. He looms as large as God Almighty.This movie promotes oppressive helplessness, reliance on professionals, distrust in one's own intellectual and emotional resources. We are living in the age of helplessness, when people aren't trusted to make their own choices, solve their own problems. We all have to be professionally processed. Whatever happened to the best things in life are free? We must get away from this cult of professionalism which is a variation on the cult of fame. People must once again be judged on their merits, not their diplomas. And we must once again trust ourselves to be the ultimate judges on what's up and what's down. Notice also, how so many movies feature tenderness only in the context of tragedy, as if ashamed that in any other context, it would be too lascivious.  "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 80's","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has everything you want for a profound drama. Shirley McLaine and Timmothy Hutton are complete opposites in a family, with Donald Sutherland in between as the peacemaker who has an unsettled heart and mind. The family is still getting over the death of their oldest son, and many of the feelings they once had for each other disappeared after his death. Unable to communicate with each other Timmothy Hutton goes to see a doctor to talk about his problems and solve them. Shirley and Donald discover what their marriage is really based on. The entire movie is dramatic and very sad, but a real winner in the 80's. 10/10 for this modern masterpiece, it really makes you feel something when you watch it. "},{"Title":"Ordinary, but not typical, I hope...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember this movie was a big deal...because it portrayed MTM in a less than adorable light (than anything she ever did before), and... because it was one of Redford's first directorial debuts, a big departure from his almost typecast acting roles of the 70's.I guess we were supposed to be impressed with the painstakingly upper-middle class low keyness of this movie-long soap opera.  However, the movie was completely well-acted....the Ice-queen, the doting father, the troubled teen, and the understanding phsycologist.The script was great, too.  Within it, you begin to realize that the mother was simply a selfish, keep up with the Jones B-I-T-C-H, who wanted nothing more from the marriage than to keep up appearances, be a socialite, and jet set (travel) every chance she could get. While she may indeed have loved her husband, it seem more a marriage of security and comfort---not one of real love.  That certainly was the case, in the way she treated her surviving son ---never a real word of communication there.  And when she did say something, it seemed to be out of pure politeness----very very cold.(POSSIBLE SPOILER) Soon, the husband realizes this, and toward the end, he sends her away.  He could not love her anymore.   Strange, very strange indeed, for a mother to not love her son (even if he was not the first born).As a son myself, I could never imagine such a thing.  As a movie, it makes you think that yes....there might be people, and circumstances like this in the world----And it is a shame. "},{"Title":"Relationships","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a very powerful story of emotions resulting from relationships. The mother (Mary Tyler Moore) is very real to me as I knew someone like her. Tim Hutton did an oscar performance & deserved the oscar.  He is a very good actor & I hope he is in more movies in 2002.  I have seen this movie about 3 times & found each actor in the movie portrayed the character of the person they were playing very well. "}{"Title":"Uh.... Just An Ordinary, Average, Everyday, American Tragedy??","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hey! If these are really supposed to be what we call ordinary people, then, boy, I'm tellin' ya, we are all in for a lot of really-really big trouble, folks! Yep. We sure are.Joyless, bleak, and hopeless, I found Ordinary People to be almost suffocating in nature. Its depiction of a grossly dysfunctional, upper middle-class, American family and how they dealt with feelings of guilt, and remorse, and their clear lack of love and respect for one another was almost more than I could stand.This film's depressing mood didn't seem to let up for even a minute. I felt as though director Robert Redford (golden boy) was literally bludgeoning me over the head, repeatedly, with a non-stop barrage of family misery and gloom that was delivered like brutal sledgehammer blows straight to the skull (thankfully they missed my heart).I can't believe that Ordinary People won out over Raging Bull as Best Picture at the 53rd Academy Awards presentation. I guess that depressing movies were all the rage back in 1980.In this film, TV comedienne, Mary Tyler Moore goes for a change of pace and plays Beth Jarrett, a miserable, grating, mother-from-hell figure who has some sort of demented obsession (which was never explained) over her now-dead, elder son. This woman (with a face-of-stone carved forever into a scowl) lashes out at everyone around her. (sheesh!)Then, on the other hand, there was Donald Sutherland (ho-hum!) as poppa, Calvin Jarrett, just doing another variation of his predictable, watery-eyed, Goofy character, assuring us all, once again, that his presence, as always, was easily forgettable.There was not a single ounce of cheer or joy in Ordinary People. It left me feeling hollow and dissatisfied, right through to its dismal excuse for an ending.If Ordinary People doesn't turn you suicidal, then no other movie ever will. "},{"Title":"This was extraordinarily awful","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Redford, director of such bad films as The Horse Whisperer and A River Runs Through It makes his directorial debut with this pretentious and technically horrible movie. I rented a newly released DVD version of the film and was very surprised by the poor quality of the sound recording. I once saw a VHS copy of All Quiet on the Western Front (from 1930) that had nicer audio than this. The deliberately uncertain Timothy Hutton turns in an overrated and I'm happy to say, boring performance. I was especially turned off by the lack of talent from Mary Tyler Moore, who should have just stuck to her TV work. The Canon in D adaption is played at least five times during the film at unnecessary spots. Has Robert Redford heard any other pieces of classical music? Anyway, in addition to proving how a film can be blown out of proportion by the critics, it also went on to prove how worthless the Oscars are. It won four, and can you believe it? The Academy's board selected it as Best Picture! Yes! They would go on to pick even more rubbish as being Best Pictures such as Out of Africa, Rain Man and Driving Miss Daisy... and that's just from the 80's! Spare yourself from having to strain to hear what the actors are saying (not that it matters, the same malarkey comes out of they're mouths all the time anyway) and pass this movie up... destroy it if you have the chance. "},{"Title":"Still powerful","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ordinary People has lost only a little of its power in the nearly 20 years since it was released.  Hutton's sudden insight into the reasons for his attempted suicide seem a little too pat, and Judd Hirsch's therapist is a little too perfect (psychiatrists must love this movie).  But the film is still gripping.  The movie, first-time director Redford, and Hutton all deserved their Oscars, and Mary Tyler Moore and Hirsch their nominations. But Donald Sutherland's performance as Hutton's father has been sadly overlooked, as has Elizabeth McGovern's as Conrad's girlfriend.  The steadily-increasing darkness of Hirsch's office has been talked about elsewhere.  When I described it to a friend who had not seen the film he wondered if there was a Heart of Darkness theme involved.  I said I didn't think so, but then I remembered that the main character's name is Conrad! "},{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent film. I take back (almost) all the bad things I usually reserve for actors who think they can direct. This movie is so powerful and so sad that I wonder if all of us, as viewers, can ever truly relate to the host of feelings that run through this family. Timothy Hutton's best performance and this is a far cry for Mary Tyler Moore from her TV show. She had a great performance because it's a great comment on people (in real life)who just close up after tragedy. Moore's character concerns herself with what other people think, instead of devoting her energy toward her family. This seems to happen a lot in real life. Anybody who thinks Good Will Hunting (1997) is a great movie should check this out. This is the original. Heck, even Robin William's office from GWH is stolen from this movie (check out Judd Hirsch's role...it's very similar, too)! Excellent film. "},{"Title":"Intense Character Study That Stopped the Raging Bull in 1980","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People appears to be a simple film on the surface, but it is an intense character study that works because of its performances, screenplay, and top-notch direction. Oscar-winner Timothy Hutton stars as a young man who has just attempted suicide because he is feeling the after-effects of his older brother's death during a terrible storm while they were on a sailboat in the sea. Hutton is confused because he does not understand why his brother (loved by all) was taken while he (ordinary by his own standards) was spared. His upper-class parents (Donald Sutherland and Oscar-nominee Mary Tyler Moore) just do not know how to cope with the situation. Sutherland tries valiantly, but he just cannot figure his son out. Moore, on the other hand, is bitter and cold. It is made clear that her deceased son was her favorite and she does not have a real connection with Hutton. Hutton confides in psychiatrist Judd Hirsch (also Oscar-nominated) and we see flashbacks into Hutton's awful ordeal. The inability of Moore to help the situation is going to lead to turmoil between her and Sutherland. In the end, happiness is not definite by any stretch of the imagination. Ordinary People is a good-looking film which appears tame on first glance, but is full of fireworks. The performances are all perfect, with the four aforementioned players all doing the best work of their lives. Hutton is the revelation. He became the youngest recipient of the Best Supporting Actor Oscar and it is his performance that is the wrap-around to the entire film. Robert Redford's directing debut is outstanding. In all the film captured four Academy Awards in 1980. Looking back, Raging Bull (also a 1980 Best Picture nominee) is definitely a better film in almost every possible department. However, Ordinary People is still a great film that was worthy, for the most part, of its accolades that year. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"What Ordinary People is really about","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OP is about the social behaviour against self. Beth (the mother) does everything as she has been told, she is a social robot she does not have any insight or questions about herself. Thinks love is about behaving like&#133; (like you're supposed to).So OP questions that (through Conrad and Calvin). So the opinion of the crowd about OP (or another film) is not important. What's important is you make your own opinion. Beth (the mother) is not just cold, she is sick. That's why she is cold. Calvin (the father) goes over the mother taboo and makes the right decision. He saves his son, and their love. ------- People who don't like this film don't want to be contradicted, stirred in their feelings and confronted to taboos for instance, they think they believe Movies are to be an outside entertainment with outside feelings. This does not mean OP is not entertaining it is, in another way. It is a different entertainment from Raging bull and we can like both of these films. There is no contradiction in this. -------- People who don't like this film are faced with the same kind of problem Beth is up over the head in. Love is superior to taboo. Being a mother (with all the taboos of innocence linked to it) does not free you from this responsibility. Thinking the contrary would be Narcissism (in the sense of a well known borderline mind disorder). This is what happens to Beth and we must praise again the magnificent performance of Mary Tyler Moore! "},{"Title":"Not exactly original, but Redford's empathy helps","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is a film arguably most remembered for the fact it stole the Oscars for Best Picture and Director from Scorsese's Raging Bull which is now considered the more impressive and influential film. Ordinary People, in all honesty, is far from the terrible film people perceive it to be since it 'stole the Oscar from Raging Bull.' I have come across descriptions along the lines of 'a TV film that got lucky,' etc. The question of which film should have won the Oscar is irrelevant when judging the film itself. The fact is that film buffs all over the world have used the Academy's stupidity to avert their eyes from Ordinary People's virtues which are plentiful.Ordinary People, unsurprisingly, is about ordinary people&#x85;more or less. It fits into the tradition of films that are interested in exploring how Happy Suburban Life of the '50s is merely an illusion. On the surface, the Jarrett family &#x96; consisting of Calvin (Donald Sutherland), Beth (Mary Tyler Moore) and their son Conrad (Timothy Hutton) &#x96; appears to be a typical happy family. Beneath it all however, Conrad is suffering from PTSD and survivors guilt due to losing his brother Buck in a sailing accident, Beth is obsessed with keeping up appearances and denies her own feelings on losing Buck, and Calvin attempts to get closer to both Conrad and his emotionally distant wife.It's easy to pigeonhole Beth as the 'villain,' but the film shows such psychological insight that it allows us to empathize with her, to understand her despite her acting like a bitch toward Conrad on a pretty regular basis. We know she's suppressing her own emotions, we know Conrad probably reminds her of Buck and she can't handle it. Moore's performance only enhances this feeling of empathy. Moore had pretty much become America's Sweetheart through shows like The Mary Tyler Moore Show, but showed a lot of guts here in breaking free of that mold and showing she could play a challenging, emotionally complex character.As with the character of Beth, the rest of the characters (most notably, of course, Calvin and Conrad) are treated with the same amount of respect by director Robert Redford and the screenplay. Though I've never been much of a Sutherland fan, he plays this part pretty darn well, displaying the awkwardness of wanting to improve the relationship with his son while also being forced to reevaluate his marriage to Beth. Timothy Hutton would never land a role on this level again, proving that Oscars don't singlehandedly launch careers into stardom. Like Moore, Judd Hirsch breaks his Taxi persona and plays Conrad's very likable therapist in an all too rare display of film therapy done well. While the subject matter (PTSD, denial, the illusion of a happy life, etc.) well-trodden territory, it's the execution and director Redford's empathy for the characters that makes Ordinary People a fulfilling experience. "},{"Title":"Still the correct choice for Best Picture of 1980","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have watched and enjoyed this film many times since it premiered in 1980. The story of a family who has been wracked by tragedy and would give anything to be Ordinary People was a controversial choice for Best picture in 1980. Many people believed Raging Bull to be the better choice. I can understand people's feeling about that, but to me it is the argument that invariable comes at Oscar time that a more audience friendly I. E. escapist or Popcorn film should win over the movie that, however well made, can seem too difficult to watch and absorb.Maybe my feelings about the movie come from an empathy I have for Conrad, brilliantly played in his screen debut by Timothy Hutton. Having lost the brother he idolized in a boating accident that happened due to carelessness, he now tries to struggle with his feelings of a responsibility that is misplaced, and a mother who has seeming buried all her feelings and maternal instincts with a first born who was her whole world. His father is concerned and possibly over protective of the boy and gradually comes to understand what is happening in his family. The final scene between the mother and father, where the Father realizes that the woman he married and the woman he is now talking to is not, in fact, the same woman emotionally, is as terrifying as any horror film.The entire cast deserved awards. Donald Sutherland was not even nominated for what I believe was his finest performance. Mary Tyler Moore used the lessons of her own life to play a woman who rigidly holds herself and her family to an impossible standard. Judd Hirsch was a revelation to me at the time this film was released as I was only familiar with his TV sitcom work. All four of these people usually get glowing reviews for this film. I also would call out Elizabeth McGovern, as the pretty yet sensitive student whom Conrad is rapidly developing a friendship with. To me, she was never better.This is a film that needs to be seen. All families are really like this in some ways, striving to be Ordinary People, but knowing they may never make it. "},{"Title":"A good Movie","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is anything alright? as supposed to Is everything alright? Ordinary people donot have writers with twisted mind imagining extraordinary things like the conversation on the golf course-why is it so difficult for a loving couple to communicate? Things are made complicated where otherwise an ordinary couple would have no time for or inclination for this.The movie becomes predictable at times. When things are going seemingly smooth for a normal relation-old things are hashed up or instigated by a Shrink who seems to be on a retainer for the family albeit there are no other patients utilising his services. he did some help to Conrad but at the expense of his father--his success rate is basically zero, suffice to say if The wife had agreed he would his batting average would be a minus. This is averted in time by a stoic wife (Mary Tyler Moore) who decides to pack her suitcase and leave by Taxi-at midnight. Donald Sutherland is never a let down. He is one of the best natural actors around. Tim Hutton is pretty good. "},{"Title":"you can't handle mess","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this academy award winner for best picture(1980)is one that will put a lump in your throat.the Jarretts are a well-to-do family that has undergone some traumatic events recently.not only has older son Buck drowned, but younger Conrad has tried to kill himself.once he returns from the hospital,the rest of the movie deals with how everyone involved copes with life.Beth Jarrett is a tragic victim who is capable of love(for Buck),but who is also incapable of forgiveness(Conrad).she then sets herself up as a materialistic leech,putting on a phony front while sucking the life out of everyone else.Conrad sees through all this,reminding her that she was off in Europe while he was stuck lying in the hospital.as father Calvin says later they don't connect because they are really too much like each other.Calvin is the most sympathetic character,one who wants to help but simply doesn't know how.an Oscar for Timothy Hutton(who gave a moving acceptance speech remembering his late father)as well as for director Robert Redford.the final scene is one to be remembered. "}{"Title":"Highly intelligent and emotional film","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Superb performances and acute direction by Robert Redford as one of his earlier directorial efforts. He does well with this 1980 flick and brings out good performances from all. What a performance by Mary Tyler Moore, usually goody good roles, in a complex role of a mother refusing to face truths surrounding her and her family. She was top notch in my book and thoroughly convincing in an unrewarding role. She should have won an Oscar for this. Donald Sutherland, whom I usually don't like was perfectly cast as a wimpy husband who succumbs to his wife's needs, neglecting his own son in the process. These are roles that, to this viewer, suit Sutherland, who doesn't show too much depth in his work. We are introduced to Timothy Hutton, son of Jim Hutton, in this film and he's astonishing. He never missed a moment as the tortured young boy living with guilt complexes of all levels. In the hands of a seedy sort of psychiatrist, played well by Judd Hirch, our young man learns to deal with his troubles.Hats off to Mr. Redford for excellent casting, a great script and fine direction. I do believe he won the Oscar for this. He deserved it. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Actors","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are at least two types of basic filmmakers. One comes to the film with a cinematic vision and shuffles all elements of the film to serve this vision. For this type of filmmaker, acting is merely one component of a larger whole. It is an element to be manipulated and integrated according to the needs of the grander vision, even if the performances have to suffer for it. For the other type of filmmaker, performance is the issue; it is the end in itself. Other elements, such as the script, editing, music, camera, photography, etc, are tailored to specifically foreground the performances, or, to put it another way, are intentionally bland (or minimalist) enough to focus all energy into the performances, which have every opportunity to sky. Often actors who turn their hand to directing will embrace this mode of film-making. If they are good actors, they understand the craft, and if they are good communicators, they know how to elicit the best in their actors (think here, Eastwood's Mystic River). So it is with this. It makes sense that Redford should pick a script like this for his debut as a director. Usually films achieve a sufficient balance between these two modes of film-making that a theoretical differentiation like this is unnecessary, but this film is an example of an almost purely performative film, with the necessary absence of cinematic style.And there is nothing behind the performances here but ordinariness, blandness, cliché. Luckily, the performances are extraordinary and it works because of them. Tyler-Moore as the frosty wife/mother, Sutherland as the warm, sympathetic father/husband, Hutton as the unexpressed conflict between the two, a feotus in the throes of delivery, to be born as an actor/human. All three could have won Oscars.The psychologist plays the surrogate (or metaphor) for the director, Redford, coaching his subjects towards the appropriate expression of feeling for ordinary people. That is what this film is about, more so than grief, repression, or familial relationships. Redford got the Oscar for how he directed his actors, not the film. "},{"Title":"One of the best ordinary movies I have seen","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I happened to see this movie just by chance. Not a very much Hollywood person. I liked Robert Redford in another movie as an actor and just wanted to see how good a director he is. This movie is brilliant. It engrosses. Very few movies unexpectedly better your expectations. Ordinary People is one of them. I watched it without expecting much and ended up seeing it completely in one go. Very ordinary movie, brilliantly made, great acting performances, simple yet great script. Its touching. Had watched it years ago but it left a lasting impression. Robert Redford is a better director than an actor. Robert, hats off to your simply great ordinary movie which appealed to human intellect and emotion at the same time. "},{"Title":"fantastic movie, a fluke for Redford","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie bears no thematic or stylistic similarities to Redford's other movies, so I can only surmise that this movie was carried by it's cast, writer, cinematographer, and editor.  If you've seen the Horse Whisperer or A River Runs Through it and you're scared to see this one for fear it's like Redford's later movies, fear not.  It's a great movie everybody should see.  Definitely better than over-rated Raging Bull. "},{"Title":"a film that validates psychotherapy and emotional honesty","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mary Tyler Moore's performance as the mother was among the most satisfying aspects of the film.  She skillfully portrays the sort of person who would rather do anything than face her own painful feelings.  Moviegoers who've lived with such a person will find her performance especially resonant.**SPOILER** For example, the instant her son, Conrad, tells her he's not hungry she takes his French toast and stuffs it down the garbage disposal.  She does it so coldly, so mechanically it makes the audience shudder.   It's Mary Tyler Moore's body language that indicates just what a pressure cooker she is, perpetually on the edge of blowing up but almost always rigidly contained. Her most minute physical transformations are hilarious.  When a waitress arrives during an argument with her husband her face suddenly, but awkwardly, changes from angry to calm and collected.  She looks as though she were literally swallowing something bitter, which of course she is, metaphorically.  Swallowing her anger and hurt poisons her and, by extension, her family.The story reinforces male-privilege insofar as it tends to minimize (though not entirely trivialize) the culpability of the father, who has spent so many years ignoring the subtle and unsubtle ways his wife expressed her hatred for her younger son.  In the end, the father and son come together lovingly.  But shouldn't Conrad be angrier about his father's cowardice? One would expect the son to be upset at both father and mother, since it's not until well into the film that the  father really confronts his wife about her hatred of her son.  Implicit is the assumption that providing for the emotional needs of children is more the mother's responsibility than the father's.  Mothers often come in for harsher criticism in this arena than fathers, and this film is no exception to that pattern.The ending is remarkable.  I assumed at first that the mother would change and be forgiven in the end, conforming to a more conventional Hollywood formula.  But as her character developed, it became clear that to have her do so would have been a real failure on the part of the filmmakers.  They created a character who simply couldn't change or open up unless forced to. I regard it as highly subversive and courageous that Guest, Redford and the others responsible for this film actually had the mother walk out in the end.  It's been over twenty years since Ordinary People won the best picture Oscar--twenty years that's seen a forceful wave of family values rhetoric in America--and I wonder whether such a film could win best picture today.  "},{"Title":"A family town apart by tragedy","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As someone who has battled depression for a long time, I can appreciate this movie more than most. The story centers on a family trying to deal with the death of their older son Buck, and the subsequent suicide attempt of their younger son Conrad (Timothy Hutton in an Oscar-winning performance). Mary Tyler Moore and Donald Southerland were terrific as Beth and Calvin. Judd Hirsch plays Dr. Berger, the psychiatrist who helps Connie.Calvin is trying to understand why Connie tried to off himself, while Beth is strangely aloof. We can see Connie and Beth drifting further apart as the film progresses, while Calvin struggles to keep the family from falling apart completely.Atypical of Hollywood, there is no happy ending to Ordinary People. This is a deep, dark movie that journeys into the worst, most difficult situation a family must ever face. Have Kleenex handy. "},{"Title":"Mary Tyler Moore is devastatingly great","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mary Tyler Moore won the Golden Globe, but not the Oscar for this performance. I assume she didn't win because she was a TV, not a movie actress. Whatever the reason, it is a shame she didn't win, not just because her performance deserved the award, but because it might have encouraged her, as well as Hollywood to let her continue to express herself in other dramatic roles. I guarantee you will remember her character for a long, long time. "},{"Title":"a few thoughts, questionable ending","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First off, the modern counterpart to ORDINARY PEOPLE is GOOD WILL HUNTING, not AMERICAN BEAUTY. While both OP and AB deal with suburban angst and unfounded stereotypes, these aspects are only ancillary with OP. OP's main theme could accurately be described as a template for GWH a horrible tragedy and the resulting guilt prove to be obstacles regarding fulfillment of a young man's potential, and the following conclusion. GWH spends more time on humor and developing the love relationship, but it is the type of tragedy and journey of the protagonists that brings this difference about; GWH is not a better movie because of this. Both movies follow the consequences of their stories and are thus great movies in their own respects, and their common respects. GWH and OP could be described as psychological movies. The main characters are behaving in unconventional ways and it is the movie's job to explain these disturbing quirks. SPOILERS Con has to overcome his guilt over the death of his brother; while Will has to overcome his guilt regarding childhood abuse. OP transcends GWH in that Con's father has some overcoming do to himself. He must come to grips over his wife's newfound lovelessness. In the end, both Con and Dad triumph. Con handles his depression and Dad takes a break from his deteriorating marriage. This is where the questionable ending comes into play. Having the mother leave fits well with Con and Dad's struggles, but contradicts the general tone of this psychological movie. With Mom's departure, a contributor to Con's guilt disappears, as well as the disappearance of unneeded anxiety concerning Dad. The problem I have with this ending is that the movie goes to great lengths to explain Con's and Dad's problems, while leaving Mom's basically untouched. The idea that Buck's death has something to do with her lack of emotion is touched on, but it is the solving of the problem which is what is needed in this type of movie. So, the ending basically says, Mom JUST is that way. The only solution is to stay away from her. Seems contradictory, is there any reason for this besides the fact that it fits in with Con and Dad's journies? A convenience ending is below this movie.Overall, still a good movie for its time, and even the present time.8 of 10.    "},{"Title":"excellent film, very moving, and powerfully acted","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have ever seen.  Although it has been several years since I last viewed it, it still rings clearly in my mind.  The book by Judith Guest is also excellent.  The music score is well-done with Pachebel Cannon both opening and closing the movie (I think).  In my opinion, this film is very realistic and I would recommend it to just about anyone. "},{"Title":"Brilliant depcition of the American family","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Robert Redford's first directorial effort Ordinary People is one of the best films of 1980 and of the way a family works after tragedy.  It never looses it's feeling of deep emotion and that helps in making this film Redford's best.  The story has Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore (both surprisingly good) as well-to-do parents who find they're family and themselves in a saddening circle of distress after there oldest son dies.  Amazing drama that gets better every time.  A "}{"Title":"I can't say enough about it","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pachelbel's Canon in D has never been used so movingly than in this picture. And the fact that the music is played (not very often at all, mind you) as an accompanier rather than an accelerator of the story is a grand achievement. These performances are so rich and beautiful that the small amount of music in this film could be deleted and the film would not be fazed in the least. The opening sets the tone, with the emptiness of the lake, the singular piano strum (?) juxtaposing the family in their isolated world of depression, unfulfillment and unspoken words. Hutton displayed versatility here never matched again after. Moore is menacingly effective as the mother totally devoid of emotion. Sutherland is the man trying to hold it all together, and comes off as the most effective of the bunch. And for some odd reason he was snubbed by the Academy. An absolute masterwork of communication and conflict tactics amongst upper-suburbanites.  "},{"Title":"I held on","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is extremely dramatic and exceptionally well acted.  It is Timothy Hutton's best work and Donald Sutherland is terrific too.  The best is Mary Tyler Moore, who is perfect as the cold and distant Mom.  She just doesn't like her son and everyone knows it, but its the kind of thing that is very hard to address.  When she says to him (about his dead, beloved brother), Buck would never have been in the hospital!, it makes the the hair on the back of my neck stand up. This is the ultimate in family crisis drama movies.  I am not sure, though, that it deserved Best Picture, over Raging Bull. "},{"Title":"Well....","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not the world's worst movie, but certainly didn't deserve the Oscar. Acting was good, but it seemed to me that the plot was a little thin.  For some reason, I just had trouble caring about what happened to the characters. In short, a rather ordinary movie.  If you want a good cry, skip this one and rent Steel Magnolias. "},{"Title":"Best film Robert Redford has directed so far","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let's make this pure and simple this film is fantastic! Every Oscar Ordinary people got is certainly very well earned. Script is magnificent and actors are unbelievable, especially Timothy Hutton who makes the best performance of he's career. Very touching, very emotional...all and all one perfect and enjoyable family drama. Everyone should see this. "},{"Title":"Searingly powerful family drama","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ORDINARY PEOPLE is one of the small handful of films that touched me right in the heart.  It masterfully documents the guilt and depression of adolescence, and the strain and destruction that can be put on family. Timothy Hutton gives a grim and Oscar-winning performance as young Conrad, and Mary Tyler Moore, in a crucial move, gives the goods as his tormented mother.  Probably one of the best movies of the 1980s, ORDINARY PEOPLE should not be missed. "},{"Title":"How wrong I was...","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I expected to hate this movie.  I'd heard bad things about it - it was an Academy movie, it was boring, it was crap....  It was on at 2am here, so I set the video to tape it.  I watched it soon after, and I was shocked how good it was.  The first part of the movie is, admittedly, a little slow, but after that it's brilliant.  Tim Hutton is wonderful as Conrad, although it seemed to me that he was just about the lead actor and not supporting actor. (still, I like the fact that De Niro and Hutton both won Oscars that year) Redford does an excellent job (except for the first few shots...they DO look more than a little pretentious.) as a first-time director, making the film as a whole a great experience.  8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ordinary People","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This powerful film centers around issues of loss in the picture perfect' family. It's a story about loss of family, loss of hope, loss of love. Mary Tyler Moore stars in a rare dramatic performance as a mother torn between the loss one one son, Buck, and the loss of love in her relationship with her other son, Conrad, played exquisitely by Timothy Hutton in an Oscar winning role. Donald Sutherland is brilliant as the father who's simply trying to keep his family together. Judd Hirsch is also wonderful as Conrad's doctor and friend; the one person who truly listens to him and gives him hope to find the answers Conrad so desperately needs to survive.This rich and fulfilling motion picture is elegantly brought to the screen by Oscar winner Robert Redford. Quite a debut! This Best Picture Award winner also stars Elizabeth McGovern, Alec Baldwin and Dinah Manoff.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully written, acted and directed treatment of depression","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the 1976 novel of the same name by Judith Guest, this is a beautifully written, acted and directed exploration of the dynamics of a dysfunctional family, grief and depression. It is a deeply moving, intelligent and honest film which Robert Redford, making his directorial debut, handles in a superb manner. The script by Alvin Sargent is wonderful and features the best on screen depiction of depression that I have ever seen.The lead role of Conrad Jarrett is played by Timothy Hutton, who was only 19 at the time. Conrad is struggling with coming to terms with the accidental drowning of his elder brother Buck. As he was present at the time and unable to save him, he is suffering from both PTSD and survivor's guilt which led him to attempt suicide. Understandably, Conrad is in emotional turmoil at the beginning of the film and his experiences make it impossible for him to resume his normal life at home or in school. Many of his problems are compounded by the fact that he has such a poor relationship with his mother Beth, whom he feels does not love him or perhaps even hates him. Hutton is wonderfully natural in the role and Conrad always seems like a real person. In the early parts of the film, he is fidgety, short-tempered, easily distracted, seems unable to focus his thoughts, does not know (at least consciously) exactly why he feels so bad, occasionally says and does things which he immediately regrets and cannot even imagine feeling any better than he does at any given moment. All of these are feelings associated with depression and Hutton perfectly communicates them to the audience. He won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his role at only 20 and he is the youngest male to ever win an Oscar. Although he was fourth billed, he is certainly the star of the film and should really have been nominated for Best Actor. However, perhaps this was done deliberately so that he would have a better chance of winning a well-deserved award for his excellent performance.In one of the most inspired examples of casting against type in film history, Mary Tyler Moore plays Conrad's cold, distant, brittle mother Beth. Interestingly, in spite of the fact that her eponymous sitcom was the most successful TV series of the 1970s, she did not appear in a single film in that decade. This was her first big screen appearance since Elvis' last film Change of Habit in 1969 and her first worth mentioning since Thoroughly Modern Millie in 1967. Beth is a self-obsessed, unfeeling woman who is more concerned about appearances than her surviving son's emotional problems. She focuses all of her attention on maintaining her beautiful home which looks like something out of a magazine in order to create the illusion that the Jarretts are a happy, normal family. This is part of the reason that the casting works so well. Who doesn't love Mary Tyler Moore? Beth keeps Conrad at arm's length and, frankly, seems more than a little contemptuous of him at times. Her well-meaning husband Calvin comes to the conclusion that she may even be incapable of love. Before that, he said that Beth loved Buck but he also said that everyone thought that they had so much in common. If she did love him, I think that it was for the sole reason that he reminded her of herself. It is hinted that Beth may have inherited these characteristics from her own mother, who seems similarly cold.Donald Sutherland, one of the best actors of his generation, is likewise brilliant as Calvin, a good and decent man who tries his best to understand his son and do the right thing. Of the four major cast members, Sutherland was the only one who was not nominated for an Oscar for his performance, which I think he should have been as it is a fantastic performance. Perhaps it was because his character is more straightforward than Conrad and Beth but this is needed to ground the film and contrast their emotional problems with the more well-adjusted Calvin. Judd Hirsch, another veteran of a hugely popular 1970s sitcom, is perfect casting as Conrad's psychiatrist Dr. Tyrone Berger, whose somewhat confrontational style works very well in helping Conrad to heal and forgive himself for being unable to save Buck. He has less screen time compared to the other three main stars but Berger is a hugely important character who helps to hold the film together. Dinah Minoff is excellent in her one scene as Conrad's friend from the hospital Karen Aldrich, who seems cheerful and even tells Conrad to cheer up but eventually commits suicide. This sends Conrad into a downward spiral but he is thankfully able to recover. Elizabeth McGovern is very good as Conrad's would-be girlfriend Jeannine who tries her best to understand what he is going through. The same is true of his one-time best friend Joe, played by Fredric Lehne, but Conrad rejects his efforts as being around him reminds him too much of Buck. Adam Baldwin has a great small role as Conrad's confrontational friend Stillman who makes no effort to understand his feelings and even deliberately provokes him on one occasion. The great character actors M. Emmet Walsh and James B. Sikking also have nice small roles as Conrad's swimming coach Salan and Calvin's business partner Ray Hanley respectively. Redford has such a great eye for casting.Overall, this is a simply wonderful film which explores the material very respectfully and in an understated manner. After Citizen Kane, 12 Angry Men and The Wicker Man, all of which are in my Top 20, this is the fourth best directorial debut film that I have seen. As it stands, this is probably my 23rd favourite film of all time. "},{"Title":"A Bit Dry","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The accidental death of the older son of an affluent family deeply strains the relationships among the bitter mother, the good-natured father, and the guilt-ridden younger son.Robert Redford and Timothy Hutton both won Academy Awards for their respective debuts Redford as Best Director and Hutton, in his first film (he had previously appeared on television), as Best Supporting Actor. The film marked Mary Tyler Moore's career breakout from the personality of her other two famous roles as Laura Petrie on The Dick Van Dyke Show and Mary Richards on The Mary Tyler Moore Show. Moore's complex performance was well-received and obtained a nomination for Best Actress. The film also won Best Picture for 1980.Roger Ebert gave it four stars, calling it one of the year's best films, probably of the decade and later named it the fifth best film of the year 1980. Gene Siskel likewise ranked it the second best film of 1980. Both of them ended up giving Raging Bull a higher slot on the year's list, which is probably correct. The movie is a bit dry, and maybe does not age as well as it could. "},{"Title":"Sappy Drama","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A family tries to overcome the death of a son. Redford won an Oscar for his first film behind the camera, but his direction is uneven, going for melodramatic and sentimental scenes that are cringe-worthy at times. Moore received much praise for taking on a role that's far removed from her sitcom success, but it's a performance without depth. It is not the actress's fault, but rather how poorly her character is written. It is hard to believe that a mother could be so cold towards her son, and her behavior is never explained. Sutherland, Hirsch, and Hutton (in his film debut) turn in decent performances but can't overcome the often sappy dialog that they have to utter. "}{"Title":"Moore is remarkable","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mary Tyler Moore (Beth Jarrett) is the whole show here. She's a bad mother. The movie cuts her more slack than viewers do. Keep in mind, her numerous failings would have been positive qualities that the characters would readily describe as household benefits prior to the crisis point. She's provided a stable, amiable, clean home with pro-social values. The north shore of Chicago esteems these touch-me-not, unemotional qualities. But a crisis reveals that she's quite a chilly robot and can't share her emotions with those she's most intimate with. Beth knows it's forbidden to admit that she doesn't much care for her living son, but until she can be honest the entire family dynamic just becomes more and more maladaptive. Beth clearly, not only favored her dead son, but in one flashback seems to be enlivened by thoughts of a forbidden transgression, because Buck makes her feel youthful, popular and sexual. It's amazing that a TV comedienne would a) take such an unsympathetic role, and b) give such a refined, committed, chilly performance. There are two scenes in which the script wastes her, by forcing her to voice disappointing matters that come in out of left field (the golf course outburst, her defensive dinner with Sutherland). No one ever successfully nails her to the wall. It's too bad the movie doesn't offer a view into how she became who she is. She's a bit of a two-dimensional villain. A woman's second class role in society requires skillful navigation, or you're a bitch. The only similar character (and portrayal) I can name is Julianne Moore's preserved & desiccated housewife in Safe. And the only worse film-mother that comes to mind is Piper Laurie in Carrie.At least three characters are utterly frightened of what might happen if they fail to contain their powerful inner lives. And so they choose to front and suppress. Sutherlands sensitive man of the 70s thing is not good and and quite dated. He's eminently leave-able (in the end) because by the time depicted in the movie, he's a complete eunuch in the Jarrett home. The movie has amazing stuff in it, but ultimately is average because it blows its two major moments with less finely observed clichés. The late-night emotional outpouring with therapist Judd Hirsch is such emotionally cheap garbage, as is the final hackneyed conclusion in the backyard. That's too bad. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie that gets blasted TOO much","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While Raging Bull may be the better remembered and entertaining film, it was Ordinary People that I found more profound and gripping....both films were deserving of BP that year IMO.The acting in this movie is phenomenal. Timothy Hutton delivers one of the best performances I've ever seen as Conrad Jarrett and it is a shame that he never really took off in Hollywood. His scene after he discovers that his friend from the hospital (played by the underrated Dinah Manoff)commits suicide and he finally opens up to Dr. Berger is the moment that made this movie and made him deserve that Oscar.Dr. Berger was Judd Hirsch, who also received a deserving nomination for BSA but his performance was more subtle while Hutton's was a mixture of that and bang-pow. Hirsch's character seems to be low on words at times but he gets his point across and he is a very wise person. If there was ever a time that a Supporting duo could share an Oscar for a film....this is Definitely it!! Now Robert DeNiro fully deserved his Oscar for RB but I feel that if there were no DeNiro that year then Donald Sutherland should have won for giving a very loving and passionate performance as the caring dad Calvin who doesn't really understand everything that is happening. The only thing that prevented from a win was the fact that HE WASN'T EVEN NOMINATED!! This was a very horrible snub and I personally felt this was his best performance and it deserved a nomination and in any other year a win.Lastly, everyone loves Mary Tyler Moore and thinks she is one of our most lovable TV icons....well in this movie you can see she can act like a really snobby b**ch!! Moore's performance as Beth is amazing because it is a VERY against type role for her and she pulls it off EXTREMELY well. The character of Beth is so cold and hateful but even though you know she is grieving Buck's death you can't help but dislike her because she is so cold towards Conrad. Moore and Sissy Spacek (Who eventually won without any complaints) were worthy of a win and these two women will forever split into thinking who deserved it more.Ordinary People is a great movie that makes you think and I will also say it is not the movie to watch if you want to be cheered up because it is a very emotional film. Very underrated. "},{"Title":"A Dialogue Rich Story of Survival","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People is my favorite movie - from the moment I saw it at the theater in 1980. It is a dialogue rich story of survival. I like the film for its authentic feel, for the way it captures family dynamics, teen angst, teen years, grieving and coping. It is a well-written drama with some light-hearted moments. Timothy Hutton's performance, in particular, is outstanding - simply phenomenal in this film, a great opportunity for him...and for us. I've watched his work ever since. I had the pleasure to view the movie with the book in hand. It was insightful to follow along as the film is superbly adapted from the book. This relationship film has depth and candor. It is exceptional story-telling. A job well-done by all. "},{"Title":"Am I Missing Something?","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Was I missing something when I saw this movie? Does everyone really think that this movie is that spectacular? First of all, I read the book in English class before I saw the movie, and hated it.In the first place I found it too whiny. Second, I hated the characters and couldn't identify with them. The mother is an over-assertive, self-centered, cold, heartless woman, who is so obsessed with keeping the family image perfect that she refuses to acknowledge that any problems exists. Then there is the father, who is a spineless little excuse for a man, who lets his wife walk all over him and his son shut him out. Finally, there is the son, who is so whiny, stubborn and pathetic that I couldn't force myself to feel sorry for him. After reading the novel (which everyone in my class, including the teacher hated), we were forced to watch the movie. I was hoping that the movie would be better than the book, but my hopes were crushed within the first five minutes. But maybe I'm missing something. Maybe I had to be there. Hey, if you liked it, don't listen to me. To each his own. But, for everyone else, if you want to read a good coming-of-age book about a teen coping with family troubles and the death of his brother, read The Catcher in the Rye. "},{"Title":"Ordinary?","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ordinary People? The son is suicidal, the mother is emotionally dead, and the father is Donald Sutherland. This family is anything but ordinary. It's the story of a family that, in the wake of the drowning death of one son, can't put itself back together. Robert Redford's directorial debut is solid, if decidedly cold, but the acting is first-rate. Timothy Hutton is excellent as the guilt ridden surviving son & Mary Tyler Moore goes as far from her TV persona as possible as his mother. Hutton earned an Oscar as best supporting actor, but he's in nearly every scene is very much the lead. The script by Alvin Sargent is quite incisive. It's a hard movie to sit through as it's not exactly entertaining. Nevetheless a great directing effort from Redford. "},{"Title":"Slow moving complex drama told very simply and played out very well...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1st watched 4/2/2000 - 8 out of 10 (Dir-Robert Redford) Slow moving complex drama told very simply and played out very well by everyone involved.The real focus was a young man's recovery after an accident killed his brother, but his problem's end up not being just his problems. The family ends up being changed whether or not it is for the better or the worse that remains to be seen.1st directorial effort by Redford won Best Picture award at Oscars. "},{"Title":"In my top 20...","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film had the misfortune of beating Raging Bull for the Best Picture Oscar.  I've heard reviewers say, that in retrospect, Raging Bull is an American classic while Ordinary People seems 'rather ordinary.'I was 15 when I saw this film and I've always loved it.  Every adolescent can identify with feelings of guilt and self-doubt, but Timothy Hutton's portrayal of a boy trying to recover from a suicide attempt is exemplary. Some try to diminish his performance by saying that he garnered a sympathy vote because of the recent death of his father, actor Jim Hutton.  I disagree.  He deserved the recognition he received.Robert Redford extracted fine performances from the entire cast and proved that popular actors can direct, which has since been confirmed with films directed by other stars such as Clint Eastwood, Kevin Costner, Mel Gibson and Sean Penn.Ordinary People is a fine film and I'll always consider it one of my top 20 movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Excellent Story Outline","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mary Tyler Moore does something in this movie that a lot of actors cannot do;  she moved from being funny on the Mary Tyler Moore Show to the serious Ordinary People role.  I have always been a big Moore fan but this movie proves that with the talents of the director, Robert Redford, and the other actors, Ordinary People does not disappoint the viewer.  If you are looking for laughs, skip this flick.  However, if you want to watch a movie that will really make you sit and watch, this is surely the one to see.  Mary Tyler Moore is excellent as a cold person.  Ops!  Should I have mentioned that? "},{"Title":"This is the movie I watch when I need a good cry!","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My favorite movie. The deeply developed characters -gentle, sweet Calvin, icy, reserved Beth and tormented Conrad - and their unfolding relationships are what make this film great.  This movie is about as good as it gets, or should I say better than AS GOOD AS IT GETS!  Every scene, every line carries you forward, and adds to the emotionality of the film. When Judd Hirsch and Conrad connect, I lose it! If you need to revitalize yourself and your faith in the human spirit, rent this film...or better, yet, buy it! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe because I could relate to this movie so well or maybe because it was filmed in my, then, hometown, I was never so affected by a film as I was this one.  The acting, the pacing, the coloring (darker interiors as the mood got darker), the casting were all wonderful.  What a directing debut from Redford!  Hutton deserved the Oscar for this role.  Unfortunately, he probably peaked at a young age with this part. "}{"Title":"I remember...","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" God, I read this book in high school. We also did watch the movie and I think the reason I forgot so much of the story was due the fact that I could relate very much at the time that I read this story, unfortunately. Also, it didn't help that I had to do over 2 dozen assignments on this book. D Ordinary People is a wonderful drama movie. It's a story about a boy, who is dealing with the pain and guilt of loosing his brother to a boating accident, he has just come home from the hospital. He attempted suicide and now him and his upper class suburban family have to deal and live with all that they have lost.I remember analyzing the story and many agreed when we said we hated the mother. She shuts down emotionally and only wants to continue living life the way she wants to then to move on with her husband and son. Looking at this from a more adult perspective, I can honestly say that most audience members can relate. It's so hard trying to be strong and getting back to a normal life after so many tragedies. And Mary Tyler Moore really brought that out. She actually made me feel for her in some scenes.Donald Sutherland is an incredible actor. As the father, he seems at first as if he just is giving Conrad whatever he wants. He's in denial for most of the story but finally collapses at the end. When he confronts and deals with his pain, he gains so much more.Conrad, unfortunately I cannot remember the actor's name, he was also very true and honest about this role. Conrad has so much do deal with in this story guilt, pain, and forgiveness. The actor was very talented and shows his meltdown. Both him and Mr. Berger together created some relief in the film.Weither I agree that this deserved Best Picture over Raging Bull, I'm not sure about which should have won. I know many are arguing over it, remember that they are entirely different films. But, this is an actor's film while Raging Bull was more of an action in some ways. I wish there could have been a tie. D Ordinary People is a very wonderful film that should be given more chances by people. It's very touching and moving picture about real people and real life.10/10 "},{"Title":"the best movie ever","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even if I think Ordinary people is truly the best film ever made (or my favourite anyway) the only thing I want to write about it is Go watch this marvellous masterpiece, Go see how Sutherland, Tyler Moore, Hirsch, and especially Timothy Hutton show what real acting is like... See it on the TV, rent or buy the video, go to the movies, but DO NOT MISS IT... for it is really unmissable...  "},{"Title":"Compelling, but chilly and occasionally overwrought...","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Robert Redford won the Oscar as Best Director for this proficient melodrama about an upper-crust suburban family hit with tragedy the eldest child, a golden boy, drowned in a freak boating accident, after which his younger brother (who survived the wreck) made a serious attempt at suicide after being overcome with feelings of guilt. Adaptation of Judith Guest's novel is heavy with overripe dialogue that portends to have the ring of truth. Redford seems determined not to let the scenario turn into a dirge, and so adds glimmers of humor, but occasionally he gets too colorful (as when Timothy Hutton, who wins a date with Elizabeth McGovern, smiles and sings Hallelujah--that's cute, but then he continues singing it until the joke loses its freshness). As the parents, Donald Sutherland and Mary Tyler Moore are less interesting than the younger players in the cast; Moore, working a convincingly immobile persona, has some of the weakest scenes, and her society maven mother doesn't end up making emotional or logical sense. Judd Hirsch plays one of the those touchy-feely movie psychiatrists who always wake up in the middle of the night for a crisis, though the majority of Hutton's scenes are bracing and natural, and perky McGovern has a sweetness that isn't forced. The film looks good and is well-paced, yet it has confusing and anticlimactic passages, and the final scenes don't work. Hutton was also awarded an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor, and the film won as Best Picture. *** from **** "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  regardless of incessant praise, this movie was NOT that good.  The book was much better.  The movie, while maybe a decent movie alone, misses some of the very important plot elements of the book, and portrays Beth tragically incorrectly.  Beth's unfeeling is a HUGE element of the story, but in this film, Mary Tyler Moore is much too loving.  They say this movie is not afraid of being hard to watch, but apparently it is, leaving out Beth's cold-heartedness and the details of Conrad's suicide attempt.  To see a REAL Beth Jarrett, see Home Before Dark (1997) and watch Katharine Ross' character, aunt Rose. "},{"Title":"The acting carries the film","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am very critical of mainstream Hollywood because it keeps shelling out movies that are essentially the same. I like it when director's take risks because sometimes (usually) they make a better film, or at least an interesting one.Ordinary People takes risks, mainly with its structure, but this is where the film fails. We are simply not given enough background into the back-story in order to become as invested in the film as it deserves. I chose the word deserves carefully and I mean it when I say it. Everything else about this film just begs to be in a classic modern American tragedy, but Redford jumps right in the middle of it while only providing snippets of a back-story. We know what happened, but as they say, a picture is worth 1000 words.I said that this film deserves a better structure, and I mean that. The acting is what makes this film more than watchable. To me, Donald Sutherland is a person who adeptly stands on the line between creepy and funny. Here, there is none of that. He is a wounded man who wants to keep his family together, but realizes that it is falling apart. For a twenty year old man, Timothy Hutton displays a large amount of talent for his years. We are able to feel for him despite knowing little about him. His therapist, Judd Hirsh, uses a mixture of tough love and sympathy that is surprisingly believable. Mary Tyler Moore in some ways steals the film. I never thought I could see a woman who is so cold and heartless as her character, but Moore is a cruel bitch, and one of the most detestable characters I have ever seen. One might identify her as the villain of the story, but that's a misconception. It's not that kind of a movie. That's the only way I can describe it.Ordinary People is a great film, but it doesn't hit the notes it wants to because it doesn't realize that showing is better than telling, even if it adds to the running time (at least in this case). "},{"Title":"Influential and poignant in its day, but ......","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It would be quite boring, weak, lethargic and outdated for today's audience, even in retrospect. Before I evaluate the movie we must first consider that 1970's and early 1980's melodramas of the upper class dominated the market in Hollywood. It was also novel to show them in such personal detail as Ordinary People did. Robert Redford makes his directing debut and definitely his most personal piece of work to date. I believe his golden boy image of that era contributed significantly to the success of this movie. Based on Judith Guest's novel, which I'll demure I've never read, centers around a friendly business man Calvin, his haughty and cold wife, Beth, and their emotionally disturbed son, Conrad. They are an upper class family living in the suburbs of Chicago who have suffered a loss of a son. This is established early and the slice of life drama envelops into a touching, thoughtful and sometimes poignant tale of a family in crisis. I believe this script and screenplay was well crafted for those who can sink their teeth into personal melodramas where you get to unravel and study the characters' motivations and feelings. This can be and was interesting for those folks who can identify with this. This is the type of smut where curious people sit back and try to psychoanalyze the subjects from their pseudo layman's perspective. There is little to zero entertainment value in this stodgy tale. It is morose, inert, incensing and anticlimactic. Unfortunately the audience for this kind of movie has shrunk progressively and would have a hard time enrapturing most cultures and communities today. Of course it would, why should we grieve for affluent yuppies when there are numerous families under much worse circumstances who have suffered personal losses, not to mention health and financial?But identification with this Ordinary People is not all its worth. Redford does a good job of selective directing to reveal the character's thoughts and insecurities in the most subtle way, a talent which is rare to come by. I'm not a Redford fan by any means, but this raises the question whether the credit should be given to the actors for emoting subtlety or credit to the director.The acting, although first rate, is a bit forced at times especially from Hutton (Conrad) and Moore (Beth. But for his young years as an actor, Timothy Hutton really shines. I felt he really conveyed the painful feelings of teenage isolation and estrangement from his nuances at school, his bland and sterile home life and the nagging of his mother to the scenes with his sweetly awkward father Sutherland (Calvin). This is your typical waspy family that you would normally find in the Northeast during the 70's and 80's. On the surface everything appears plush with manicured lawns, stately houses to the preppy clothes. But underneath that superficial Americana exterior is a tense and nervous amalgam of turmoil ready to erupt. As they cope with this tragedy in a suppressed manner we eventually see the veneer of denial crack to the point where Calvin has his confrontation with Beth following her ultimate breakdown.Although I felt Moore was perfectly cast and the epitome of Beth in looks and persona, I thought her acting had miscalculated and needed closer attention and direction at times. Her performance throughout was rather one dimensional until her epiphany at the climax. Playing a vain and pretentious woman with a fragile ego and heart of ice can be tricky. You can tell they actors were playing close attention to details of their psyche and how they should behave. It can't be easy to convey all those qualities with an inferior script. Sutherland actually acquits himself rather well although I would have done some things differently in his role. To me Donald Sutherland has always been adept at being either creepy or odd. But here he is an absolute model husband, fulfilling the executive role.Judd Hirsh, Doctor Gerber, is a refreshing addition to this bland mold of characters. He is the quirky counselor for Conrad. His sincerity and intentions are directly motivated form the heart, although he is so different from the family.My main problem with this movie is that it is drab. It has no rhythm or beat to inspire us moving forward from one scene to the next. It's basically a series of uncomfortable scenes strung together in a dull daisy chain of events. For example, the Conrad character lashing out at his father while taking a picture with his mom has an improbable false note. Everyone stands their in wordless shock with their mouths agape. If this is the neuroses of Upper class Americans I'm a bit incredulous and put off.Families in crisis can be an involving and moving subject, but this movie doesn't embrace its audience, but leaves us with a cold and clammy feeling that people have communication problems and are unable to connect or relate for whatever reasons. And after seeing Ordinary People, those reasons are still unexplained. "},{"Title":"Redford's Oscar-winning turn as a first time director...","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Relationships are explored in ORDINARY PEOPLE, after an unfortunate drowning accident has killed the older (and favorite) son of MARY TYLER MOORE and DONALD SUTHERLAND. The least favored son, TIMOTHY HUTTON, has survived the accident with a guilt complex that has to be treated by the family's psychiatrist JUDD HIRSCH.That's the main thrust of the story--and the film deals sensitively with the relationships between the mother, who pretends nothing is amiss and is rigidly in self-control but keeps herself aloof from nurturing her son, and the father who is much more forgiving in nature and extends himself to the boy with no visible effect.The boy's sense of guilt is conveyed in many different ways and is beautifully played by nineteen-year old Hutton, who won a Best Supporting Role Oscar for his work.It's the kind of relationship movie that Hollywood stopped making shortly after this and was more likely to be found in the Merchant-Ivory films that British and American audiences warmed to. It's a bittersweet tale that seems real and moving whenever these characters interact. Well worth watching and justifiably honored with a Best Picture Oscar for 1980. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When you have writing, acting and directing like this, you don't need car chases or nudity or explosions.  THIS movie is what real movie-making is all about.  If you haven't seen it, go rent it today.  For a couple of hours, you'll be transcended into the world of a tormented family.  It is both horrible and beautiful to watch as the truth of their inner demons come closer to the surface, culminating in healing for some and painful self-awareness for others.Redford, Moore, Sutherland, and especially Hutton have created one of the finest films ever made.  When I saw it upon its release many years ago, I left the theater mentally and emotionally exhausted.  It is one of the few movies I can watch over and over and never tire of it.Should be in everyone's video library. "},{"Title":"Ordinary people, an example of an ordinary movie","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First directorial attempt by famous actor Robert Redford made quite a splash in the 1980 Academy awards, with 6 nominations and 4 Oscars won, making it one of the most acclaimed movies of that year, and one of the most acclaimed in all of Redford's directorial career.In my opinion this picture is probably one of the top ranking, overrated movies of all times! First of all the plot gave an opportunity, for a skilled director to explore the depths of each character's feelings and thoughts. A complexity of emotions in loosing a close, loved person offers a palette of different colors, that should paint the picture of the turmoil it causes within a man or a woman affected.This picture offers nothing in that, or any other matter. The characters are stone cold and emotionless, impossible to relate to, and that's not only the case with mother Beth (Mary Tyler Moore), that's supposed to be without emotions, dealing with the pain in her own way, by shutting everyone out, but with the rest of principal characters too, including the most affected one of them, the son, Conrad Jarett (Timothy Hutton). He sweats, he cries, he behaves irrationally, and for the most of the movie acts like he is kicking drug addiction, and not suffering a loss of a brother. However Donald Sutherland is the weakest link in this movie and his character Calvin Jarett, the sympathetic but strangely alienated father, also gives a wooden performance that blends in the whole lack of appeal that this movie suffers of, fading to gray from start to finish. He cares but he doesn't!? A good Jewish doctor (Judd Hirsch) only adds to the misery of this film with his totally undeveloped character that miraculously heals troubled Conrad with several half baked scenes (he actually filmed all his scenes in 8 days), that seem more like he doesn't care about his troubles, than that he actually does.All in all, this is a completely ordinary movie, without a stand out emotion or a heart beat and the reasons of it's acclaim, are unknown to me. "},{"Title":"Horrible, Trite","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the worst films to ever win a Best Picture Oscar. And the next time you are wondering how Marty Scorcese failed to win Best Director for Raging Bull, reflect on the fact he lost to Redford for his work on this film. People often point out how Citizen Kane did not get best picture in 1941 as an example of an Oscar injustice. However, the 1941 winner was How Green Was My Valley, which is also a great film by a great director. For my money, for a great director/film like Scorcese/Raging Bull to lose to something that is wholly unwatchable---that represented a new height in injustice. That is a pinnacle of bad judgment I thought would be unsurpassed forever. But then, unaccountably, the Academy decided that Clint Eastwood was a great director.... But that is another rant. "}{"Title":"Redford reveals his ordinary nature in a shockingly ordinary movie.","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If this isn't the dullest, least promising movie title of all time, I don't know what is... Ordinary People? They might as well have called it Sit Down And Yawn. Well, at least it's an honest title, it doesn't exactly raise expectations.Even ordinary people don't want to watch other ordinary people in movies. Give us something interesting. And cast actors that don't look even sleepier than Tobey Maguire.In fact, this movie is even a direct insult to all the self-respecting ordinary people the world over. Hutton, Moore and Sutherland aren't ordinary, they're DULL.Ordinary isn't dull. Dull is much worse. Dull kills the spirit, makes one beg for those somewhat-less-dull 50s musicals.Actually, Sutherland looks a bit like Goofy, so he's only half-dull.This should have gone straight to TV on the Hallmark Channel. This is the kind of mushy drama-of-the-week relationship drivel that they serve on a daily basis to middle-aged housewives, pensioners and spinsters.If you want to read my biography on Robert Redford, contact me. "},{"Title":"Ornery People","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A movie that pretends to offer a sensitive view of humans during the bereavement process, but gives a twisted, contrived, and hideously exploitive image of it. I've known many folks who, like myself, have gone through the grieving process, and it's well known that everyone has to work their way through this time of sorrow in their own way and at their own pace. But, never have I seen anyone who acted in the perverse manner that these supposedly ordinary people act. They are the sick products of the scriptwriter's nightmarish imagination.This movie feigns cerebral and emotional substance, but is merely a gross distortion of both of these elements. Every Mom who ever tragically lost a son is portrayed here as vile and despicable vermin, and deserves an apology from the writer for this detestable depiction. Mary Tyler Moore plays a grating and miserable character that is too contrived to either be hated or empathized with. She plods through the whole thing, lashing out at everyone around her, especially her mellow husband and over-emoting younger son. Evidently, she had some sick obsession with her late elder son, and his death has driven her to the point of madness. Watching Moore with that pasted on scowl and blank, drunken stare for 90 minutes or however long this movie was (it felt like a year) will drive you to the point of madness as well.The story goes nowhere, and revolves around in circles like a dog chasing its own tail. It desperately tries to strain sentiment from its family-in-crisis motif as if it were trying to squeeze blood from a tomato. The characters never change or resolve anything; they just continue to hate each other and yell and scream and fight until the credits finally and mercifully roll. Some 80's psycho-babble gibberish is tossed in, and is just as pointless as everything else the movie assaults you with.The same footage of the drowning death is run over and over until you want to drown all the characters just to shut them up. After several rehashes, it becomes increasingly apparent this scene was filmed in somebody's back yard pool. The waves created by the fans go in different directions. The hand of the guy who's going down stays in one level spot as if the actor was hiding just below the surface of shallow water sticking his hand out. The reflections of the film crew's lamps are clearly visible, even shining blinding light directly into your face at times.Very depressing, tedious, poorly executed, and not entertaining at all. Certainly not deserving of the award it received. I rarely vote 1's, but this is one of those films that didn't have anything to say and did an insultingly lousy job of trying to pretend it did. "},{"Title":"Well crafted but dispiriting study of a family's grief & turmoil","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This touching & well executed film is very well regarded, but I personally found it all a bit depressing. My first complaint is that this typical suburban WASP family isn't quite ordinary in terms of its finances, but somewhat affluent above the norm...all personified by the upscale pursuits of sailing and golfing, although Conrad & his girlfriend do go on a bowling date. This movie would never have been made about a blue collar family, who couldn't afford prolonged therapy and would have to make do without as best they could. Nor would the movie feature an Afro American family, whether rich or poor.The movie opens as the prosperous couple's teenage son, Conrad, is returning home from a mental institution. He has attempted suicide and is continuing in therapy due to survivor's guilt and turmoil following the accidental death in a sailing accident of his older brother, Buck. The parents, Beth and Calvin, are struggling to cope as well, and in the process their relationship is falling apart. Beth has become very emotionally withdrawn from Conrad, resenting the fact that he survived while Buck, her favorite, did not. However, she behaves in a normal fashion toward the outside world. Meanwhile, her affable husband, Calvin, is cheerful and doing everything possible to hold his family together.The acting is not to be faulted. The father, portrayed by Donald Sutherland, is a very sympathetic character, likable and doing his best. Mary Tyler Moore impeccably portrays the cold, withdrawn mother. However, I found Beth's character with her total emotional detachment from her surviving son (at the heart of this movie) not only unsympathetic but quite improbable. People do indeed respond differently to grief, but I found the disparity in this mother's feeling toward her two sons unbelievable. A more realistic response might instead surely have been for Beth to cling too tightly and overprotect her sole remaining (and apparently suicidal) son. Timothy Hutton truly shines here, giving an amazing performance as the tormented, guilt-ridden boy, Conrad, trying to recover from his ordeal without benefit of the love and support of his icy, distant mother.This movie brings to the forefront a little discussed statistic that marital break down is common among couples who lose a child. In addition, it graphically portrays the veneer often existing in seemingly happy, loving, well adjusted families, who conceal (sometimes quite successfully) their inner conflicts from the outside world. However, this film might have been a little more uplifting if the family had a faith dimension to it and not simply endless psychotherapy. I definitely have respect for psychiatry, but do not view therapists as miracle workers. Of course better therapy than the book, where Conrad is miraculously healed by having sex! I agree with another's comment that this film is basically a lengthy commercial for psychoanalysis...for the affluent of course.Accidental death of a child, grief, parent / child relationship strain, teenage mental illness, attempted suicide, and marital break down. These are indeed all too common occurrences in everyday life among ordinary people. Personally, however, I do not find these problems particularly entertaining to watch unfold on screen and, given the approach of only psychotherapy and no religious or other meaningful support, moving only in a negative and rather dispiriting way. "},{"Title":"What the movie is about","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It all comes down to what side you are on. Pro-Illegals and communism or following laws. That is what the whole movie is about. Pro-Illegals and Pro-communism. I'm tolerant on a lot of movies as I have over 1500 horror movies, but this one upset my stomach with the hatred of The United States. They just kept cramming it down your throat. If you hate America so bad then why not just leave. I went to watch a kick butt movie and all I got was political crap from the communist left. Enough is enough. We won't even get into the anti-god stance the movie takes or the racist crap it spews. I love Robert Redford, but he crossed the line on this one. People will say it's just a movie and that is like saying that Schindler's List was just a movie. "},{"Title":"did not enjoy at all","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I do not no what other movie came out in 1980 but the fact that this one best picture just shocked me. I found the film extremely boring and just begging for it to end after the first half hour. I kept waiting for in to get interesting or more intense but I didn't seem too till to late and I had already given up on the movie. Not the mention the fact I can't believe the mom just got up and left. I really just didn't enjoy the story or the plot, on the other hand though I though the director did the best he could with such a slow boring story. The actors all were excellent and Timothy Huttons character really did a great job. He truly made you believe that he was this unstable kid dealing with lots of issue's because of his brothers death. There were great use of lighting but as in some of Robert Redfords other films; it was just to long and slow. I would recommend this film to my grandmother but never to one of my friends. People who can enjoy slow paced movie that you really need to think hard and deep about I would recommend it too you as well, other than that I would say just stay away. "},{"Title":"Purposeless","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lots of people liked this. You probably will too.I didn't. Its because at the end of any movie, I ask myself why it was made. I recently saw Ladder 49 and found parts of it stimulating visually, but it failed the why test. It was made to monetize the perceived heroism of 9-11 firefighters.This movie is effective. It portrays a woman damaged by a loss who then goes on to damage the survivors. They fight back and perhaps win. Its done well enough that you get engaged and almost certainly cry.Afterwards you will decide whether you were manipulated to good cause. Were your buttons pushed just to collect your ticket? Was there something that happened that made you better as a result of the petty pain you went through?In this case, I think the answer is neither. Surely, this wasn't something that will be recorded on the tree rings of my soul. But I do think Redford and the players were honest in what they attempted. The problem is that actors have one set of concerns and that never &#151; never &#151; makes for a whole movie.Actors are engaged to engage us, period. They'll cheat, pose, lie, feign great things. They'll destroy what's real and what's solid if they can get closer to us. They are whores in a way, intending to leave us and go on to the next thing, ideally leaving us happy with the memory of what they brought.Its us that have to judge how to accept them, what to guard and what to give. I have learned never to trust Redford. A good, honest man, a man who understands acting, someone who needs to be admired for trying to build a life that matters.But his art? It is soulless, and will leave you worse off, not better. Pack your suitcase, and leave.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Good Effort Mr. Redford but....","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time in college, and all i could I do is ask myself how this film beat out Raging Bull or The Elephant Man for best picture that year.  The characters are not relatable at all and trust me I know from experience what Timothy Hutton's character is supposed to be going through.  Mary Tyler Moore is just out of place as the cold heartles mother.  I think a Faye Dunaway or Jane Fonda in the role would have been a better choice.  Donald Sutherland character is somewhat likeable as is Judd Hirsch's however I found Elizbeth McGoverns performance as Jeannie far to over done.  All in all this film is mediocre.  I guess I bought into the best Picture hype and rented and was horribly disapointed by the entire film.  THough I have seen much much much worse.  I have seen much much better "},{"Title":"Ordinary People = Ordinary Film","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Besides being a very long and drawn out drama with absolutely no surprises this film lacked something.  It was pretty much exactly like any other film of it's type.  The whole my mother doesn't love me crisis is way to old and widely used.  So is the life isn't worth living thoughts that are through out the film.  I have seen many other dramas of this type that had redeeming qualities.  This film even sort of reminded me of Good Will Hunting at some parts but not as good.This film did have one thing that made it worth watching and that was an outstanding performance by Donald Sutherland.  He did the best that I have ever seen him.  Much better than the movies he has tried of late.All in all this film could have been much better.  Take the time only if you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Standard Tv-fare","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ok, it has some good acting in it and it was Redford´s first outing as a director. But the Academy Award Winner for Best Picture? In the year of Raging Bull? To establish a real ranking of this family drama of nowadays and then standard TV-proportions just ask a few people which films they remember from 1980. And I mean people who care about movies... "},{"Title":"A Realistic Approach","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I believe Redford is a realistic thinker. All of the problems that Conrad Jarett, played by Timothy Hutton, were things that have either happened to me or my friends. I think that he makes it a bit too realistic and drama filled. The whole film wasn't bad, just most of it. Judd Hirsch does a great job as the Psychologist that doesn't have all of the answers. He adds a bit a humor and even more realism. To me, he makes the movie. Hirsch just plays well with his part and makes you feel like he really is what he seems to be. Overall i believe that Hirsch out plays the rest and gives the film the credit it deserves. The whole story line with Conrad I believe as very predictable. Everythign seems to be played out like a game. Nothing just springs out of nowhere. It needed more twists that what it had. "}{"Title":"Terrable!!!","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Anyone who read the book will agree with me. I usually think that the movie is better then the book but i can honestly say that it was not that way in this case. I understand when making a movie you can not include every detail but when you leave out some of the most important scenes that is outrageous. I think that one of the reasons for this may have been because in the book there is allot of going into peoples minds and hearing what they are thinking. There are ways to include things like that. Another thing i did not like was that they added some scenes that were not necessary and that just in my opinion wasted time. You don't have to take my opinion for it but read the book and then watch the movie and you will see what i am talking about. "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily boring slice-of-life movie","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If ever there was a forgettable movie, this is it.  Mediocre on all fronts acting, story, directing.  So you'd think this would add up to a mediocre movie, but in this case the whole is less than the sum of the parts--it's terrible.  Easily the worst movie ever to win the Academy Award for Best Picture.I give about 1% of the movies I rate a 1, and this is one of them 1/10 "}]