[{"Title":"It was a dream - they raised it! See it for what it is!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have never understood the degree of ire, dislike, contempt and scorn heaped upon this movie. A multi million dollar turkey at the box office which virtually sank Lord Lew Grade and one that has provided film critics with cheap laughs ever since. I sit here this morning, having sat through ZOOLANDER last night, watching a complacent, pre-programmed brain-dead audience guffaw itself senseless, contributing another truck load of dollars to Ben Stiller's superannuation fund and you know, I wonder about RAISE THE TITANIC. What has happened to sentiment, simplicity, the ultimately simple values in life?Sure, RAISE THE TITANIC captures none of the power of Cussler's novel, but I don't really care! Yeah, they got the funnel configuration shot to hell, the underwater model as it surfaces looks much like the little rubber boat I used to play with in the bath as a child, and David Selby has the animal magnetism of Osama bin Laden, but I'd like to tell you something. Perhaps because I maintained a fascination with the TITANIC ever since I was a child and dreamed of just how it must have been that night, when watching that absolutely awesome scene in RAISE THE TITANIC as the great ship broke the surface I have never in my life been so emotionally moved. Tears just ran down my face and I cried like a child. When I got home that night my wife asked me what was wrong. I couldn't talk about it and was never able to explain, and you people reading this want to believe it, I am the absolute last guy you would consider to be a wuss! How anyone could have  witnessed that scene in the theater and NOT been moved I could never understand.So many memorable things in the film. Titanic survivor, Sir Alec Guinness' touching cameo in the pub when he gives Dirk Pitt (the late Richard Jordan) the white star flag that he removed from the stern the night the great ship foundered, and which he wanted replaced if they were ever to raise it from the bottom of the Atlantic. The inarguably realistic scene when Jordan and his crew members finally discover the wreck on the bottom, played out against John Barry's ultimately moving musical score, the best he wrote for ANY film. The external shots of the ship once it has been raised (Way better I thought than Cameron's digitised TITANIC) and the internal shots of the gymnasium still dripping with water. Finally, the wonderful scenes as it is towed into New York harbor to complete its (then) 68-year journey. True, the last twenty minutes or so were all downhill, but nothing can detract from what went before.Worst thing they ever did was to FIND the wreck! A dream died that day! "},{"Title":"Why Cussler Doesn't Do Movies","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Inexplicably bad adaption of Clive Cussler's novel, the failure of this movie may be in its focus on an actual historical event.  Most of Cussler's novels revolve around odd sinkings and lost-at-sea type events  perhaps this movie couldn't stand up to the scrutiny that accompanies any Titanic -based project.  Richard Jordan is badly miscast (as is Jason Robards). Cussler's novels would make excellent Bond-type big budget movies in the right hands, but here Jerry Jameson and the writers managed to suck anything interesting out of Cussler's entertaining original work.  "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatre, and I remember enjoying it. I knew it was a financial failure, but over the years since I've been surprise by the hatred it has generated.  Long before Robert Ballard, finding the Titanic and possibly raising it was a dream I shared with a lot of Titanic fans. Clive Cussler wrote a pulpy but entertaining book on the subject, and I thought the story was made into a pulpy, but entertaining movie. I liked the cast Richard Jordan, David Selby (I'm a Dark Shadows fan also...hoots of derision), Jason Robards and Anne Archer. Now, however, I have to watch a fading print under cover of darkness to avoid more hoots of derision! I've read that there is excised footage that might help the storyline.  I'd buy a directors cut DVD, and have a Raise the Titanic party. It's only an entertainment, not a work of art. "},{"Title":"An Enormous Erection","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A folly worthy of its namesake, Lord Grade, its liner sized producer famously remarked that it would have been cheaper to lower the Atlantic, a feat he could have accomplished simply by jumping into it.Raise the Titanic(!)is an adaptation of the novel by Clive Cussler. In its transition to the big screen however, most of the intricate cold war plotting didn't make it to the lifeboats. In its stead you have the basic story and of course the bank breaking poster promise of the doomed liner rising from her watery grave. It might have worked too had the source material been handled a little better. The screenplay is pretty talky and never really succeeds in building the necessary tension but what really sinks (sorry) the whole enterprise is direction from Jerry Jameson so moribund and lifeless, you'd think he was helming a movie for cable television. Its a mark of this that although it doesn't take very long to find the ship itself on screen you could be forgiven for thinking that you began watching the movie in 1912. Also RTT! has, for the most part a cut price look that undermines the epic scale of the story and its subject matter. When the ship does eventually see the light of day its via some model work and camera over-cranking that fails in producing that all important wow factor. To be fair though there are some very good shots of the ship entering New York harbour that do pack a punch, aided enormously by one of John Barry's best ever scores - a wonderful bombastic orchestral suite that is as good as hes ever produced. Were this a better film, and had anyone gone to see it Barry may have been in line for an Oscar (which he got when he plagiarised parts of the score for Out of Africa). In fact, its fair to say that Barry is the only person behind the camera who does the story any justice.Richard Jordan gives a good performance as Cussler's hero Dirk Pitt and there's a nice Cornish Cameo for Alec Guinness but everyone else is really just waiting to die here. The twist is a good one but is handled poorly and you're left wondering what a director like John McTernian who did such good work with Clancy's Hunt for Red October may have made of the same material. Sadly the discovery of the real ship in two pieces has scuppered any remake possibilities so this is it. Raise the Bismarck anyone? "},{"Title":"It like it","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I like this film, and I've always liked it. It is far from perfect, but if you can suspend your disbelief for a couple of hours and enjoy it for what it is then it's worth watching. The oft-criticised script isn't the worlds best, but some of the dialogue is quite moving and it's delivered well by the cast. Jason Robards makes an excellent Sandecker, and Richard Jordan captures elements of Dirk Pitt's character very well. The scene in The Sloop Inn in Cornwall with Jordan and Alec Guinness is particularly noteworthy, with Guinness' portrayal of a surviving crew member accentuated by John Barry's first class score (Memories of the Titanic (All That's Left)) quite moving. Later on, Barry's Memories of the Titanic theme is reprised to good effect when Jordan's character explores the wreckage. The scene where the Titanic reaches the surface is quite impressive, and I can't help but smile when we see the ship towed into New York harbour (and it's not the poor visual effects that make me smile). I always enjoy re-watching this, and if no-one else does, that's fine - I'll keep it for myself. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Special effects in 1980 weren't what they are in 2002 obviously. This film is rather laughable in terms of pyrotechnics when you compare it to, let us say James Cameron's film (by the way this film was made five years before they found the real Titanic so they had no way of knowing the ship broke in two before it went down). I saw this film as a kid and enjoyed it (I enjoy anything having to do with the Titanic). I remember that summer of 1980 there was a big ad build up for it, the last great human adventure is about to begin. This is a good suspense film, although they would have been better off following Cussler's novel more closely especially in character develpment. Cussler was reportedly so angry at this film he forbid them to make anymore from his novels which is a damn shame. Dirk Pitt is a fine hero in the James Bond mold. The scene where the ship is raised is handled rather well. I read something that was kind of funny, the producers spent a fortune building an elaborate studio tank for the model they raised then found out they didn't make it big enough. Anne Archer is rather wasted in this film, shes a fine actress who deserved better. The great Alec Guiness has an amusing cameo. He was always such a loveable old ham. "},{"Title":"The movie equivalent of the Millennium Dome!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" US Naval Intelligence attempts to raise the Titanic, the ocean-liner that sank on her maiden voyage in 1912. It is believed that her cargo contains rare minerals that will enable the Americans to perfect a defense system completely resistant to enemy missiles.A film which cost $40,000,000 to make, was hyped as a blockbuster and then tripped the flop fantastic when it took a lousy $7,000,000 at the box-office. Hardly surprising because it is very thinly plotted (there's barely enough plot to make a b-movie), the acting is indifferent and above all it's just an unbearably tedious way of passing the time. It really does make one wonder why they spent so much time and money making so very little. I would place this on my list of movies that I love to hate when I call it the movie equivalent of the Millennium Dome, and just to add to the insult, they should have put sprocket holes on all the hype and thrown the picture away. "},{"Title":"It Should Have Been Good....","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first came across this movie, I thought it was interesting and recored late night off TV. I enjoyed the film, at least until I read the novel by Clive Cussler several times.The cast is pretty good. Jason Robards is great as Sandecker and David Shelby is perfect as Seagram, fitting Cussler's description perfectly. Anne Archer is good in the role of Dana and it's a shame we don't see more of her and her lines are terrible (Wormy on the hooky. for example). Alec Guinness does so well in the role of Bigalow that the film is worth watching just for his small role. Richard Jordan is the only bad cast member. He doesn't fit in to the character of Dirk Pitt at all and seems to be overwhelmed in his scenes.The music is the best thing going for this movie. The great composer John Barry gives one of his best scores ever for this film, giving the film a much needed boost in atmosphere. Everything else behind the camera though, doesn't live up to expectations. The film's editing, direction, production design all give this film a B- Movie feel.The special effects are decent at least, with some good underwater work. The models of the subs look realistic. And the model of the Titanic is excellent and is, for the most part, accurate.The writing is the worst thing about the film. This is were thee film dies with terrible dialog (back to Anne Archer's lines). The worst thing is that the plot of the novel is all but scrapped and the screenwriters had the nerve to change the ending! The original ending had Pitt finding the ore in the Southby graveyard, bringing back to the U.S. and testing the Sicilan Project successfully. But the film instead has Pitt and Seagram (who wasn't even in the novel's ending, having went insane after the ore isn't on the titanic, though it was a good change for the film) going to Southby and deciding that since the ore could be used for a bomb, decide not to bring it up. This has got to be one of the worst adaptations of a novel in film history.A film that should have been good and started the film series of Cussler's Pitt novels instead turned into a $40 million B- Movie that was destroyed behind the camera. It Should Have Been Good.... "},{"Title":"Worth seeing if you've read the book","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the book that got me started on Clive Cussler, and although it is quite dated (published 1976) it is still a great book.  After searching for years for a video store that had the movie available for rent, I finally got around to watching it.  Let me say that if you have not read the book, this movie will seem like another one of those standard 1970's (yes, I know it was made in 1980, but that doesn't matter).  These movies have a decent plot, but it gets ruined by dated references, cheesy soundtracks, bad haircuts, and lackluster endings.  (c.f. Taking of Pelham One Two Three, The (1978))  Richard Jordan is an excellent characterization of Dirk Pitt. Jason Robards is a decent Sandecker, although his character bears little resemblance to the one Cussler describes in his novels.  Naturally, Alec Guiness is superb as Bigalow (who else could play that role?).  Oh, and Cussler has a cameo.  See if you can recognize him from the pictures on the inside jacket of his novels.  It was fairly easy.In addition, the special effects sequences involving the ship and its rise to the surface were excellent.  They were just as good as any sequences in Titanic (1997) and not nearly as expensive, I'll bet.If you've read this book, my advice is to shell out a couple of bucks for a rental and see how your visualization of Cussler's story matches up against that of the directors.  If you haven't read the book, you may still enjoy the movie, but keep in mind the book was written in 1976, when the Cold War was in full force and the Titanic was still undiscovered and would remain that way for another 10 years.*SPOILERS BELOW*      *SPOILERS BELOW*I'll now go on to describe the primary differences between the book and the movie, in case that's what you're concerned with (that was my primary reason for renting it)The opening scene in the book (April 1912, where the mystery man demands that Bigalow take him to the cargo hold and then locks himself in the vault) is not in the movie.  I presume this is due to the large expense a scene such as that would require.  Instead, we are presented with a montage of sepia-toned photographs of the Titantic through its construction and on its maiden voyage.    The Thank god for Southby quote is instead found in a letter that Hobart sent to the U.S. Army the day before Titanic sailed.The movie begins with the scene on Novaya Zemlya (except it's called something else in the movie, despite the fact that Novaya Zemlya is a real place), with the mining engineer discovering the abandoned Byzanium mine. The plaque identifying Hobart's grave explicitly says Jake Hobart, U.S. Army, which clears up that little mystery and eliminates the scenes where they visit the mining machinery company in Colorado and Hobart's widow in CA.For some reason, Pitt is a Captain in the U.S. Navy, not the Air Force, but whatever.  Oh, and Sandecker is in on the project from the start, for some unknown reason.  Arthur Brewster is referred to as a con man instead of a respected mining engineer.  There is no mention of the Little Angel mining disaster.The original mining crew board a Norwegian whaler to get to Novaya Zemlya, and on the way back it's the Russians (who are portrayed as Communists back then, despite the fact that the Czar was still ruling in 1912, 5 years before Trotsky and the revolution), not the French, who chaise them and the Byzanium from Aberdeen to Southampton.Mel Donner does not exist in the movie, and Gene and Dana are not married, but appear to be dating.  Dana appears to be a newspaper reporter or something in the movie (instead of working for NUMA), and its implied that she and Pitt had a prior relationship.The Lorlei Current expedition does not exist.  First, they're looking in the wrong place for the Titanic.  Then they do the experiment with the tank, and discover where they should be looking, and only THEN do they find Graham Farley's cornet.  And for some reason, they claim that Farley previously served on the Olympic instead of the Oceanic.Pitt's meeting with Bigalow is pretty much the same as in the book - Alec Guiness is of course excellent - and he presents Pitt with the pennant.Prevlov (the Russian officer) actually comes on board the ship to meet with the NUMA folks - there is no spying, no Silver and Gold, no fight scenes, no snapped towing cable, and no harsh North Atlantic Storm.  Which is unfortunate.  As I mentioned, however, the shots of the Titanic coming up are quite well done.The ending was rather dismal, but I suppose in 1980, Cussler's 1976 ending wasn't acceptable.  The movie ends with the discovery of Hobart's grave in Southby, however Seagram balks at the last minute, and refuses to dig up the Byzanium.  Ah well, such is life. "},{"Title":"No way would this pass for a movie today","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the runaway budgets of 1979-80, along with 1941, The Blues Brothers, Star Trek and Heaven's Gate, that ended the era of the '70s auteur and ushered in one where studio executives and producers took took the creative reins back.  Problem with the flick seems to be they focused entirely on the maritime hardware and underwater models.  No way could a script so devoid of character development get greenlit by Disney or Dreamworks today.  For example, they'd have figured a way to make Anne Archer's character relevant (why she's even in this movie I have no idea).Jordan's good as Pitt.  I agree that somebody needs to wrestle the rights free and film three or four of Clive Cussler's books, but the action of this story was confined to the bottom of the Atlantic and was pretty boring.I won't even touch on how terrible the underwater models are because, that's really a given.  The scene where the Titanic is towed back into New York Harbor wasn't bad though.Interesting example of how much filmmaking has changed in 20 years.  You can just imagine the younger cast, sweeping camera movements and digital fx added if this were shot today.  This one feels like something translated from book to screen in the 1960s, actually, like Alistair Maclean Where Eagles Dare.  Very epic, very corny, little or no character development. "}{"Title":"Cussler was Clancy before Clancy was cool","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so Raise the Titanic isn't the greatest film ever made, but it's not the worst.  Cussler was having Dirk Pitt raise the Titanic and save the world when Tom Clancy was still selling insurance.  I wish the film makers had stuck closer to the book, which is part Titanic, part James Bond.  It's as if they decided to take the (very) basic plot of the novel and spend about $50 million on a film that looked like about $1.99.  The acting is fair considering the script Robards and Jordan had to work with.  From an appearance stand point Richard Jordan is Dirk Pitt for me.  I can see him in the part.  It was just that the part wasn't written for one of Jordan's talent.  Read the novel, rent the movie and compare the hatchet job Hollywood did on it.  At least they would do better on the next major Titanic movie.  Not much consolation to Clive Cussler I'm afraid, but hey that's show biz! "},{"Title":"Make the movie at least some what like the book or don,t","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first heard of this movie coming out I read the book cover to cover I thought I would see a unbelievable movie. Boy was it . Except for a few things I thought I was in the wrong theater. From beginning to end this film is nothing like the book even the ending (lousy to say the least). It was nice to imagine the Titanic in the condition that they brought it to the surface. When it was found 5 years after this film was released we all got a dose of reality. If it in the condition they showed someone may have Raised The Titanic for real and that would have made for a better film than this.I keep hoping to find a director,s cut of this film as so there may be deleted scenes still not shown. "},{"Title":"Defender of this movie","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off let me begin by saying that you have to suspend disbelief for a movie like Raise the Titanic. If you can do that then you will enjoy this movie. The film then and now had a lot going against it. It came out in 1980 when blockbusters like The Empire Strikes Back and Raiders of the Lost Ark were in motion. To make matters worse was when Bob Ballard discovered the real wreckage and the ship was found in multiple pieces on the sea bottom. This of course contradicts the raising of the ship in one piece. Then in 1997 when James Camerons movie came out I believe that was the killer. I mean what is so wrong with this movie? You have a good plot line during the cold war which if someone was watching this movie today did not comprehend what that was like, there understanding may not grasp the whole of the story. At times the acting is a little over board but lets remember the movie was made in 1980. People of the 1990's and 2000's compare the affects with todays which is totally unfair to the affects of decades ago. Its like comparing the 1930's King Kong to Peter Jacksons remake. I believe the graphics back then were top notch and the Titanic model used was beautiful. And everyone I talk to always mentioned the score of the movie. So watch it again for what is it. A triller set in a time about a doomed ship with some secrets. "},{"Title":"Spectacular but unsuccessful  film with a great musical score by John Barry","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To obtain a supply of a rare mineral, a ship raising operation is conducted for the only known source, the Titanic . A group of Americans (Jason Robards Jr , David Selby) led by Dirk Pitt (Richard Jordan , Steve McQueen was offered the lead role in the film ; however, he felt the script was flat and turned down the offer) are interested in raising the ill-fated Ocean liner Titanic. As the marine research foundation carries out the preparatives to pick up a precious radioactive metal whose only known world supply reportedly went down as contraband aboard the Titanic , as they have to raise and recover it . One of the team members finds out the Russians also have plans to raise the ship from its watery grave .This a spectacularly big-budgeted but slow-moving film that failed really at box office . The bulk of this tiring film surrounds schemes to locate and recover a valuable metal called Byzanium . The picture develops a thrilling suspense about a strange mineral along with an international intrigue blending the Titanic , Russians and submarines . Based on best-seller by Clive Cussler who appears as a reporter during a press conference ; however he hated this movie so much that he refused to allow the sale of any film rights for his other Dirk Pitt novels , he finally relented 20 years later, and agreed to sell the rights to 3 novels and the first to be filmed was Sahara, which Cussler also hated . Spectacual FX , as a model of the Titanic was built for $350,000 , when it was finished, it was too big for its tank , a bigger tank had to be built, for $6 million. The Titanic model used for filming was on display at Anchor Bay, Malta, in a building close to the set used for the town of Sweethaven in the film Popeye ; later, it was moved next to the deep water tank at the Rinella studios in Malta. A storm hit the island in 2003, damaging the model beyond repair. Acceptable main actors as Jason Robards as Admiral James Sandecker , early deceased Richard Jordan as Dirk Pitt , David Selby as Dr. Gene Seagram and Anne Archer as Dana Archibald . Supporting cast is frankly excellent as Alec Guinness as John Bigalow , M. Emmet Walsh as Master Chief Vinnie Walker , J.D. Cannon as captain Burke and Michael Pataki as Munk and Michael C. Gwynne as Bohannon . The flick lavishly produced by Sir Lew Grade , caused the collapse his enterprise , regarding the film's cost, producer Lew Grade famously said that it would've been cheaper to lower the Atlantic . The motion picture was middling directed by James Goldstone , though Stanley Kramer was hired to direct, but quit after two weeks due to creative differences. Jerry Jameson was an usual filmmaker for television who filmed other catastrophe movies such as Hurricane , Fire and rain , The elevator , Deadly tower , Fire in the sky and his greatest hit was ¨Airport 77¨ with an all-star-cast and one of the best of disaster genre . "},{"Title":"A special film with problems but overall a unique experience","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are films that are bad, and there ones that look bad, but hold value to them not everyone sees. Raise the Titanic, was loosely based off a novel by Clive Cussler. It is a race between the Americans and Russians trying to obtain a rare mineral that could decide who becomes the top world power. To do this, they must salvage the mineral from the Titanic. The only way to do this is by raising the Titanic; ergo the main titles. This may turn off people because the whole plot line is given away, but that shouldn't be something to squander over. It should be more of what is looked forward to. This film has a lot of good stuff in it.Starring as the main character of Cussler's stories, is Dirk Pitt, played by Richard Jordan. I can't say Jordan is the best choice but he's definitely not bad either. Jordan at least gives the character of Pitt some attitude that comes with the territory. For the most part, the entire film stays faithful to the paperback material. All the characters are in there, along with the most important scenes. One might say that this movie was thought to perform well because Alec Guinness, best known as Obi-Wan Kenobi, from Star Wars, plays a character as well in the story.On a side note, a particular element that could have been left out of story was the relationship between Gene and Dana Seagram. The same goes for the book but the way the situation was handled here was half-baked. From beginning to the midway point, there were various scenes that show strains on these two characters' marital status and then out of nowhere,...it stops. They get into an argument and Gene temporarily leaves Dana but the issue is never resolved. So why have it? It doesn't make sense to start something and not finish it. Adam Kennedy and Eric Hughes wrote the screenplay; so my question is, who skimmed over this part? Also some people may think the story drags but it all builds up to good ending.Besides this, there are multiple things to find enjoyable in this movie. First, the special effects. Of course it's 1980 special effects but none the less they are a sight to look at. From the submarines, to the Titanic itself, the props look really authentic. It's when the Titanic is brought to the surface that the view is beautiful. Although audiences may be annoyed to find out that the Titanic is in one piece. But what do you expect? The novel and this film where produced years before the Titanic was even discovered. It's fiction anyway, so why be so critical on accuracy when practically this whole film is inaccurate in real life?One of the most wondrous moments that takes place in this film is when Dirk Pitt enters the Titanic when it is above the water. It is truly a sight to behold and all this should do is make each of us just a little hungrier to see the Titanic for ourselves. It's plain epic. Another great aspect to Raise the Titanic is the soundtrack composed and conducted by music veteran John Barry. Barry puts in a lot of good tunes and has a gift for making the Titanic look awesome just for being on screen. His music is that moving and it's almost to the point of being angelic. For those who are skeptical, it's still at least worth a try to view.Except for a few issues dealing with the script, the film adaptation of Raise the Titanic is respectively a suitable tribute to the White Star Line cruise ship. The effects are dated but they are worthy to be seen as is Barry's score heard. "},{"Title":"disagreement with previous spoiler(s)","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For the time, this was an adequate workout of a possible fate of the giant ship (inaccessible but structurally sound); obviously choosing a different ship would have been fortunate since others could withstand raising.  But recall that the ship is a side issue for much of the plot, since this is a cold war spy thriller about the race to construct a pre-SDI missile defense system.  Locating the ship will provide clues to the previous discovery of a rare mineral that could provide the power for the space systems, one of which a small amount was located by a mining company out of business for almost a century.  The Soviets are following the mineral location efforts due to a (convenient) territorial dispute with the area of its discovery. Robards is great as a military man (probably not to the liking of fans of his other roles) and casting is adequate elsewhere.  A 'peacenik' ending in the film reverses the book, which ends with the establishment of the defensive beams. "},{"Title":"Watch the Movie, then Read the Book","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen the movie many times but not recently. I've just picked up the book for the umpteenth time for a quick read. It's a rip-snorter of a good yarn - one of the handful of truly great stories that Cussler has written - a few of his others are a bit on the lame side. More recently he has written himself very briefly into his stories in such a way that makes me cringe,  and that goes for some dialog that his male characters direct at female characters. My personal vision of Pitt and Giordino are people like Burt Lancaster and Nick Cravat (their The Crimson Pirate was a tour de force).  If you haven't read the book Raise the Titanic, then I suggest you watch the movie first as an appetiser, then read the book for the full story. I can't really argue with the other reviewers comments. Raise The Titanic is a fact of cinema history and I like it that it WAS made. I love the old quote attributed to Lord Lew Grade about financing the film where he's supposed to have said It would have been cheaper to lower the Atlantic than to Raise the Titanic - (in an interview I read a while back he perhaps modestly commented that he didn't think that up because it was too clever). On another note - if I'm correct, the model constructed to film the raised Titanic was auctioned off during the Telethon in Perth Western Australia in about 1982??. It may have been owned by the late millionaire Robert Holmes-a-Court. I was only young but it has stuck in my mind as being quite an odd occurrence to see here Down Under. The model was about 6 foot long. I wonder where it is now? "},{"Title":"phwa hahaha!!,actually,its not that bad.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is,to put it bluntly,not the best film in the world,but then again it's not the worst,I know it didn't do very well at the box-office,and I can't say that I found it as edge-of-the-seat viewing.To give you an idea of what this film is like,     one of the reasons people may want to see this flim is,of course,the raising of the Titanic,then when you see that the Titanic doesn't look like it has descended 2and a half miles down and then stayed there,it just looks like nobodys cleaned for a while,I mean the masts and rigging are still intact!!I know the wreck wasn''t found for another five or six years,but even a t.v. weather girl could work out that they might have fallen down in the sinking + descent!!!I suppose the ship being in one piece is excusable,but they could have given it some scientific thought!!But,if you're bored,nothing to do,tumble weed blowing across your social life ,then dim the lights,find a comfy chair and enjoy this tacky cheese-fest!! "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as all of that.","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Raise The Titanic suffers today from, among other things, the finding of the real Titanic. This film is not all that bad. True the script is slow. But the performances were good. If it was me I would have made David Selby Dirk Pitt (he really did have green eyes) but the main problem is of course that the film is dated today. Cussler is very hard to bring to the screen, as he well knows himself. Witness the poorly translated version of Sahara which left out glaring plot points. Nothing against Bill Macy, but Jason Robards was a much better Sandecker. I am afraid that Anne Archer was the weakest link in the cast, and while I like Richard Jordan, I just never could accept him as Dirk Pitt. As someone else was quick to point out the film was excellent if for no other reason than the John Barry sound score (John Barry scored a lot of the early James Bond films.) SO if you should see it, try to see for what it was then, and not by today's standards. "},{"Title":"Too much dross","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the movies anything can happen. Its where logic goes out the window for a start. No way could you raise a ship like the Titanic by setting explosives under it.You would need hydraulics for a start. Yet it cops out by being made bouyant by filling the ship with foam rubber! Then the huge gash is patched up just like that. It was more like a fairy tale when the byzantium turned into gravel! Never having read the novel-as I have a short attention span-its not,by the sound of it,done the novel justice. Why for instance did it cost $40 million? And in real life if the Titanic had been raised it would be the Talk of the World-yet here its just a 5 minute event "}{"Title":"I really thought this was a great film &#150; until I read the book!","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was when I read the excellent novel, my mind changed.  I used to think this was a wonderful film, when I read the book however, it was clear that so much excellent plotline and dialogue had been missed out that the film story was ruined. Plot lines about the Russians, spies, espionage, tracing the history of the miners and their efforts, what happened after the Titanic was raised but before it reached New York, all this would have made for a more in depth and excellent adaptation, instead the producers went for the big bucks spectacle and just concentrated on the Titanic itself which really is only a small part of the original novel.It would have been better being properly done as a three part mini series or similar instead of this badly edited rushed nonsense.There are good points about the film, some of the model work for the wrecked Titanic is excellent, especially when you consider when it was made but then again considering how much they spent on it, it should have been, however the seemingly cardboard cut out super imposed on the New York skyline at the end is terrible beyond description and oddly seems to be worse in the DVD version over the VHS version.Thankfully saving this film from sinking completely was probably one of John Barry's finest non-Bond soundtracks, without that, this really would have become unbearable.Sadly fact (the discovery of the Titanic for real) precludes any possibility of a decent remake which with good CGI could have been spectacular.  "},{"Title":"Ship of Fools","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I find it interesting that I am writing this review 90 years to the day of the sinking of the Titanic. I actually saw this movie not too long ago for the second time, and decided to read the book once the movie was finished. Sadly, as it is with most book adaptations, the novel was a WHOLE lot better than the movie. It seems everyone believes that the rousing musical score of the movie was the best part, and I am inclined to agree. Too much was cut out of Mr. Cussler's novel that it doesn't even resemble a Dirk Pitt adventure any more. The movie counterparts do not even remotely resemble their characters in the books (Al Giordino is on screen for a few minutes at best), the dialogue seems forced and uninspired, and the whole ending just plain silly. However, after watching the depressing sinking of Mr. Cameron's Titanic, I felt it as a breath of fresh air to see the ship rising from the depths. Overall, 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Under the sea,,under the sea,,,","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"     When I first saw this movie years ago, I thought they really had raised the Titanic just to make this movie (Hey, I was a dumb kid!), but now looking at this movie, I can realize just how bad the special effects really were. Knowing what we now know, I wonder what this movie would have been about if they had found the Titanic in half with the crushing depths and Leonardo DiCapro's hands on Billy Zane's neck. The mere concept of raising the ship today of course is sheer lunacy since the decomposition of it would rattle it apart in bits and peices Oh,we got it ! Which of it's million peices do you want ? Jason Robards is a little boring in his role, but I did like seeing David Selby outside of Dark Shadows. The underwater shots were abysmal; I couldn't make out anything ! The terrorist sub-plot was a bit tagged on, but the overall images of the anti-climactic ending were just short of impressive. "},{"Title":"It really isn't that bad.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie really isn't that bad!  I know it bombed severely at the box office but on video it's definitely worth a go.Although I enjoy this film - I'm not saying it's great by any stretch of the imagination - there are some severely dire moments.  Particularly poor are some of the special effects, but on the whole they're not bad for the early eighties.  Richard Jordan wasn't miscast at all, I feel that he and Jason Robards did incredibly good acting on this film (as always) and even Anne Archer isn't as annoying as she became later on in her career.Anyway, it really isn't as bad as all they other comments on this page would have you believe, so if you haven't seen it give it a go. "},{"Title":"An unspeakable mess","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are films that you can say, they're so bad, they're good, like some of those silly locust/piranha/snake/shark/pick a creature of your choice infestation movies.Raise The Titanic is merely bad. It is well chronicled that Clive Cussler, author of the book upon which this garbage is allegedly based, was so horrified with the end result that he refused to allow another of his books to be filmed. He eventually relented more than 20 years later, when Sahara arrived. By the sounds of things it may be a freezing day in hell before Cussler gives his blessing for a third time.That is a pity because he writes those wonderfully absurd and over-the-top stories that are just begging to be turned into popcorn blockbusters, but who can blame the man. Raise The Titanic may be the worst big screen adaptation of a novel ever, although the Da Vinci Code isn't far behind.We'll forgive some of the technical absurdities in the story line. The film was made some years before the wreck of the Titanic was discovered and nobody could have known that it is so thoroughly mangled, even if the beautifully whole and well preserved specimen the movie offers was always going to be wildly unlikely. We need an intact Titanic for the story to work, so fine, we can live with it.What we cannot stomach is the incredible hatchet job which the screenwriters did on Cussler's novel, changing place and people names for no reason. Historical research obviously meant squat to these people so in the film we end up with a man who played in the band on the Olympic for three years before joining Titanic. The fact that Olympic went into service only about one year before Titanic is calmly disregarded. It's a minor point to all but real ship buffs, but you won't find it in the book.The story is set during the Cold War. Apparently some very rare and utterly fictitious metal called Byzanium will for some reason make nuclear war obsolete, or some such crap. Surprise surprise, the entire world's supply of Byzanium is...you guess it, lying on the bottom of the Atlantic, thanks to a dastardly iceberg. The Americans must have it, so Dirk Pitt and company accept the challenge of raising the Titanic from two-and-a-half-miles down as if they were being asked to wash the dishes.The threatening hurricane which adds excitement to the book is totally missing here as our heroes plod through one of the most tedious and poorly filmed blockbusters ever to disgrace the cinema and eventually pop the Titanic to the surface. After endless and quite stunningly boring undersea shots of what a three-year-old child could see is a scale model, the Titanic unglues herself from her watery grave and, hey presto, there she is, ready to complete her interrupted journey to New York. Lovely stuff, but after taking forever to set the scene the raising itself is made to look about as tricky as lifting a toy submarine from the shallow end of a swimming pool.And, guess what, folks!! The Byzanium ISN'T on the Titanic, after all. It's in an English cemetery, but of course opening graves isn't much of a story line when compared to raising sunken liners, is it? The final plot twist in said cemetery is so absurd it defies belief, and again it didn't come from the book.Acting? Some talented actors do the best they can with a truly atrocious script. Anne Archer is left with the unenviable task of uttering the most stomach-churning line ever committed to celluloid - I just can't get the wormie on the hookie,. which could have been enough all by itself to destroy her career. In fact her role is removed of all meaning by the screenwriters and Ms Archer seems to have nothing more to do but be the pretty female in the cast.The late Richard Jordan is a passable Pitt, but Jason Robards is nothing like the feisty Sandecker of the Cussler novels. Even Alec Guiness as a surviving crew member of the Titanic can't do much in his cameo role to stop the pile of rubbish from sinking faster than the object of its storyline.It is no great surprise that Raise The Titanic quickly gained notoriety as one of the, if not THE, biggest bomb in Hollywood history. The special effects are awful even by the standards of the time (1972's The Poseidon Adventure is even older but fares much better in this department). The acting is wooden, the film is disjointed, and it just doesn't gel. There are a desperately few moments to savour. The scene where the Titanic surfaces is moving, and the music which accompanies it is evocative, but that's about it.With a budget of some $30 million - enormous for its time - they could hardly have done a worse job of it. Why on earth they hired a director whose experience was limited to TV serials is one of the greatest mysteries of all time. What is much clearer is what producer Lew (later Lord) Grade meant when he said Raise The Titanic? It would have been cheaper to lower the Atlantic. That is my favourite quote in showbiz,and is ultimately the movie's longest lasting legacy. Famous, for all (and I mean ALL) the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"If you can ignore the horrible special effects this is a good mindless thriller","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lets get it out in the open the visual effects for this film are beyond awful. Never mind that we've now bee to the Titanic and know what it looks like, this is bad even by 1980's standards. As one critic described it on its release it looks like a toy filmed in the bottom of someones dirty bath tub. Its awful, its horrible and only looks worse with each passing year. Now, if you can look past all of that this is a good, by the numbers thriller.The plot of this movie has Dirk Pitt (recently seen in Sahara) trying to find a rare mineral for use in a new weapon that will make the world safe from nuclear war, The trouble is that the only known quantity is at the bottom of the ocean on the Titanic. The only solution is find the ship (remember this was 8 or so years prior to its discovery) and raise it. Of course the evil Russians are also trying to get it so its a race against time.Better than its reputation (or special effects) would have you believe, this is a reasonable facsimile of a Clive Cussler novel. The silliness of the plot raising the titanic for a silly named mineral Byzantium is pure c-grade movie material. However the actors Jason Robards and especially Alec Guinness and Richard Jordan as Dirk Pitt are what makes the movie worth watching. The actors seem to believe what they are saying and doing even though its clearly out there.In defense of the movie and its plot, have you ever read any of Clive Cussler's novels? I've read most of them and they are more often then not rather loopy action adventures that make even the most way out James Bond film seem restrained and real. His stories are set three to five years from now and while they are often filled with great possibility at the time you read them when you look back at them they seem rather quaint and out of touch with reality. That doesn't mean that they, like this film, aren't fun when taken on its own terms. Besides Cussler's strength is characters and Dirk Pitt is one of the best I've ever run across.No this film isn't great its just a good film thats a fun mindless romp, and one which history has proved to be impossible of ever happening. If you take it as it is and not ask for anything more you'll have a good time. "},{"Title":"Definitely fails...","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After this movie released, Cussler himself called it terrible from beginning to end.  It looked as if the Dirk Pitt franchise was dead before it even got started.  Badly casted characters, no charisma, and no interest. This movie was a complete failure in the eyes of anyone...even fans of the novels.However, Cussler will give it another go with Sahara in 2003.  Let's hope this one succeeds! "},{"Title":"Bye bye Byzanium","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The film Raise the Titanic has very little to do in finding and raising the tragic and afore mentioned ocean liner but to retrieve the some 500 pounds of Byzaniun that went down to the bottom along with it. That was the reason for the US government to go trough all the trouble of raising the ship in the first place. Were told that back in the winter of 1911/12 the Byzanium was discovered on the then Russian island of Svardlov in the Artic Sea by a team of US prospectors who snuck it out and hid it on the Titanic that was due to take its maiden voyage to New York from South Hampton England. As we now all know the Titanic didn't quite make it.It's now the late 1970's and it's found out that the Byzanium can not only make nuclear war obsolete as what's called the Sicilian Defense project by preventing Soviet nuclear missiles from hitting the US but is also at least 1,000 time more powerful then the atomic bomb that obliterated Hiroshima and Nagasaki! It's now up to the US Government to get the Byzanium before the Soviet Union finds out about It and where it's buried at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean together with the Titanic. And thus use it to take over the entire free as well as un-free, that's not controlled by the Soviet Union, world.A bit ridicules at face value but a big hit with its special effects Raise the Titanic has the head of this major salvage operation Admiral James Sandy Sandecker, Jason Robards,try to rise the Titanic not really for historic reasons but to get his hands on the Byzanium before the Soviet Union does. Of course raising the Titanic is no easy task and in the end it causes the deaths of a number of US Navy men but like the former US Secretary of State Madilyn Not all that bright Allbright said in regard to one of her Great Accomplishment in office it was Well Worth It.***SPOILERS***After all the trouble of raising the Titanic it's found out that the Byzanium wasn't trapped in it in the first place. But fear not it's later discovered in an un-mailed post card back from 1911 by the man, US Army sergeant Jake Hobart, who discovered it where in fact he hid it and it wasn't on the Titanic. With Sandy Sandecker as well as his right hand man salvage expert Dirk Pitt, Richard Jordan, leaving it all up with the man Dr. Gene Seagram, David Selby, who came up with the idea of raising the Titanic in what to do with the Byzanium he wisely decided, after all the trouble he and the US Government went through in finding it, to just leave it buried.P.S In the movie the Titanic was to be found 12,347 feet beneath the North Atlantic Ocean that turned out to actually be, when it was found and detected back in 1985, just off by 68-or at 12,415-feets where it actually was! There was also in the movie one of the last living survivor of the famous and tragic ship John Bigalow played by Sir Alec Guinness who was in fact born in 1914 two years after the Titanic was sunk after striking an iceberg on April 12, 1912! "},{"Title":"Are you talking about... raising the Titanic?...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have always been interested in the actual story of the tragic accident that befell the luxury liner Titanic, and I have seen this 1980 movie a couple of times already, despite it being rather historically incorrect. But hey, it is a movie meant to entertain, and that is what it is and what it does.Raise the Titanic tells the story of the American military's search for a rare mineral which they need in order for a new defense system to protect the USA. After having chased the mineral to an empty mine, they come to learn that it lies resting on the bottom of the Atlantic ocean, in the cargo of the sunken luxury liner Titanic. A race to raise the majestic ship from its watery grave Begins as the Russians start to get word of their plans.The concept is adequate, although quite historical incorrect and impossible, as the ship sank in two halves, whereas it is fully whole here in this movie, aside from the damage by the iceberg that sank her. And the idea of raising the ship, while being really interesting, is just a bit out there.Now, what works in favor of Raise the Titanic was a rather impressive cast and equally great performances. Richard Jordan, has always been a favorite of mine, and he was doing a good job in this movie. Alongside him were Jason Robards, M. Emmet Walsh and the formidable Alec Guinness. All together a very impressive cast for a movie from 1980.The storyline is good, although it does suddenly become very rushed as an accident threaten the lives of three men, and several days of planning and execution is carried out in a very, very short time. Which, to me, was just too rushed and seemed like they were running out of time or funding in the movie project and had to rush things along. It ultimately sent the movie down the wrong path, leading it to mediocrity.I was more than impressed with the visuals and the effects in the movie, because it was breathtaking to see the Titanic re-emerge from the waves of the Atlantic and once again grace the waters with her massive hull. It was all very realistic and believable, well aside from the part that the ship was in one piece.Raise the Titanic is entertaining for what it is, even if you are a man who values the importance of history and facts. It is a movie, keep that in mind, not actual fact. "},{"Title":"If you like military thrillers, see this movie","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm blown away by the number of negative reviews of this film. There are outlandish claims that this was considered a bomb of a movie from the outset. You can always tell when the reviewer wasn't even born when the movie was released.The truth of the matter is that this was a highly-respected film when it came out and was considered one of the more substantial motion pictures of the 1980s. I should know, since I was there and saw this in the theaters. People who don't really understand the context fail to realize that it was eclipsed by The Empire Strikes Back. The second reason for the huge differential between the box office earnings and the budget is that the late 1970s and early 1980s was a time in which motion picture budgets were spiraling upwards. Studios were putting massive amounts of money into their films and the risk was becoming excessive. One of the last big-production films was Die Hard. For the next decade, the majority of films were done on the cheap. Today we're seeing a resurgence of big-budget films. So if a movie doesn't make back its money in the first year, it doesn't necessarily mean it's a bad film.The cinematography, editing, score, acting (for the most part), and visual/special effects in this film are outstanding. I've read some comments on here deriding the effects and all I can say is that anyone who thinks the effects are crap is blind as a bat. I have my share of experience building CGI models of ships like the Titanic for Hollywood productions, so I can speak to the digital side. And I've built my share of practical models as well. The ship in this film is an excellent piece of work and the camera and lighting work suit it perfectly.Just to see if this movie stood the test of time, I sat down and watched it again on a 60 plasma screen. It rocked! All the suspense and tension was right there like back in the day.So if you can put the actual discovery of the Titanic out of your head and just think of this as a parallel universe, you'll very likely enjoy this film. "}{"Title":"I actually enjoyed this.","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Strictly speaking, I found this to be acceptable entertainment. Its many detractors maintain that it's a poor, poor adaptation of the Clive Cussler novel. In fact, Cussler himself hated it so much that there would be no more adaptations of his work until Sahara in 2005. Does the execution of the movie fail to match the awesomeness of the concept? Sure. Could it have used a more accomplished director at the helm? It wouldn't have hurt. But it sustains interest for close to two hours. This viewer was caught up enough in the story that any flaws didn't detract from the experience.The U.S. government is in an intense search for an obscure mineral (for national defense purposes, of course) and believes that the only place it could be found is on board the wreckage of the Titanic. Since at this point in time, divers couldn't travel that deep into the ocean, people working on the project come up with this offbeat solution of using explosive devices to bring the massive ship to the surface.Political intrigue adds to the plot, as the Russians believe that by rights they should be allowed to retrieve the mineral. They do everything that they can to undermine the operation.The actors deliver decent performances, although there are precious few characters that really engage the viewer. One exception is the Titanic survivor John Bigalow, played by Sir Alec Guinness. There's a lot of familiar faces here Jason Robards, David Selby, Richard Jordan, and Anne Archer as the stars, and a steady array of top notch character actors. The romantic subplot with Selby and Archer never really goes anywhere, but fortunately it doesn't take up TOO much of the running time.The special effects are adequate, and the actual event of the title is reasonably impressive.The most worthy component is really the rousing, emotionally rich music score by John Barry.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"The special effects overcome most of the shortcomings.....","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There definitely are some dead spots. Too much time is spent looking for the ship. The three sided romance goes nowhere and could have been deleted. The entire operation of simply pumping foam, attaching gas bags, and exploding the Titanic off the bottom throws credibility out the window. Nevertheless, Richard Jordan and Jason Robards give it their best, despite minimal character development. The real star however is the Titanic model, which of course doesn't appear until past the half way point of the film. If you persevere until then, your imagination will be rewarded. Definitely watchable if you have enough patience. - MERK "},{"Title":"NOT IN THE WORLD OF TODAY.There are no more Matt Dillon's","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What i mean by there are no more Matt Dillon's.The money that was spent to find this ore the time the man power and than the final decision was left up to some type of idealist a boy scout.The film had to many slow spots for me.I gave it a chance after reading some of the other reviews they were positive and many people seemed to enjoy it.BUT I have to be something that this film was not and that is honest.The Russians would have had those guys followed until that stuff came up.And also they take two toothless grave diggers to the exact spot.Now if i was one of the DIGGER guys just out of curiosity i would have come back two days later and dug it up.This film was poorly written.And no real navy guys would trust each other with that kind of secret THE ONE GUY ALREADY SAID THAT HIS ASSOCIATES NAME SOUNDS LIKE THE NAME OF A PIRATE..IN THE REAL WORLD THIS SCENARIO WOULD NEVER WORK THOSE TWO GRAVE DIGGERS WOULD BE LAYING DEAD BY NOW ...(AND YOU KNOW IT) I WISH THE WORLD WAS THE WAY IT'S BEING PORTRAYED IN THIS MOVIE BUT IT IS NOT. SORRY GUYS. "},{"Title":"They found the Titanic. Now there is only one thing left to do.","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 12 years old. Barely in High School and in grade 7. I bothered my friend for his mothers copy of Raise The Titanic by Clive Cussler after I saw this movie and I became Hooked. I became A Dirk Pitt fan for life.Now the book was a escapist's fantasy a heroic Hero and a impossible task and enemy agents everywhere.The movie was a escapist's fantasy brought to life. Richard Jordan brought Dirk Pitt wonderfully to life. After I saw Shara I was disappointed simply because Matthew Mchonagey was miscast as Dirk Pitt. To me and a lot of other fans Richard Jordan is Dirk Pitt.The story is the US is looking for a rare mineral to fuel a defence project that'll protect the USA from Enemy nuclear missiles. A long search leads them to conclude the vast majority of this ore is on the Titanic. They must find it and determine if she is in good enough shape to be raised. When a mini sub is caught in the Wreck time is running out and they must Raise the Titanic to save the lives of the trapped men. The Raising of the Titanic is still one of the most breathtaking scenes ever filmed and still one of my favourite scenes. John Barry's moody score sets the tone for the film. Barry's music for this film is as much a part of the film as is John Williams Score for Star Wars or Superman. there has been a lot of hate directed at this movie for no real reason. A Lot f people point out the condition the REAL Titanic is in and say the story or the movie is unrealistic. Well so are death stars and men who can fly and the other things that make up fantasy. I'd prefer to think of this as a Titanic that was discovered on another Earth then. The Story and the movie still has merit. There is real life and there is REEL life. Choose one. Disregard the other for the running time of the movie but don't take it too seriously. If you can believe a man can fly. and that a Death star can be built. an giant ape can climb the Empire state building. Then You can believe that they can Raise The Titanic. It's art and entertainment. Nothing more. But still a good time at the movies. "},{"Title":"Raise the expectations","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's epic and it's exploitation, and it's also reasonably engaging almost in spite of itself. Richard Jordan plays a salvage expert attempting to literally raise the Titanic from her watery grave in order to recover a rare mineral, the plot concerned with his herculean effort to beat the Russians to the plate, in a Cold War twist to the sunken saga.The special effects are sometimes regrettable (the parts of the ship being towed back into harbour look more than just a little dubious), but director Jameson has still managed to craft a half-decent drama that contains a surprise or two, not just confined to the plot, but also the casting. Sir Alec Guinness has just a few minutes, but his presence as a survivor re-telling Jordan of his experience is very moving and a moment that almost redeems the entire picture from its plodding excesses.Aside from the durable Jordan, an unorthodox leading man who died well before his time, David Selby and Anne Archer co-star, while the minor roles go to Jameson's B-movie brigade, Michael Pataki, Stewart Moss, Paul Carr, Michael C.Gwynne, Norman Bartold - the list goes on. Not to be confused with, nor compared to, Beyond the Poseidon Adventure, while unlikely to appeal to the modern audience whose appetite for the Titanic was whet on James Cameron's 1997 epic, it should still suffice for a late afternoon sojourn into fantasy. "},{"Title":"Not very good, whether you've read the book or not","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember years ago as a child when I heard about this movie when it was about to be released, and I was thrilled - I was obsessed with the Titanic as a child. When it didn't get released in my city, I was pretty annoyed. It did get me to seek out a copy of the novel the movie was based on and read it - I thought the novel was pretty good, and it got me to read additional novels by Clive Cussler (which I think are pretty good adventure yarns.) Years later, I did finally get to see the movie, but I forgot pretty much all of it as additional years progressed. Seeing the movie was now on DVD, I decided to give it another go.It didn't take me long into the movie to discover the most likely reason I had forgotten the movie. This is an incredibly slow and boring movie. There's no sense of awe or excitement. Much of the movie consists of people talking endlessly or underwater footage of mini submarines cruising along at a very slow speed. The filmmakers ignored the various adventures in the book, and simply didn't seem to see the potential of adding new (and thrilling) stuff during the screen adaptation.Is there any good stuff here? Well, the actual ship raising is fairly thrilling (though the majority of the other special effects in the movie are surprisingly crummy.) There is a good score by John Barry (though they keep repeating the same bars of his music over and over.) Alec Guinness adds some life to the movie with his brief appearance. (The rest of the cast, while not really bad, seem to be performing with little enthusiasm.) But this little good stuff is not nearly enough to save the movie.) P.S. - Lions Gate should be embarrassed by the DVD they put out for this movie. Not only is the movie presented in full-screen (except for the opening/closing credits), they used an old master made for one of the movie's VHS releases! "},{"Title":"Had Potential, But Missed The Mark","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've been a big fan of the Clive Cussler novels over the years, so was excited to check Raise The Titanic out. However, besides fulfilling my desire to see Dirk Pitt on the big screen, the film is an absolute bust. It seems like 75% of the movie are scenes showing submersables underwater searching for the Titanic as the main characters on the ship above monitor them with varying expressions. The movie is just rather flat. There is no substance to it.To make matters worse, Richard Jordan was not a good choice as Dirk Pitt. His portrayal of Pitt makes the character pretty unlikable; perhaps he was attempting to play Clive Cussler himself rather than Pitt (Cussler, a rotten curmodgeon of a man, admittedly has based Pitt on himself or who he wishes he could be--Cussler is not nearly as cool as Pitt). Robards was excellent as Sandecker, but even his strong performance couldn't add much to a pretty lame script. Anne Archer and M. Emmitt Walsh also are in the film, but don't do anything exciting. If you are a fan of the Dirk Pitt novels, go ahead and give this movie a look. If not, avoid it at all costs. I rate this 5 0f 10 stars simply because I'm a fan of the novels. If I were not a fan, I'd rate it a 2 of 10. Sahara starring Matthew McCaugnehey is a better film, but Cussler killed the chance for a sequel with that cast--too bad. "},{"Title":"Reappraise The Titanic!","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this again after 28 years and, not really remembering much about it only that it was a commercial disaster and torn apart by the critics was expecting something rotten, but I was very pleasantly surprised. The story though obviously far fetched was very intriguing, the acting was OK, the script seemed fine for its age, the effects were pretty impressive given when it was made so I really don't know what's supposed to be so bad about it. Maybe at the time of it's release people had too high expectations knowing the budget and I agree it's certainly no classic but there's no way on earth you can say it's a bad film. Indeed some aspects of it are actually very good. The scenes involving the raising of the ship and it's journey into New York are very moving, Alec Guiness is excellent, and of course John Barry's sublime score makes watching this film more than worthwhile. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Treading water","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Along with Revolution and Thunderbirds the biggest flop in British film history and a one-time Stanley Kramer project before he jumped ship after a couple of weeks' filming, Raise the Titanic is one of those films that isn't really that bad, it just isn't much good. It handles the exposition and setup briskly and efficiently and the raising of the wreck genuinely spectacularly, but everything inbetween is just tedious and undramatic. A huge problem is the decision to drop the parallel narrative from the book where the film only concentrates on the modern-day story, which means lots of looking at sonar screens while mini-subs float around in the darkest depths of the ocean for almost as long as it took the ship to sink, the book livened things up with the ship's maiden voyage and sinking as well. The end result is by the rules storytelling that keeps everything under two hours, but which keeps everything pretty flat as well. Still, it has its moments &#150; Alec Guinness' cameo, Richard Jordan wandering through the ghostly skeleton of the Titanic's ballroom, the sequence of the raised Titanic sailing into New York past the Twin Towers inadvertently linking the first great civilian tragedy of the 20th century with the first great civilian tragedy of the 21st - looks good in Scope (though only the Swedish and Australian DVDs are in 2.351 the UK disc is cropped) and has a very nice score by John Barry. "},{"Title":"yeah OK before 1985","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watching this when i was a child, i really thought Titanic could be raised in this way. Of course we know different now. After reading the Clive Cussler book, i can understand why he wont sell anymore of his film rights. This is nothing like the book. doesn't even follow the same pattern of events. I don't want to give either the film or the book away, but watch the film first before the book or you will be disappointed. Technical details in the film were also inaccurate. The Sub imploding we know now of course would take a fraction of a second, not just fill up. If anyone wants to remake this, Please Speak to Mr Cussler first and also read the book.Im going to defend the film. Its a good watch though on a wet Sunday afternoon. "}{"Title":"Read the book instead!!","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why did the makers of this film change anything from the book! I recently just finished the book and found out that the movie was missing some amazing elements that the book had. The movie was OK but they could have done more research about the book. (Did they even read the book). Even thought that they missed up the story a lot, the movie still had decent special effects and a very good music score by John Barry.Spoilers!!(Here is some of the stuff that was in the book but not in the movie) 1. You don't see the ship sinking at the start of the film, which is in the book. 2. The ship has no funnels, the 4th funnel is laying on the boat deck in the book, in the movie the ship still has all its funnels. 3. The Russian's are trying to find the ship too, to take the mineral before the American's get to it. This isn't in the movie 4. After the ship is raised the Russian's and American's have a big gun fight on the decks on the ship, this not in the movie. 5 Dirk Pitt has sex with a chick in a stateroom, this is not in the movie neither.That's just some of the stuff that the movie didn't have in it. I wonder why the movie only made 7 million at the box office. Only see this movie if your really into the Titanic, but its hard to look at now since this movie was made 5 years before the real Titanic was discovered. Everybody knows that the Titanic can't be ever raised. I give this movie 5 out of 10, this is for having decent effects and a powerful music score! "},{"Title":"Remake","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie definitely needs to be re-done properly. Just forget what the Titanic really looks like and see past it. Just remember that the book and the film were written before the discovery of the Titanic. Just use some poetic license. This plot has the potential to be a huge blockbuster hit. They really should take more notes from the book as it was more exciting to read than it was to see the movie. There was so much more in the book than there was in the movie. So much was left out, the film suffered due to it. If this film was to be re-done you need to pay close attention to the book. Due to horrible care that was given to Raise the Titanic the author Clive Cussler has denied anyone who wants to turn his Dirk Pitt adventures in a good movie. "},{"Title":"I have written cussler and the book is great","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Raise the titanic is a great book. Clive Cussler has written to me and he likes the poems of Robert Service especially the shooting of Dan McGrew. You can almost picture the klondike good guys morphing into DIRK PITT and AL GIORDINO fighting the evil soviets on the newly raised TITANIC. Despite what you may have heard. Raise the Titanic is a good film. Jason Robards as Admiral Sandecker is an excellent choice. The special effects are pretty good for 1980 in the film. You really get a feel for the majesty of the titanic as they are raising it in the movie. The choice of actor to play DIRK PITT isn't bad. There is a camraderie between PITT and GIORDINO that is appealing to macho men. The movie gets you to start thinking about humans staying underwater for long periods of time. Humans may have to live underwater for long periods of time if the human species is to survive. I was in a New Providence Bahamas antique map shop, Balmain antiques. I got to see the owner pointing out a shipwreck location on an antique map to an American and the shipwreck fever was in the room. There is an adrenaline rush you get when you are searching for shipwrecks, the TITANIC search is no exception. I am sure that if Clive CUSSLER could have afforded it he would like to have his name on the discovery of the TITANIC. As it is CUSSLER and NUMA have done really well in the hunt for ships and aircraft. CUSSLER and NUMA found the CSS HUNLEY submarine and others. I gave Raise the Titanic a 10 out of 10 as would most people interested in TITANIC lore. The book of course is better than the movie.  "},{"Title":"Great book, poor film.","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I bought Raise The Titanic on DVD for one of my mates for Christmas 2003, mainly because we've read all of Cusslers books and thought them very very good.  I knew the film was pretty poor before I bought it, that was another reason to get it though, some poor films can be quite entertaining.It follows the book very poorly, missing out huge chunks, the actors are all poorly cast (with exception of Alec Guinness), as non of them appear as described in the books, where's Sandeckers fiery beard?Anyhoos, the best bit that made me laugh was the US Huey helicopter with a nice Russian red star on it.  Why they couldn't have found a Russian heli from somewhere, there are enough budget films that dress random Russian Mil helis up as American ones. )Best part I thought was the internal set of the Titanic, looked genuinely like a rusted up old ship. "},{"Title":"Snoozer!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Words simply cannot describe how boring this film is! Forgive me if I offended anyone whose a big fan of the film, but I just can't help but sleep through it!.I loved it as a little boy, but as I grew up, I began to greatly dislike it. The pacing for it was terribly slow, it could put someone, ANYONE to sleep! The plot ALMOST has nothing to do with the ship, or the event. Characters are bland and unlikeable. It's praticaly unbearable! However, I may be being a little hard on ''RAISE THE TITANIC''. But still! I just can't sit through it without sleeping. #1 million budget wasted. Again, I'm sorry for sounding so harsh, I just can't help it. I do my best to get interested in it, but it seems to drag every moment. The only good part that came out of it was the ship rising out of the sea and the soundtrack, but we all know that it's impossible to raise the that's 2 1/2 beneath the sea.I guess that's about it, however, if your a huge Titanic fan, I pretty much suggest that you add this film into your inventory. May not be a great film, but it should be in everyone's collection.1.5 out of 4 Boring, I can't say anything else. "},{"Title":"Movie may be a little long and humdrum, but music is GREAT!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being a Clive Cussler fan, I treasure his books and also this movie. The movie is long, slow, and lacks thrills of current action packed flicks, but one cannot beat the music of John Barry that strikes one right to the soul.  That alone makes this a great film, and I was thrilled when after 3 years I finally found the sound track on CD.   "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I highly anticipated this movie, having enjoyed the book.  Was very disappointed, as the movie either left out most of the exciting parts of the book or completely changed them.  If you have an interest in the Titanic or in spy/action novels I highly recommend the book, but not the movie. Might be watchable if you haven't read the novel. "},{"Title":"A Tragic Misfire","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a tragedy that such an outstanding suspense/action novel by Clive Cussler had to get translated to this lame effort on the big screen that so infuriated Cussler he vowed never to sell another of his Dirk Pitt novels to Hollywood again.   The producers forgot that this is supposed to be an ACTION story, with such dramatic moments as a Russian boarding of the raised Titanic during a hurricane to get their hands on the byzanium they want, and Pitt stepping in like 007 or Indiana Jones to save the day.   Instead, all the moments of action were sucked out of the story completely.   Poor casting doesn't help either.   Richard Jordan was a terrific character actor, but he is just not convincing as Pitt, nor is Jason Robards as Sandecker.   The only inspired casting is Alec Guinness in his brief part as surviving Titanic crewman John Bigalow.Other problems?  For one thing, the scriptwriters don't even try to get their Titanic history accurate, which Cussler meticulously did in his book.   They have the wrong funnel missing (at the time in 1980 it was known that the first funnel, not the second had cracked off.   An intact Titanic would have had the first funnel missing), Bigalow is referred to as a junior third officer when there was no such designation on the Titanic, and there is no Cargo Hold #9 on D-Deck (the novel had the vault in a real locale, Cargo Hold #1 on G-Deck).  And the ending is a disgrace, because there was no handwringing about byzanium bombs in Cussler's novel!   He comes from the old school where the good guys represent good, and to hell with moral equivalence doctrines.  That's one reason why the Pitt novels have endured in popularity over the years.Supposedly, there was a longer initial preview cut of the film that ran 40 minutes or so longer and included among other things a 1912 prologue where we see Brewster lock himself in the vault and also see SFX of the sinking.   The SFX footage of the sinking, which included the second funnel breaking off were later recycled in an episode of the 1982 sci-fi series Voyagers dealing with the Titanic sinking.   It's possible that additional scenes may have provided a little more contexutal sense to some of the sequences that just seem too underdeveloped (the Russian spy for instance, and Anne Archer's role.   Check the novel to see just how different her character is in Cussler's book!) but I doubt it would have helped much in terms of salvaging the film (no pun intended).There are two things that should be singled out for praise.   One, John Barry's magnificent score which is probably the best score he ever did for a non-007 movie, and which thankfully was rerecorded on CD in 1999 (the original film music tracks are lost).   Also, the special effects may seem cheap and dated today but they impressed me back in 1980 and they still offer a convincing look at an image of something that I as a Titanic enthusiast always dreamed in my wild fantasies of seeing happen before the ship was found broken in two in 1985, namely the great ship being raised and towed to New York to finish her maiden voyage.   That of course can never happen, but at least this film made that fantasy image come to life for one brief moment so for that I do appreciate it on that one level. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cussler himself can't stand this movie.  After watching it for the first time, I now know why.  Miscastings throughout.  The only bright spots were the ending credits and the score.Would someone in the film industry please give Clive at least some casting & creative control?  His books are really good & would probably translate well on screen, but this was not the way to do it.  "},{"Title":"My agreement with Gislef","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love Clive Cussler's novels.  He writes incredibly wonderful stories, and I have read nearly all of them.  This movie was a joke.  Cussler's novels could be made into blockbuster movies, and this one was pathetic and probably ruined what could be a huge franchise.  The entire cast was inappropriate (maybe...Steven Seagal...) and I was really disappointed.  The fact that the movie did not follow the novel probably had a lot to do with why it sucked so bad.  If anyone takes the time to make a Clive Cussler movie again (which would be nice)  I would hope that they would spend enough time and money to make it the hit that it could be. "}{"Title":"Someone's got to cash in!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Given the downright crazy Titanic phenomenon that is sweeping the nation in the wake of the Cameron movie, I don't understand why anyone hasn't broadcast this movie or re-released it on tape.  If they can sell bad Titanic related documentaries and every other Titanic movie out there in order to cash in, why not add Raise the Titanic?  Why haven't the Mystery Science Theater 3000 people discovered this movie?  It's so bad it's funny. It's a gold mine.  One can potentially make millions on and they are missing out!  Sheesh! "},{"Title":"Leave This One at the Bottom of the Atlantic","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Raise the Titanic (1980) * 1/2 (out of 4) The U.S. Government is looking for a rare mineral that has gone missing decades earlier and they begin to fear that it might have fallen into the hands of the Russians. After some evidence turns up they realize that the mineral was placed on the Titanic and of course sunk to the bottom of the Atlantic. However, a scientist comes up with a plan to raise the Titanic and get the mineral off. RAISE THE TITANIC is based on an apparently highly regarded novel but whatever was working there certainly didn't carry over to the film as its considered one of the biggest flops in the history of cinema. The idea of raising the Titanic is something rather interesting but it seems as if the producers, writers and director all went into a room and decided to take this interesting story and do it in such a way that nothing would work. The entire Cold War stuff is just downright silly, there's a dumb love story thrown in and we get countless dramatic moments that contain zero drama. For a thriller I really can't think of too many other films with such few thrills. One of the biggest problems is the actual screenplay because it spends way too much time building up to the event. As with many disaster pictures from this era, we get about an hour of talk before we get down to any action but the problem here is that this first hour is just so dry and boring that you really begin to lose interest in them raising the ship. Once this does take place you somewhat have to laugh at how they plan on bringing the ship back to life so to speak. The special effects are less than impressive and of course you also have to put up with several factual errors that couldn't really be avoided since the real ship wasn't discovered for another five years. The performances are all pretty much as bland as the screenplay and the director doesn't do much to bring any life either. RAISE THE TITANIC could have been a good popcorn movie but in the end its just a flat mess that has nothing going for it. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My view of this movie is colored by the fact that I read the book first. It was my second Clive Clussler novel, and I went on to read almost all of them. When I saw the ad for this movie, I was so excited.Then I watched it. What a huge, huge disappointment. Whoever wrote the script should be shot. Sorry, I shouldn't encourage violence like that. The writer of this script should be chained to a chair and forced to watch this movie in a continuous loop for a year.It is a god awful film, in a world of bad movies. The story made no sense, and they completely cut out the most exciting parts of the book. It makes me wonder, did the idiot who wrote this purposely leave these parts out? Did he have a beef with the studio and purposely do this to make the movie tank? I can't believe this movie actually made a little money. I haven't seen it on TV for many, many years. It's so bad that cable movie channels won't even run it at midnight.The highlight of the book was when the hero Dirk Pitt faces down a team of Soviet agents trying to take ownership of the newly raised Titanic, in the middle of a hurricane. For the movie, they reduced this entire conflict down to the Soviet showing up at the dock and trying to claim the ship as property of the USSR, and being told no.I came away believing that Cussler sold out on this movie, took the money and turned his back on it. I know if I could have stood by and watch them mutilate the book like this.For 31 years, anytime some asks what's the worse movie I've ever seen, this is always the first title that pops to mind. I might need to watch it again so I can laugh at how bad it is. "},{"Title":"Opinion on this Nausiating Movie","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me state emphatically that I loved and throughly enjoyed the 1976 novel RAISE THE TITANIC by author and deep-sea discoverer Clive Cussler, it was one of the greatest and most spellbinding books of the 2oth century. But this 1980 movie that carried the title totally destroyed this great work of fiction. Admittedly Dr. Bob Ballard's 1985 discovery of the actual wreck of the giant liner has made this the most dated version in history, considering that people in 1912 ignored some of the survivors who said she didn't sink in one piece, but broke up just before sinking. Ballard's discovery has authenticated these statements. I have been a history buff on the sinking of the RMS TITANIC ever since September of 1966 with the opening episode of the ABC-TV IRWIN ALLEN SCI-FI SHOW THE TIME TUNNEL where time travelers Tony Newman and Doug Philllps (Jimmy Darren & Robert Colbert) went on the first of many journeys to this ship just hours before she struck the iceberg sinking carrying 1,502 men, women and children to their untimely death's in 28 degree water. How anyone survived the water for over 10 minutes no one knows, but it is true that at least 6 person's were pulled alive and stayed alive, after this time though originally 150 were pulled out still alive but died and were buried at sea by the rescue ship Carparthia. Incidentally the Carpathia was torpedoed in WW I in 1918, and was it's wreck was found by Dr. Cussler in 2001. The main note of a person surviving the water was Bakker Charles Jorgen (1888-1977) who was kept alive for more than 2 1/2 hours in the water before being pulled onto Second Officer Charles Lighttoller's overturned Collapsable B lifeboat after 1st Wireless Operator John Jack Phillips froze to death on the boat minutes before Boat No. 12 took them all off just as it was about to submerge. This 1980 movie really isn't worth the time to even focus on in any way shape or form, it is such a total waste of the talents of such great character actor's such as the late Jason Robards. It totally wiped out the entire plot of the 1976 book. For example they have a takeover of the ship by the Russian Col. Prevlov, who is captured by the American's and turned into a good guy for us. Gene Segram goes totally mad at the end of the book and Dana his wife is divorcing him, and has an affair on the ship with Dirk Pitt. Leaves out the start where the guy is brining the stuff over on the Titanic the night of the disaster, and locks himself in the vault. The old man that Pitt talks to is not running a pub in the book, he is the last surviving crew member in 1987, and calls Dirk Pitt away from the expedition to hear the story of a dying old LYMIE as Pitt calls him at first, but through him learns the story of the Titanic. They also leave out all about the mens expedition except finding the miners body in the mine in northern Russia, and don't mention that his widow who was a lot younger than himself in 1912 is still alive in 1987 now aged 93 and gives an interview to one of the important people. It also changes the ending of the story about at the one miners grave, where they find that the just and rocks are actually in the grave but they leave the grave untouched in the movie, which went totally contrary to the book. In the book they dug up the grave the stuff was tested at the very moment that out in the north Atlantic that old crewmember who had just died his ashes were spread over the wreck former wrecksite of the Titanic. This was taken from actual history for Commander John Joseph Boxhall (1878-1967) the 4th officer of Titanic and the last surviving officer to pass away in 1967 actually had this done at his death. May it be noted that Boxhall at age 80 in 1958 was technical consultant to the B& W film A NIGHT TO REMEMBER an excellent film. Also anyone who read the book will also remember that in the book Gene Segram was not in the submersibule that they had to rush the Titanic up with to save the men in the sub. And when the Titanic came up in the book it came up the way they last saw TITANIC in 1012 stern first. They were afraid that it would come up so fast that it would raise too far out of the water and flip bellyup. They also left out the Hurricane that Titanic had to survive getting to New York or the 2 Russian born spies that tried to sabotage the ship drilling holes in the bottom. They did hold to some of the story but what little they did even this they destroyed. I aeiterate go out to the public library and read the book, by Clive Cussler is fantastic reading but as the main critic of this movie said AVOID IT LIKE THE PLAUGE. Personally I gave it a 1-STAR only because there wasn't anything less to give it. If I had my personal choice I would give it a -10 stars on a 1-10 scale it stunk so bad. Only some of the Sci-Fi movies of the 1950's were worse than this destruction of a great novel.  "},{"Title":"similar to the space race of the sixties","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was deeply touched by this movie as it has an enchanting affect on me that I have difficulties expressing in words.  Lets recall that the real Titanic was not found until some six or seven years after this movie was released.  Back then it would have been difficult to display what the Titanic would have really looked like even when bearing in mind that it had been in it's watery grave for some sixty years.  What the Titanic would have looked like is really missing the point behind the novel and the movie.  This movie is an adaptation of Cussler's novel however, my impression  behind the idea of raising the Titanic acts as a slogan to the theme, even though it serves the whole plot very well.. The Titanic is enormous and so is the mission behind achieving the aimed target.   The theme and agenda would be closely relate to the incredible difficulties and desperation associated with trying to achieve a goal or a discovery that takes those persevering to new horizons with the  pressures from competition that resulted from the cold war.  This, however can be impressing as it would be an absolute adventure in reality to actually raise the Titanic, if only it were not so fragile and still in one piece on the ocean floor.  While there are those that are totally untouched by this, wanting to get to the Titanic first represents the typical effects from the cold war, no different from the space race of the 1960's as to who was going to be the first to land man on the moon. It is far easier by today's standards to see a movie such as this one with a critical eye, because these types of movies  are less attracting to newer generations, resulting from the cold war no longer being the main headline in today's media.  This is sad in a way, as it does not give these movies their deserved recognition.The colour and filming make this movie even more special as it has a sort of foggy but clear setting.  The risen Titanic is not badly represented either when compared to what it really looked like below the sea when it was actually discovered.  I also enjoyed the soundtrack and score to it giving it that extra edge. You really have to be open minded to appreciate this movie and being an 1980 release would make it of excellent quality.   "},{"Title":"Not bad, but a missed opportunity...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First- The book is incredible, as are all of Clive's works. There's so much story here that it must have overwhelmed the writers.  Second- Richard Jordan is Dirk Pitt. He is who I picture when I read Clive's works. Third- The score is wonderful. John Barry does such great sea music. The entire soundtrack is available. Fourth- Some of the scenes do work Dirk walking the newly-raised Titanic, Dirk talking to Alec Guiness(who did not win an oscar for Star Wars), Dirk raising the flag on Titanic.Now, the rest of it is pretty average. Whole sections of the book were cut, replaced with pointless exposition. Al Giordino pops up for about 5 seconds. The spfx range from decent to awful.Now is the time to get to James Cameron and give him Clive's books. They are the franchise he is so desperate to find. He can even start with Raise the Titanic! as a semi-sequel to that dreck he cobbled together in 1997. (Justice could probably only be done to them as 8 hour mini-series. The are always possibilities.) For now, this is better than nothing. Score 6 out of 10 for Jordan and the good points mentioned earlier. "},{"Title":"Not as exciting as the book but it does have its moments","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not as exciting as the book but it does have its moments, like when Dirk discovers the Titanic, that was a great scene, you could feel their excitement as they are approaching it, not knowing they have found the Titanic.  When the Titanic is raised to the top, when Dirk meets John Bigelow and the scene where Dirk is walking through the ballroom, the look of reference on his face when he looks up the staircase and around the room, that was the best part of the movie.  To say that Richard Jordan and Jason Robards were miscast, I disagree.  They did a great job with their parts.  I do feel that they were capable of doing a lot more than what they were given.  But as far as David Selby goes I do agree, he has to be the worst actor ever and it's a shame that he was given a part in this movie.But I do think it should have been more exciting than it was.  I also would like to know is what happened to Al Giordino?  How could they make this movie without him.  Also, I didn't like the part where Seagrum was making fun of Dirk Pitt's name, I felt like throwing something at the screen when he kept on putting him down.  Also, I like to remind the writers that Dirk Pitt was not a Captain in the Navy, he was a Major with the Air Force.  You know can go so far as to saying that Richard Jordan and Jason Robards were the ones that saved this movie from becoming a total flop, because they were excellent, I just wish the movie itself had measured up to their talents. After all they are both award-winning actors, a Golden Globe winner (Jordan) and an Academy Award winner (Robards). "},{"Title":"Classic Nostalgia","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know the general consensus on this film is that its rubbish, but I don't really care, I first saw this when I was 12, obsessed by the Titanic and the idea of it coming to surface again seemed plausible, remember I was 12...The other day thanks to 'youtube' (yay youtube) I was able to watch the raising clip again! it made me smile! and gave me a little shiver, the John Barry score over the top of it coming to the surface is so beautiful and moving. I cant remember much of the rest of the film to be honest as I cant find it anywhere to buy here, and I don't want to buy the double feature version on amazon with 'Man Friday' or whatever its called.Hope it gets released on DVD sometime soon! it may be nonsense, but enjoyable and how nice to imagine it was still in one piece. "},{"Title":"OK so its not perfect BUT.......","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It may sound odd, but this is one of my favourite films. Why? Because when I watched it, I had not read the novel. It was only when I obtained a copy that I realised the movies shortfalls. However, when you see the frankly fantastic model breaking the surface, it makes you think yeah this was worth the wait. The dialogue (or lack of it) is wooden, and the movie does little to explain properly the Sicilian project and its potential, but the model and its raising is fairly well represented. But have you ever considered the consequences of its raising. In the film it comes up damned fast, like the novel, except that instead of stern first it comes up bow first. Well sorry, but if that happened the stacks would be shorn off along with the masts, the film was so hurriedly put together that the film makers forgot that. Also, when it breaks surface it comes up sssssssssslllllllllllllllloooooowwwwwwwwlllllllyyyyyyyyyyyyyy, why the massive deacceleration? One ironic thing about the movie is this, when the enormous 50 foot model was built, the leader of the team responsible for its construction was justly proud, and for good reason. When built it was finished as the ship as built, because originally the film would feature the sinking, but that footage was cut out to cut the time down. When the ship was weathered and damaged for the sunk Titanic, the movie folks bought an old liner to play the part of the raised Titanic, with a few cosmetic modifications. This old Italian liner had two mast things next to the main fore mast, and so when the model makers weren't looking, they added these to the model! The guy who built it was absolutely furious! I am a Titanic enthusiast who knows a fair bit about the Titanic story, and so watching the Titanic break surface was magic, its like a dream come true! Alas though, it is impossible in reality. And its more magical with it sunk! Bring the Titanic back to the surface and the legend becomes reality, and nobody will care after 10 years or so.Watch it for a laugh, and the raising, but be prepared for a few unanswered questions, and a poor ending, which seems to try and end the film as quickly as possible. I recommend watching, then reading the book, which is very good, so that all the questions you raise can be answered. "},{"Title":"Decent movie, but hard to watch these days","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (Spoiler-marked just in case, though there aren't *big* spoilers here... perhaps some if you're absolutely unfamiliar with Titanic in general. Go see that huge Cameron movie. And then the National Geographic documentary - any of them. Preferrably the other way.)Raise the Titanic is one of those movies that just hasn't aged well, but it was not really its own fault.The biggest problem with Raise the Titanic is that there we have not only discovered Titanic's wreck by now, but we have also had time to study its condition properly. Not only that, but Titanic's present condition has become a widely known popular science topic. Everyone and their dog knows, more or less accurately, what happened that fateful night in 1912, and exactly how badly the oceans have treated the rusting piece of history since then.So, the movie is *extremely* hard to watch these days. Everyone *knows* Titanic can't be raised. Everyone *knows* the wreck looks different in real life. So there's immediately a huge barrier of believability.This movie's bad thing is that it relies *a lot* on the sense of wonder as the ship gets raised from the depths. It does the raising-the-Titanic very amazingly and interestingly. It's very easy to imagine the people in 1980 get very amazed indeed. But now... everyone will just think the whole thing looks very, very, very *wrong*.With that amazement gone, there's little else to hold the interest up. There's Cold War plotting. Accidents. Espionage. Human relations drama. But none are done nowhere near as interestingly as the ship-raising thing. I'm a big fan of special effects movies in general, and this thing was extremely state-of-the-art for 1980, so I just can't let this go past without at least 8/10......I sure hope the book is better.So my best advice is this Just try, with all your might, forget everything you have ever learned of Titanic, except that it kind of sunk. It is very difficult to watch this movie otherwise. "}{"Title":"How could you raise the Titanic? Its impossible regardless","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie deals with a fictitious plot involving a precious mineral supposedly stowed away in the past aboard the now sunken Titanic. So now they want to raise the ship to retrieve it(even though this movie was made before the Titanic was discovered ,it seems so ridiculous to me that the makers of the movie and the author of the book would hypothesize that the ship would be in one piece after it sank 2 1/2 miles below the surface ,the force the impact would have made when it hit bottom would have been like an atom bomb going off and of course that was proved when it was found ,it was broke in two pieces,heavy damage to bow and stern and debris scattered everywhere.) In the movie ,its raised intact and looks no more the worse for wear.Also ,how the heck would you have raised it ,(even with our technology now it would have been simply impossible ,lifting something that massive 2 1/2 miles below the ocean ,it would weigh 10 times as much and snap like a twig from the pressure). The rest of the movie involves spys , a project and at the end the material isnt even onboard the ship. I do admit that the scene of the ship breaking the surface was eerie and i did feel something weird about it ,after all over 1000 people died. Overall not a good movie,based on the novel of the same name. "},{"Title":"Yes I am that man","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am the only person in the world who thinks this is a great film. I don't know why as everything about it should make it a bummer. The sets and effects are poor, the acting mediocre, the casting, strange, but the sum of the parts is a film which works for me and I could watch it over and over again. Isn't life strange 8 out of 10 (hahahahahahahahahaha) "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a invention salvage Titanic. I thought the film were better that I think it was.I want it to had three funnels instead four and I can it is not a real Titanic-wreck.The actors acts very well in Raise the Titanic.The equipment on the Titanic-wreck looks very real and the film are very well with a good script and directing.It is unreal they have to salvage Titanic with many tools, but the theme is free.The environment looks very real and are very beautiful in the movie. "},{"Title":"Lousy story, but some good scenes of the mighty shipwreck.","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie because of my fascination for the Titanic, and not for the story itself. And the story turned out to what I had expected it to be; uninteresting. However, the scenes of the aging old ship were good; it looked old, powerful and majestic. Even though they apparently made this movie before it was discovered that the Titanic broke into two parts when sinking.Not a film to rent if you want to see a good movie. If you need to kill a couple of hours and have a great interest of anything that's Titanic, it might be worthwhile. Otherwise, skip it.  "},{"Title":"Butchers a fine novel.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poor casting of some fine actors in the wrong roles. Movie has some great moments in it, mainly where they actually followed the novel. Unfortunately, this film chops out most of the action that was in the novel, and several key characters. Congresswoman Loren Smith, MIA. Al Giordino, MIA. Navy Seals, MIA. Russian spy's on-board the Titanic after it is raised, MIA. Titanic adrift in a storm with Russian Spetznaz on board Titanic during the storm, MIA. The LONG & BORING stretch of this movie that was wasted on underwater submersibles looking for the Titanic could've been used for some of the real action that was in the novel. Any 1st year film school student could easily edit out 30 minutes of waste from this poorly produced film. It was a great novel, and the movie could've been great and launched a series of Clive Cussler/Dirk Pitt movies. But this film was poorly made, and the more recent actual discover of the broken Titanic wipes out any second chance for turning this fine novel into a movie again.This film was such a disaster, that novelist Clive Cussler refused to consider any more of his novels for films, for many years. Finally, Matthew McCougnahy talked him into it. MM is both playing Dirk Pitt and an Exucutive Producer for the film Sahara. EXCELLENTLY DONE! That was the first of a 3 movie deal that Clive Cussler sold. Clive maintained final veto power of much of the deal, a lesson sorely learned from Raise The Titanic. I can't remember what the other 2 novels are that make up that deal. Hopefully, we will see them soon.Dirk Pitt novels always have had the potential to give us a uniquely American action hero movie series (sort of modern Indiana Jones/James Bond). It is a shame that British actor (RIP) Richard Jordan was mis-cast for the role in Raise The Titanic.Final little side-note. Raise The Titanic was NOT the first Clive Cussler/Dirk Pitt novel. It was preceded by a couple of years by The Mediterranean Caper. That was the shortest of these novels, and in my humble opinion the best written. It would make a great movie even today. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as bad as most reviewers have said","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While it does not rank as a spectacular film, it is very faithful to the book, which is more than can be said for most Hollywood adaptions of the last 20 years or so. The premise is not that all unbelievable, either. Even though subsequent history has proved the fact that the ship is not all in one piece, Cussler's then innovative idea has proved to be a viable method of raising ancient wrecks. "},{"Title":"Sink This Titanic!","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Talk about sabotaging a bestseller! This Cold War Era thriller about a massive effort to raise the legendary Titanic was a complete botch. If you haven't read Clive Cussler's imaginative, but right-wing thriller about a gigantic defense shield that will protect America, then you might enjoy this soggy saga. Long, boring, with few action interludes of any cinematic significance, Raise the Titanic is a complete waste of time. Richard Jordan isn't a very charismatic Dirk Pitt and the word is that the failure of this mega-budget movie sank Cussler's Dirk Pitt franchise until Sahara came along to revive it. They are raising the Titanic because it may have hidden in its waterly bowels the secret element to make a defense shield feasible. The ending truly sucks. It appears as if the liberals got their hands on this movie. We don't get the defense shield in the movie because that would make us villainous! The two decent moments in this dreary adventure are the opening scenes set to John Barry's unforgettable theme music that recounts the construction and voyage of the Titanic. Later, Alec Guiness gets to put the old flag on the cruise ship after it is raised. Avoid this debacle! "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember this film coming out in 1980, I think I even went to see it at the cinema.I remember then that I thought it was utter rubbish.America the good in another excuse for a confrontation of good against evil, in this case Russia. I do seem to recall that at the time of The Titanic going down, there was no cold war. So to make a film where America the good is in a battle against time to beat Russia to the Byzantium is a country purely self obsessed and blinkered to think it has any right to go down and get the Titanic up, which I recall was a British ship.This is a terrible film, made by an arrogant and self obsessed USA, yet again, an example of that country's arrogance and why it is so hated today by many.I urge, delete this film from your thoughts, it has been proved the ship is in pieces any small amount of research would have come up with a probability of such a big ship hitting the sea bed and remaining in tact is pure darn right stupidity, as is this film.D "},{"Title":"A best selling novel, but not a great movie","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this movie many times when I was young but I haven't read the the book until very recently. I've read just two other novels by Clive Cussler and I will definitely read more because Clive Cussler is one great author!I'll admit to most people the film would be rather boring, simply because the movie has no action and no suspense. Not much except discussion about finding the mineral called byzanium and then trying to raise the Titanic from the ocean floor. There wasn't a very good cast of actors either.'Raise The Titanic' was Cussler's first best selling novel published just a few years before the movie was released. Since then Cussler has written far better novels with even more action and adventure. In most of Cussler's novels he uses a character called Dirk Pitt. Pitt is basically Cussler's fictional counterpart., his adventurous career parallels to that of Cussler. Like Cussler, Pitt works for a company called N.U.M.A. National Underwater Marine Agency, and travels around searching for lost shipwrecks and airplanes.In the film of 'Raise The Titanic' Pitt (Richard Jordon) didn't look much like the way Pitt has been described in the novels. In the novels Pitt does have short dark hair but he doesn't have a beard. So the film didn't really present Pitt as much of character.So I don't recommend this film to anyone. It is so dreary. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  	How the writers actually managed to write a script this bad is one thing, how the producers (why they wanted to have anything to do with the movie is beside the point) convinced these five mega stars (sort of) to accept the roles is probably on of the 80's biggest mysteries.	The only thing, absolutely ONLY thing this movie has going for it is the cast. Six time Oscar nominee/2 time winner Alec Guinness (Star Wars, Lawrence of Arabia) should have know better than to accept this trash, as should have Oscar nominee Anne Archer (Rules of Engagement, Fatal Attraction), 2 time Oscar winner Jason Robards (Magnolia), and Golden Globe winner Richard Jordan (Gettysburg, The Hunt for Red October).	The writing and direction is horrendous, same goes for the story- which we can now laugh out because of it being so AMAZINGLY DATED, and believe it or not, the acting. With an ensemble cast like that you'd expect it to be good, but it wasn't. The actors must not have had their hearts it in, not suprising considering the material/script (ha!) they had to work with.	Stay away from this at ALL cost, and do not let it tempt you, as it is a horrid mess. "}]