[{"Title":"OK; What do you expect???","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"95 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm kind of surprised at some of the reviews of this film. Mainly the very poor and putrid ones. This is Mel Brooks having the time of his life. The marketplace scene is hilarious. Plumbing! Pump s**t right out of your house! Plumbing! It's a wild romp through early history, with a few side steps into vaudeville and Broadway. I disagree that this film is not a classic. There are enough funny lines to quote out of this film to keep the average frat house laughing through three or four kegs of Bud. Boy, when you die at the palace, you REALLY die at the palace!Madeline (The Queen) What happens to the slaves?Queen's Maid If they're captured, they're hung.Madeline (The Queen) Not necessarily.So I suggest that you take of the Jeffrey Lyons face, sit down with some chips and brews, and watch this movie if you haven't already done so. Slapstick? You bet. Silly? Of course. As I asked before. It's Mel Brooks. What do you expect????9/10  "},{"Title":"Mel Brook's best film, yet.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"40 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Classical comedy satire..Mel Brook's best film. Once you've seen this film, you will not forgot it.  The punchlines keep rolling from the beginning of the film, and even past the big ending.  There is not much of a plot, but that is to be expected in a movie that contains a bunch of skits.  If you like Monty Python, then you should love this movie. This movie is not for everyone, especially if you are easily offended.  However the opening scene should tell you if you would have a problem watching the rest of the movie. This movie does currently rank in my top 10 comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"Witty AND Clever","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although it is aged around the edges, History of the World is one of my favorite comedies. Admittedly, I have a good 100 in my favorites list, but HotW is definitely in the top 25. It is pure enjoyment and while sometimes raucous, it is never raunchy. Tactless, but never dumbed down, and that makes for the best kind of comedy.In true Brooks fashion, this work takes you from a parody of life to a satirical pop-culture vehicle. Unfortunately, the many late 1970's pop-culture references throughout the dialog is what dates this work. Otherwise, it would still be fresh, today.Led by Mel Brooks's polished stylized direction, this work is not only hilarious, but is clever in its irony. It never takes itself too seriously, and delivers with every scene.If you liked Wholly Moses, you will LOVE this!It rates a 6.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was actually a lot better than I expected.  I'm more from a Monty Python humor background and some of the Mel Brooks humor is pretty campy and dated in a Marx Bros sense but it was still pretty darn good.  It's hard not to like a guy who turns the Spanish Inquisition into a musical.  I guess there's something for everyone to like (and be offended by).  "},{"Title":"He's definitely a eunich.","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Marred only by overlength, this is one hilarious bit of cinema as Mel Brooks satirizes the stone age, the 10 Commandments, Rome, the Last Supper, the Inquisition, and Louie the 16th (sorry I couldn't get the name right). Of course, the stone age also happens to make fun of 2001 A Space Odyssey. Also funny is at the end with the whole Jews In Space bit. I love that stuff.Personally I thought the best bits were set in Rome, what with the gags about Vestal Virgins, innuendo between the queen and the late Gregory Hines, the Stand Up Philosopher, Ethiopia, getting the Roman guards high, and of course, the Last Supper. This is not to say the Inquisition Musical number is not worth a look.Jesus! - Mel BrooksWhat? - Jesus Christ "},{"Title":"It's Good to Be a King","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Divided in six segments (The Stone Age; The Old Testament; The Roman Empire; The Spanish Inquisition; The French Revolution; and Previews of Coming Attractions), History of the World Part I is an uneven parody of historical moments, but still worthwhile watching. This film is written, directed and produced by Mel Brooks, who is also the lead actor performing five roles. It is also the debut of Gregory Hines, who died so young. Narrated by Orson Welles, the film has a great cast and cameo appearance of many famous people.Last but not the least, there is no sequel and Part I is another Mel Brook's joke, since Sir Walter Raleigh wrote The History of the World Volume 1 but was beheaded before writing the Volume 2. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A História do Mundo Parte I (The History of the World Part I) "},{"Title":"I'm Still Awaiting Part II and Hitler on Ice","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks did not invent the comedy spoof movie, but his best work (Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, Dracula, Dead And Loving It, and High Anxiety) certainly make the most of it - even if some of it gets rather too dirty (literally dirty - caca dirty). History Of The World is a funny film, but it is not one of his best films. It looks like it was based on bits and pieces of ideas that could have been built up into separate movies a film about the stone age, a film about the Roman Empire, a film about the French Revolution. I am sure that Brooks was inventive enough to have created three film spoofs, but for some reason he decided to just concentrate on pasting these mini-spoofs together.It has wonderful moments in it - some are thrown away. The four desperate refugees from the Roman Empire, followed by centurions, pray for a miracle. Suddenly they see an old man - Brooks dressed like Moses (from an earlier sequence in the film). A river is parted like the Red Sea with Moses arms in the air. The refugees flee thanking God and Moses. In a moment we see there is a robber in back of Moses holding him up (hence his arms in the air), and when the robber leaves the old man starts cursing him.Similar stuff is throughout the film (typical of Brooks' inventiveness). After fleeing Rome, Brooks has reached Palestine and is the waiter serving the Last Supper. Besides having a problem when he keeps saying JEEZUS causing John Hurt (who is Christ) to ask, Yes?, there is the problem of the painting being done by Da Vinci (Art Metrano), and how Brooks manages to get into the background of the masterpiece - holding his tray like a halo behind Hurt).Brooks uses a number of his regulars in the film Madeline Kahn as the Empress Nympho, Dom DeLuis as the Emperor (one could call him piggy after one particular comment about his eating habits), Harvey Korman as the foppish Count du Monet, Sid Caesar as a caveman who is full of awe. He was also lucky to have Gregory Hines, usually a dancer but here a strikingly breezy comic, and Orson Welles doing the narration properly (note his voice's confusion at the start when describing the first heterosexual marriage, followed by the first homosexual one).The disjointed style is a minor problem in enjoying the film. Judging from the final scenes from the sequel, Brooks could have done a Viking movie, a skating film about Nazism, and a space musical about the Jews. Alas, only those scenes were ever shot. A second part might not have been a great film either, but it would have been quite as amusing. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Comedies","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" History of the World Part I (man, I wish they had done a part II!) is one of my all-time favorite comedies. In fact, this is my favorite Mel Brooks film.One of my favorite scenes is Mel Brooks as the King of France, playing chess with real people. He yells through a loudspeaker, Pawn jump Queen, Rook jump Queen, Bishop jump Queen...everybody JUMP Queen, (well you get the idea!) Then you see him on the very top of the pile. This gets me in stitches every time! In the same skit, Harvey Korman exclaims to the King, you look like the pee (sic) boy. In which, Brooks says and you look like a bucket of turd (sic). Of course, Brooks is also playing the pee (sic) boy, which is why there is a resemblance.The movie is a series of skits from the times of the caveman up to the French Revolution. The Roman Empire skit is also hilarious.Brooks' comedies are brilliant and this is one I highly recommend. I believe that ratings should be subject to what the film is trying to accomplish. This film wants you to laugh and have fun, and that is exactly what I do every time I see it. This is a film I can enjoy over and over again. Rating 10 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Silly jokes,  slapstick  and sight gags galore","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film concerns about history of the world in various parts, from the dawn of human being until the distant future in French Revolution and narrated by Orson Welles. The first part during the Stone age with a sympathetic cavemen(Sid Caesar, Ron Carey) inventing the music. The second about Roman Empire with a filthy emperor Nero(Don DeLuise) with flatulence,a lecherous empress(Madeleine Khan) a slave(Gregory Hines) and of course, Mel Brooks. The following , the Spanish Inquisition , again with Mel Brooks as Torquemada making a spectacular dances, including a beautiful swimmers. The third part about French Revolution with a lascivious Luis XVI(Brooks),a conspirator count of Monet(recently deceased Harvey Korman) and a gorgeous Mademoiselle Rimbaud(Pamela Stephenson).Mel Brook's direction keeps things moving with laughs, he directed this sometimes hilarious, but mostly crude and bad taste spoof of history with ridiculous episodes, as how to test eunuchs or the lasciviousness of Luis XVI's court. The jokes come with machine-gun rapidly , though don't always work, there are so many of them that this comedy ends up with enoughs laughs for quite entertaining. It's a stupid movie but also funny and remains like a laugh-filled amusement. The movie hasn't the thematic unity of 'The producers, Blazing saddles and Young Frankestein', the Mel Brooks's best . The stars race around like maniacs and appear several famous uncredited, actors and directors, such as Hugh Hefner as Roman entrepreneur, Paul Mazursky as roman officer, Barry Levinson as column salesman, Art Metrano as Leonardo and John Hurt as Jesus in a bemusing sketch about the 'Last supper', among others. The film is classified 'PG', parents guide, as displays objectionable material, for occasional adult content, crude language and profanity. If it weren't in such bad taste and dirty humor , it would be perfect for the children. "},{"Title":"Great movie? No. Great laughs? YES!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're trying to kill time on a Sunday, watch this movie. It's the perfect example of Mel Brooks comedy.Everyone has their favorite and least favorite part. My favorite was The Inquisition song.  My least favorite? Probably the French Revolution part, which dragged out for a while.Hey, Mel, do your audience a favor and make History of the World Part II.  I can just see him harassing Thomas Edison, Jimi Hendrix, Ed Sullivan, Adolph Hitler, and others.  "}{"Title":"hit and miss jokes","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks hams it up big time. He's starring, writing, and directing this crazy Brooks version of history. It's a big hit and miss constant stream of broad jokes. At a lot of times, this feels dated like a vaudeville act from an age long gone.The biggest and best laughs have to be Madeline Kahn as Empress Nympho during Roman times. No No Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes. You've gotta love it.Although Gregory Hines is fine, I can't help but wonder what if Richard Pryor could be in this. It's a disappointment. And that's a big part of the disappointment in this movie. There is a lack of up and comer new comedians. This is mostly a reunion of old timers. With the rise of SNL and that comedic scene, the times are passing it by. "},{"Title":"History Of The World Part I (Mel Brooks, 1981) **1/2","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had watched this as a kid, a popular but not highly-regarded Brooks effort. It is wildly uneven but, also, undeniably funny at times (even if most of the gags are, unsurprisingly, of the vulgar kind).Brooks managed to rope in Orson Welles to provide indifferent narration over his lampoon of various historical eras (the film's one-liners, too, read better than they play). Still, The Stone Age (featuring Sid Caesar) offers a nice parody of the Dawn Of Man sequence from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY (1968) &#150; while the brief but hilarious The Old Testament sees Brooks himself as Moses accidentally lose a third of God's original 15 Commandments! The Roman Empire &#150; the longest segment &#150; features Brooks veterans Dom De Luise and Madeleine Kahn, the film's single best joke (the Senators' spontaneous reply, in unison, to a fellow members' concern over the plight of the city's poor), plus wonderful conclusion involving John Hurt as Jesus Christ. The Spanish Inquistion is, again, brief but surely one of the film's highlights with its tastelessly inspired depiction of this infamous period as a Busby Berkeley-ish production number (though Brooks' typical Jewish jokes seem baffling in this context). Just as Monty Python had done the definitive parody of the Roman Empire with LIFE OF BRIAN (1979), The French Revolution follows on from the Carry On gang's DON'T LOSE YOUR HEAD (1966). The results are just as middling (involving the inevitable impersonation of the King by a commoner) &#150; but highlighting two established presences in Brooks' films, Harvey Korman and Cloris Leachman. Easily the funniest bit from this segment is the King's outrageous shooting practice.Still, at the end of the day, Brooks can't avoid repeating himself the Walk This Way gag from YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN (1974) turns up here as well; Brooks' lecherous French king is virtually a copy of his Governor characterization in the Western spoof BLAZING SADDLES (1974); and the surreal nick-of-time escape at the very end, which also derives from the latter film. "},{"Title":"My favorite Brooks film","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While Mel Brooks seems best  known for BLAZING SADDLES and YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, HISTORY OF THE WORLDPART 1 still is my favorite. Lots of hilarious moments in here. I continue to bust up whenever I watch it! The Spanish Inquisition turns out a little too corny, but at least its worth looking at for the effort. LOL.  Anyways, be sure to watch the un-edited version and get ready to roll.  *** "},{"Title":"Isolated, mildly funny moments can't make this movie work.","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"39 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A pity that a director like Mel Brooks, responsible for such classics like The Producer, the one-two 1974 punch of Young Frankenstein and Blading Saddles, and the less successful but still entertaining High Anxiety fell flat on his face with this clunker. While it starts out with the promising Orson Welles voice-over (spoofing his own War of the Worlds narration as a nifty in-joke) in the first segment (which also spoofs the ape men sequence from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey), the rest quickly plummets in one un-funny after un-funny succession.Sid Caesar gives all he has for his short bit as the lead caveman (and granted, the entry works). Moses fails to deliver and whatever comic intent there is shatters just like his extra table of commandments. Only the Bea Arthur scene works in the Roman Empire segment -- even Madeline Kahn's presence can't save what is a badly written part -- and here the movie completely sinks into incoherence with unrelated funny scenes added as supposed hilarity, for example, when a man carries a very dated boom box and listens to Funkytown. The Last Supper sequence is fairly descent and somewhat brings back History... a little luster, but the Spanish Inquisition, a segment obviously intended as a nod to Hollywood musicals from the 1930s, is quite arguably the worst sketch in the entire movie. The French Revolution begins well, bringing Harvey Korman, Cloris Leachman, and Andreas Katsoulas, all Brooks veterans, back on film in small but memorable parts, but not long after this segment begins that it goes down, down under and never bothers to recover itself. The fact that Mel Brooks also decided to play five roles here makes it the more irritating. One can only guess he did so due to his own star power (or maybe he believed he could do an Alec Guiness). His entry as the King in the last sequence is so cringe-inducing It's good to be the king! that it's a relief when that bad joke is over and THE END appears on the horizon with a title montage reminiscent of the all-caps title LAND OF THE GIANTS.I personally am glad of his success with his own revival of The Producers. His recent appearance at the season finale of Curb Your Enthusiasm only cements his reputation even more as he spoofs his revival using Larry David, of all people as the lead, in order for it to flop. It only furthers to show he can make a fantastically funny visual story (or appear in one) when he chooses to, but this movie is only for die-hard fans. "},{"Title":"Like The Line In The Inquisition Song, What A Show!","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Part I in the title of the film was kind of an inside joke about sequels and film series. After all, if they have a Rocky II, Rocky III, Rocky IV, Rocky V, etc., how come there was never a Rocky I? Mel Brooks delivers a critique of today's religion and politics but with characters and situations set ages ago. After all, the proverbial question set by characters from thousands of years ago, But what about the poor? The F Word reply given in unison by the chorus of ancient politicians was really a social commentary on contemporary politics. Mel Brooks' musical extravaganza on The Inquisition was not just a commentary of a dark, violent, regrettable page of history on the Catholic Church, but a commentary on a few aspects of today's religious issues. Some people in the audience may have felt that some of the religious humor was too disrespectful, with characters in the scenes like Moses, Jesus, priests, nuns, etc. The rule of thumb on that is that you can have Biblical and religious characters in your humor, as long as you're making fun with them, rather than at them. After all, when was the last time you thought about God? Anytime people start talking and thinking about religion, their beliefs or disbeliefs, it's good. It's thought provoking. It would be too in your face to use contemporary public figures to make commentary like that. After all, this is a Mel Brooks motion picture for the movie theater where you pay for a ticket and expect quality -- not an episode of Saturday Night Live that keeps recycling old jokes with new faces. That's why it's good taste to make your comedic critique with characters and situations set hundreds or thousands of years ago as Mel Brooks did in the first place. The History Of The World -- Part I is a delightful comedy. If you haven't seen it yet, it's worth your while. "},{"Title":"Hit and Miss; Mostly Miss","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I write this as someone who ranks Brooks' Blazing Saddles in the top 5 all-time comedies, The Producers in the top 25, and Young Frankenstein in the top 50. History of the World is a big disappointment. I saw it in the theater when it was originally released. While it made me laugh once in a while, more often than not the jokes were either unfunny or, based on having seen other Brooks movies, predictable.For example, if you saw Silent Movie and remember what happened when the studio execs reacted to the gorgeous starlet, then in HOWT, the means of testing to see which man is not a eunuch is obvious long before the visual joke is played out.Here and there throughout there are genuine laughs to be had, but HOWT falls far below the bar that Brooks' previous films set. "},{"Title":"An uneven romp ...","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brook's biggest indulgance as a film maker was also his biggest flop. There are several possible reasons ... The seminal and hysterical Airplane! had been released a couple of years previous to this. Airplane! is generally considered to have done to film parody what Star Wars did to sci-fi. In contrast, Mel's vaudavillian style burlesque humour may have been too old fashioned (despite the littering of swear words and dirty jokes). However, I'm afraid there is only one real reason this filmed failed to make any money. It wasn't funny. Attacking history with his shop worn comic shtick may have been too great a task. Also, Mel is credited as writing, producing and directing this picture single handedly. Perhaps he spread himself too thin this time. The film gets off to a funny enough start with a lampooning of Kubrick's ultra dull epic 2001 A Space Odessy by having a load of primates masterbating. We are then given a narrated documentary of stone age man. There are some gags, but nothing great. Then there is a wonderfull Brooks moment as he plays Moses, dropping one of the stone tablets with the 15 commandments on it. Then there is a long sketch about the Roman Empire and things get deeply dull. Despite Madline Khan, this section has few laughs. If there were any, the atmosphere is murdered by a repulsive performance by the ever unfunny Dom De Luise. Never funny, but here he manages to be stomach churningly awful. Because you can see it in his eyes. He THINKS HE'S FUNNY!!!! The Spanish Inquisition suffers for the same reason. Mel is in the full grip of meglomaniac narcasism. You think he's parodying big show tunes and dance numbers with that cheesy grin? He's trying not to laugh at his own comic genious, leaving the rest of the audience out of the joke. On the plus side we get a hysterically funny snippet of two imprisoned Jews relating their woes in the form of song. The French Revolution segmant is the most consistantly funny. Harvey Korman makes a brilliant appearance with a great character name. There are a load of great gags. You get the impression that the cast, including Brooks, have finally got the balance needed to make the oddball script work. The legendary Spike Milligan upstages Brooks with his small role in the film. Mel, however, is in much better form and as the film comes to an end some will feel not totally cheated. There is a trailer for the film's sequal with probably the best gags.The film is episodic, which is fine. But too often, Mel Brooks streches what is nothing more than a funny three minute sketch into a feeble twenty minutes. Mel Brooks fans will manage to watch the film and be amused. I'm a fan, however, and thought it a supreme waste fo time.   "},{"Title":"A Little Something to Offend Everyone...","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's a little something to offend everyone in this hilarious history lesson, with some personal research by Mel Brooks.  To me, it's funnier than, say SILENT MOVIE or HIGH ANXIETY, but not as good as BLAZING SADDLES or maybe YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN. My personal feeling is that HISTORY OF THE WORLD-PART 1 succeeds as being so hilarious due to the fact that it is so incredibly crude. It's a miracle that it gets shown on TV (even in a censored version). I own the book written by Mel Brooks in 1981. It is a telling of the movie complete with MANY photographs taken from the film. Sometimes, I think that the film gets mean-spirited, and that is when it isn't funny anymore.  Mel Brooks is the undisputed comedy genius of the latter half of this century. Without a doubt, he has made more people laugh than any one else. His comedy is unique because while it is in bad taste, he somehow makes us feel good. Even in his first film, he makes us laugh at something in bad taste. This is where he is different from other, run-of-the-mill comics like Adam Sandler or Eddie Murphy, or SNL or anything like that- because Brooks' really knows what is funny. From his earliest effort to his latest, he remains a genius. But as for HISTORY OF THE WORLD. It seems to be his most popular movie with today's generation. BLAZING SADDLES is still popular, though. Of course, THE PRODUCERS, THE TWELVE CHAIRS, SILENT MOVIE, HIGH ANXIETY, TO BE OR NOT TO BE, and LIFE STINKS were all aimed at older audiences, his films like BLAZING SADDLES,YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, HISTORY OF THE WORLD, SPACEBALLS, ROBIN HOOD MEN IN TIGHTS and DRACULA DEAD AND LOVING IT will always be popular with the younger audiences. "},{"Title":"Vaudeville on screen","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every so often, HOTWPart One is shown on a TV station and I endeavor to watch it through, just to see if my initial assessment was a result of a bad hair day. Not so. There are funny scenes and funny moments, but the better portion of the movie plays out like a series of outdated Vaudeville acts. Out of all the Mel Brooks movies, this one most suggests having a drummer stationed in a corner, following up the punchlines with a pa-DUM-pum-crash on a snare drum and cymbal. (THAT might actually help, come to think of it.) I find the scene in the Roman Forum amusing; Madeline Kahn makes the most of the very short scene that features her; and the Spanish Inquisition is memorable--but it's no match for Monty Python's TV skit and its absurd incongruities. With the exception of Young Frankenstein, the opening 20 minutes of The Producers (especially the original, 1968 version) and, grudgingly, Blazing Saddles, HOTW is like every other Mel Brooks movie same stereotypical references, same uneven pacing--as though the actors are pausing for the laugh from a live audience--and not much that's truly fresh and original. Watch it once, just so you can reference it as needed, and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Mel's Historic Flop","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When History Of The World Part 1 came out in 1981, it had been four years since Mel Brooks' last screen comedy, and given his track record at the time and the long wait, History could not fail but disappoint. Watch it today - devoid of such high expectations - and you know what? It's still weak.An overview of history from caveman days to the French Revolution, History Of The World Part 1 introduces us to such characters as Moses, Comicus the Roman stand-up philosopher, and King Louis XVI, all played by Brooks' favorite actor - Mel himself. In various bits, we see man emerge from erotically fixated primitives to erotically fixated primitives with silly wigs.History Of The World is really two mini-movies, one about Comicus the Roman and the other a Tale Of Two Cities parody of the French Revolution in which King Louis is replaced by a lowly lookalike, played of course by Mel. A few other bits are thrown around in the way of padded one-liners, but it's really more like Brooks couldn't be bothered with shooting a full-length movie this time. The French one at least is funny in parts, but much of what shows up on screen seems too thin for a story conference, let alone a movie.And the jokes! Puerile third-grade schoolyard stuff. In the year 1,000,000 BC, it is thought the first homo sapien marriage occurred, intones Orson Welles as we watch caveman Sid Caesar club a woman over the head. It was shortly followed by the first homosexual marriage. The Rome segment is just bizarre, with pointless cameos from Hugh Hefner and Henny Youngman and a long joke involving a chariot with a giant reefer.I believe Brooks' gradual decline as a filmmaker had to do with his increased focus on himself as central presence, and he really makes a case for it here. Why, in a film co-starring one of the great song-and-dance men of his generation, Gregory Hines, do you have the one big song-and-dance number star Mel Brooks?At least the French segment works somewhat in the classic Brooks vein, with some familiar faces from his other movies getting some quality time like Harvey Korman, Andreas Voutsinas, and Cloris Leachman, in the last of her Brooks crone roles as bitter Madame Defarge We are so poor, we don't even have a language, just a stupid accent!It's also the segment that delivers the best lines. It's good to be the king is what Louis says after molesting various ladies of the court, and Brooks is just right for the part there, probably because he WAS the king on the set and knew what he was talking about. Korman's Wait for the shake is also a favorite of mine, right up there with Walk this way and Where the white women at? from past Brooks' classics.But why Mel thought a chess gangbang would be so funny is lost on me, as is the comedy potential of a burping Dom DeLuise, or Jews being tortured by nuns in bathing suits. Call it hubris, but the sad fact was, for its many faults, History would be the last Brooks comedy that got within shouting distance of his Blazing Saddles peak. He could have just have easily subtitled this Decline And Fall. "}{"Title":"Just not as funny as it should be","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are a few inspired bits, but nothing to rest a whole movie on, and that's exactly what Brooks has attempted to do- base an entire movie on a few cheap tricks that don't really deliver in the first place.Brooks' best work (Young Frankenstein, The Producers) had both inspired bits and strong stories to keep them going. History of the World Part I has only a little of the former and none of the latter. The reason the movie doesn't fail completely is because there are glimpses of genius hidden in it- the Spanish Inquisition scene, for example, or both the performances of Madeline Kahn and Cloris Leachman. The Pissboy joke fits in that category too.But that's pretty much it. A few of the jokes, like the 10 Commandments one, have been replayed over and over in the popular consciousness that it's just not funny on screen. It was worth seeing, if only because it's a Mel Brooks movie and it reinforces how great his better movies are, but I don't care to see it again. "},{"Title":"unfunny","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this is a bad movie. The jokes fail only the start is funny both good comedies should be funny though out. Not just at one point. some of the skits long overstay there welcome like the roman skit. What was the point of the roman skit it is not funny. I almost fell asleep during that one. Also why are the jokes so unfunny. This movie was great at the start so much that if the rest of the movie was like that I would have given this movie a ten out of ten. Like the part were one of them lights a drug plant of fire and it defects the roman guards seriously. My overall rating is three out of ten if only this had better jokes and then I might like it "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This may well be one of the worst movies ever made - surely the worst Mel Brooks movie. It starts out with masturbating monkeys and goes downhill from there. Nothing rises above the level of grade school potty humor. What a waste of a terrific cast! Mel Brooks was never known for subtlety, but in Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles and especially The Producers, there are many bits of brilliant adult satire to balance out the groaners. History' is all groaners. You can actually feel your brain melting while watching this thing. You can almost detect the actors trying to rise above the material, without success. Skip it. "},{"Title":"Often funny, sometimes very funny, slapdash comedy.","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks' blackout sketches, mostly involving cave men, ancient Rome, the Inquisition, and the French Revolution, with a lot of other stuff thrown in. The various shreds are so impulsively but personally patched together that one wonders how he could have gotten such a cast, mostly familiar old timers.The style of the humor isn't what anyone would call fresh. A shot of a street in ancient Rome has a black guy walking along with a boombox against his ear. Ha ha. Facing the guillotine, Brooks is asked if he has any last requests. Yes -- NOVACAINE! It hasn't been invented yet. I'll wait! And Brooks from time to time glances at the camera and makes comments on the shenanigans.A lot of the humor is Jewish. During a parody of Esther Williams' movies we not only see seven girls in bathing suits (and caps) slowly emerge from the pool wearing sparklers on their heads, but as they go up and up we see that they're standing on a menorah. A drowning man shouts and the underwater bubble of his breath rises to the surface and pops and it says, Oy, gewalt! Maybe I should quit because otherwise I'll give away all the gags and some of them depend on the principle of fundamental surprise. Many of them also depend on vulgarity, in more than one language. It's about as politically correct as you can get. I don't know that even in a good-natured comedy that skewers politicians, racism, Judaism, Hollywood, and Holy Mother Church you could get away with calling someone a fag today. Or how about this. Gregory Hines' intact heterosexuality is revealed and someone shouts, The jig is up! And gone, exclaims Hines, diving out the window.For me the scene that works best is the one in which Brooks is Louis XVI, shooting down peasants as they are flung through the air like clay pigeons. He's in a ridiculous King costume and wears a villainous black mustache and a beauty spot. Strolling through the garden, he gooses Marie Antoinette, winks at the camera and says, It's good to be da king. And when he's forcing a beautiful blond virgin to meet him later that night, in order to save her imprisoned father, he adopts this smug, conspiratorial tone as he tells her, You do it. You KNOW you do it. You WANNA do it. We all do it. And he smiles wickedly at us and reminds us again that, It's good to be da king. I said this was a good-natured comedy and what I mean is that it doesn't depend in any way on anger. There isn't even an undertone of nastiness. We see a sketch from what we used to call coming attractions -- Hitler on Ice -- and Hitler performs gracefully. The humor lies in the absurdity of the concept. Any value judgments about the subject are taken for granted.Some of it looks quite a bit like Woody Allen, but it may be a case of independent invention. What it reminds me of at times are the Road films of Bing Crosby and Bob Hope. Now THAT'S good-natured comedy, although Brooks idea of fun is of course more urban, if not more urbane.The bloated pompous baritone of Orson Welles introduces each new segment with portentous comments -- The first weapon was the spear. Welles, like Brooks, is obviously kidding around too. Everybody is kidding around and the result is quite a lot of fun, despite the occasional wince. "},{"Title":"Not a classic, but far from a clunker.","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Parodying creation, the caveman film, the biblical epic, the crusaded and the French Revolution, Mel Brooks got most of it right. There are only a few groaners, a few eye raisers and many genuine laughs, a few of them worthy of a Danny Thomas spit take.Utilizing humor styles perfected the year earlier with Airplane! while utilizing his familiar style of delicious bad taste, Brooks uses much of his regular crew of funny people. With dry narration by Orson Welles, Brooks goes all out to satirize the genre of phony Hollywood history. The highlights are the Roman Empire sequence with a delightfully hysterical performance by Madeline Kahn as an unnamed Roman empress, with a deliberately grotesque performance by Dom De Luise as the Emperor. Historical timing would show it as Tiberious as the scene moved to Judea on the night of the last supper. Ironically, John Hurt who played Caligula in TV's I Claudius plays Jesus in a cameo.The inquisition sequence is a parody just like Springtime For Hitler to show the atrocities against the Jewish population. It is semi- successful as long as you realize the point Brooks was making and the real history behind it.Some great art direction makes the French Revolution sequence better than it actually is although the cameos by several familiar faces is also of help. With Cloris Leachman standing out as the Dickens character Madam De Farce, that segment is raised a notch, just as the Roman Empire sequence was with its cameo by Bea Arthur.As for the coming attractions at the end, it now seems pointless, not only because there never was a sequel, but because it really isn't funny. So a in all a mixed bag, but middle of the road Brooks is certainly better than no Brooks. "},{"Title":"Definitely hit-or-miss, but worth a look","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" History of the World Part 1 (1981) does not represent Mel Brooks at his best. Playing like a spoof of the bloated historical epics of the 50s and 60s, this film is an episodic romp, the highlights being the Roman Empire and the Busby Berkley inspired Spanish Inquisition musical number. The other segments are also good, just not as inspired.The whole film is packed with raunchy humor, sight gags, and surreal touches (this film probably has more fourth-wall breaking than Blazing Saddles (1974)). Some of the jokes fall flat and fall hard, but when they work they'll have you on the floor.It's no Young Frankenstein (1974) or Blazing Saddles, but this is still a funny movie. You can't ever go wrong with Mel Brooks! "},{"Title":"History of the World, Part I is Mel Brooks at his most irreverent","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After 30 years, I finally got to see the entirety of Mel Brooks' History of the World, Part I and I gotta say, I found most of it funny though I can understand why many critics were offended by much of it. There are quite a few scatological jokes from Dom DeLuise burping and farting in the Roman sequence to Harvey Korman's peeing in the French Revolution segment. And then there's Mel Brooks, who not only produced and directed this, but also single-handedly wrote it and stars in most of the sketches. Seeing him doing the Spanish Inquisition as a Busby Berkeley-Esther Williams number was perhaps the most irreverent thing he ever did especially when the nuns doff their uniforms to reveal their one-piece swimsuits and bathing caps! Gregory Hines made his film debut here and is a hoot whether doing his dance steps in order to keep him from trouble or making a giant joint to distract the Roman guards! Madeline Kahn and Cloris Leachman also contribute their funny selves to good effect and then there's longtime Brooks associate Sid Ceasar playing a cave man in the Stone Age segment also being his usual funny self. Really, all I'll say now is if you are a die-hard Brooks fan, I highly recommend History of the World, Part I. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks as the 20-million-year-old man","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie did middling box-office (as did all Mel Brooks movies from this point on), but for my money, it's one of Brooks's funniest. Having made his reputation with the 2000-Year-Old Man, it seems inevitable that Brooks would eventually take on the spectrum (or sphincter, as he might put it) of world history. And in the age of the Farrelly Brothers, Brooks' ideas about bad taste seem almost quaint.It begins with a lot of black-out gags (the first such gag amounting to, Ape Man = Onan) and takes off from there. The first sustained sequence, The Roman Empire, probably goes on a bit too long, and it introduced a buxom actress named Mary-Margaret Humes who, justifiably, went right back to obscurity shortly after the film's release. But there are also many enjoyable moments Gregory Hines's mellow film debut, Madeline Kahn's ecstatic song tribute to her well-endowed male slaves, and most of all, the Last Supper sequence at the end--completely messed up time-wise (it puts Jesus and Leonardo da Vinci in the same shot), but all the more hilarious because of it. (John Hurt plays Jesus, and as in Brooks' Spaceballs, his straight-faced seriousness just makes the insanity around him that much funnier.) The next sequence is one of Brooks' best The Spanish Inquisition as a Marx Brothers-style musical number, with Mel Brooks as a socko Torquemada, beating out a rhythm on his victim's shackled knees. This sequence alone justifies Brooks's existence as a comedy director.The sequence depicting The French Revolution, has two main objectives in mind show off as much of (1) British comedienne Pamela Stephenson's bust and (2) Brooks's wee-wee humor as humanly possible. Nevertheless, it has its moments, with Cloris Leachman as Madame Defarge, and Brooks as a randy king.The final short sequence, a trailer for Brooks's non-existent History Part II, is worth the bother just for one of those moments that makes me laugh for no discernible reason a scene from Hitler on Ice, showing Brooks' favorite nasty German as an Ice Capader. This ersatz trailer is enough to make me wish Brooks had really made a sequel. I doubt it would have turned out any worse than Spaceballs. "},{"Title":"succeeds on sheer chutzpah!","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel succeeds admirably in his outrageousness almost throughout the film despite occasional signs of the feebleness of the Jesus-yes? dialog in the Last Supper and the overextended French Revolution scene.But in most of the film, real outrage rears its head over man's inhumanity to man especially in the Inquisition scene and, though perhaps less so, in the Roman scene. Even his trademark Hitler spoofs, such as the Hitler on Ice-coming attraction here show his own obsessive and strong reaction to that horrible period in history. Some of the jokes have cobwebs such as the Alms for Oedipus beggar and Gregory Hines response Hey there, m.f! But it works because it's carried off with energy.In the long run, the film is probably more serious than it seems on first glance and has more bite than the really feeble attempts to follow such as Spaceballs, Robin Hood or Dracula. "},{"Title":"One of the best Mel Brooks movies!","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the best comedies I ever saw!!! First time I watch this when I was 8 year old kid,and since then I watch this movie multiple times!Highly recommended this movie to everybody!Great acting,great humor,great directing! If u didn't see this film do this as soon as you can and you will see what you are missing for all of this years,and if you are already see this film do yourself a favor and watch it once more!!! I will not tell you whats going on in the movie,you will enjoy more if you don't know what will happen here!I will only tell you that this film begin in prehistoric age and finish with king Louis XVI! P.S.Sorry if I made some grammatical mistakes,English is not my native language!!! "}{"Title":"Mel Brooks as his film making best","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" History of the World Part I is yet another comedy that was produced, directed and solely written by the legendary Mel Brooks. With such hits as The Producers, High Anxeity and the ever famous Blazing Saddles, Mel was doing well for himself long before this movie was ever released. Mel stars in this one as various characters for all of the various sketches of time periods in history. Beside him is a very well strung together cast including the classic Sid Caesar, Harvey Korman, Dom DeLuise and even Gregory Hines. The film may poke fun at some very important moments in history, but all in all it is just a movie, so laugh at it. Really with the creative ideas we see used in this film, it is definitely not an understatement to say that Mel Brooks has never truthfully made a horrible movie. So check this one out if you are really into the works of the great Mel Brooks. "},{"Title":"It's Good to be the King","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though it's not considered a classic like BLAZING SADDLES or YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN, there are a lot of laughs to be found in Mel Brooks' HISTORY OF THE WORLD PART I, a zany,if inconsistent look at Biblical times, the Stone Age, Ancient Rome, the Spanish Inquisition, and the French Revolution as seen through Brooks' demented brain. The film is not as all encompassing as its title implies, but Mel gives his own twisted vision to these particular times in earth's history, which includes Mel himself in four different roles, including Moses and his own version of Louis XIV (It's Good to be the King). Mel gathers his usual nutty repertory company together and laughs are provided by Sid Ceasar (very funny as a caveman), Madeline Kahn and Dom DeLuise (hysterical as Cleopatra and Ceasar), Gregory Hines, Cloris Leachman, and Harvey Korman as Count De Money (That's De Monay!!!). As always in his films, music is key and the Spanish Inquisition is presented here as a mammoth production number that is guaranteed to either amuse or offend,depending on your mood. Hard-core Brooks fans will love it, others be warned...there's something to offend everyone here. "},{"Title":"Beginning of the Decline And Fall of the Mel Brooks Empire","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While Mel Brooks worshipers will protest and HOTWPO has isolated moments of inexplicable hilarity, this is the first somewhat weak Mel Brooks effort, and a harbinger of the distressing mediocrity that would shadow most of his work to follow. A lot of it has to do with the disjointed approach of picking random moments in history which don't link up together. The Roman section is longer and generally funnier, but there is still a sense Mel had a couple sight gags and punchlines in his head and tried to cobble together a third of a movie around them. It goes on way too long (as does the movie) and the viewer winds up waiting for the end of the World. Compare the filmography of the first half of Brooks' career (The Producers, The Twelve Chairs, Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, Silent Movie and High Anxiety) with the second half (HOTWPO, Spaceballs, Life Stinks, Robinhood (Men In Tights) and Dracula -- Dead And Loving It). All of the movies from the first half are critically praised, genuinely funny and worthy of repeated viewings. Few of the movies from the second half hold up. Something happened to Mel or his audience, but perhaps we may never find out because it has now been 8 years since Mel last directed (the disappointing Dracula -- Dead And Loving It.) While he enjoyed a comeback with the Broadway success of The Producers, that source material dates back 35 years. It is doubtful that at his age and with the weak track record of his last films that the once-hilarious Brooks will ever be allowed to direct a major movie again. 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Guinness Book of Record's attempt for most crass sex jokes in a movie.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Slapdash trawl through history which contains nothing whatsoever besides camera mugging, crude sex gags and chase scenes. While I would try and not be Chinese-like in rewriting history there cannot be many comedians as indifferent as Brooks. Capable of making classic films like Young Frankenstien and even the Elephant Man he is also capable of making stinkers of such desperation that you wonder what goes through his head. Is he trying to second guess the audience (if so then his opinions of the audience must be low) or does he really think things like twenty men (all clothed) jumping on a woman while he shouts gang bang - gang bang is funny?Indeed the expense of film would make a normal person think twice about using expensive locations (a real French court, for example) to play out underdeveloped sketches that differ from 1950's TV only because of swear words and sexual references. Indeed you wonder if he can think of any other subject to make jokes about? Being the script writer, producer, director and lead(s) hardly leads you to think that he is a democrat; although I am sure his repertory company of glad-to-have-jobs probably don't care as they are clearly unwanted elsewhere.  The problem is that Brooks is not really all that good an actor (he wants to whey-hey in to camera after every gag, presumably to allow time for  the cinema audience to climb off the floor)  or dancer and he his singing shouldn't leave his own bathroom. Why are all these things included? Desperation? There can't be any other reason.  "},{"Title":"Let's Hope There is no Part 2","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Vulgar and wretchedly unfunny Brooks spoof. The only parts that made me laugh were Jews in Space and Hitler on Ice, which aren't even part of the movie.Wastes the talents of Brooks regulars, Korman, Kahn, Leachman, etc. A sad comedown for the talented and classy Madeline Kahn.Worse than Space Balls and Robin Hood Men in Tights, if that's possible, but better than Life Stinks, which is a complete disaster. Hard to believe this is the same talent who made The Producers, Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein, but then again, Brooks hasn't really been funny for 30 years. "},{"Title":"What Else can we say about Mel Brooks' HISTORY OF THE WORLD, PART 1, except There was never a PART 2.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" HISTORY OF THE WORLD PART I.It was from the fertile fields and valleys of the earliest days of Network Television that gave us the bundle of madcap comedian on the hoof that is Mel Brooks. And if we were to measure comic ability and creative genius, his would certainly be over flowing its cup.And it was at the Sid Ceasar-Imogene Coca weekly Comedy Review YOUR SHOW OF SHOWS on the NBC Television Network that he honed and perfected his wit and penchant for the offbeat and the unlikely targets for our laughter. Of course, he wasn't alone as a master funny guy in this conclave of zany inventiveness. His Classmates included His best friend, Carl Reiner, Woody Allen, Howard Morris and Neil Simon. Now that's not too shabby of a crowd to be hangin' out with, no? His interests were broader, though and soon he was performing in front of audience and camera with such now famous set pieces as his collaboration with Carl Reiner as THE 2,000 YEAR OLD MAN and such similar type works. (If similar type works is the correct term!) Mel's snowball had started rolling down the old Hillside, and there'd be no stopping it; as it gathered an ever increasing critical mass, that would explode on the Hollywood Scene making the man one guy who could write his own ticket. He certainly did do that thing and soon we were treated to titles, such as THE PRODUCERS (Crossbow Prod. / United Artists, 1968), which of course is his own story, screenplay and Direction. He followed that up with THE 12 CHAIRS (Crossbow / United Artists, 1970), which kept the Mel Brooks Bandwagon cruising along.Then in seeming rapid succession, we were treated to BLAZING SADDLES! (Crossbow Prod. / Warner Brothers, 1974.), YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN (Crossbow Prod. / 20th Century-Fox, 1974), SILENT MOVIE (Crossbow Prod. / 20th Century-Fox, 1976) and his spoof send-up of Mr. Hitchcock's work in HIGH ANXIETY (Crossbow / 20thCentury-Fox, 1976). Well, even DiMaggio's streak ended and so did Mel's with this HISTORY OF THE WORLD, PART I. Perhaps it was the Good Lord's way of reminding Mel and us, his loyal followers, that he, too, is only human after all.OUR STORY&#133;&#133;&#133;is really a phrase that doesn't fit here; as we have a whole bunch of very well disconnected and episodic sketches, each one only bound together to the others by their being a part of History.* From Stone Age Caveman to the dawning of Modern Day, Mel took us there with some very amusing moments; but not nearly enough of them. Some of his gags were just plain D.O.A.; others bordered on the sophomoric and others still were titillating little bits of non-funny business, bordering on being Blue Humor. Mel even violated one of the cardinal rules of making comedies (or farce). He went and ended the final forgettable sketch with an unashamed reference to occurrences in a previous, non related sketch; then topped that off with a speech of his own that went something like Yes, that's the wonderful thing about Movies!, or some such.We all are well aware of the recent success of the Musical adaptation of THE PRODUCERS, from movie screen to Broadway Stage. This was further bumped up the evolutionary track to a new, this time musical film adapted from the stage play that was adapted from the original 1968 movie. We know that everyone has felt happy for Mel and congratulated him, wishfully anyhow.Tonight we have seen for the first time an advertisement for a Broadway Musical treatment of the Gene Wilder-Mel Brooks collaboration, YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN. We wish Gene and Mel nothing but Good Luck in this endeavour, feeling certain that it surely will be as successful as THE PRODUCERS was.And we know that we can say for sure that there'll be no HISTORY OF THE WORLD, PART I following in its path on the Great White Way.NOTE * We are put in mind of the Irwin Allen/Warner Brothers Big Cast,Big Bust of a misfired dud, the overly ambitious THE STORY OF MANKIND (1957), which was an equally ill-conceived and overly ambitious book by one Henrik Van Loon. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as most of Brooks, but still worth watching","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks delivers funny movies. 'The Producers', 'Blazing Saddles' and for me especially 'Young Frankenstein' belong the funniest I have seen. They told a story from tart to finish and the jokes found their way into that story. 'History of the World Part I' is again funny, but it is very flawed as well. This movie does not tell a story with gags in it, it tells gags with a couple of stories around it.Mel Brooks seems to have chosen a couple of events in our history, at random, as long as his jokes would fit there. We start with the dawn of men, the stone age and a story around the ten commandments. These segments are not that long and I found them hilarious. The narrator, Orson Welles, explains us how things started back then, things like singing and painting. It is the kind of humor that requires a certain taste, but if you like it Mel Brooks is as good as it gets. Most of the time.We continue with longer segments including one in the Roman Empire which starts great but after a while it overstays its welcome, a musical number dealing with the Spanish Inquisition that has the same problem, and one during the French Revolution that is not that funny at all. Especially in these sequences we see how Brooks has the idea of a funny gag, puts a story around it without really doing something with both the idea of the gag and the story. It is like watching Jim Carrey doing funny faces without a reason for doing that. His funny face can be funny when it is serving something, it is not simply funny on its own.Near the end Brooks finds his way again and shows us what we could expect in Part II. I laughed like I did in the first half of the movie and that gave me the feeling the movie is funnier and better than it actually is. Fans of the genre will enjoy this enough, there is some real Mel Brooks magic here, but if you are still finding out whether you like this or not I would start somewhere else. 'Young Frankenstein' would be a nice choice. "},{"Title":"History of the Worst-Part 1","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie stinks. It stinks so bad that I am shocked and surprised that IMDb lists it as having more than 6 stars. Mel Brooks has definitely had his inspired moments and there is no question that he can be funny. But in this film he shows himself to be a man of incredibly bad taste and questionable judgment (or use those adjectives however you please, as they apply to everything and everyone in this film).My friend raved and raved about this movie and told me it was his favorite movie in the world. To shut him up I agreed to watch the DVD. What a mistake. I am sorry, but Mel took potshots at everybody and it was gross and unfunny. To think that Gregory Hines agreed to be a shuck 'n jive slave, to think that Orson Welles agreed to narrate this crap... boy, people must've been damn hungry, that's all I can say. Yeah, there were a couple laughs, all based on stupid jokes, wordplay jokes, sight gag jokes... so what? Was two hours of this stupidity supposed to be fun? I found it incredibly offensive when Mel says to someone during his stand-up routine for Ceasar The little fag thought it was funny.Actually, Mel, the little fag didn't think it was funny. If he was laughing, it was because you were paying him to do so on cue. In fact the whole movie seemed like everything everybody did was because they knew they were going to get paid for it, not because they wanted to do it. This film is a waste of time. For people who are raving about it, rave on -- it's still a piece of sexist, racist, politically incorrect garbage that looks like outtakes from a racy TV variety show. Mel's done better; ignore this POS and you won't have to forgive him for he knows not what he's done. "},{"Title":"Mel's stormy...","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Good not great Brooks... That means you get slightly more kitsch, vulgarity and old gags to the dollar than you can take but for every old-as-Methuselah gag (he even gets the old Walk this way staple in there), there are enough compensatory puns and sight gags present, with more than a few in-jokes at the expense of past Hollywood historical blockbusters along the way. Me, I'm the kind of guy who laughs at a line like Judea Judea Judea delivered in knowing Cary Grant style and there are plenty more where that came from. The extended scenes in Ancient Rome and Revolutionary France work best (and are cinematographically well rendered too, something people often overlook with Brooks) as his stereotypically skewered band of characters have fun with more double-entendres than even Sid James would cackle at. Of the cameos, Pamela Stephenson (Mrs Billy Connolly now) thrusts her chest about wo - manfully and Gregory Hines does something similar with an equally libidinous part of his anatomy. I enjoyed the film, a funny romp and one senses the players did so too. "},{"Title":"I'm not sure if even smiled, let alone laughed.","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot believe this movie ever made it to theaters, not to mention DVD. The jokes just weren't there! None of them were funny. This may be in part because Mel RE-USED JOKES FROM HIS OTHER MOVIES. He took jokes directly from young frankenstein and murdered them by putting them in this movie. And I also noticed that several of the jokes that failed (all of them) he re-used in some of his later movies!The movie is awful 1/10  "}{"Title":"One of the biggest disappointments ever","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie when it first came out hoping to find another great Brooks film such as my favorite- Blazing Saddles. I remember sitting stone faced throughout waiting for it to get good and even being offended just a little bit. My girlfriend loves this movie so she got me to watch it and I must say 20 years has not changed my perception one bit as far as this film goes. I think I may have guffawed once or twice and apart from that sat through countless awkward moments and blown gags. I actually felt sorry for Mel in some scenes and found myself thinking I wasn't going to make it through, but alas, it is mercifully short which saves it from being among the absolute worst of all time. This movie marked the end of one of the greatest comedic filmmakers career, but I guess some people didn't realize it! "},{"Title":"Childish, vulgar, outlandish--typical Mel Brooks","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks' colorfully offensive spoof of history was lambasted by the critics upon its release, but time has been kind to it (and legions of fans now defend it). Large cast of game players from Madeline Kahn to Cloris Leachman, Sid Caesar to Brooks himself, work hard at making this gag-filled romp a rollicking spectacle, but Brooks' heavy-hand as a filmmaker causes an oppressiveness that is tough to shake off. The Prehistoric opener, the French Revolution and the Spanish Inquisition are all brightly accomplished, but the cheap-looking Roman Empire section is hammy and dull, practically stopping the movie in its tracks. As with many of Brooks' films (particularly from this period), ninety-percent of the jokes are groaners and there's far too much shouting amongst the players (as if the world had gone deaf). Some big laughs do emerge from the morass, and it is admittedly one of Brooks' more ambitious efforts. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"How do I say this? Booooooooring","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You can admire Mel Brooks and his kind of humour (and I actually do), but History Of The World was such a disappointment! And I was so looking forward to it...We see a couple of stages in history, like Moses and his 15... erm 10 Commandments (the best joke of the movie) and some scenes from the Roman era as well as the Spanish Inquisition.Not enough (good) jokes, way too long, this is not the standard one would expect from Brooks. Let's just hope and pray Part II will indeed never come...2/10. "},{"Title":"Big Hollywood comedy done in by stale jokes","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" History of the World Part I is a shocking example of a 90-minute series of gags that land with a dull thud. This is coming from a Mel Brooks fan, which is the reason for the shock. Also, the disappointment. It started out with promise (Brooks and the fift- . . . ten commandments, Bea Arthur in the unemployment office but then the Ancient Rome segment happens and things grind to a halt. And then never pick back up, even after we get out of Rome. It's not every day you see the comedic talents of Dom Deluise squandered (same thing happened with Smokey and the Bandit II).This was bad. "},{"Title":"History at it's Funniest","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another great film from the humorous world views of Mel Brooks. This film is a skit comedy. Skits that give us funny and twisted snapshots of world history that most of us are familiar with.With Brooks' film, you can see the comical side of well history may have happened this way. Who knows; I'm sure the people in our history books may have had some funny accidents like falling off their chair (a la America's Funniest Home Videos) or some other comical moment in their life. Looking at it like this gives Brooks' film a bit more humor and maybe a bit more realistic view of the famous people from history that is painted having no humorous follies. Remember they were only humans after all so happy accidents and funny moments could have really occurred to them.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A must watch for all !!!","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'll say this is one of my favorite comedies from the 80's, it hilarious but racial at some point of time but just relax and do not be skeptical, the story is not true, it's for you to have fun.Don't complicate things, just go with the flow.What is the most wonderful property about this film, well - it is the only epic movie ever to be made for the comedy genre, besides meet the Spartans, which was crap. Believe me you, if you wanna enjoy a good, pure and humorous comedy, u need to watch this movie & laugh your guts out.Adios amigos. "},{"Title":"The Best of Brooks?","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From the dawn of man to the distant future, mankind's evolution (or lack thereof) is traced.I think this may possibly be Mel Brooks' best film. The humor is non-stop, and should be great for everyone. He revives the walk this way gag yet again, and even throws in some more subtle references. I really, really loved the vulgar Oedipus joke.I could question the historical accuracy, such as the cave paintings being in America rather than Europe, but since a dinosaur appears soon after, I figure they really did not care very much about this.Brooks has his cast of regulars ready here (Dom DeLuise, Cloris Leachman, Madeline Kahn), and also Gregory Hines (in his screen debut), a welcome addition. "},{"Title":"Laughing Out Loud","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Comic perspective is usually determined in the opening moments of a funny movie, establishing the rules of the new world and hooking the audience. Well, History of the World Part I begins with cavemen waking up and humping air for what feels like a solid 2 minutes. This is his Dawn of Man segment, a vague parody of Kubrick's 2001, before he moves on to The Stone Age during which the first art critic is sent up, and then mocks Moses in an Old Testament sketch, which is essentially a single joke that we fade into and out of that quickly. Where Brooks really goes to town is during The Roman Empire. He stars as a stand-up philosopher who, along with a black slave played by Gregory Hines and a defiant vestal virgin, brings pandemonium to the court of the extraordinarily hilarious Emperor Nero, in one of Dom DeLuise's most memorable performances, and Madeleine Kahn, his nymphomaniac empress.We're actually surprised when the movie moves on, because it seems to have decided to develop some semblance of a story there, unlike its preceding episodes. But it does, and Brooks again takes center stage as Torquemada, who celebrates his ecstatic pleasure in torturing Jews who reject Christianity in a Busby Berkeley tableau abounding with melody, singing, and a water ballet. Oh, and a funny little aside elucidates some unanswered questions about how Leonardo Da Vinci painted the Last Supper. Ultimately, Harvey Korman steals the spotlight from Brooks, as per usual, in an absurd caricature of The French Revolution. Korman plays foppish nobleman Count De Monet, who turns up with a cunning plot to save King Louis XVI from death at the hands of the mob by switching the King's lowly doppelganger on the crucial occasion.This is an incoherent, disorderly, sometimes awkward romp by one of the most talented comic filmmakers, who never seems to have a clear idea of the underlying principle of his seventh film escapade, so there's no assertive narrative incentive to bear it along. His historical context doesn't have any method or perspective. It's basically just an assembly line for whatever jokes he can sling on it. What is this off-the-wall grab bag? Is it a lampoon of old Biblical, Roman and French historical epics? From time to time. Is it a never-to-be-repeated, comedy vaudeville seizure? Now and then. Is it a send-up trained at haughty foils? Every so often. But generally it's in essence simply valuable sets standing there expecting Brooks to do something comical before them.Synchronously with Woody Allen, Brooks has helped sustain the comedy genre in contemporary films. As Allen has turned increasingly sophisticated and contemplative, Brooks has gotten increasingly campy and preposterous, the politically incorrect auteur and effortless ham actor's rudimentary oomph let loose flat out with this outrageous 1981 package picture, in which---rather than taking razor-sharp bites out of status quo mythologies and nostalgic legends as he did with his crowning achievements Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein---he indulges in our incessant need for mocking the sort of unconsciously class-based theories of manners and good form that inadvertently made burlesque all the rage in its puritan heyday. As in all movies by the ambitious Brooks, there are dull patches where the farce and the gags just don't work. But hit-or-miss is his style, so when he does hit, he hits the bullseye. Or at least somewhere in the red or yellow. "},{"Title":"Times change, definitely.","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie at the cinema in 1983, when I was 16 years old. Actually, most of my school mates saw it as well, and we couldn't talk about anything else It was an extremely funny and hilarious movie! Every single detail caused us to crack up, from the monkeys at the beginning to the Jews at the end.Now, I've just got to see it again on DVD. I was very enthusiastic about it but... Meh! One and a half hours wasted in my life. I barely could stand it. The gags resulted so dumb to me.I don't want to rate this movie because I'll be unfair for sure. It's just a matter of perspective For a 16-year old in 1983, it's a really funny movie. For a 43-year old in 2010, it is certainly not.  = (For comedies that have stood the test of time (off the top of my head), check Top Secret!, Steve Martin's All Of Me and the French Les Sous-Doués Passent Le Bac. "},{"Title":"Mel being Mel","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am a guy that enjoys all of Mel Brooks movies that I have seen. That includes The Producers, Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles, Robin Hood, and Spaceballs, this is my second favorite out of this great group of comedies. This movie for me was a non-stop laugh from the stone age all the way to the French Revolution. I like Mel Brooks acting in his movies I think he is the funniest character in all the movies he acts in, this is no exception. Brooks is a mastermind in his writing of this movie and the acting. And Harvey Korman and Madeline Khan both give great performances like usual. This is a great spoof of the history of the world. Like Brooks says I copy a lot of my jokes from other movies and make them better. The jokes made me laugh hard either when he gives his performance at Ceasars palace or when he is a waiter at the last supper. But my personal favorite is when he turns a serious subject (The Spanish Inquistion) into a laugh out loud music number. A History of the World is a good laugh. I recommend you watch the movie, I bought the movie on blu-ray without watching it and was deeply pleased. In Mel I trust! "}{"Title":"i didn't find it funny except for one gag","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i may have managed a few few smiles here and there throughout the movie,but there was nothing about it would consider funny.actually,scratch that.there was one gag i did find a bit funny the fist couple of times.after that,it worse thin,though.i didn't find the movie boring though,and it was watchable.as a movie,it's not had bad.as a comedy,it's a different story if i hadn't known it was supposed to be a comedy,i would have had different expectations.i'm not sure why i didn't like it.maybe once you hit a certain age,Mel Brooks and his brand of humour doesn't work.anyway...for me,History of the World Part I is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks' history lesson","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This Mel Brooks comedy takes us into different time periods.First we see the Dawn of Man, then we see the history of the Old Testament and some stand-up philosophy of the Roman Empire, singing and dancing of the Spanish Inquisition and finally the French Revolution with the nutty king.History of the World Part I is from 1981.Where is part II, Mr. Brooks?! I was really waiting to see Hitler on ice.Orson Welles does the narrating.Sid Caesar is hilarious as the caveman.He doesn't have too many lines, but it's amazing what he can do just by grunting.Dom DeLuise, the great comedy talent who we sadly lost last year at 76, does brilliant job playing Emperor Caesar.Harvey Korman, who we lost the year before, does great job playing Count de Monet.The late great Madeline Kahn is Empress Nympho and the late great Gregory Hines plays Josephus.Ron Carey portrays Swiftus Lazarus.Pamela Stephenson plays Mademoiselle Rimbaud.Spike Milligan is Monsieur Rimbaud.Shecky Greene is Marcus Vindictus.Bea Arthur (1922-2009) plays Woman in Unemployment Booth.Mary-Margaret Humes is Vestal Virgin named Miriam.Hugh Hefner is seen as Roman outside Temple of Eros.Paul Mazursky is Roman Officer.Barry Levinson is Column Salesman.Jackie Mason is Jew #1.Phil Leeds is Chief Monk.John Hurt plays Jesus Christ himself.Carl Reiner is the voice of God himself.Mel Brooks himself hasn't settled for one role only.He plays the parts of Moses, Comicus, Tomas de Torquemada, Louis XVI of France and Jacques le Garcon de Pisse.He does exquisite job as all of those.This isn't the best Mel Brooks has come up with.But this is entertaining that makes you laugh quite a few times.Did you know that God originally gave Moses 15 Commandments, but then he dropped one of the tablets and it became 10 Commandments? That's what we learn in this movie in a hilarious way.In the Last Supper scene Comicus keeps interrupting Jesus repeatedly, and Leonardo da Vinci (?) comes to paint the group's portrait.The jokes performed at the Caesar's Place of the stand-up philosopher are quite funny.Maybe he goes a little over the line joking about Caesar's obesity and the corruption, and he finds himself fighting to the death in a gladiatorial manner with Josephus.The pissboy becoming the king...Hilarious.It's good to be the king.You don't have to pay too much attention during this history lesson.But you are allowed to laugh, though. "},{"Title":"In the history of Brooks' films, my fav is still Spaceballs but this one is funny and breezy","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Starting with the Stone Age and ending with the French Revolution, this film has some very amusing vignettes. Caveman (Sid Caesar) learns about fire and vaudeville, when one of his fellow cavers gets hauled off a stage by a dinosaur. Next up is Moses (Mel Brooks himself) who is bringing down the 15 Commandments but ends up dropping and pulverizing the tablet with five of the biggies on it. Much time is spent telling the true story of Ancient Rome, where Nero (Dom DeLuise) is still crazy as a loon but likes stand-up routines and where his wife, Nympho (Madeleine Kahn) can make decision or two behind his back. Slave Josephus (Gregory Hinds) dodges a few swords but ends up on the road to freedom, where he and others find a nice patch of weed and decide that the collapse of the empire is nothing serious. And, so it goes. Brooks has created a nice little humorous movie, sending up some of the more heinous periods of world history (The Inquistion, Madame LeFarge (Cloris Leachman) and creating mirth. The cast is the greatest asset, for the members are truly legends who could make a stone giggle. The sets, costumes, and production values are also quite wonderful and the script and direction are zesty and humorous. While my personal favorite of Brooks' movies remains Spaceballs (my hair, they shot my hair!), this one will do more than nicely when comedic relief is greatly needed. It might even send viewers to the library or the internet to learn the historical facts about the real events behind the laughs. In any case, make it part of your personal history to record a viewing of this funny little flick. "},{"Title":"You flunked flanking?!?","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a series of sketches(and they're frankly quite hit and miss), detailing(well, spoofing) historical events(I have a feeling the Moses bit is what actually happened if The Old Testament wasn't a collection of poorly written, hateful fiction), starting at the dawn of man and ending with The French Revolution. Other than the longest portion, set in ancient Rome, there is no continuous plot, really. It's a nice satire, with plenty to laugh at, with silly stuff, cleverness, plays on words, smut, some slapstick, crude material, weirdness. We do get the, for the period mandatory, annoying sassy black dude(on the plus side, it makes fun of Christianity). This is quite sexually suggestive, and features some rather nice cleavage. It's *very* Jewish and Brooksian. There are a few ill-shot and/or &#x96;edited bits, though on the whole, it is put together well(in spite of the occasional obvious matte painting). The central musical number(about the Inquisition!) isn't half bad. There is a bunch of mild violence and disturbing content, and a moderate amount of strong language. I recommend this to any fan of Mel. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks quotable","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Many lines in this movie are not well delivered; some are. This is not as funny as it should be. In my opinion they knew they had an audience and they were forcing the comedy - as if to make it the comic genius it already is. This failed. However, after you see the movie you will recall many many lines and have hours of classic Mel Brooks comedy over the years. When you finally go back to see it again ... and you will ... you will laugh the way you should have laughed when you first saw it but didn't b/c you noticed how hard the comedians were pushing to make this a comic icon. 9/10.-LD________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "},{"Title":"Humorous look at an erratic world.","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks who wrote and directed this film pokes fun at some of the past events that rocked the world. In rewriting history from his suggestive and bawdy view point, he introduces us to some hilarious moments. Despite the exaggerations there is probably an ounce of truth in some of the questionable scenes he has portrayed.Film goers with a long memory will recognize scenes, music and dialogue from the flicks they enjoyed years ago and now with the passage of time wonder why they were so enthralled at those Saturday night movies. It's a part of the fun to recall the old films and a second viewing is probably needed to ensure that none of the funny bits are missed.The scenes are well mounted and I have a suspicion that the large sets are snippets of past films with garrisons of Roman soldiers filling the screen and crowds of French on-lookers for the scenes of the guillotine. I think my favourite segments are the surprise entry of the nuns in the Spanish Inquisition (possibly because I had a few days earlier watched the Secret Files of the Inquisition) and the French Revolution in which a portable pissoir adds to the bawdiness of the times. Could there ever have been such an enterprising invention? Mel Brooks' humour is not subtle and the slap-stick approach could probably be best enjoyed after a few drinks with friends. I have to admit I was not rocked with laughter but have to conclude he shows a degree of cleverness and originality in the writing. Yes, I did laugh a couple of times It's an awesome project to write the history of the world and a lot more has happened since the French Revolution. Will he put his pen to paper again and enlighten us on the era of nuclear weapons and global warming? Heaven knows the world could do with a little more laughter. Over to you, Mel. "},{"Title":"Hit-and-miss comedy","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The master of parody strikes again and this time he takes on the entire history of the world, no less...While I found the concept of several segments from short skit to half-feature length mini-movie just to be the right one for this kind of film, the segments do differ in quality very much (and, sadly, quality gets poorer towards the end).Although the film does have its weak points (the French Revolution segment drags, despite some good gags every now and then, the Stone Age sequence)some material is hilariously funny with the Spanish Inquisition musical number being the showstopper. The Roman Empire story also comes off good (especially the great supporting actors in this segment) and be sure to stay tuned for the trailer for Part 2. As a whole, the film cannot hold ground against Spaceballs, Blazing Saddles or Frankenstein Junior, but for a decent viewing and some good laughs, tune it in when it appears on TV. "},{"Title":"Still pretty funny","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember watching this on cable as a kid, probably not getting all the jokes, but still enjoying it cuz I love history.  Now, I've got a DVD player and I wanted to see it in it's original widescreen presentation.The movie is a mixed bag, really.  Not anywhere near the classic that Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein are, History of the World Part I still offer plenty of good, strong laughs.  The script, which never really hits a stride or rhythm, bounces from the Stone Age to The Old Testament to The Roman Empire to The Spanish Inquisition to The French Revolution, skewering all the legends and myths and mostly  throwing the facts completely aside.  The comedic highlight is without question The Spanish Inquisition--appallingly offensive and gut-bustingly funny.  The Roman Empire sketch has the most consistent laughs, with especial thanks to the legendary Madeline Kahn.  Harvey Korman and Cloris Leachman are the sole redeeming aspects of The French Revolution segment, which is a rather tired parody of A Tale of Two Cities--though I'll never be able to look at Blanche Yurka without laughing ever again.  "},{"Title":"A great movie, if you don't want to think.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is another one of those stupid Mel Brooks movies--I love it, personally.  When you're tired or upset, you don't want to watch some boring movie that you have to spend hours analyzing.  You want straight out gags and something that will keep you laughing.  That's what this movie is for, my friend.  That is, if you like tasteless humour, some of which you have to have *some* education for.  But overall, it's just a dumb movie that you have to love.  Why can't history class be so fun? "},{"Title":"most disappointing comedy of the decade?  NO WAY!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I read somewhere on another site that this Brooks movie was considered by many people as the most disappointing comedy of the decade.  Obviously, those people never saw such dog crap such as Leonard Part 6, Hobgoblins, or Cobra. (yes, I consider Cobra a comedy.  But I'll save that for another review.)  Anyway, out of all the Brooks movies, this one has to be the raunchiest. (even more then Blazing Saddles)  You actually also can learn something about history by watching it but once you see classic funny scenes such as the mighty joint or King Louie's jump the queen!!! you'll forget all about the educational part of the movie.  Out of all of Brooks' original musical numbers, the Inquisition song I think is his most singable and has the best lyrics.  (Actually, I love the Blazing Saddles theme song but that doesn't count because it isn't sung by Brooks himself.)  If you like plenty of sexual inneuendo, and just plain gross bodily function jokes, you'll love History Of The World Part 1.  Hmm....I hear Brooks might be making a sequel to The Producers....sounds great but why not make us stop waiting and just make a HOTW Part 2???!!! "}{"Title":"This movie kicks aars!","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks has done it again. I love all of his movies but this one is the funniest ever made! OK, you have to be in a no thinking just watching mood.The story begins with the apemen, and you will see the first artist and critticus born. The movie takes you to Mozes and the biggest part to the Romans. (Some slaves are not suitable for sale!) You will see why the 20 commandments are 10 now and the Spanish acquisition will also pass the revue. The movie has a bunch of visual jokes, like the Roman V for a U, a ghettoblaster and some languagejokes. (It is best to listen to the English, translations may kill the clue!)So when your pizza arrive's, grab a beer and watch this movie! If you like this humor, also watch Spaceballs, Robin Hood in Tights etc. "},{"Title":"I didn't get it.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am all for silly comedies. I loved Ace Ventura I. I loved Airplane!. Spaceballs? Blazing Saddles? Young Frankenstein? Superb. There's something about Mary? I couldn't stop laughing. Duck Soup? Verbal abuse at its very best. But this movie?I didn't get it.A masturbation scene. Wow. Mel Brooks appearing as central character in every sketch. He's funny, but please, stop hogging the screen! A slave that can tap dance. Am I supposed to laugh? A French Revolution scene that lasts way too long. A Roman sketch that hardly has any laughs. Hmmm.There are, indeed, invaluable bits of comic genious in it. Using Caesar's Palace as a backdrop for the Roman Empire makes me smile just remembering it. The whole Caesar - Marcus Vindictus verbal exchange is priceless. The Inquisition sketch. The first Homo-Sapiens and Homo-Sexual weddings. And the previews for the Part II. But that's it. Some 15 minutes of the movie make sense to me.Maybe it is because I come from a different cultural background. Then again, I usually laugh at U.S. humor. Maybe I was born in the wrong decade (mid 70's, if anyone is counting). But this is not a movie I would watch more than once.Now, where did I leave Duck Soup...? 6 out of 10. But just because of the classic It's better to lose your skullcap than your skull... oybey! "},{"Title":"A HILARIOUS HISTORY LESSON","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks' hilarious HISTORY OF THE WORLD-PART 1 is a hilarious history lesson, as only Mel Brooks could tell it. It is easily one of his best. The supporting cast is incredible. Mel plays several roles; Comicus (the stand-up philosopher), Torquemada (the Grand-Inquisitor), King Louis XVI, as well as Jacques, his servant. His supporting cast includes Gregory Hines, Madeline Kahn, Sid Caesar, Dom DeLuise, Jackie Mason, Cloris Leachman, Ron Carey,John Hurt (as Jesus, in a hilarious last-supper sequence) as well as Harvey Korman as Count de Monet, and many other guest stars and Brooks regulars.The entire film is well-made, especially all the sets depicting the Stone Age, Roman Empire, Spanish Inquisition, and The French Revolution. Dilaogue(by Brooks)is great(It's good to be the King!)-there's enough innuendo for 7 movies. A must for Brooks fans,and fans of comedy as well. Let's just hope Brooks' next project is HISTORY OF THE WORLD-PART 2! "},{"Title":"And to think that some people consider history boring!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Since History of the World Part I is from Mel Brooks, we all know what that means! Specifically, there's the Fifteen Commandments, the waiter at the Last Supper, a musical Spanish Inquisition, and a very un-French Revolution. You gotta wonder how Mel Brooks comes up with these things. I think that my favorite part was the Inquisition, and the joke on Torquemada's name. And of course, the suggestions for the sequel were also great; the sort of things that only Mel Brooks could do. Classic, hilarious, and everything such.Anyway, Brooks plays several different people throughout the movie. Also starring are Dom DeLuise, Madeline Kahn, Harvey Korman, Cloris Leachman, Gregory Hines, Sid Caesar and John Hurt. Orson Welles narrates. You read that right Orson Welles narrates a Mel Brooks movie. "},{"Title":"Lame, lame, lame","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sharing a similarity in structure to Monty Python's Meaning of life and sharing, I presume, the same type of public at the time we can fully  appreciate  the near-disaster that is Brooks effort  just compare the Monthy 's Sperm is Sacred part to the Spanish Inquisition of this one( which must have still used a good chunk of the movie's 11 million dollars budget )&#133;About 5 good jokes( some of them actually being after the movie in a preview to a part 2 which was never made ).My favorite joke  the one about Oedipus, it last about 2 seconds.Pathetic jeux de mots and what was fresh and new in movies like Airplane ! are frankly embarrassing when Mel Brooks tries to be as witty only a year later.The french revolution is perhaps the best segment but it comes at the end of a dreadful trip.Bland performances throughout but then again maybe even Belushi as a decadent Cesear would not have done much with such a bad script. "},{"Title":"An epic of comedic proportions....","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of my favorite comedies of all time, coming as it does from Mel Brooks as it successfully skewers such movie staples as the big-budget epic, musicals and, of course, sequel-itis.Mel (in my humble yet informed opinion) has never been in better form during the '80s as he was here lashing out in full force as writer, director and actor against the stoic straightness of history with a sardonic smile and twisted wit.  He surrounds himself with a more-than-capable cast, including such mega-star comics as Caesar (whose caveman seemed to develop all of man's first inventions all by himself), Kahn (his eternal diva and a sassy diva at that), Greene (pompous, puffed-up and ready to pop), DeLuise (making slobbery a pure art form), Korman (Hedley Lamaar in royal French garb - and still as funny), and even such loyal stand-bys as Carter, Murray, Milligan and DeLuca offer able-bodied support.But let's not forget Hines.  In his first major motion picture role as Josephus, he shucks and jives, sand-dances and withstands the fiery dancing of Caledonia like a pro.  Just an inkling of what his career had to offer later on, and a perfect calling-card for a future in show business.And the jokes!  There are some classic Mel bits here that have stood the test of time and will continue to do so.  Such classic bits as The Inquisition, Comicus' first gig at Caesar's Palace, the Caveman's critique of that cave painting, Count duh money, count duh money!, that obscene French chess game, even the coming attractions offer a few smiles.But how can anyone cite certain favorites?  The whole movie is a grab bag of jokes, many off-color and sure to offend.  As if Mel made Blazing Saddles to please everyone...yeah, right.In the end, History was the passing of an era, since Mel has made fewer movies as R-rated, raunchy, raucous, dis-respectful and belly-laughable as this one.  He's still good, mind you, but just watch this one and see if you don't agree what a wonderful World.Ten stars and a true sense of awww for History of the World, Part I.  Just ask Mel, he'll tell you - it's good to be king. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Painful! Definitely a good word to describe this awful Mel Brooks comedy about the History of the World. The plot, which masquerades very unsuccessfully as a parody, follows the history of mankind from ancient times to the middle ages.Brooks' film, in which he stars throughout, is very poor and hardly ever raises a laugh. Regulars Madeleine Kahn and Dom Deluise could not help lift the film. If his poor taste jokes don't put you off his work for life, then nothing will! The end of this film seemed like it would never come, even though the running time is only 86 minutes. Let us hope the promise of a sequel does not bear fruit.Monday, July 6, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Don't Expect a Part II","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks does it again, this time with history. And if you saw the title and expected a Part II, you are out of luck. Most of Brooks films conclude with a spoof sequel. From the rise of (a very slow and lazy) man to the French Revolution, we are shown what history may have been like, if Mel Brooks were God. Biblical proportions such as Mel Brooks playing Moses with the original 15 commandments (he drops a tablet) and now we have 10, the 10 Commandments. This reminded me of a sequence on Saturday Night Live, where President Clinton's ancestor questions each of the Commandments (See Best of the Clinton Scandal). In another segment, we see a younger Hugh Hefner in the streets of Rome. He is explaining to some girls the concept of what a centerfold is. Gregory Hines is of note for his first feature film, and comes out funny. With that and all else, I had to give this Mel Brooks Masterpiece an excellent 10 of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSI thought this was going to be like Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein.  Well, I was wrong.It's not a total loss.  I did like the way Mel Brooks decided to make fun of world history, however, the series of events were a bit choppy.  Brooks jumped from the Roman Empire to the Inquizition, an interval of about a thousand years, missing the fall of the Roman Empire and the Crusades.  Brooks introduces the French Revolution but makes no mention of Napoleon Bonaparte, which would make for more laughs.Brooks should've included the Viking funeral he had set aside for part II.  There is a lot of sexual innuendo/references, however, being a student of history I found the film entertaining.  I give it 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Just plain silly","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is supposed to be a comedy, but is just plain silly, which, to me is the antithesis of actual comedy. I expected something a bit more grown up than what this turned out to be. I thought that the basic premise was good, but that the film failed to exploit it, being too busy being sophomoric and silly. It wasn't bad, and there is definitely some funny material in the film, but overall, it just doesn't quite live up to Brook's other material (Young Frankenstein or Blazing Saddles). It was as disappointment to me. It's surprising, particularly given it's cast, most of whom are known for good comedy work. So I must blame the writing. I guess even Mel Brooks is allowed to write a bad one once in a while. Well, this is it! "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a true Mel Brooks fan, and anything that he writes, directs, or produce, I am in favorite of.  this was a good movie, not like blazing Salddles, which was one of the best comedies of all time, this movie was good because it had the Mel Brooks favorite casts, Harvey Korman, Don Deluise, Madaline Kaun, one of my favorite parts was when Moses came down from the mountains with the commandments, he had 15, but dropped a slap of commandments, and moses then said, I bring you 10 commandments.  "},{"Title":"The World According to Mel","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  HISTORY OF THE WORLD PART I (1981) ** Mel Brooks, Dom De Luise, Madeline Kahn, Harvey Korman, Cloris Leachman, Ron Carey, Gregory Hines, Pamela Stephenson, Andreas Voutsinas, Shecky Greene, Sid Caesar, Mary-Margaret Humes, Henny Youngman, Bea Arthur, Hugh Hefner, Jackie Mason, Barry Levinson, (Narration Orson Welles) Brooks' zany take on the history of man from the caveman to Ancient Rome thru the French Revolution (the latter the funniest part of the film It's good to be the king! and Korman's Count the Money encounter with the p*** boy Wait for the shake!) often misses the mark but has its moments. "},{"Title":"There never WAS going to be a Part 2","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everybody who mentions the sequel coming attractions at the end as if they were real just doesn't get it.  That was a JOKE!  History of the World Part 1 came out at a time when a lot of movies were making sequels even though they shouldn't have.  Or they were leaving themselves open for sequels with endings that left some doubt.  Mel Brooks was parodying these movies.  At not point did he intend to make History of the World Part 2.  Not even if the original had made $300 million!  So forget about that and just watch THIS movie.  It definitely had its good moments.  Yes, some segments lasted a few minutes too long.  But how many comedies DON'T have some moments that drag on? "},{"Title":"this is funny?","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The main joke in this film is that Mel Brooks is Jewish. I not only don't find it funny, I don't even find it interesting. I was never a Brooks fan and this movie did nothing to change my mind. What happened to History of the World part 2? Well the Gods took pity on us and it was never made. "},{"Title":"One of Brooks' funnier comedies","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's definitely a non-stop parade of jokes and gags, some great, some not.  It's not quite on the same level as BLAZING SADDLES, YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN and THE PRODUCERS. It's not a great film like those three are. It's just a very, very funny movie as only Mel Brooks could make it. I find it interesting that the successful MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL was inspired by the break-the-fourth-wall lunacy of Mel Brooks' BLAZING SADDLES, but here, Brooks seems to be imitating Monty Python somewhat (especially the religious jokes a la LIFE OF BRIAN). I'm not accusing Brooks of copying, though, because he displays his usual original (and far-out!) sense of humor here. This film (like MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL, interestingly) has a huge cult following, and is one of the cool movies to see if you're in high school or college. (Many kids in my high school have pictures from this film posted inside their lockers, and everyone owns it on DVD.) So, this film isn't designed to be great (although as I said, at least three of Brooks' films are great motion pictures as well as being screamingly funny). Instead, it belongs in the same category as SILENT MOVIE, HIGH ANXIETY, SPACEBALLS, and ROBIN HOOD MEN IN TIGHTS-funny, light entertainment that succeeds in what it sets out to do. "},{"Title":"You Can't Torquemada Watchin' This!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  True, critics may not like the movie because you know the ending, but when a movie is this funny, who cares?  Mel and his gang are up to their usual tricks in The History of the World, Part I.  Along with Dom DeLuise, Cloris Leachman, Harvey Korman, and the late Madeline Kahn, Brooks acts out history spiced with his unique brand of comedy.  Between the one-liners (ie. Jewish, hanh?  He missed!), the parodies of classical antiquity (ie. The Last Supper) and popular culture(ie. Off On the Road to Morocco, early '50's swimming choreography), and the cameo appearances (ie. Beatrice Arthur, Jackie Mason), he presents versions of the Stone Age, the Ten Commandments, Ancient Rome, the Spanish Inquisition, and the French Revolution designed to make you laugh hard enough to convince yourself that you are King Louis XVI's double.  On top of all this, Orson Welles' narration encourages viewers to interpret this depiction as the accurate portrayal of history!  The movie also features celebrities such as Sid Caesar, Shecky Greene, and a young Gregory Hines.  It's good to be the king, Mel!  Now let's see a History of the World, Part II, starring the 2000 year old man! "},{"Title":"Not Brooks' best, but still funny","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I personally don't think this film is as good as some of the other Mel Brooks films, such as Young Frankenstein and Spaceballs, but it still provides laughs.  While not a parody, like Blazing Saddles or Spaceballs, it is still an enjoyable Brooks' film.   Gregory Hines hiding from the Romans(The game is up!And gone!) and is just one of the classic scenes. Like other Brooks' films, it has great lines that stick in your memory. "},{"Title":"Brooks' greatest film","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of Mel Brooks' films, but History of the World is a great comedy, especially the parts of Orson Welles voice over. This one and 'Spaceballs' are the greatest movies of Brooks' career. "},{"Title":"Smutty, but a million times better than The Producers","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Quite possibly the most underrated comedy of all time. The only part which isn't funny is The Spanish Inquisition. My favourite bit? The life size chess game(in fact this whole segment is hilarious) "},{"Title":"Laughed all the way through.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed all the way through this Mel Brooks film. This is Brooks last great film and there is something for everybody in it. I just wish he would make a Part 2. "}{"Title":"OK A 6.4 This Movie Definitely Deserves an 7.8 Its That Brilliant","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" May Contain Spoilers This Is By Far one of the best Mel Brooks Movies out there. I highly question your taste in movies if you hated it. Because Mel Brooks has a way of making wacky movies with out totally making it retarded. Its Stupid but in a smart way. In my book its Good to be the King will be one of my favorite movie phrases of all time. Perfect timing on every line. Not only that but perfectly cast. Another Mel Brooks where without the funny black guy who's not afraid to say any thing because it might offend people really put the movie together. Altogether a definite movie Fav. For all you parody fans like me. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. Sheer Brilliance and Just Perfect. But Kinda not a Family movie. I'd say about 14 and over. "},{"Title":"this movie should be a classic","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Orson Wells, Mel Brooks , together it's sound crazy , but they are together, the humor is elaborated. The biographical humor should be used more often, Mel take the risk and made this classic, the movie could be longer, the end is too soon. Music, jokes,scenarios.The years may pass and I'm sure some day people will realize that this movie should be considered a Classic, the phrases are so memorable, Mel Brooks should consider doing the second part after all. Despite the humor with English phrases here in sound America the jokes are very hilarious.If you want some quick jokes, fun, musical, and a Script with enough risk to mess with everyone this is your movie. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite Mel Brooks film, but still a classic","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think in some way you can just get a few laughs from the film. Sometimes you see jokes that get overused. Especially from Mel Brooks. While I admit that the guy is a genius, he can over do it with the jokes. But if you are a history nut, you'll find a lot of good humor in here. I think the reason why it has a rating lower than 7.0 is because most people don't get it. Besides the over used jokes, you get a few decent laughs out of this. I would recommend it for Mel Brooks fans. Otherwise, I'm not sure if anyone else would really enjoy it. At least by today's comedy level, it's a bit dull for others. Just try to have an open mind with it. You never know what you may find.9/10 "},{"Title":"It would have been much better as a tv-show!!!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a bunch of sketches. Most off them bad.Narrated by Orson Welles and this film is one of Mel Brooks worst films but has some funny points.2/5  "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 37","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 37. HISTORY OF THE WORLD PART 1 (comedy, 1981) A farcical telling of the history of the world. From the 'Stone Age' to the French revolution.Critique Though many critics (and fans) regard Mel Brooks' first film, 'The Producers' (1968), as his masterpiece, I consider this to be his funniest and most innovative work. With Brooks' giving a tour-De-force-comedy role as writer, director and actor.Narrated by 'monochrome voiced' Orson Welles, it stars many of Brooks' regular troop including Cid Ceaser, Mel Torme, and Gregory Hines in his first starring role as the Roman slave Josephus (from 'Ethiopia . . .105th street'). The film opens with the 'Dawn of Man' sequence (modeled after '2001'), as the 'man-apes' stand up and become humans, masturbating to the classical theme of 'Thus Spake Zarathustra'. Then we move to the 'Stone Age' where we see how comedy, music and the first 'homo-sapien' (and'Homo-sexual') marriages came to be. The scene then shifts to the brief Old Testament sequence where Moses (Mel Brooks) descends from Mount Sinai with the '15' (and not 10) commandments. Then comes the center piece of the film, the Roman period which follows Comicus (Brooks again) and his attempts at getting a job as a 'stand-up philosopher' in Caesar's Palace. We are also introduced to the character of Josephus, Caesar (Dom DeLouis), Swiftus (Comicus partner) and Susan (a 'vestal virgin'). 'The Spanish Inquisition' period becomes a musical where the monks exact torture on Jews with song and dance. The last part deals with the French Revolution as King Louie is replaced by the piss boy to escape execution (a take off on Dumars' 'The Man in the Iron Mask'). The film's humor comes from the fact that everything said is taken literally. When Caesar asks for a small liar to play, his guard brings him a small thief. What also makes it funny is the many sexual references throughout, especially in the French period where it's good to be the King!. Whatever happened to 'History of the World Part 2'!!? "},{"Title":"Just Not That Funny","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had high hopes when I picked up this movie, seeing so many legends of comedy starring in it. Unfortunately, the thing about legends is that they often stick around for too long. With the possible exceptions of Gregory Hines and Madeline Kahn (who still weren't all that funny) we have a classic example of that. For me, this movie just didn't work. I didn't think it was very funny, and the ridiculousness of it wore thin after a while for the simple reason that it was unfunny ridiculousness, if there is such a thing.Oh, there were a couple of cute moments that caused me to smile. Moses (Mel Brooks) dropping Commandments 11-15 comes to mind. But overall this struck me as a bunch of aging comedians who didn't really have it any more but couldn't admit it.2/10 "},{"Title":"Hey, it's just Funny!","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, I watched this film yesterday, though I was a little spoiled by some negative reviews before, but... That movie cheered me up! Maybe it's not as good as some Brooks' really classic films, and some moments are a little bit boring and corny (The Roman Empire segment), but hey, who are we kidding, you can leave only the whole Inquisition episode just to see how genial, awesome, funny Mel Brooks is! I laugh and feel happy just when I see him on the screen! So, watch it. Long Live Mr. Brooks!!! ) SEVA. "},{"Title":"Happy birthday to the head rabbit","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Who would have guessed that 81-year-old Hugh Hefner actually acted in a movie that didn't have Playboy in the title? I think it is also appropriate that Hef has a birthday right after Easter. But he was in this Mel Brooks classic.If you like Young Frankenstein or the The Producers, then you will absolutely love this movie. It is a rollicking roller coaster ride of sight gags, double entendres, laughs and zany fun that characterizes Mel Brooks. It includes the usual cast of characters in addition to Hef Harvey Korman, Rudy De Luca, Madeline Kahn, and Dom DeLuise, and, of course, Brooks.It is a spoof of the French Revolution, the Inquisition, the Last Supper, the Roman Empire and more. "},{"Title":"Tons of great stars in this one.","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is funny. So many talented people in this, like Mel Brooks, Sid Caeser, Orson Welles, Gregory Hines, Bea Arthur, Dom DeLuise, Madeline Khan, Charlie Callas, Henny Youngman, Carl Reiner(Voice of God. Uncredited), Jackie Mason, Cloris Leachman, Jan Murray, and Harvey Korman. Plus, a special cameo by Hugh Hefner as a man who is very similar to himself, with this funny line I have a great new idea. It's called the centerfold.This is my second favorite Mel Brooks movie(Blazing Saddles is my favorite). Unfortunately, I saw this on TV, but it was still good. Go see it, it's funny. "},{"Title":"The Greatest","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my opinion Mel Brooks (along with Woody Alen) is the greatest stand up philosopher around. I think this film really allowed him to shine through. Even though he played his usual (every part possible while directing) he still was fantastic. I would never expect any less from him. This movie is full of hilarious scenes that are easy to watch over and over. It is amazing. Not a lot of movies have that quality especially these new ones. There may be some parts in the movie where it isn't easy for the younger less knoledgeable ones to get the joke but it is jam packed with great quotes. highly suggest watching it again or watching it for the first time. whatever floats your boat. "}{"Title":"History is not bunk.  It's funny!  At least according to Mel Brooks.","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the best Mel Brooks movie in my book because it made me laugh more than once. I don't appreciate sight gags so I was surprised when I laughed at some comic scenes in the Inqusition sequence. The very idea of nuns doing a water ballet a la Esther Williams is hilarious and Brooks pulled it off with stunning visual appeal. The song for that segment was great too with its catchy rhythm and coyly cruel lyrics. It's better to lose your skull cap than your skull. I am a sucker for funny repartee and witty one liners. A sign at the orgy festival in the Roman Empire segment First served, first come. How about Count de Monet (Harvey Korman in the French Revolution segment) bickering with his partner Don't get saucy with me, Bernaise! King Louis the XVI being warned that the peasants were revolting You're telling me! A gladiator out of work being grilled at the welfare office by a social worker (wonderfully played deadpan by Beatrice Arthur) Did you kill yesterday? Did you try to kill today. Are you going to try to kill tomorrow? And Mel Brooks as a stand-up philosopher describing his profession as something like a condenser of ideas into their ephemeral essences. The welfare lady surmises Oh, you are a bullshit artist, and goes on a wine break. Since seeing this movie I have to suppress a smile whenever I am being led by a receptionist, guard or usher into a facility with the direction Walk this way. Mel's best joke at Caesar's Palace was  We Romans have a god for everything. The only thing we don't have a god for is premature ejaculation. But I heard that's coming too soon. The centurion testing whether the Gregory Hines character was really a eunuch presents a woman to perform what he called an erratic dance which it truly was. I wonder if I was the only one who got the joke. The serving maid to Empress Nympho (Madeleine Kahn)looked very familiar and was a great foil to Kahn.I stopped asking waiters at restaurants I visit for the first time what's their specialty ever since I saw this movie. Why? I may be given something like the mold wine Mel's boss, the tratorria owner kept telling him to push because they were overstocked with it. The swimming nuns portion in the Inquisition episode while a spoof of Esther Williams films is a wonderful visual treat. I was disappointed, however by the lousy lines and role given to Cloris Leachman as a reign of terror harridan. In other roles she is usually a riot with her very clever jokes. "},{"Title":"You have to watch this","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's no way you can hope to catch all the jokes in this movie (visual or verbal) without watching it multiple times. I have seen it at least 20 times and I still see things I missed before. This is one you have to see.You expect to see many gags in a Brooks movie, but this has to be one of his greatest ever.The whole cast is wonderful, with Hines and Kahn spectacular. Brooks is his usual self-effacing, brilliant self.It's just such a shame that Part II was never made - Hitler on Ice and Jews in Space would have been phenomenal !The Roman and French eras are the best, IMHO, but there's not a weak minute in the movie.Watch out for the bit where Comicvs and Swiftvs meet Oedipus -that's just a scream.And as for the stand-up Philosopher at Caesar's Palace, well that is the icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"Funny, but dirty.","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First off, I've always been very appreciative of the hilarious genius of Mel Brooks, and this movie is no disappointment. Now, I didn't really know anything about it other than everyone has told me it is funny. So we watched it in my Honors-3 class this morning and there was some amazing genius in it. I especially love how Brooks, in all his movies, plays several different roles. I figure, if you want it done right, sometimes you just have to do it yourself.However funny it might be, there are definitely some raunchy parts. Which were pretty uncomfortable in a class setting, especially when we had several young folks in the room. I found out when I got home today that it was rated R. Woops. There is no way that it would be rated that today though. There isn't any nudity, its just a WHOLE lot of sexual jokes. It wasn't any worse than the play version of The Producers that I saw in New York last August, if that's any measure. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest parodies ever!","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mel Brooks may have reached his peak with this one. Nothing he's been connected with since has equaled History...Part 1. There are some great comic performances here, not least by Brooks himself, but also the always brilliant Madeline Kahn, Dom DeLuise (as a belching, flatulent Caesar) and the late Gregory Hines. Sid Caesar, Cloris Leachman and Harvey Korman turn in some hilarious bits to this brief history of western civilization.Orson Welles narrates, adding an air of subsection to the whole affair--but never too much to dampen the humour, which is often quite bawdy and risqué.A classic comedy worth seeing again and again. Perhaps not quite as good as Blazing Saddles or Young Frankenstein, nonetheless History...Part 1 will satisfy anybody's need to have their funny bone tickled. "},{"Title":"watching Mell Brooks movies","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" at the end of the movie,Mell Brooks talks about a sequel to the movie called history of the world part 2.will it ever get made? or was this just another comedy statement made to either throw us off or to be sarcastic??-let me know.i loved the movie,and thought after i saw the ending that there was going to be a part 2.Mell Brooks a funny man and a good writer.i am hoping that there will be a part 2 soon.i am hoping that it will also contain the same cast that was in the first movie.i have loved all the movies Mell Brooks has made.He is also a good director.I have watched all the movies Mell Brooks has made many many times.I will never get tired of watching them. "},{"Title":"History can be fun","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you are expecting an astute account of world history, you'll be disappointed, though not sadly. Mel Brooks puts together an outrageous array of characters who portray early history and speak their minds with silly lines and double-entendres. Dom Deluise is a stand-out as Caesar -- I would say his part is almost the best reason for renting the film. Madeleine Kahn is also excellent as Empress Nympho. The movie is corny at times, pokes fun at itself, and sometimes goes too far.... or does it? Nothing is going too far for Mel Brooks! The urinating scenes are a bit much, but if you take it in the spirit intended, it's quite funny. Maybe we'll be a little more grateful we have modern plumbing! Mel Brooks makes us feel like we're really at the time period portrayed. Surely the folks back then told dumb jokes, wore some silly clothes, and had some strange customs. History had some lively characters we can relate to today.Finally, if you're easily offended, you'll be very offended watching this movie. Perhaps rent the movie and try not to take things so seriously! "},{"Title":"Knight jumps queen! Bishop jumps queen! Pawns jump queen! *Gangbang*!  - King Louis XVI","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'History of the World Part I' might not be Mel Brook's best cinematic achievement (Young Frankenstein probably is), but it definitely one of the funniest. 'History of the World Part I' pokes fun at the history of the world from the caveman days to the future featuring 'Jews in Space. The film is so jam-packed with cheeky puns and non-stop hilarity, you would have to be a eunuch or dead not to get a kick out of it. Mel Brooks plays the majority of the characters including Comicus - a stand-up philosopher in the Roman times, Abraham from the Old Testament, the voice of God, Torquemada - a ruthless conquistador in the Spanish inquisition with a knack for song and dance, King Louis XVI, and a servant boy who collects other people's urine. The movie features a lot of comedians including Cloris Leachman as a rebellious leader of the poor in 18th century France, Dom DeLuise as Nero, Madeline Kahn as his promiscuous wife, Empress Nympho, Gregory Hines as a black Jewish slave in the Roman times and Harvey Korman as Count de Money (MONET!!!!). If you are looking for a hilarious comedy that will both entertain you and excite you, make sure to pick up Mel Brooks' comedic gem 'History of the World Part I'. Keep an eye out for 'History of the World Part II' featuring Hitler on Ice and Jews in Space. Grade B "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks actor, writer and director.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" History of the World Part One (1981) is a funny and hilarious comedy that chronicles the history of western civilization from the stone age 'til the French Revolution. Mel Brooks knows his history and he adds a lot of odd references that a history buff will easily pick out. Mel Brooks also stars in this film as Comicus, Moses, King Louis XVI, Torquemada and a Royal employee. Dom De Luise co-stars as Emperor Nero, Madeline Khan as Empress Nympho, Gregory Hines as Josephus (a part clearly written for Richard Pryor who bowed out early in pre-production due to personal demons), Harvey Korman as Count De Money are some of Mel Brooks regulars who appear in this film. Watch out for a lot of stand-up comics who have cameo roles in this film.The title (a funny gag for history buffs as well) references the only volume of The History of the World that Sir Walter Raleigh wrote before he lost his head (figuratively and literally). A film that is highly overlooked in Mel Brooks' resume. If you love parodies and history then this one's just for you!Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The best comedic movie I have ever seen","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I saw in 1984 and went everywhere searching for it as I watched a rented tape. I finally managed to get it in 2001 when I went to Las Vegas and I was so happy. It is indeed the best comedic movie I have ever seen and I laugh my guts out every time I see it. Mel Brooks is a genius because he turned history into a comedy. You learn something about the past plus you get a really good laugh out of it. The cast blend in so well that everything fits amazingly. My favourite parts are when they were in Rome and France. When you read about past history, the story tellers leave out the small bits which Mel made sure was added into his story. Who knew history could so interesting. If you have not seen it, get the DVD or rent it. You will not regret it!  "},{"Title":"Great film. Endless Satire. Musical scenes tiring.","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed History of the World, Part I. I had the opportunity to view it on the AMC Channel last night. As with most movies, I'm sure its even better on video/DVD. I loved it though. The only problem I had was this The Inquisition scene was too cheesy. corny and tiring. Had this scene been shorter and funnier, I would have rated it a perfect 10, rather than 8. It still scores very high in my book, however, as does most Mel Brooks works. I'd like to recommend this movie to anyone who enjoyed Robin Hood Men in Tights, or Monty Python and the Holy Grail, as the comedy in them is much similar. Anyone who enjoys satire, even, would love this movie. I plan to get it on DVD or video if I get the chance, too! My one regret is I have yet to see even a preview for Part II. ( "}{"Title":"Very Funny Film","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" History as told by Mel Brooks is pretty funny. We go through several periods (The Dawn of Man, The 10 Commandments, The Roman Empire, The Spanish Inquistion, and The French Revolution). The best part is The Roman Empire because of the late, great Madeline Kahn as the Empress Nympho (And got some of the funniest lines, too!). The Inquistion musical number is a hoot, too. The French Revolution has Harvey Korman and Cloris Leachman, and has a very twisted ending. It is too bad that they never made a sequel(You'll just have to settle for the faux sequel at the end). One of Mel Brooks' best, along with Young Frankenstein, High Anxiety and Blazing Saddles. "},{"Title":"A great Classic.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While some may see this film as overly offensive and un-funny, the truth of it is that they aren't taking into account the time period in which it was made.  Those who saw the film the year it came out saw it as it is laugh out loud funny.Perhaps part of the reason the humor seems worn out or repetitive is because the movie was such an icon at the time that many people have tried to copy it unsuccessfully.This is a fantastic movie, for its time and for today.  Especially if you enjoy Mel Brooks films. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks Classic","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is no movie in the History of Comedy that can even hope to compare to this Mel Brooks classic.  I love how when Mel Brooks stars in his movies how they seem to transplant you to the time period at play I mean who else can make the Spanish Inqustion into a Musical!!! "},{"Title":"Holy Cow","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Untold HistoryThis is a great movie when I just want to laugh. History has never been so funny.  Mel Brooks takes us from cave  men to Hitler skating on ice.  I believe we really learn what happened in history and what  our teacher never wanted us to know.  We start off when cavemen start creating art, and then comes a critic urinates on the art.  This shows how early man evolves. Then we learn that there was really fifteen commandment until Moses drops five of them.  During the Roman empire, stand up bull comic was a real career.  The Spanish Inquistion was just a fun sing alone for monks and nuns.  During the French Revolution, the people were so poor they sold nothing.  History was never so grand. The casting for this movie was great.  I loved how each of the performers played their roles.  Mel Brookds, played many parts him self, such as Moses, Comicus, Torquemada, Jacques, and King Louis XVI. I really like the end of the movie where there was  previews for a part two. It made every one want more.  I would have to say, thanks for not making another because it could not live up to the first one.   "},{"Title":"Where's Part II?!?!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why didn't Mel Brooks ever do a part II? This movie was so funny!!!! I really like this movie but the only problem I have with it is that it's too short. This movie just ended with the French Revolution. If he would have done a part II then maybe this movie wouldn't have felt short.***out of****stars "},{"Title":"History Was Never Funnier and Brooks Was Never Better","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When you see a title such as this with Mel Brooks the director, you pretty much know what you're getting. And Brooks does not disappoint. He uses the same philosophy as in Silent Movie, marrying old jokes to veteran actors with hilarious results. It's no different here, whether it's Sid Caesar as a caveman who invents rock music, Brooks himself as Comicus, a stand-up comic and waiter at the Last Supper in ancient Rome, or Brooks regular Harvey Kormann as Count de Money (de Monet, de Monet) in a send up of the the French Revolution, every old joke and routine is resurrected . . . and never fails to keep us laughing.Besides Kormann and Caesar, Brooks is ably supported by Gregory Hines (his first film, and a great flair for comedy), Madeline Kahn, Dom DeLuise, Shecky Greene, and the great Spike Milligan.And just when you think it can't get any sillier, along comes Brooks and the Spanish Inquisition in Swingtime, a beautiful parody of MGM musicals.The only shame of this movie is that Brooks never got around to making a Part Two.   "},{"Title":"If you don't get it, don't advertise your ingornance.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best or second-best Mel Brooks comedy (remember  Blazing Saddles?). Judged within the context of its genre, it is outstanding. For those of you who think  Jim Carey films are good, you will not like this one as it is far above your ability to understand. In short, if you don't get it, you simply aren't smart enough to do so. Go back to Ace Ventura and be happy in your ignorance. "},{"Title":"Genuine laughs throughout...","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The reason I'll always enjoy watching this film, and had to go buy the DVD as soon as I got a player, is that the great laughs in this film never really wear out.  Though the movie is made as a series of 5 or 6 shorts, ranging from a few minutes to a half hour, the laughs are spread out over the entire film.  Every sequence has plenty of great bits, and you could watch it all the way through or just pop in the disc to see your favorite part.The Inquisition musical sequence is one of my favorites, and will be a favorite of anyone who likes Brooks' other musical numbers (especially now, with the Producers a broadway smash.)  Unlike another reviewer, I *never* get tired of the skeet-shooting with peasants scene.  Madame DeFarge running out of wool should give a good chuckle to anyone who's read Tale of Two Cities, as will the old man with his birds in the Bastille.Some of the jokes flop, but the ones that don't more than make up for it.  Not as good as Blazing Saddles, but probably Brooks' 2nd best film, and that's saying a lot. "},{"Title":"Mel Brooks--You da man!!!!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another hilarious outing for genius comedy writer/director Mel Brooks.  He once again graces us with his incomparable talent.  Brooks' method of spoofing historical events and topping it off with a little off-color humor is very impressive indeed.  The first two acts are hilarious!  I could not stop laughing!  There's a good deal of memorable moments that fans of Mel will remember for ages and ages.  One (which often comes up in retrospectives) is the scene where Moses (played by Brooks) has to deliver his Fifteen--I mean, Ten Commandments.  Another moment I will always remember is when Comicus (also Brooks as a stand-up philosopher in ancient Greece--Yes, you heard right) is the waiter for Jesus and his disciples when Leonardo Da Vinci paints his famous work The Last Supper.  Comicus repeatedly yells Jesus and Jesus repeatedly responds, What?  I really got a kick out of that.  Expect many great performers (many of which are regulars in Brooks' work) including the late Madeline Kahn, Gregory Hines, Sid Caesar, Harvey Korman, Cloris Leachman and others.  Another great ensemble cast for another great Mel Brooks comedy!I also have to note the great Spanish Inquisition musical number--another classic moment.  This includes a cameo by buddy Carl Reiner (Talkamatta!  You can't talkamatta anything!).  I admit, towards the end the comedy sags a bit.  The gags in the third act aren't as memorable as the previous ones. So if you're a fan of the Brooksmeister--or just a fan of good comedy!--please check out this gem.  You won't be disappointed!  History has never been this fun!My score  8 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Both better and worse than expected....","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recently acquired the DVD version of History of the World Part 1.  While I saw this movie many times as a kid and loved it, I hadn't seen it in quite a while and was looking forward to seeing the real version without all the censoring for TV play (I've only seen this on TV, although I can't say for certain whether I ever saw it on a movie channel where it wasn't censored). After watching the DVD, it turns out that some parts of the film are even funnier than I remembered, while others didn't make me laugh as much as they used to.I found that the first half of the movie was by far the most funny...all the way through the Roman Empire segment (which is probably the longest segment in the film).  Even though I knew most of the jokes that were coming up, they made me laugh anyway, and there were several jokes that I had either forgotten or which had been cut out/mangled by TV censors so I hadn't seen them.  Although I knew I liked this movie, I found myself surprised at how hilarious it was.Then came the Spanish Inquisition sequence.  I remember not really liking this scene as a kid, but then I've never been into musicals.  This time around, I liked it a lot better...I don't have a negative impression of it anymore.  Still, it's not quite as funny as the earlier parts of the film.The last bit of the movie is the French Revolution -- I remembered lots of funny stuff in this segment from when I watched this movie long ago. However, this segment is where the movie was a bit disappointing...a lot of the jokes which I used to find hilarious (such as skeet-shooting with peasants) just didn't click with me like I expected them to.  Also, I found that the number of gags in this segment was significantly reduced from previous parts.  I have fond memories of the French Revolution segment, so I'm a bit puzzled as to why it didn't do much for me now.  Maybe I just remembered TOO MUCH from this segment so there were very few surprises?But as a whole, I definitely think this ranks as one of Mel Brooks' best films.  I count it as part of the holy trinity along with Young Frankenstein and Blazing Saddles.  Others have said that this is one of Brooks' raunchiest films, and I definitely agree.  There are quite a few sexual gags in this, and several uses of the F word (I don't remember that word being used at all in Young Frankenstein or Blazing Saddles, but maybe I've just forgotten...).  Highly recommended! "}{"Title":"Mel Brooks at his best!","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This the funniest of all the Brooks movies. The funniest part has got to be the Roman Empire sequence. Although there is material that may offend, it's very funny. Check out the end sequence featuring footage from History Of The World Part 2 ( which wasn't made by the way ) including Hitler On Ice and Jews In Space. A classic movie that must be seen by any Brooks fan and comedy fans everywhere! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time for many reasons, but the main being that its use of comedy is not only entertaining but timeless and pure genius. I am a big Mel Brooks fan and this movie is the reason. This movie is not dumb funny, it's smart funny, poking fun at history in a light, enjoyable way that could be construed as inappropriate but it is done so well, it's just perfect. This movie is by far one of the greatest comedies, ever. "},{"Title":"Mel's finest, most quoteable, silliest masterpiece of comedy!!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From its beginning parody of 2001 A Space Odyssey to its uproarious previews of the next (?) History of the World (Part II), this movie keeps one in stitches.   By the second and third time viewed, one begins to quote the movie.  It's the epic masterpiece of comedy!   Madeline Kahn, Harvey Korman, Gregory Hines, and Mel himself are so on.  Even after repeated viewings, new jokes emerge that might have been missed through prolonged belly-laughing.  Silly, silly, silly!!! "},{"Title":"One of Brooks Best","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a non-stop riot. i laughed the whole time. this movie came out during the perfect time comedies. Mel Brooks was great in this movie, especially as moses. I wish they would have made a part 2. i highly recommend this movie for everyone. "},{"Title":"History through the eyes of Mel Brooks","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tired of listening to your history teacher drone on about what happened thee hundred years ago  in France?  Then watch History of the World Part I and you'll get a complete overview of  history from the dawn of man, to the French Revolution.  Of course, this being a  Mel Brooks  film, things are going to get silly.  Brooks and his usual gang of actors skewers just about every  major event in history that can be crammed into ninety minutes.   Sure there are some events  that get passed over, but what's left for us to see is a hoot.  We see the Roman Empire, the  Spanish Inquisition and the French Revolution skewered with Brooks' own brand of humor.   Harvey Korman steals every scene he's in and his are some of the funniest in the entire film.    One liners, sight gags, and general silliness abound in this satire of human existence.  Now, let's  end this meeting on a high note!       "},{"Title":"You must see this film!","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is simply put, THE funniest movie I have ever seen. Mel Brooks is a comical genius along with Gregory Hines. This is Brooks' best film and must be seen by those who don't have a medical condition because you will laugh yourself to death! "},{"Title":"History of the World Part I","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks' most bawdy film about the growth of history from the dawn of man, through Moses, the Roman Empire (funniest sequence) the Inquisition (splendid dance number) and the French Revolution.  "},{"Title":"It is REALLY Something that could offend one...","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  History of The World Part I is a good Mel Brooks' movie.  With tons of comedy and crap.  It has lots of fun gags and sexual romps and everything in between.  I didn't really like the Roman saga, but the Cave Men, The Inquisition, and the French were really funny.  Especially when it's good to be the king.  Unfortunately, it was watered down to bad sexual gags.  But if they make History of The World Part II, make it more appropriate and cut most of the sex jokes off. "},{"Title":"A tie for my favorite Brooks film","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't decide if I like this or Blazing Saddles better. I watch this one more, but it's close. Anyway, this is one of the best, funniest movies ever made. Mel Brooks gives you a history lesson as only he could tell it. There are several segments, detailing different parts of history. My favorite is the Roman Empire section. Rent this movie today and watch it. "},{"Title":"Brooks at his outrageous best!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mel Brooks' funniest non-stop barrage of outrageous jokes, puns, and assaults upon history & popular films. See the Stone Age, the French Revolution, the Spanish Inquisition and more get skewered with crazy characters and Brooks' signature satiric writing style. Not even Moses (did you know there were actually 15 Commandments?) and Jesus (at what may have been his Last Supper) can escape this collection of zaniness. The sexual innuendo flies strong, making things even more uproarious, as even Brooks himself once remarked upon this film as the height of my vulgarity. A 10 out of 10!!!  "}{"Title":"All sarcasm","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every part on this irreverent, and I like that. The dawn of the humanity, the ancient Egypt, Rome and the future. Everybody, God included is the objective in this picture, in every moment I think that the story is sarcastic, I imagine that this film had problems with every religious group of the planet. The first time I saw that film was 13 years old and in the end I slept, but no for the boring, in Colombia was presented too late in the night, years later I remembered it and I knew it is a brilliant film. The films wouldn't have fear and Mel Brooks, The Great Mel Brooks knows that, thank you Mel for the smile. Thanks for the laughing. "},{"Title":"I can only remember crying with laughter","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched his film with my brother when we were kids and can barely remember it. What I do recall is that it was absolutely hilarious and we were both incapacitated with laughter. I must get it on DVD because the TV companies dare not show anything that we might actually want to see. I gave this film a rating of 6 but that is 6/10 based on my memories of so much laughter. I think that it may well be an 8 but will have to reserve judgment until I have seen it again. Mel Brooks definitely is a class act. "},{"Title":"It's good to be the king","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That's what Mel Brooks must be saying all the time, especially after this film.  This is one of his funniest films that looks at history instead of parodying other films.  Great fun, as we look at The Stone Age, The Ten Commandments (thats probably the funniest part), The Roman Empire, The Spanish Inquisition (that song is hilarious) and the French Revolution (not to mention the look at History of the World part 2 featuring Hitler on Ice, A Viking Funeral and Jews in Space).  Hilarious all around, but only if you like this type of humor.  A "},{"Title":"This is a very important film for us all.","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think anyone that saw this film should have seen that it is possible to be religious and laugh at ourselves.  God created us and I think one of the things this movie shows is that He intended for us to have a sense of humor. I think it is brilliant as is Mel Brooks.  Members of our family and extended family use lines from this movie still today. Last family gathering one member told a joke that drew a couple of giggles and that was all...my nephew said when you die at the palace, you die at the palace and we all did belly laughs.  History of the World, Part 1 is not just a movie it is a tribute to everyone that had anything to do with it.  It makes us laugh, a commodity there isn't enough of in this world.   "},{"Title":"One of the funniest historical movies ever","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember first seeing this movie when I was a child, and now at the age of 17 it still remains a classic in my mind. This movie's truly memorable moments stick in your mind forever. Anecdotes, and quotes from it are as frequent as those of Monty Python and the Holy Grail. So many double entendres, and single entendres, that just leave you laughing until the next one. Its a vicious cycle ladies and gents, trust me. This is not a movie that you will watch just once, oh know, this is one of Mel Brooks best, along the lines of Robin Hood  Men in Tights. But as a warning, if your the type that online likes teen comedies, or movies where the humor doesn't require the slightest bit of thinking, then you wont laugh as hard during this movie. To end this off with no spoilers, THIS IS AN EXCELLENT MOVIE, AND I'm STILL WAITING FOR PART II. Hitler ON ICE, WOOOOHOOOO!!!! "},{"Title":"More, More, More...","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie! I wish he would make another one like it. I heard of a Part II but have never seen it. I actually watched this movie so much I can repeat it word for word (almost) as well as wore the movie out! The pair of Brooks and Kahn were the best I have ever seen. They have done some amazing scenes in numerous films and I would LOVE to see more of them together. If there is actually a book II I would buy it and numerous copies for my family and friends. It is a shame that some of the actors are no longer around to participate in another film for this. Almost every film I have viewed of Mr. Brooks has been, in my eyes, a hit! Thank you Mr. Brooks for creating laughter and happiness in the lives of my family and me for all those years.  "},{"Title":"History of the world Part 1 is an awesome Mel Brooks satire.","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is another awesome Mel Brooks movie and continues the streak of never seeing a bad Mel Brooks movie. This movie has just about nothing wrong with it as it's the funny,Stupid humour that Mel Brooks is famous for and always will be. This movie is one movie of quite a few Mel Brooks movies where he is the star and in this one he is by far the funniest person movie in the whole movie( for example The Spanish Inquizition song was one of my favourite Mel Brooks clips ever. Another good thing about the movie is that it makes fun of things throughout the movie as most spoofs just make fun of stuff for half way then start going to different types of humour. Overall I rate this movie a solid 97% for being a damn funny movie that deserves the high praise it has. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a weird idea for a film that only Mel Brooks would try to pull off. Made when Brooks was at his peak, it has that Major feel that many of his later films lack. Although not as good as Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein, it is much better than some of his later work such as DraculaDead and Loving It and Robin Hood Men in Tights. It has something to offend everyone, and the Last Supper scene in particular sticks in the mind. The Only part I didn't like was the Spanish Inquisition scene which I found embarassing. However, this minor fault aside, this is another fine film from Mel Brooks. "},{"Title":"History/World Part 1- History Was Never Worse than this *","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You would think that after Mel Brooks made The Producers with its offensive Springtime for Hitler, that he would have had enough. Unfortunately, not so. He continues his nonsense with this 1981 offensive film.I didn't enjoy his song of The Inquisition. This was utterly stupid and insulting to all people. Equally offensive is Gregory Hines acting Jewish to avoid persecution as a Christian.The writing is absolutely inane. We here lines such as sic transit Gloria and the response to that is I didn't know that Gloria was sick.The film tries to poke fun of the various aspects of history.Madeleine Kahn puts on her Brooklyn accent in force to play a French Queen. Cloris Leachman is totally ridiculous as Mme. De Farge. Imagine the writing- De Farge- Serving the Scum of Paris for Over 20 Years. Blanche Yurka must be turning over in her grave.Brooks should put his history anthologies to rest. They're becoming overly obnoxious. "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible, terrible!!!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this to be the most boring and unfunny 'comedy' i have ever had the misfortune to endure. It tries so hard to be Monty Python but is light years behind. It uses very simplistic humour and relies on unfunny innuendo.I only managed to last just past the Spanish Inquisition part before nearly losing the will to live.Total waste of time.Was this film aimed purely at entertaining Jewish people? Is it Jewish humour or have i just missed the point?!Mike.  "}{"Title":"Mel Brooks is evil!","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this many years ago, and found it to be funny. In recent years, I gave it another viewing and now I see this film in a new light. It is awful...and I say that because I think Mel Brooks is evil. It's true. Mel is a Hollywood big shot who loves to see his name as the director and the star. This movie not only portrays highly false history, there is a lot of bashing of Christians and it is just appalling. Scenes such as Moses cracking the Commandments, bashing the Spanish Inquisition, and hearing that phrase jesus Christ constantly this movie just made me sick. It is not funny, and unfair that he can get away with all these insults on Christianity. Also he pokes fun at race and stereotypes. Its just not a movie worth seeing, because for the most part, it will offend a lot of people even today. "}]