[{"Title":"Not to be overlooked","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"282 out of 305 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" People have preconceptions of what makes a good move and more often than not they get tangled up in their own web of closed mindedness. It is no one thing that makes a movie great but a combination of all to create a feeling, and that is one thing that Conan has always done for me. This was the first film that introduced me to the goosebump effect or rather seeing scenes of such emotional and thematic power that they give you chills. After watching this film over and over again it still doesn't disappoint. The scene immediately following the raid on Conan's village is a true masterpiece of visual storytelling. without a single line of dialogue everything that is to come in the next two hours is set up with the Murder of Conan's parents before his eyes. The look of disbelief on his face as his mother's lifeless body falls before him. Staring at his hand and then toward Thulsa Doom. the Villain saluting his freshly stolen steel. It is a perfectly executed scene that were this film not so unjustly written off as a hack and slash sword and sorcery picture would be rightfully remembered as one of the great scenes in film history. The best way to describe Conan would be to call it a philosophical epic. There are real ideas and philosophies at play in the narrative. Conan's father's teachings of steel...the opening scene forging the sword becoming a metaphor for Conan's life. He is a character created by hardship and grief, and like the opening quote says That which does not kill us makes us stronger Conan becomes more powerful with the more hardships he overcomes. The film is very well put together. Many scenes and images from the movie are as visually layered and well thought out as any Ridley Scott picture. The prelude to the opening battle in the snow is stunning with great visual flair, a single scout stands atop a boulder breathing heavy, anticipating battle as vibrant rays of sunlight pour through the trees. There is a ritualistic quality to many of the scenes in the film such as the finding of the atlantean sword, or the lead up to Conan's duel with the snake which is carried through right to the end where after Conan drops his sword the followers of doom extinguish their flames in the fountain. Everyone in the film manages to give a good performance but the big mistake that most people make in judging them is that they do not understand that acting is not simply saying lines of dialogue, it is behavior. Arnold Schwarzenegger and the rest of the cast give outstanding performances without saying all that much. The scene at the funeral pyre where Conan runs his hand through the hair of his fallen love...the subtle look of grief withheld combined with the eloquent score is enough to get the idea across, no dialogue is needed. Basil Poledouris' score for the film has to be one of, if not, the greatest score ever composed and it plays an integral part in creating the rich emotional landscape of John Milius' epic film. Conan the barbarian is a film I saw when I was very young, and through the years as I have gotten a little older and wiser the film has gotten richer and more rewarding with each subsequent viewing.This is a film of great resonance and subtlety. Most audiences today cannot appreciate a film that requires a bit of deep thinking, but this is one of the rare films that is even more rewarding if you look beneath the surface. "},{"Title":"Brutal, uncompromising, and invigorating","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"181 out of 199 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In an age of Xena-esque fantasy adventure films (al la the tepid Scorpion King) It is startling to go back and see just how good this movie still is. Conan is not for the faint of heart, and not just for gore - there are far more bloody movies out there - but for the uncompromising warrior-ethos John Milius infused into his vision.  There is nothing PC about this fantasy world.  When he is asked what is best in life? Conan paraphrases Genghis Khan Crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and hear the lamentations of their women! We are not led to believe he is kidding. It is true that Arnold is no great actor, but it is also true he has always stuck with parts he can handle, and he does a fine job as Conan, but the real star here is the director.  John Milius is one of the greats, totally unappreciated in his time, and his sweeping scope and epic, gritty battle sequences add a dimension lacking from almost every other S&S film. There is a grim aura of doom pervading the movie that fits the original Howard stories to a T, and I think Robert E Howard would have really liked this movie.  James Earl Jones gives a killer performance as the evil Thulsa Doom, rivalling Darth Vader himself. A last point in this film's favor is the score.  Basil Poledouris turned out his best score ever for this film Brooding, powerful and operatic, it lends the film a grandeur Hercules could only dream of.  I must have seen this film 40 times and I still never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"Great Sword And Sorcery Epic!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"124 out of 152 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A cracking sword and sorcery yarn that has divided movie goer opinions since it's release. Some believing it's a beefy and shallow action movie, glossed up with big sets and fancy costumes. Others believing it is a truly eye popping visual feast of a film with hidden depth. The film was panned on its original release but since then has been something of a critical favourite. While the film is too murky and turgid at times, it is still engaging, despite needing to lighten up a touch, because this is based on a comic book after all. The film is fantastical but at the same time the film doesn't go quite as fantastical as the comic books did. This seems to be more based in reality but it still features a snake-man, giant snakes and witches.The film follows Conan from childhood when his parents are killed and follows him through his early years as a slave to adulthood when he becomes a fighter and a thief. What drives Conan is pure bloodthirsty revenge on the man who killed his parents(James Earl Jones) and he is constantly spurred on by the belief he is doing his god's (Krom the god of steel) will. Conan constantly interprets important moments as messages from Krom.This film is so visual. The dialogue is minimal and yet meaningful. This gives the film a great atmosphere and really brings to mind two other fantasy action movies I really love, Crying Freeman and Highlander. They are all very similar in style. They all have the same strengths, in that they are both great looking, have a lead character driven by a spirit guide, controlled by his beliefs and a sense of destiny and all three have similar romantic subplot, all told with visuals, and little dialogue. They are all also blessed with unique and rousing scores. It's all very mythical and philosophical in each, with love at first site important. It is the love of the women that drive the men to their goals. In Freeman Dacascos wants to break away from his controlled regime, and take back his life when his love gives him the will to do so. In Highlander McLeod wants to lead a mortal life, to love and grow old with someone, to be human. Conan wants a life after he takes his revenge. The greatness of their romantic story and the purely visual way it is told is that during the movie he says only 5 words to her,and they all come in their first meeting. The film should not get away with something like that, yet it works well. The twist in Conan is that his lover sacrifices herself for him and in effect once he has achieved his goal the film is left with the feeling Conan has no further purpose in life. The cast are good. Arnold was made into a star here. He is physically the best shape he's ever been in a movie. He is smaller than his bodybuilding days yet as big as he's ever been on screen and at the same time fleet of foot and nimble. Lest we not forget by the time he hit mega stardom he was in his 40's, but Arnold is truly in his prime here. It is a performance though of glaring inconsistency which is the likes of which I have never seen. It is at once his best and his worst performance. For all that Schwarzenegger does with a depth and humanity not seen in his films since, he overplays and looks amateurish in others, because of course he was an amateur here. What really does work is the chemistry between Sandahl Bergman and Schwarzy. She gets the best out of him and their scenes together are generally his best. Bergman received a Golden Globe for this and had Arnie consistently been as good as his higher points here, who knows? You get the feeling the philosophical side might occasionally have gone over his head. At times he would bawl out Kraaoomm!!! without knowing why he was delivering the line. Bergman is good. She is enigmatic and quite sexy in a why is she sexy? kind of a way. Bergman kicks ass and her dance background shows as she moves with grace. The showstoppers though are the supporting cast with the legend Mako, excellent as the wizard and narrator. Max Von Sydow is superb as king Osric and he gets some of the best dialogue but it is the chilling James Earl Jones who is particularly excellent as Thulsa Doom.What makes this film great is the fact that it feels older than it is. It feels like a b-movie fantasy film from the golden ages of the 50's and 60's, with some of the charming elements of the legendarily cheap Italian fantasy films. The film even at times feels like it is dubbed. While all it lacks is a stand out Ray Harryhausen moment. The nearest we get is the giant snake. I would have loved to have seen more creatures and beasts in this movie with some HarryHausen effects but it come a tad too late really. Also Basil Poledouris' score is fantastic and old fashioned a big reason the film feels like it is from the golden age of this sword and sorcery quest movies. The score is the real standout part of the movie. It's very old fashioned, medieval and a bit baroque and works marvellously well with some rousing themes.The film is directed with visual flourish by John Milius, whose tragically lame career since makes you wonder what happened. In that sense it has another similarity with Highlander as the even more talented Russell Mulcahy was never matched the quality or success of Highlander since. This is a top notch film that fantasy enthusiasts will love. **** "},{"Title":"A Classic and the Best of Schwarzenegger !!","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"102 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have a soft spot in my heart for this movie, being that this is one of the first movies I can remember seeing. As I grew up I never stopped enjoying this movie and could come away with something new every time I watched it (now around 50+ times). The movie is multi-layered. On one level there is the action (which is very graphic). There is also philosophical layer (why am i here ?? that which doesn't kill you....). Mix that in with some wonderful cinematography (filmed in Spain) and very appropriately accompanied by dark, serious, foreboding music (by Basil Poledouris - who also did the music for Hunt for Red October) and you get the ultimate action movie (that is more than just an action movie - its the thinking man's action movie). Conan is based on the work of Robert E. Howard. Howard once described writing the Conan stories (which were published in Weird Tales) as this  At sunset, he could feel the presence of Conan coming into his room, looming over him and compelling or forcing him to write the stories. The movie captures the spirit of Conan, as portrayed in the stories. He is one who has lived a harsh existence, yet endures. He has been everything from a barbarian, to a swashbuckler, to a soldier, to a thief, to a general and eventually to even king. He is considered a barbarian by all the people he meets, include those considered to be civilized. Conan plays by his own rules and morals. Even though he kills, he does so in much the same way a tiger eats its prey. At the same time, he displays more humanity, mercy and honor than most of the civilized world. This movie is perfect in the above respects. John Milius (the director and co-writer) does an excellent job along with Oliver Stone (co-writer) in getting the feel of the stories into the movie world. Schwarzenegger is cast perfectly in the role of Conan. I don't think anyone else would have been able to pull it off as well as he could have and still kept the role in the way it was meant to be. Conan does not say much, but when he does you better listen because it is important. Along with Schwarzenegger, the rest of the cast does a brilliant job to support the story. James Earl Jones is wickedly evil and Mako is perfect as the reluctant sorcerer. There are so many wonderful scenes that stick out in my mind. So many in fact that you should go out and see the movie for yourself (make sure you get the special edition DVD since it has extra footage and a great making of with all the cast including Schwarzenegger). By far my two favorite scenes/sequences of the movie are  1) Prior to the battle in the desert, Conan says a little prayer to his god, Crom. This prayer embodies everything that Conan stands for. WHAT A PRAYER !!!. 2) The sequence thats starts from Conan's return to the Tower of Power to confront Thulsa Doom all the way to the end. It is wrought with meaning and some great cinematography. This movie is an absolute must see. 10/10-Celluloid Rehab "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"96 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this is the best sword and magic / fantasy movie ever made. Unlike the second Conan movie (the destroyer, which was a huge disappointment) this is dark, dirty, violent (with the harsh way) and most of all faithful to the original Conan by Howard. By that i mean that conan wasn't a joker and babyoiled coverboy like in the sequel. Only part of the movie that i weren't content about was the childhood of conan, the part where he grows up spinning some goddamn wheel of fortune, Howard specifically points in many novels that Conan was grown free in the Cimmeria. Despite the this awkward transition to skip the childhood of Conan this still is the best fantasy movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"Simply Brilliant","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"85 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my top-ten favorite movies of all time.  It's quite easy to dismiss this film based on its genre (barbarian slash-em-up) and the limited acting ability of the star (Schwarzenegger), but Conan is nothing short of a masterpiece.Ok, the story is fairly standard, and the principal actors (Schwarzenegger, Sandahl Bergman & Gerry Lopez) are competent but not outstanding.  There are a few brief but memorable performances from James Earl Jones and Max von Sydow that help lend weight to the film, but the real stars are Poledouris' score and the cinematography.  I have never seen a more beautifully-shot film in my life.  The costumes, props and art direction are all top-notch. They could take all of the dialog out of the movie, and just have the music and pictures and it would still be worth watching.To fully appreciate Conan, though, you have to watch it and then watch another barbarian-type film from any era (Beastmaster, Krull, etc.) and the difference will be stunning. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie as a child and still the best fantasy!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"85 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is really an amazing movie! It is so passionate and intense. It all feels so genuine as well.During my childhood this was my all-time favorite! From an adult (25) perspective, his movie is as damn amazing as I remember. Thee story and dialog are really damn good. There are so many classic scenes. I got my girlfriend to watch it. She was convinced it was going to be a stupid Arnold muscle movie (it seems almost everyone thinks this) but she loved it.It's such a change to see such an un-ironic passionate movie. I can't see a movie like this being made today. The nudity and violence were great and added realism without ever being flatly gratuitous.Don't see Destroyer though, that was absolutely awful. "},{"Title":"something of a mixed bag","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"51 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It took a long time for Robert E Howard's wonderful creation to make it to the big screen,and the result is something of a mixture.Some of Conan is very impressive,with the atmosphere of Howard's writing perfectly captured on screen,but some of the film is badly misjudged,with daft moments,botched action,and an uneven performance from schwarzenneger.He looks the part but in some scenes comes across as a muscle bound buffoon.Something the literary hero definitely wasn't.The story is ok,apart from having Conan spend half his life chained to the wheel of pain!But it's a dissapointing script,considering greats Milius and Oliver Stone wrote it.There are some excellent sequences in the film though,that are beautifully photographed.The opening attack on conans village is impressive,and Conans encounter with a weird witch is pretty good.But best of all is the orgy sequence,where the action,sets,and music blend together perfectly.It's like a Frank Frazetta painting come to life!The climactic battle of the mounds is ok,but it's all over far to quickly.The film does look good with some gorgeous photography,and set design.Best of all though,is the music by Basil Poledouris.This is an absolutely stunning score,that really captures the savage world of Conan.I'll stick my neck out and say that it's the best film soundtrack ever composed!General Cromwell,over and out. "},{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is one of those films that just shouldn't work on paper, but somehow ends up not only working, but becoming a classic. Everything is right here thanks to Milius unashamed bigger-than-life-direction. He takes him serious and dares to go far enough with the grandness, something few directors would dare do today for fear of being labeled pretentious.Combine this with probably the best film score EVER written, and you have movie magic. Basil Poledouris score is such a classic that every other composer has ripped it off a thousand times, and rightly so. It's the granddaddy of Wagnerian tour-de-force scoring. "},{"Title":"not like the book but all we have","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"35 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie.  One of Arnold's classics and one of the best, unique movies to come out of the early 80s.  The movie doesn't even come close to the grandeur of the books written by Robert E. Howard after the turn of the century though.  If only there was a director out there who could read a book all the way through and see the unbelievable stories in the original Conan books, they could make a fortune.  Of course it would be hard to find the muscle bound, intelligent barbarian the books portrayed though. "}{"Title":"An epic tale of survival and revenge","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" People who have never seen Conan the Barbarian probably expect a sword-and-sorcery movie with a predictable plot, over-the-top action scenes, and pathetic attempts at humor. The reality is very different.This movie is a statement about two fundamental human values survival and revenge. In Western society, we can hardly appreciate these values, because we hardly ever need to worry about survival, and with the State taking care of justice, we feel little need for revenge. By watching this movie, we get a different perspective. Of course, not everybody will like this movie I have actually met people who don't. I put it down to people not appreciating how important survival was to our ancestors.Sword-and-sorcery movies, such as Conan the Destroyer, Red Sonja, and The Scorpion King, have nothing to say about survival and revenge they are too light-hearted (but at the same time their attempts at humor are too coarse). Conan the Barbarian is closer in feel to The Road Warrior, or Escape from New York, two other movies set in worlds where survival and the rule of law cannot be taken for granted.Another relevant comparison is with the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Here the difference is that The Lord of the Rings is a struggle between Good and Evil, while Conan the Barbarian is a struggle for survival (and revenge).While the movie is not very realistic, it feels much more real than the sequel. Apart from a bit of sorcery, which does not affect the plot, there is nothing glamorous about the life story of Conan. It seems strange that somebody who grows up pushing a wheel ends up with a well-proportioned Schwarzenegger physique how can you develop your biceps muscles if you always push? However, I was not too bothered by this flaw.Arnold's acting is (to put it mildly) less than brilliant. Still, this is not a drawback how articulate do you expect Conan to be, when he grew up as a slave? Speaking of which, R.H. Howard purists often complain that the real Conan would never be a slave. However, the movie would be much poorer if Conan did not have some real hardship to take revenge for.There is no question that visuals and music play a big role in this movie. I have been listening to the soundtrack a few times a week for nine years, and it is better than Prozac.Yet dialog (or rather, monologue) also has its moments. There are a couple of intriguing speeches, by Conan's father and by Thulsa Doom; but the most stirring monologue is Conan's first and only prayer, delivered just before the crucial Battle of the Mounds. The philosophy that transpires from this prayer is pretty straightforward nobody will remember if we were good men or bad, but people will remember if we were brave; revenge is what Conan most cares about; and if his gods won't help him, then he'll help himself. "},{"Title":"way better than anything Hollywood put out before it...or since","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this really is an amazingly well done fantasy movie. and i shudder to think that gladiator has gotten better reviews than this movie. it may not be an over-the-top blockbuster, but that's kinda the point. it's pretty minimalistic in it's dialog and some other aspects, but i only think that helps, not hurts it. personally, i can't stand to watch overdone Hollywood dramatizations such as gladiator. even lord of the rings, which were very well done movies, could've done without much of their over dramatic dialogs and extreme facial close ups that seem to go on forever. people have cited this movie as laughable but i personally think that many of peter jackson's choices for LOTR were equally laughable. "},{"Title":"Between the Time when the Oceans Drank Atlantis, and the Rise of the Sons of Aryas...","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let's face it - The Sword And Sorcery genre is not exactly known as the best in cinema, and for good reasons. Most specimen of this particular Fantasy sub-genre range from entertaining cheese to boring cheese, depending mainly on the level of sleaze and violence. Of course, the low quality of the vast majority of these films (which I usually still enjoy immensely) is partly due to low budgets and the lack of real actors, but mainly due to the fact that these films (especially those from the 80s) are entirely unworthy and unspeakably inferior rip-offs of the one supreme highlight of the genre - The awesome, unmatched and totally bad-ass Conan The Barbarian. Besides the original Terminator of 1984 and Total Recall, this 1982 cult-flick is easily the greatest film that Arnold Schwarzenegger ever starred in, and it outshines everything else in the field by far, and in all aspects.The film starts out with the Nietzsche Quote That Which Does Not Kill Us Makes Us Stronger, and it immediately continues equally archaic with the voice of a mysterious narrator who announces the tale of Conan. The film is set in a mysterious ancient time (between the time when the oceans drank Atlantis, and the rise of the sons of Aryas). As a young Cimmerian boy, Conan sees his northern village destroyed and his people killed by the armies of the warlord Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones), who declares himself a god. The boy is enslaved, and, over the years of working in a mill called the wheel of pain, he becomes stronger and stronger. Adult Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) becomes a gladiator, and subsequently a powerful warrior - with the intention to avenge his people...The film's raw, archaic atmosphere, fantastic sceneries and characters, and especially its fascinating mythology make this an absolute must- see for every fan of Fantasy, 80s cinema, or even films in general. The role of Conan fits Arnold Schwarzenegger like a glove, and it is hardly imaginable for anybody else to play the role. The performances of Schwarzenegger as Conan and and Sandahl Bergman, who plays Conan's lover and partner in battle, the Amazon warrior Valeria, are not exactly masterstrokes of brilliant acting, but this is not the point. The main intention for Conan is to look (and be) archaic and grim - and he does. The main intention for Valeria is to look like a wild Warrior princess - and she does. Therefore, Schwarzenegger and Bergmann fit perfectly in their roles. Apart from Miss Bergmann, there are several other beautiful female cast members, such as Cassandra Gaviola who is great as a witch, and the late Valérie Quennessen who plays a princess. Mako, who plays the Wizard who also narrates the story is also great in his role, and the supporting cast includes the great Max Von Sydow. THE great performance in the film, however, is that of James Earl Jones. Jones is brilliant in his villainous role Thulsa Doom. Mysterious, diabolical, haunting, incomparably menacing and absolutely brilliant - these are just some of the words to describe the role of Thulsa Doom, and James Earl Jones plays the role with ingenious perfection.The atmosphere is raw, archaic and absolutely fascinating, throughout. The combination of brutish battle, and surreal and supernatural elements, the sorcery and bizarre rituals - all these elements make this film so fascinating. The film is outstandingly photographed in ingenious settings, and visually stunning from the beginning to the end. Director John Milius deserves big praise for his visual talent in this film alone. This is a film that was fascinating in my childhood, and it is still awesome as an adult. Conan The Barbarian is THE highlight in the Sword And Sorcery genre, and a stunning cult-flick that should not be missed. The awesome finale will leave you breathless. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"22 minutes","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You know, Conan doesn't speak for the first 22 minutes of the movie, but it's worth the wait. Crush enemies, see them driven before you, hear the lamentations of the women is Conan's description of what is best in life.If you're a dialog person, this movie may not be for you. If you never paid attention to the dialog, you might do so now. Sex, drugs, and rock'n'roll! (except, without the rock'n'roll. The soundtrack is pretty awesome, though).What can I say? It's a classic. Intense blood and gore, Eighties-esquire special effects, intense sensuality with were-vixens, magic, revenge, true love...sounds like the Princess Bride with an R rating. Just kidding. "},{"Title":"Powerhouse of Might and Magic!","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Before CGI allowed filmmakers to cheaply create any fantasy world they can think of fantasy films had to rely on real locations, practical effects, and deep imagination to bring those worlds to life before the camera rather than in post-production. It may not be bestowed with Oscars, but Conan The Barbarian is just as classy as Ben Hur and more brutal than Gladiator.In an almost wordless set-up, a young Conan is orphaned by the androgynous warlord Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) and dragged off to some kind of weird labor camp where children are exploited and punished, kinda like a primitive version of Disneyland Paris. Years go by and Conan grows up into a huge, bloated and bulging muscle-bound killing machine.At this point, he is used as a money-making tool by his captors, who set up death matches with other killing machines. Soon, he becomes the most honored fighter in the land, so his captors set him free as he can win no more tournaments. In the opening act alone we see him transition from innocent child, to orphan, slave, gladiator, warrior, adventurer, and thief.He has a hard time surviving on his own until he finds a special sword, makes a new best friend in Subotai (Gerry Lopez) and finds a girlfriend in Valeria (Sandahl Bergman). Together, they live the high life of barbarians, mainly involving robbing, grunting, and clubbing people. All goes well until Conan makes it his personal quest to go after Thulsa Doom for revenge.James Earl Jones appears threatening, even though he doesn't even look like the kind of guy who would say boo to a goose. Imagine Oprah Winfrey in Hells Angels biker gear and you'll have an accurate description of Thulsa Doom. He's not a totally formidable foe for Conan in the larger-than-life sense, but psychologically he's a scary dude.Schwarzenegger does a great job. There really is only one person in the world who could play Conan, as sympathetic and brutal as he is, and Arnie definitely pulls it off, in this, his first major starring role. Of course, there is not much acting going on - he says only five words to Valeria in the whole movie - but it's all about physical presence, rather than thespianism. Most of the dialogue is unspoken. Conan was brought up to be a killing machine, but he learns humanity through feeling his own mortality.Producer Dino De Laurentiis, a veteran movie-maker, brought a whole load of money to give Conan a massive scale. John Milius stages some h-u-g-e scenes, with excellent production values, and his cinematographer Duke Callaghan uses widescreen framing brilliantly. The gore and violence is on a par with Paul Verhoeven and is so frequent that after a while it becomes almost comical. Basil Poledouris, who wrote wonderful music for RoboCop and many others, creates a truly majestic score that is absolutely spellbinding.As a tribute to Robert E. Howard's pulp hero, as a stand-alone movie, as an Arnie vehicle and cult picture, Conan is now almost a classic. Sure, there are faults, but you'll be too damn entertained to care. "},{"Title":"New version -- improved, but does Milius' vision come through?","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Several notes here on Conan the Barbarian, which has just appeared on DVD and thus deserves and needs another look, for one thing because there is a new edit in this version which bolsters the story somewhat.First of all, the film must be seen relative to other fantasy films, both before and since.  In terms of the setting, costumes, and general look and feel of the film, it is one of the most authentic and convincing fantasy films ever, certainly surpassing anything before it.  The mountain of doom set is one of the most impressive ever built for such a film, and this type of construction is an extreme rarity these days -- only the Rohirrim city in LOTR can compare, largely because escalating costs in construction have met with declining costs in digital construction.  The film should also be lauded because, especially when compared to previous fantasy films, even including the Harryhausen/Schneer Sinbad films, it takes itself seriously.  This may be a flaw to some audiences, especially in the wake of Star Wars when the film came out, but I really think that because this is an adult fantasy story and not a comic book one (as others have suggested) it needed a fairly straightforward, non campy treatment.  It will, of course, be compared in the coming years to the LOTR movies, with which it can't hope to compete on many levels.  For one thing, Tolkien's work presents an integrated masterwork, whereas adapting Howard's short stories for an epic sensibility tends to degrade their value as simple pop entertainment.  However, in terms of the settings and costumes, this film is almost LOTR's equal.  Also, it features a more grown-up set of characters and sensibilities, including a cynical view of sexuality and violence which is absent from Tolkien's somewhat Victorian fantasy setting. Viewing the film relative to the original works of R.E. Howard, there are numerous aspects to complain about and some to praise.  Howard's stories were written and published in random order, choosing to tell Conan's life story, as Howard put it, in the order of interest, much as a seasoned warrior would tell his stories around a campfire (he wouldn't tend to begin with the relatively embarassing thieving career he embarked on in Zamora in his youth, as this film does).  This film, in attempting to appeal to as wide an audience as possible, has chosen to show Conan as a child and also to unify the story around a theme of revenge, something far alien from the world of Howard.  The fixation on one romantic object (Valeria) is also foreign to Howard's ethos; he tends to have Conan hook up with one lusty wench by the end of each story (usually having already rescued said wench from ape-men or pirates or whatever) but when next we see Conan no mention will be heard of this girl (presumably she was left in a bar somewhere in Khitai).  Howard's Conan stories are fantasy in a deliberately anti-epic mode, and this movie does not follow this.On the other hand, the producers wisely chose to exclude Howard's questionable racial theories and his eugenics.  They did an admirable job of creating the sense that his fantasy world is really an ancient version of our own, and also managed to bring into the script the sense that violence was more pervasive and authoritative in this society than any other virtue, which is very true to Howards' vision.  Conan himself is shown as a big stupid brute, which is not true to Howard's portrait of the character, who usually escapes situations more by brains (and his opponent's tendency to underestimate what he has of them) than by brawn.  However, this may be seen as fairly true to Howards' vision of a young Conan as seen in House of the Elephant God.  The cities in particular have a great feel to them, very cramped and busy and dirty, with hundreds of pigs running around in the street and so on.  I really like the scene where Conan and Subotai get the black lotus and get high, as it introduces an amorality that is very strong in Howards' stories, but absent from most Hollywood heroic fantasy.As to Schwartenneger's performance, it is probably not very studied (in the commentary Arnold sounds like he doesn't understand the movie very much), but appropriate.  I think that physically someone who was more agile and less brawny would have been better (he looks very slow next to Valeria in the battle scenes, whereas Conan moved like a panther), but perhaps as the producers said if Arnold hadn't existed for this movie, we would have had to create him.Now to the new ending -- SPOILERS SPOILERS -- I think that it is much better, compared to the old ending.  Basically, he has brought the king's daughter into the final scene.  On the commentary track, Milius says his intention was to show that Conan could have taken Thulsa Doom's power, but chose instead to follow his own path, and this is shown through the king's daughter's actions and reactions to him.  However, viewing the film before I heard the commentary this intention wasn't exactly clear, so the producers' decision to truncate this ending for simplicity may be justifiable.All told, one of the best fantasy stories ever cinematically told. "},{"Title":"generations will be entertained by this masterpiece","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First of all I cannot believe how old this film now is! - 1982!! I can remember being introduced to it by looking at a German cinema advertising board outside the cinema whilst out with my dad, who at the time was serving with the British Army in Germany. I was a mere young one and what captivated me the most was the visual mastery of the still shots on the advertising poster! Years later when I was old enough to watch this film I was dumbfounded! easily Arnolds best and I would imagine his own favourite, along with The Terminator, despite the mockery from people who want 'highbrow' and cant understand 'popular' film. It is a visual delight and is very deep, it leaves a feeling that you can at some points connect with. Films such as this one come only so often but when they do you remember them. I always recheck films iv seen when younger because sometimes you are more over-awed than anything but this film always brings out the same feeling each time i see it. Its a classic without a doubt and its one of those movies that have been ruined by inferior sequels - destroyer was a joke right? The same way Rambo First blood was ruined by its sequels this film was turned into a joke.If Arnold had lived up to his acting credentials in this film and took less larger than life roles, my god i think he would of been more respected as an actor and i would of loved to have seen him achieve that! He was superb in this one. In my opinion his finest and i'm sure when I am many years older a younger generation of film buffs will say the same "},{"Title":"The crown jewel of sword and sorcery films","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This obviously isn't a film for everyone- if you're not into a film that weaves historical fantasy with sword and sorcery, then by all means, skip this movie. But Conan the Barbarian is a film for me. Though fantasy has come a long way in the two decades since this film was made (Lord of the Rings), I still find myself watching Conan over and over again, enjoying the clean-cut story and its context, the likable cast, the masterful music and scenery, and fight scenes that, while dated, still feel far more real than anything Peter Jackson can dish out.This also isn't the Conan that Robert E. Howard made. So what? The Lord of the Rings movies aren't the ones that Tolkien made. You can still enjoy the film as a film.The acting in this film gets panned way too much, and I'd call it unfair. It's easy to say Arnold can't act or Gerry Lopez was unconvincing. Acting itself has become so...EASY to slap down without a second thought that we miss the point of it too often. I think the cast fit their characters like gloves, especially Arnold; it's nice to see a character who trusts his sword above all else, and an actor (yes, I said it) who can exemplify that. Mind, James Earl Jones and Max Von Sydow are head and shoulders above Arnold through sheer experience, but Arnold puts as much vitality into Conan as Jones and Sydow do for Thulsa Doom and King Osric. How did he do it? His FACE. Arnold is great at making you believe he's thinking, and great at telling you what he's thinking just through his physicality. He was made to play Conan, what can I say? So lighten up on the Gubernator; none of the characters in Conan are supposed to be Shakespearean.The story is immensely entertaining, but I'm going to focus on something else here- on the vitality of the movie. Mind, I'm going to have trouble not taking potshots at the overrated LOTR trilogy, so...- John Milius' directing. He was never too blatant, and he let the context rule this film. Barbaric deeds are committed, but only when they're needed; other violent scenes are cut and work much better because they're unseen (the beheading of Conan's mother, Conan killing the dogs chasing him, etc.).Many of the shots he created in this film are shots every director should take advice from- the beginning attack on Conan's village with Thulsa Doom's riders using SUNLIGHT to mask their approach (genius), the long shot of the procession at the Mountain of Power, the humorous pattern shot with the huge spike that slams into one of Thulsa Doom's henchmen...beautiful.- Ron Cobb's unbelievable set design. There is as much intricacy in his floor effects as there is in Lord of the Rings' CGI, and you know what? Cobb made it feel more real. I felt more tied to the Atlantean tomb where Conan finds his sword than I ever did to Minas Tirith. As Milius put it, everything Ron Cobb designed had a practicality to it, echoed of other times- and of course, Cobb created the legendary Conan swords.- the battle scenes. Dated, certainly, and I could put the blood on my hotdog, but the fights themselves are so much more fluid and clean, the best of any fantasy film. Many slashes are dodged rather than blocked. Terrain is utilized. Most of all, the heroes get hurt. You would not believe how rare that is in fantasy films. Conan is wounded fighting two bigger, stronger men, yet Aragorn can charge into a pack of Orcs with one sword and he just gets a little dirty? Legolas can kill an Oliphaunt and its ten riders with his endless supply of arrows? Please.- Basil Poledouris' musical score. Unbelievable, and enough said at that. The soundtrack is something you can be proud of owning.The movie is not without its flaws, particularly a continuity goof at the end battles where the sky shifts colors constantly through the final battle.The combat is a little rough around the edges, and the blood sometimes looks a little TOO fake, haha! Finally, I hated the do you want to live forever? thing that Sandahl Bergman's character, Valeria, was always stuck with saying (what does that MEAN?), but the vitality in this movie makes me not care. Conan entertains, engages, and enthralls (a little emphasis for you there, heh). The feel of this movie is how the feel of any sword and sorcery flick should be.Theology in particular gets a humorous but still 'real' look in Conan the Barbarian, with the dialogue between Conan and his god, Crom, at a few points- often unspoken (and on that note, Arnold did a great job at the end with his prayer). In that light, Conan's belief seems much more normal never too formal, always looking up expectantly. His faith is never bogged down in ritual or fantasy, it's just something that Conan believes- unbiased and seldom spoken. Very artistic.Looking over the film as a whole, I say John Milius has every right in the world to be proud of it. Everyone who touched this movie has a right to be proud of it. It never swept the Oscars, but it didn't have to. It was an enjoyable and magnetic film, one you can spend a Friday evening on with no regrets, the flaws all trivial compared to the fun viewing experience. Oh, and you will utter at least one quote from this film at least once in your life. I guarantee it.Conan! What is best in life?To crush your enemies, see dem driven before you, and to hear de lamentation of de women!  "},{"Title":"Poetry","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are few movies that you can not stop watching - for me there are just handful of them, Conan is included. Conan is in a way pure poetry, virtually every scene is done with great love and understanding. From the start there is fantastic opening of Making the sword, ultra realistic attack on the village, Wheel of pain (great stuff - how to make time pass in few brilliant seconds), my favorite Recovery scene - Atlantean Sword Kata... Those five guys - John Millius, Oliver Stone, Basile Polidoris, Ron Cobb and Dino de Laurentis have made fantastic saga of honor, courage, friendship and love.What strikes me most are 3 things - there are no stupid morals of the good and evil or some kind of greater good, Milius and Stone don't waste time on that, second is brilliant production designe of Ron Cobb - the guy simply sucked us in Hybernian age without computer effects, and the third is simply fabulous soundtrack of late Basile Polidoris - they really don't make those kind of movies today. "},{"Title":"Hah! Crom laughs at the﻿ four winds!","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Directed by John Milius, Conan the Barbarian is an exaltation of all things barbaric.Some context Milius is mostly known today for being the basis of Walter Sobchak, the gun-loving right-winger of the Coen Brothers' Big Lebowski. There he's hilariously paired with his antithesis, a left-wing stoner called The Dude. In real life Milius himself proudly claims to been have blacklisted from Hollywood due to his hard-right politics, which he lovingly equates with rugged individualism, personal mastery, survivalism, a Nietzschean warrior's code, self-actualisation, outlaw glory, free-markets and a Darwinian credo. Milius' films (Big Wednesday, Magnum Force, Dilinger, Conan, Red Dawn etc) themselves typically involve macho warriors slaying villains in the name of property rights and individual freedoms, shotgun or broadsword in hand. For writing Dirty Harry, Milius even requested as payment, in addition to his agreed-upon fee, a James Purdy shotgun, apparently because guns are more honourable than money. Conan was also written by Oliver Stone, who like Francis Coppola (Milius co-wrote Apocalypse Now) salivates over megalomania, power and authority whilst pretending to do otherwise. At least Milius is upfront about his stance.Milius' ideals are attractive, but breakdown in the real world. In the West Indies, for example, the seemingly simple issue of property rights (or private property) to this day confers dominance to East Indians (who were granted land rights as Indentured labourers) and Anglo Saxons over Africans. Conan doesn't take place in the real world, though. Set thousands of years before recorded history, when the continents of Africa, Europe and Asia were a single land mass, the film stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as Conan, a camel punching Ubermensch who fights for vengeance and freedom. His target? Thulsa Doom, a black guy who (ironic) takes kids into slavery. It's another of Milius' everyman warriors vs the evil Other who steals our Freedom tale (Spielberg would consult Milius for the cryptofascist Private Ryan).Opening with a quote by Nietzsche - That which does not kill us makes us stronger - the film eventually grows to becomes a literal translation of your typical mistranslation of Nietzsche (Nietzsche's writings, with their fascist associations, would have negative effects on everyone from Hitler to Rand). So Arnie, a superman whose paternity draws a straight line from Beowulf to Enkidu, Atilla, Alexander and Genseric, is a warrior who embodies Nietzsche's personification of the will to power, the expression of human existence superior to that of the conventional, sentimental, bourgeois moral majority. Nietzsche attacks man's moral principles such that the new superman is a law unto himself. He is autonomous, destined to fulfil his highest dreams, a man who builds himself up into a being beyond the mob. His secret nobility, Nietzsche then says, will be of an aristocratic elevation for which no pattern exists. The film itself ends with Arnie becoming a king, sitting triumphantly on a throne.So Conan may be a barbarian, but he is manliness at its pinnacle, the survival of the fittest, a keen mind with 20-pack abs. And while Conan's mind and flesh are greater than steel, Thulsa Doom (played by James Earl Jones) by contrast is the lowest, the animal, the reptile, that which we have left behind in our rise toward humanness. He is of the gutter, a cannibal, a shape-shifting black man who mocks all with his pretence of being human. Unlike Conan, Thulsa relies on skills not won by hardship, self-discipline and a triumphant will but that are simply emanations of his own reptilian baseness.Beyond all this stuff, the film features some of Milius' best direction. Milius' crew find some superb locations, his crowd scenes are well shot, his set designers cook up a convincing pre Bronze/Iron Age world, and his injection of blood, gore, sex and nudity &#x96; gratuitous in another picture &#x96; only seem to add to the realism. The film's action sequences are also at times unconventionally structured, wordless, stretched and prolonged, with lots of creeping and slashing set to catchy music. The film's memorable Wagner inspired score was by Basil Poledouris. It, along with Milius' aesthetic, would prove a big influence on Jackson's Lord of the Rings movies. One of Poledouris' themes here, titled Theology/Civilization, has itself become well known in concert circuits.Like Star Wars (also with James Earl Jones as a bad guy), the pg rated fantasy/mythological film which preceded it, Conan is heavily influenced by Kurosawa and Ford. Milius' R rated blockbuster, however, at times feels like an art film, with huge portions devoid of dialogue, and a monosyllabic hero who can barely speak. Unsurprisingly Milius cast non actors for his three lead roles, Gerry Lopez a champion surfer, Sandahl Bergman &#x96; who plays a kind of Nordic, goddess-warrior &#x96; a dancer and Arnie a body builder. Their dialogue has a similar physicality about it. When a Mongol General yells Conan, what is best in life?, Arnie responds like a caveman To crush your enemies and hear the lamentations of their women! Elsewhere characters spout WW1 battle cries - Do you want to live forever?! - or opine about hacking, slashing and besting their enemies.The film was followed by a worthless sequel. Conan itself has a terrible reputation, but there are no better R-rated sword-and-sorcery movies out there, it's one of the better superhero origin movies, its depictions of religious blood-cults remains creepy, and it's the only good film to contain a shape-shifting mutant snake villain.Upon release the film was attacked for being fascist. Today such films are the norm. Indeed, most cinematic form echoes a totalitarian aesthetic (most humans are unconsciously fascist), designed to lull the viewer into a state of docility, awe and wonder. As cinema and fascism are about actualising fantasy and wilfully surrendering reality, cinema more naturally lends itself to fascist theatre then other art-forms. Milius' next film was Red Dawn, essentially Conan with kids. 8/10 - Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"Conan the Barbarian, do not underestimate this","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you're looking for the best spoken dialog in a movie, this isn't where to look.If you're looking for acting that is much more than overacted dialog, then this is for you. The body language used in this movie is real, it's not over acted. The fighting scenes are believable that require no strings. The beauty of this movie is it's cinematography, landscapes, costumes, attitudes, the grace of each character, and most of all...the soundtrack.No other movie has this little of dialog in recent times that requires just a complete video experience with music to take you to another world. Every time you hear the primal nature of Basil's music, you literally just want to stand up and cheer.There have been no movies in recent times that are on the same level as this movie. Gladiator, LotR, Willow to name a few are excellent movies, but they required dialog and a lot of special effects and/or excellent actors to do it. Conan was done with a cast of people who I feel felt the role and when you saw them just standing there, fighting, walking, riding...it's like you felt their feelings. The music only adds to this.This is and always will be one of my favorite movies of all time, not only for nostalgia value, but because it's a beautifully crafted masterpiece.Before anyone says this movie is bad, give the movie another view. Turn the lights down low, turn the sound up high, and be ready to go for an adventure. "},{"Title":"Cult classic!","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie might very well be THE ultimate cult classic ever made. It certainly is my favorite. Never have I seen a movie with so much and such great cult value in it.It's not really an epic movie in terms of having large epic sequences and battles in it but it nevertheless is a movie that takes on some epic proportions, which of course is also not in the least due to Arnold Schwarzenegger epic appearance in this movie. He was in great shape for this movie and it actually was also on of his earlier movie roles. It definitely was the movie that launched him to stardom. Not that his acting is epic in this movie though. It actually quite honestly is laughable bad at times but this only really adds to the movie its cult value.But what really makes this movie epic to me is its musical score by Basil Poledouris. Throughout his career Poledouris has scored for quite an amount of potentially B-movies (basicly all the scores he did for the John Milius and Paul Verhoeven movies) but his scores always managed to uplifts the movie to a much higher level, making these movies always much more than just a standard B-movie. I really can't imaging how this movie would had been without his musical score. As a matter of fact I don't even think I would had ever watched this movie, had it not been for its music.With its $20,000,000 budget this was a fairly expenses genre production for its time, also especially when you compare the budget to John Milius' previous projects. It's budget can be seen back in its nicely shot action sequences, it's production values with its settings (it was mostly shot in Spain), costumes and sets. It makes this visual a nice movie to watch. It wasn't a big box office success though and the movie did not became popular until years later, when the movie reached it cult-status.The story isn't really much special though and it also sort of drags in its middle part, when the movie does not always succeeds at it to bring entertainment. The movie is at its best when it is not trying to be more than it in fact is. The story just does not allow it to make this movie a great perfect classic. When the movie tries to be more serious this becomes painfully too obvious. It's mostly an enjoyable movie when its action kicks in. Luckily the movie is filled with some good old fashioned swords and fist fights, mostly in the beginning and toward the end of the movie. It can be a pretty violent movie at times and it also features its fair share of blood and gore.Besides Arnold Schwarzenegger the movie also features James Earl Jones in a rare villainous role. I don't think that there at that many movies around in which James Earl Jones plays a villain, except of course from the Star Wars movies, in which he voiced the ultimate villain Darth Vader. It also has Max von Sydow in a real small role and Japanese born actor Mako in a role which made him known and popular, despite the fact that he already had received an Oscar nomination once, 2 decades prior to this movie. It aren't really the actors that make this movie a good watch though but more the characters which they portray.My number one cult favorite!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Conan the Barbarian Film Sword and Sorcery at its Best","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The epic cinematography, the low-tech special effects, the beautiful sets, and the well-paced narrative make this film brilliant. Based upon the character created by Robert E. Howard--quite possibly the greatest pulp fiction writer in the 30s--the movie recreates the nihilistic and hopeless aesthetic the writer's stories and the Sword-and-Sorcery--are so famous for. In the world of Sword and Sorcery and Conan, the Gods are indifferent, and often sadistic. They laugh at our tribulations, and think no less of gobbling up a mortal than we do of slaughtering a head of cattle. Although life is short and terrible in Conan's world, the noble and powerful still insist on living it.John Milius and Oliver Stone's screenplay as well as Milius's directing rendition capture the feeling of timelessness and hopelessness of the genre. Mako, the actor who plays the strange coast-wizard and narrator, has a wonderful voice for the genre, and it matches perfectly with the screenplay composed by Basil Poledouris. James Earl Jones's creates an intriguing, mythic, and unique character out of the cult-leader Thulsa Doom. No actor has made silence more emotive than Schwarzenegger does in this film. The entire cast and production team seemed to be a rare and happy miracle.I remember being a little kid, probably in 89, listening to the beginning drumbeats of the theme song, and then hearing, Between the time the ocean drank Atlantis and the rise of the Sons of Aryas... and literally having the hair on the back of my neck stand up. There are numerous great lines, particularly Conan's answer to the question, What is good in life? To crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and to hear the lamentation of the women.  And the dialog in general, married with the strategically utilized silences, force the viewer to reflect on the iconic shots Conan, sitting over a fire eating meat with a friend; Conan, meditating on the death of Thulsa Doom; Conan, trudging onward on the wheel of pain.Today my appreciation of the movie comes from the extent to which it truly recreates the aesthetic and feeling of the Sword and Sorcery genre, and also the raw and immediate power of low-tech special effects over today's--I sound like an old man--flashy computer graphics. Sure, when Conan hacks off Thulsa Doom's head and tosses it down the steps of the Mountain of Power, the bloody prop looks kind of fake. But it initiates my imagination in a way CGI never will be able to. "},{"Title":"The Austrian, Darth Vader and the Plastic Snake","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" From the famed comics, distilled through a cocaine fueled Oliver Stone's wild mind, comes Conan (Arnie), sole survivor of a village massacred by the evil Thulsa (James Earl Jones), he roams the land until he can exact his revenge.Sometimes, there comes a film that truly is a product of its time and place. Conan could only have been made by John Milius, with Schwarzennegger (who else could conceivably be physically credible?) and in the middle of the Raegan 80s. It is loud, violent, proud and it gloriously wears its campness as a badge of honor. In fact, rather than hide what in any other film would be construed as flaws, it places an emphasis on them to the point of turning them into unique strengths. It may have an Austrain and linguistically challenged colossus for a star, shamelessly use the voice of Darth Vader as its villain and have a plastic snake that wouldn't look out of place in a Monty Python skit, Conan the Barbarian is unbelievably endearing and enduring. This is mostly because, rather that inject the proceedings with irony, director John Millius chose to play it with a straight face.Conan is more than a product of its time and a one-off curiosity however. It is an important milestone of fantasy film-making, with influential strengths. First and foremost, the music score, by Basil Poledouris still dominates the genre with its unique blend of sensuality and violence. These two themes imbue the film completely, the first through fascination with carnality and human bodies, the second in the film's numerous groundbreaking brawls. Undilluted Schwarzenegger is something to look forward to. Undilluted Schwarzenegger wielding a gigantic sword in a fantasy world is a sheer joy (especially when he can is given the opportunity to kill vultures with his bare teeth while crucified).In these times of political correctness, CGI and sanitized entertainment, it is likely we shall never see its like again. We don't need to. Conan is immortal. "},{"Title":"Exraordinary","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 20 years before Lord of the Rings raised the bar on the Fantasy genre in movies, it was Conan the Barbarian that had set the standard.John Milius successfully composed his film using virtually unknown actors and a rookie composer, shooting his scenes with the ominous narration booming through Mako's distinctive voice.Everything about this film is distinctive. True to the spirit of Howard's character, the dialog is sparse. The camera tells us most of the story with the aid of Basil Poledouris' magnificent score.It is highly unfortunate that the sequel did not live up to the standards of this film. We may never see its like again.It is an extraordinary film. "},{"Title":"Overwhelming sword-and-witchery epic in one of the first and main roles for Arnold Schwarzenegger","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sword-and-sorcery epic with incredible adventures , spectacular battles and strong scenes . This is an epic adventure set in Hyborian Age based on Robert E. Howard's pulp tales with screenplay by Oliver Stone and the same director John Milius . It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger in the title role, as the Hyborian Age hero fighting against ominous and heinous nasties . Conan seeks vengeance when being kid (Jorge Sanz) he saw as his mother (Nadiuska) was decapitated by a sorcerer (James Earl Jones), subsequently his village was slaughtered and he enslaved . Many years later , Conan undertakes a perilous travel with the help his partner (Gerry Lopez), a magician (Mako, who repeats his role as wizard in the sequel ¨Conan the destroyer ¨ by Richard Fleischer), a gorgeous warrior (Sandhal Bergman) who is also sidekick and lover , all of them are assigned by a king (Max Von Sidow) to free a young princess (Valerie Quennessen) from the claws a satanic witch . They undergo on a risked trip to find the princess , contending the cult leader and his giant hoodlum (Ben Davidson) and leading a vibrant ending.This violent sword-and-witchery story packs noisy action, blood-thirsty battles at every turn , full-blooded adventure, thrills, crude scenes and rip-roaring fights. The picture is unbelievably brutal and sexist though also displays some love scenes and raunchy images . Made on a grand scale , approx 20 million of dollars , with spectacular production design by Ron Cobb and colorful cinematography by Duke Callaham , mostly filmed in Almeria (Spain) where in the 60s and 70s were shot innumerable Spaghetti Western . Big budget and lavishly produced by the great producer Dino and Rafaella De Laurentis, Dino's daughter. Impressive and groundbreaking musical score composed and conducted by Basil Poledouris . Conan fans will be delighted with this breathtaking and bloody epic . Followed by a sequel titled ¨Conan the destroyer¨ with Wilt Chamberlain , Grace Jones , Sarah Douglas and Olivia D'Abo that contains some dumb images and is unintentionally hilarious but amusing ; furthermore several low-grade imitations and rip offs, and spawned TV series starred by Ralph Moller. Plus a similar film realized in old-fashioned and lightweight style also directed by Richard Fleischer titled ¨Red Sonja¨ with Brigette Nielsen as female lead , Sandahl Bergman and of course Arnold Schwarzenegger has a brief guest spot. And in production a new ¨Conan¨ by Marcus Nispel with Jason Momoa, Rose McGowan and Ron Perlman "},{"Title":"Arnold's break-through","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I was a little girl, one of the movies my parents couldn't get enough of was the Conan movies. I remember watching them a bit with my parents, but I think I got sick of it. I haven't seen Conan or the sequel since I was 6 or 7 years old. I'm so strange, the other day I wasn't feeling so well, so I decided to stay in and just randomly decided to watch the Conan movies. I was a bit nervous since I hated watching it 5 million times with my parents, I was thinking I might have the same reaction, but luckily enough, I actually had a good time watching Conan. How could you not love Arnold Schwarzenegger? Not to mention this is his first major movie and to see him in his prime was awesome. Conan has everything that I loved about the old 1980's action/adventure movies cheesy CGI effects, fun reactions from the actors, great stunts and a story of thrills. Conan witnesses the destruction of his village at the hand of Vanir warlord Thulsa Doom. Conan's father valiantly fights the bandits, but Thorgrim kills him with his pack of trained dogs and then kills Conan's mother. Sold into slavery along with the other children from his village, Conan is forced with others to push a human-powered mill. Reaching adulthood as the sole survivor, he has become broad and strong. After a period of enduring the elements, a lone horseman appears. Conan, it appears, is purchased on the premise that size alone is good enough to qualify him to fight as a gladiator. While still a slave, Conan studies language and writing including poetry and philosophy. He eventually however is set free by his master and soon discovers a sword from an ancient Atlantean king in a tomb. Conan thus dedicates his life to vengeance.Conan the Barbarian is a fun movie and really cheered my night up. I loved watching all the fight scenes, they were absolutely incredible, Arnold whipped that sword around as if it were a feather and was so graceful with it. James Earl Jones, another addition that you cannot go wrong with, he's the bad guy, it's like his calling card, he's perfect and has such a powerful presence on screen. The sets and direction also are done very well, John Milius did a great job and knew what the vision of this movie should have been like. I've heard before that these movies never did the stories of Conan any justice, but I haven't read them so I can't judge. Even so, I think people should give these movies a fair chance, if anything Conan the Barbarian is a fun action/adventure movie and takes us out of the world where dressing up in barbarian clothing is not just a sexual fetish but can be a good movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Conan - A true classic and something that may never be imitated","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan is an extremely remarkable film. Many people feel that Arnold Schwarzeneggar is just a meat head and is incapable of making a truly authentic cinema masterpiece. This film proves exactly the opposite.This film set the standards for swords and sorcery films. The combination of directing, script, and acting are what set this apart from other films of the same genre. John Milius was clearly the right person to direct this film. Arnold's performance is also exceptional and his acting in this film is among the top performances he has had. The rest of cast is exceptional as well and met the necessary standards for a film of this caliber. What makes this film so unique and great is that most of the actors are novices with exception to James Earl Jones, Rob Cobb, Mako, and Max Von Sydow. Although the experienced actors have limited rolls, they play important rolls and their performances help support the overall feel to the film. I like this movie because the main actors were all new and worked very hard to create an extremely distinct and true film.For the era and time that this film was produced, the effects that the film had were outstanding. Although there was no CGI at this time, the production crew did a great job creating the giant snake and the transformation sequences with James Earl Jones. I think what made this film so unique was how it was done. I liked the fact that their was very little dialogue from the actors themselves and that the audience was mostly addressed through the voice-over of Mako. This gave the movie a feel that it was a grand story being told to the audience and that we were in essence being read an adult bedtime story.It is extremely difficult to explain how great this film is on such a limiting platform, but I think that once this film is watched, it can then be understood how incredible it truly is. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly the best of it's genre.  Seriously.","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is probably the last film people think of when trying determine the best Sword and Sorcery movie, but by God it should be right up there with LOTR, Willow, and The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. It is in many ways, believe it or not, more satisfying and entertaining than any of those other films and has a much harder edge. Give John Milius some credit for creating a movie that actually feels and looks like it happened thousands of years ago in a dark, mystic, past. The strongest asset this film has are the Villains, played wonderfully by the immortal James Earl Jones, Sven Thorsen, and ex NFL lineman Ben Davidson. These bad muthas crush anyone in their path and have a stranglehold on their world which they re-inforce through sorcery and terror. Conan is also a revenge fantasy movie and one of the best, as we see our hero ruthlessly pursuing his Clan's murderers. Another bright spot is Sandahl Bergman, who plays Valeria, a sword wielding badass who joins Conan on his path to revenge. One of the strongest female characters in any film, Bergman makes Angelina Jolie look laughable as today's top female action star. Surprisingly, this film does not draw much specific material from Robert Howard's Conan stories, yet it somehow stays true to the source. A difficult task and one that is done well by Milius and screen writer Oliver Stone. Lastly there is Arnold, who fills Conan's shoes admirably, though his lines can be counted on one hand. One of the few contradictions to the source material is that in the stories, Conan is actually quite intelligent and nimble in conversation. In the film, (most likely due to Arnold's inexperience at this time) Conan says very little, and accomplishes more through his brute strength than through guile. Yet, once again it stays true to the character somehow. I would recommend this film to anyone that likes to be teleported to another time and place when they see a movie, which is what you get here. Filmed in Spain, the cinematography is gorgeous and the set-pieces are mind blowing. It is such a shame that the sequel, Conan the destroyer, is so terrible. Otherwise this movie would get a lot more attention as well as the credit it deserves for being a superbly entertaining and well made film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful visual story-telling","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I will premise this comment by saying that this is my favorite movie of all-time. With that said, I do believe this is one of those films that was close to perfectly made as possible. Before anyone criticizes that mind you that I recognize that it wasn't ACTUALLY made perfectly, but close in my mind.If you are of the idealogy that the soundtrack is a huge part of a film... then Basil's work on this film will not disappoint you. The soundtrack is phenomenal and is the only movie soundtrack that I own (and listen to on frequent occasions). The character of Conan almost has this feeling of absolution. He says next to nothing the entire film and his character is based on his actions and experiences. Arnold's career now may be looked at as all-action/no-acting, but his presence in Conan showed an ability to capture a character, whom oddly enough is extremely close to his own real life.The movie has a wonderful setting which has such a real feeling to it. The supplemental characters are fantastic; Gerry Lopez plays the sidekick perfectly, Max Von Sydow may overact a little but delivers the performance of a king as asked, Mako plays a wizard with an eccentric personality and offers a range of facial expressions that lack any subtleness, Ben Davidson may have an over the top death scene, but he epitomizes what you would expect from his character, and James Earl Jones plays an eerie villain that puts fear in you for his lack of emotion.John Milius and Oliver Stone put together a great story with solid pace... explaining Conan's beginnings with little waste (even with the odd introduction of magic with his sex for information proposition in the early parts.If you have read this and feel that my comment and description of this film is lacking... I apologize. The only way I can think of how this movie has not gotten the same type of respect that Gladiator or Spartacus has received is because undue perception has been attached to the film. You will see flaws (some of the sword work for example), but in terms of story-telling and setting the scene/mood, you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"The Best Sword and Sorcery Film","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Robert E Howard is often credited with inventing the sword and sorcery genre with the introduction of one of the all-time great fantasy characters, Conan the Barbarian. This was way back in the early 1930s. Writer Karl Wagner describes sword and sorcery as, ...a fascinating synthesis of horror, adventure, and imagination...the common motif is a universe in which magic works and an individual may kill according to his personal code. The atmosphere of sword and sorcery is charged with violence, darkness, sexuality, and supernatural perils. The themes of the stories often reach deep into the abyss of cosmic horror and dread. It takes quite a hero to stride undaunted and undeterred across this landscape! In the early 1980s Conan got his first film. It launched Arnold Schwarzenegger's career. It was a brilliant film, flawed, but it soared above its flaws. It has been often imitated since then, yet most of those efforts failed miserably. Why do imitation films fail in this genre? Because they focus on the half-naked babes, the half-naked muscle bound (and often angry) hero, the violent fights, the wizards with special effects at their fingertips, as if this were enough. But they fail to capture the fundamental and necessary element of the genre - a subtle atmosphere of the supernatural and the uncanny. There must be a credible, ever-present but not over-done supernatural theme pervading the setting. The darkness, the pathos, the sense of horror necessary for the genre entered for a few moments of the film. The witch, the wizard, the evil priest of the snake cult, the cultist's suicide, the scene where the spirits are trying to steal Conan's soul, the occasional banter about the gods, the orgy...all of these elements capture the proper atmosphere. The sorcery is not overblown, nor is it all about special effects. Few S&S movies get this right. Conan the Barbarian shows how it is done. There are a few issues with the movie that will bother Conan purists. For me, the worst is Conan's childhood (a subject never touched upon in the books, and I hate it when writers murder the parents to provide motivation for a character). But all in all, I imagine Robert Howard would be happy with this Conan. A few of the scenes were right out of his stories - the crucifixion tree, the ghostly help from a dead girlfriend, gigantic snakes, thieves climbing a mysterious tower. Sadly missing are the monstrous man-apes, or unnatural creatures summoned out of the abyss by sorcerers, both of which feature prominently in Conan stories. The music is awesome, James Earl Jones and Sandahl Bergman are fabulous. And of course Arnold is perfect. I keep hoping for another great Sword and Sorcery movie. Its been 25+ years, and there are no contenders. "},{"Title":"Faultless fantasy classic","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The best fantasy films are the ones that give you a tantalising glimpse of a world you wish you could just see a little bit more of. For me, Conan the Barbarian is one of the very best fantasy films. What we see of the world Conan inhabits is beautifully realised, but more than that, it's all so three-dimensional, so believable, I just wish I could step into the screen - armed with a blade of gleaming steel and the skill to wield it - and explore.The simplicity of this film belies a visual and narrative poetry which strikes me more and more every time I see it. Every element seems an integral part of the story. The score by Basil Poledouris is outstanding, the direction, cinematography and design stunning, and the performances utterly believable. This is Schwarzenegger's best role. As Conan he holds his own even when James Earl Jones is on screen.If you haven't seen it already, please enjoy this classic movie. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Before Arnie became The Terminator he was Conan the Barbarian in this visually stunning fantasy film based on the books of Robert E. Howard. An endlessly influential film, withe recent films such as the Matrix and The Lord of the Rings Trilogy taking elements from it, a film with much greater depth than most give it credit for, clever, emotive, with a smart script, one of the best soundtracks of all time, strong performances and great action. Conan the Barbarian is an underrated classic, but one which all Arnie fans love, one which deserves to be recognised for what it is rather than criticising it as brainless violence.John Milius, director of Big Wednesday, writer of the Apocalypse Now screenplay and famous sections of Jaws and Dirty Harry decided to turn Howard's classic stories into a big screen adventure. With a script by himself and Oliver Stone, they found Schwarzenegger, convinced actors such as Max Von Sydow and James Earl Jones to join the cast, and made the definitive fantasy film. Along with Basil Poledouris making the score, and a host of talented set designers and effects guys, Conan the Barbarian should not be taken lightly.Conan tells the story of a man whose entire village was slaughtered when he was a child, and taken into slavery until he became an adult. During the period of slavery he pushes a giant wheel until he has grown, become strong, and everyone else has died. He is then taken and trained as a fighter and killer in small arenas, soon becoming the famous and bloodthirsty warrior in the land, forgetting his past, and becoming an emotionless machine. However, when he is released his past soon comes back to him and he seeks vengeance for the man who killed his family-Thulsa Doom. On his travels he rescues Subotai, played by surfer Gerry Lopez, a thief and they become friends. Soon they encounter Valeria, a beautiful young warrior thief who is infiltrating an evil tower owned by Doom. They go in, butcher the bad guys, steal a diamond, and Conan and Valeria fall in love. Her attitude towards life overpowers him, and the three go around the land stealing. However, the draw of the past is too much and they search for Doom who is taking over the land with his hypnotic powers, believing flesh to be stronger than steal. He is a powerful wizard and sacrifices many innocent young people who succumb to his ways, much like a modern religious cult. Doom and Conan meet again, and Doom is too strong, teaching Conan about his power, much like Conan's father spoke of the riddle of steel. Conan is left for dead, but his friends find him, and with the help of a magician restore him in a very touching and powerful scene. Renewed, Conan once more seeks Doom, but this time it is not him who is killed, enraging him further.Arnold's performance here is one of his best, the kind of role he should be given and proving that he is the best at what he does. Sydow is good in a smaller part, Jones is awesome-just watch his eyes. Mako is very good as the Wizard, Gerry Lopez is superb, and Sandahl Bergman is excellent in a performance which should have sent her on to greatness. The score is easily among the best ever, perfectly complementing every scene, heightening the emotional impact whether it be a battle scene or funeral. The action is also very impressive, before masses of CG beasties, with heads sailing off and swords clashing. It is also one of the most beautifully shot films of the decade, the camera panning over wide areas much like Kurosawa in movement, a technique used again by Peter Jackson. The script is full of quotable dialogue, mixing serious ones with typical Arnie one-liners, Nietchze is referenced and other philosophical issues are discussed with an odd amount of skill for an action movie. Rather than discussion, a few one-liners are given, but they are to good effect. Certain scenes are highly emotional, and they are dealt with skilfully, and Conan is a tragic figure rather than a murderer. No-one can ever get close to him again, anyone who does dies. It is not only a great action and fantasy film, but a great love story. Worthy of Oscar nominations, but of course this type of film is always regarded as pointless. Even if you are not an Arnie film, if you are not someone with a closed mind who has made a decision as to whether you will like a film or not before you see it, then you should see the many merits here. One of the best films of the early 80's, though unfortunately it is mostly discarded.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"My favouritest fantasy!","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is my all-time favourite fantasy movie ever. The LotR-trilogy by Peter Jackson coming at a very good second place.Why do I like it?1 The faraway feeling is overpowering.2 Arnold Schwarzenegger actually acts.3 Very few words are being said. The film speaks for itself, few explanations needed.4 Special effects are scarce (just as well, since it's an old movie) and the film relies on a strong use of natural landscapes, sets and the imagination of the audience.5 The music. Oh, so painfully beautiful!6 Thulsa Doom kicks Saruman's butt any Ol' day!7 Cool fights. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is, in my opinion, largely misunderstood, and has been since the beginning of its production. It has been interpreted as just a muscles-and-gore flick. I think with more refined editing and marketing, it could be remembered now as a wonderful film with the campbellian elements of heroic myth and a story of Conan's personal growth as a man. Still, as an action movie it is first-class. "},{"Title":"Thief. Warrior. Gladiator. King.","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of those movies that left a very big impression on me. An exciting sword and sorcery, or rather sword and sandal adventure set in an old age of magic and monsters. The story is a simple but epic one, There is a boy named Conan, whose father teaches him of the power of steel, and how only in his sword he can trust more than any man, woman, or beast. Shotly after, his village is invaded and his family killed by a the evil sorcerer Thulsa Doom and a small army of raiders. The children are taken away and forced to push a gigantic wheel. Years later, we see that only one has survived, a fully grown Conan. Conan is taken away to fight as a pit fighter, learn swordsmanship and language. Eventually, with the help of a couple of thieves, he embarks on a quest to defeat Thulsa Doom. There is so much I love about this movie, the story is pretty simple, but the magnitude is fantastic, it really feels like an ancient legend come to life. There is actually less dialogue than one would expect and much of the story is told through narration, we see the characters develop and come to understand them by their actions, and it's this kind of subtlety that makes it so great. This is a great example of visual storytelling, combining the narration and imagery to give the feeling of reading a book.The performances really drive the film, Arnold Schwarzenegger's performance as Conan is perfect, he has little dialogue but you just see his emotion in his eyes and feel what he feels. His character goes through several interesting phases, we first see him as a child learning from his father, as an adult we see how detached he is as he becomes a killing machine deriving satisfaction from victorious bloodshed and the sexual pleasure of women. Later he turns to thievery, falls in love with a beautiful woman and succumbs to hedonism and becomes, literally, drunk with excess. However he and his fellow adventurers are paid to rescue an old king's daughter from Thulsa Doom, which Conan sees as an opportunity to avenge his family's murder. Conan eventually becomes cold-hearted and driven by his desire for revenge but still is a very human character. The gorgeous Sandahl Bergman plays Conan's lover Valeria, a strong and likable heroine who actually gets a bit less screen time than she deserved. Then there's Conan's thief sidekick Subotai played by surfer Gerry Lopez, another great supporting character. The extremely talented Mako not only provides the excellent narration but plays an eccentric wizard who is actually one my favorite characters. James Earl Jones brings a great menacing presence to Thulsa Doom, a tyrannical sorcerer and cult leader with great hypnotic influence on the masses and the power to turn into a snake, a weird scene but unsurprising as this is his motif, he even had a pet snake which Conan fights in the movie.Also, Max Von Sydow makes a brief but memorable appearance as King Osric, who has Conan rescue his daughter from Thulsa Doom. Perhaps the greatest strengths of the movie lie in it's visuals and atmosphere. The cinematography is stunning and captures the beauty and brutality of this ancient world, from the icy mountains to the scorching desert to the palace of the villain. The settings and production design are fantastic and look what one would expect of such a barbaric time period. The castles and palaces made of stone and sometimes buildings of wood in a world that seems to echo an ancient Europe and even Biblical times in western Asia. The clothing of characters enforce this as well, warriors clad in armor and fur cloaks or the villainous black robes of the villains. The battle sequences are amazing to watch, grand sword-fights and brutal gladiatorial fights. The orchestral score of Basil Poledouris is half of what makes this so great, it's so rich and epic and enforces the emotion and context of every scene, humorous, happy, exciting, romantic, sad, dark, and haunting. Overall, this is one of those movies that I totally enjoyed and I recommend it, though I will warn that there is lots of graphic violence, strong sexual content and some frightening scenes, this is a fantasy film aimed specifically at teenagers and adults and I think more of a guy flick. It's epic, it's stylish, it's action packed, it's fun and very memorable. "},{"Title":"The movie is a tribute to Eisenstein","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Only a hand of people knows but the movie Conan is also a tribute to a very ancient Russian filmmaker called Sergey Eisenstein. In fact some elms and armor used in 'Conan' are very similar to the ones that appear in Aleksandr Nevskiy warriors. There are even more bizarre elms in Eisenstein movie... But you need to see Eisenstein movie (I'm not going to tell about them now). Even the Thulsa Doom's quotation Steel is not stronger... Flesh's stronger. What is steel compared to the hand that wields it? can be found in Aleksandr Nevskiy. There are also some scenes in Conan (the pilgrimage to the mount of power by example) that remember Eisenstein's 'Ivan Grozny' pilgrimage to call Ivan back to Moscow. I've read some comments like what of so special the movie Conan have and I can tell you that only the above mentioned parallels bring Conan to the category of classic movies. I also would like to apologize for my bad English I'm from Brazil. "},{"Title":"any teenage boy's dearest friend & ally","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a youth I was introduced to Conan first with The Destroyer which is much friendlier and more accessible to juvenile audiences. When I first tried out the prequel around age 11 or 12 I found it just too ponderously slow-paced and straight-faced to really dive into (and the sex and violence put me off). However, come puberty and patience a few years later, everything changed as I developed an appreciation for slower, simpler, solid originals as opposed to faster-moving albeit sloppier sequels (like to a less extreme example ALIENS and TERMINATOR 2). Most importantly, I was of an age where I was finally able to appreciate the sophistication of the creative vision behind the scenes the locations, the costumes, the performances, and best of all the music! Basil Poledouris never really got his day in court later in his career quite like he did with this film. It's one of the richest, most melodic, and consistently riveting and appropriate scores ever produced. At the time, it must have been a revelation. Every scene and every performance in the film (aside from Sydow, who has no music to his well-acted but somewhat sluggish talk scene) benefits from the musical score immeasurably.I don't think audiences today can quite see how ahead of its time this film was, or how much of an anomaly it stands as. It's the first serious-toned and realistically violent fantasy movie that was ever made, and maybe the only one to have such a depth in philosophical reasoning behind it and an adequate budget to realize most of what the filmmakers intended.Therefore it really is *the* fantasy movie of our time, something harder-edged and with more of the focus on the loner fighting his way to the top than something like the LORD OF THE RINGS movies which focus on a larger conflict with a team effort.In retrospect I'm bittersweetly happy to have had this film as a friend growing up as it did a lot to promote an interest and appreciation of cinema. It's actually quite key to why I work in the business today. Unfortunately though I've come to realize that the magic of films like this is largely gone from the movie industry today and we may never see films again so personally crafted in an age of economically-driven blockbusters. With a lot of hope and determination from today's generation of artist, that can change. A boy can dream. "},{"Title":"A movie where the score is the real star","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Basil Poledouris conceived a masterpiece for this film's score. The dialog seems to only add more to an already developed story you can hear from the music. All you need to do is buy the soundtrack and listen to it in order to enjoy the movie. Basil worked on producing music that would have sounded like the time, hence you hear more pentatonic scales and less diatonic ones. As a classical cellist, the score really hits home. Arnold is not an amazing actor, but no one is save for Earl Jones. Yet this is not a matter of consequence, for again, all you need to do is listen to the score to enjoy the film. This film is more opera and less action, since the melodies tell most of the story. Know this and you will thoroughly enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Fabulous, Bloodthirsty, Brilliantly Designed Heroic Fantasy Of  A Mythic Warrior Thief","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the Hyborian Age, Conan is a Cimmerian warrior who has sworn revenge on the evil Thulsa Doom, who killed his parents and burned his village. With the aid of his friends, Valeria and Subotai, he sets out to destroy Doom and his evil cult of snake worshippers.This fantastic and gorgeous-looking adventure epic is one of the few sword-and-sorcery action movies which really manages to capture the essence of the pulp novels and comic-books from which it is derived. It does this by being way over the top - full of flesh and blood, fights, stunts, monsters, special effects, incredible sets, bizarre costumes and weird weapons - but also by playing it true to the source material. This was Schwarzenegger's first lead role (though he's good in a couple of earlier movies, Stay Hungry and The Villain) and he's perfect for the part; okay he doesn't say much, but he doesn't need to, he simply is Conan. This movie doesn't need dialogue; it has amazing scenes and a fabulous thumping score by action-movie specialist Basil Poledouris which drives it headlong, smashing through the story with adrenaline and romance in equal measures. The whole cast are terrific and perfectly physical; Bergman is the definitive Amazonian / Valkyrie warrior woman (check her out also in Red Sonja and Hell Comes To Frogtown), and Lopez (a champion surfer from Hawaii) is excellent as the heroic Subotai. Jones gives one of the strangest, most hypnotic villain performances you'll ever see, and cult-movie stalwarts Mako and Von Sydow are dependable as ever. Note also Danish actor Thorsen as the hammer-wielding Thorgrim; he's an old bodybuilding pal of Arnie's who has bits in many of the great man's movies and plays heavies in lots of other good films too. Perhaps the best work in this movie though is the production design by Ron Cobb (Dark Star, Aliens, Total Recall). The incredible sets really bring the mythic age to life, and there are many eye-popping moments - the endless line of acolytes filing towards the temple, the buzzard attendants at Conan's crucifixion, the cannibalistic orgy that ends in a bloodbath, Valeria's funeral pyre blazing in the darkness, as well as all the beheadings, stabbings, beatings and general mayhem. The only phrase to describe it all is bloody good fun. Shot in British Columbia and Andalucía, and followed by an enjoyable sequel, Conan The Destroyer. Written by Milius and Oliver Stone (a strange right-meets-left political pair), this is a sensational realisation of the writings of Robert E. Lee (the Conan stories were originally published between 1932 and 1936 in Weird Tales magazine) and the work of artists like Frank Frazetta and Boris Vallejo. Conan The Barbarian is the best movie by the talented Milius and a perfect distillation of his macho-man aesthetics. "}{"Title":"CONAN THE BARBARIAN Extended International Version (John Milius, 1982) ***","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I still have vivid memories of watching this one on Italian TV, with several of its images (alternately sexual, violent and scary) remaining memorable to this very day - particularly the sequence in the giant snake's lair and the shooting of snakes as arrows!; I also recall catching some of its lowbrow imitators like the Italian-made ATOR movies and THE BEASTMASTER (1982) on TV or VHS, not to mention playing the Barbarian computer game with its theme and music clearly inspired by this movie. As a matter of fact, the awe-inspiring visuals and Basil Poledouris' now-classic score still constitute the film's mainstays, smoothing over a rather wooly plot and the inherently ponderous nature of the whole enterprise &#x96; since what humor there is throughout is quickly stifled by its overpowering sense of gloom. This third viewing of the film &#x96; via the Extended (but also slightly censored) version on R4 SE DVD proved to be the most satisfactory so far; I guess it helped that it followed on the heels of several similar sword-and-sorcery outings which enabled the inherent superiority of CONAN THE BARBARIAN to fully emerge.Arnold Schwarzenegger is the perfect embodiment of a brawny medieval action hero; Sandahl Bergman (who would eventually turn villainous for RED SONJA 1985) is equally impressive as Valeria, Conan's blonde female counterpart &#x96; their rapport is genuine enough as to make his being shown still pining for her throughout CONAN THE DESTROYER (1984) credible, the villainess of that film (Sarah Douglas) having promised to resurrect Valeria if he lends his services to her 'cause'!; also on the side of good are Mako as Akiro The Wizard (who returns in the sequel and actually provides the narration in both Conan ventures) and surfer Gerry Lopez as a Mongol thief.Incidentally, the project originated with Oliver Stone &#x96; who's still credited as co-writer incongruously for him, he had stressed the fantasy elements of the tale (which writer/director Milius subsequently de-emphasized after taking over); perhaps to lend the film some artistic gravitas, the latter selected powerful and well-known actors for some of the leading characters James Earl Jones makes for a very sinister Thulsa Doom (playing the last surviving member of an ancient cannibal civilization, he's made to turn into a giant snake!) and Max Von Sydow (as a king given the Shakespearean name of Osric, even if only one of the sequences filmed with him made the final cut!); a surprising, albeit all-too-brief, presence in the film is that of Jess Franco regular Jack Taylor &#x96; here playing one of the priests at Jones' temple.In the accompanying documentary (see below), Milius admits to being influenced by Masaki Kobayashi's classic ghost story compendium KWAIDAN (1964) this can be seen in the love-making scene with a woman turning into a witch (complete with similar use of blue gels) and the protection of an ailing Conan from evil spirits by having several chants written all over his body. Also in the documentary, there is a reference to Milius' amusing cameo which eventually found itself on the cutting-room floor! "},{"Title":"A classic fantasy movie","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen the movie countless times, and I still have a hard time trying to find anything really wrong with this movie. It's a great fantasy movie, based on a fairly realistic reality. I've never read the comic book or novelette or whatever the script is supposed to be based on, so I don't have anything to say, The ... was better. I'm really not a huge Arnold fan, but he was perfect in every way for the role, in my opinion. I think the character fits him better than anything else he's ever played. I think that especially given the time in which it was made, there's nothing wrong with it in anyway, and no matter what anyone else might say, everyone who worked on this movie should still be proud of it 25 years later. "},{"Title":"Arnie's greatest film, and my favourite, just bloody awesome.","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is Schwarzenegger's best movie, its always been my favourite and probz will always be. The score by Basil Poledouris fit in just right coz there wasn't much dialog. It's basil's best score he has done, and I just loved the violence, the pit fighting scene was a killer, the opening scene when he's a child, the whole movie is just a blast. Ever since i was like 4 yrs old i've been into this film. I watched it over and over again like kids watch Shrek these days. LOL. Even now that I'm 18 yrs old i watch it every month or so, i can never get sick of it. James Earl Jones was a great villain, and Max Von Sydow delivered King Osric just as he does in all his films, with the passion. I love this movie and give it ***** out of five. The Destroyer was a joke, even though i still watch it on DVD, but lets hope King conan Crown of Iron ain't crap even with Brian Thomson as Conan. John Milius better do a good job. "},{"Title":"one of the best fantasy movies ever!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  fantasy movie at it's best, even after all these years it's still enjoyable as hell! Imagine this movie with Lord of the Rings F/X - wouldn't that be awesome? It has a potential - R.E.Howard should not be disappointed) the plot is not an adaptation of any Conan short story as such, but it definitely has all the essential elements of Howardesque writing - sword, sorcery, evil cults, beautiful women, pumped up men, sex, drugs)(vide 'black lotus')and one hell of an adventure....Great! the film was made 22 years ago,and,well, it doesn't really shows that much! Even nowadays,every now and then, we have a doubtful pleasure of watching a recently-made crap movies that apart from stunning F/X have nothing to offer...This one is gonna take all Conan and fantasy fans to a world of adventure, sword and sorcery....Enjoy!!  "},{"Title":"They just don't make 'em like they used to","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is one of those rare sword & sorcery movies that actually worked. It's an epic film that wasn't afraid to be graphic. It's amazing these days how many movies are big, violent, and loud, but it's all just so light. With the exception of Braveheart and a few others, most movies that aim to portray realistic, pre-gun action fall way short and become comic books. Not that graphic violence is something to be glorified, but if you're going to make a movie about barbarians it should have the elements that director John Milius poured into Conan.Essentially, Conan is set apart from the other sword movies of the 80's due to its relentless, almost sadistic bloodletting. The gore, the splattering blood, gratuitous nudity, male dominance, orgies, murderous religious cults, sex slaves, belly dancers and giant snakes all made up for a fine cinematic experience. It is basically the ultimate hunter-gatherer film. Not necessarily celebrating all of these things, but just saying it's possible the world was just this crazy at some point in the past.James Earl Jones' absolutely creepy performance as Thulsa Doom is a classic role. John Milius took the bombast and brutality of the source material and transferred it onto screen nicely. The musical score is also one of the most amazing you'll ever hear. From the first moments at the beginning credits with monstrous drums beating over a Nietzsche quote, it's very powerful stuff.Arnold has always done pretty much the same thing, but he does it very well in this one. I don't know why but I've always been a fan of movies like this, even the bad ones. But Conan is definitely a good one, even great, and it's the king of all the 80's sword fantasy movies. "},{"Title":"Sit here... SIT HERE","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw Conan the Barbarian I was a huge fan of the character and had repeatedly read all the original stories by Robert E. Howard and most of the new books and comics by various authors as well (which essentially stayed true to Howard's vision and spirit). Needless to say, I was psyched. Anyone familiar with Howard's Conan must have been a little disappointed; I was HUGELY disappointed. Yeah, they got many things right, but the things they got wrong horribly ruined the film for me -- so much so that I didn't see it again for 15 YEARS! Upon seeing it again, being older and more open-minded, I had to admit that I was well entertained. I've seen it a few more times since and now have to admit This movie's a freakin' masterpiece! I say this with one condition the viewer must know going in that this is an ALTERNATIVE Conan, similar to Howard's, but far from a strict interpretation. WHAT DOESN'T WORK These flaws mostly have to do with John Milius and Oliver Stone's deviation from Howard. First of all, the opening sequence of Conan as a little boy on his fathers knee getting advice about the trustworthiness of the sword Sorry, but the lad looks like an average soft suburbanite boy, not a tough kid that grew up in the wilds of Cimmeria, land of darkness and deep night. Secondly, the wheel of pain sequence is just dumb. I have a bit more respect for this part now that I realize it's a metaphor for the cyclical drudgery of grade school, but -- c'mon -- the REAL Conan wouldn't spend that many years in captivity! He would have escaped long before, not to mention slay his captors. Thirdly, when they first meet Valeria while robbing the temple of Set the flick cops a decidedly campy tone. Although Sandahl Bergman is great throughout the rest of the picture that initial meeting is pretty cringe-inducing. It was at this point that I really TUNED OUT when I first viewed the film. Fourthly, one of the worst parts is when Conan grovels at Thulsa Doom's feet crying, You killed my father, you killed my mother! This in no way resembles Howard's Conan. (But, in its defense, it does make Conan more human and therefore more relate-able to the viewer). WHAT WORKS First of all, the score by Basil Poledouris is magnificent and awe-inspiring. Surely this is one of the greatest compositions ever written! The movie's worth watching just to hear this score -- no lie. Secondly, despite acceptable discrepancies (e.g. Conan has black hair not brown, etc.), the casting is great. Thirdly, Milius and Stone show their brilliance by incorporating Genghis Khan's historical quote in Conan's response to What is best in life? Conan answers To crush enemies, see dem driven before you and to hear da lamentation of der women. What a stroke of genius! Fourthly, the locations, sets and costuming are superb; they certainly got the LOOK of Robert E. Howard's Hyborian Age right. Fifth, As long as one is prepared to accept the deviation from Howard's Conan, the story keeps your interest throughout (which is my personal way of determining the worthiness of ANY flick). Sixth, Sandahl Bergman is super sharp and sexy; she possesses a certain barbaric beauty essential to the role and it's hard not to gaze at her shapely form in utter awe when she's on screen. Lastly, the overall tone of the film is quite serious and brooding; despite Valeria's initial campy sequence mentioned above and a couple of amusing scenes with Mako, the film eludes the rut of camp (unfortunately the sequel cannot boast of this quality). SPECIAL MOMENTS AND INTERESTING ITEMS- The love scene between Conan & Valeria and, later, the death/funeral pyre scenes are truly moving, reverent and beautiful. The accompanying music is emotionally potent.- Conan's spiritual evolution in regards to sexuality and love is interesting His first exposure is as a slave when beautiful women are occasionally thrown to him for the amusement of those watching. After he acquires his freedom his first and only experience with casual sex goes horribly wrong. Later in Zamora he dismisses the solicitations of prostitutes with a wave and a derogatory word. Finally he meets Valeria and discovers true love and commitment, conveyed well in the love/death/funeral scenes noted above.- Both the battles inside the mountain fortress and, later, the showdown at the mounds are truly thrilling. The score during these sequences really gets your blood pumping.- Right before the battle at the mounds Conan and Subotai brace themselves as the 'riders of doom' trot forth. You can see the bold determination on their faces They have no other recourse; they will stand and fight as men, come what may. (All men will eventually have to stand and fight in this manner one way or another, and we wuss out at our own peril).- After their unlikely victory Conan raises his arms (and weapons) in salute to the altar where Valeria was cremated. It gives you goosebumps. Both The Complete Quest and Collector's Edition contain an excellent 55-minute Making Of documentary wherein all of the principle actors and creators are interviewed, as well as an excellent commentary by Milius and Schwarzenegger. FINAL ANALYSIS Like I said, I've finally come to see the magnificence of Conan the Barbarian, but I had to get over my hang ups concerning the deviations from Howard's Conan to see it. As an ALTERNATIVE Conan it's a masterpiece of cinematic art. ONE LAST THING Um, don't use that first line of dialogue (Sit here... SIT HERE) on your wife or girlfriend; I tried it and she didn't take too kindly to it! "},{"Title":"Better than what many would think","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Mention Conan the Barbarian and it isn't hard to conjure up a feeling of all muscles and no brains, and pure campiness. Given that several barbarian films of the 80s (and even today) are like that, such as 1987's The Barbarians, one can be forgiven for thinking the same about this John Milius film. I too felt the same, and seeing the sequel Conan the Destroyer, my notions seemed confirmed. Then I heard praising this film, even calling it one of their favorite movies. Naturally, I was curious, and I happened to catch this on TV.I can say one thing This is better than I expected.This is by no means a film meant for the Oscars (although there are some Oscar-worthy elements). This is an action flick, and it doesn't try to be anything more than that. What it does try, though, is be an acceptable adaptation of the Robert E. Howard Conan stories as well as be decent entertainment in general. These efforts do however make this film more of a classic rather than just passable entertainment.The story is simple Conan's family is killed as a boy; he gets taken into slavery, becomes a gladiator, gets freed, and seeks revenge on the ones responsible for killing his family, eventually succeeding.Okay -- maybe the story isn't so simple. The choice of the Friedrich Nietzsche quote in the beginning is interesting; it makes for a great story theme strength. Conan, here, through suffering and toil, becomes strong. This is summarized in the concept of The Riddle of Steel Steel isn't strong -- flesh is stronger.Like the original Conan pulp stories by Howard, this movie is a part of the Low Fantasy genre, having magic and sorcery but still taking place in the real world -- in Conan's case, a time period between the time when the Oceans drank Atlantis and before the rise of the sons of Arias -- so well-said by the narrator, the late Mako.In keeping with this, there is an attempt at being realistic. There is magic and the supernatural, yes, but just enough. For the most part, it tries to portray civilizations and world that could have existed, from their clothing, weapons, architecture, to their way of life. The costumes and sets look great; they truly make the viewer believe he's/she's in some lost time period in our history -- a world so strange, yet so familiar. There isn't a lot of special effects, though. But they are decent for the most part. The scene, though, when the villain Thulsa Doom turns into a snake is convincing, and the choice of back-and-forth shots to show his transformation is clever, avoiding cheesiness.Arnold Swcharzenegger may not be the most phenomenal actor out there; he's no De Niro. But he does, however, have star power, and he has presence in this film. He is just perfect for the role of Conan. He has the right built, the right facial expression -- he truly does look intimidating as Conan. And the role isn't too demanding of his acting abilities.The other principal actors, Gerry Lopez and Sandhal Bergman, are decent. Max Von Sydow is excellent in his brief appearance as King Orsic. Mako is compelling as the narrator and hilarious as the wizard. But the best performance is, without a done, from the legendary James Earl Jones, giving another great performance in just two years after The Empire Strikes Back. His Thulsa Doom is a great villain. What's more, you can truly believe that he's a cult leader.The music for this movie is done by Basil Poledouris. And I. Simply. Have. No. Words. To. Say.The music is just mind-blowing. It is deep, booming, heavy, and just fantastic. It truly does give the film an epic feel. The use of drums gives the film a primitive feel, which is perfect, considering that this is set in a prehistoric time. The use of booming brass instrument, as well as the choirs with their heavy chanting, is extraordinary, sounding aggressive and relentless, the way Conan should be. The softer instruments, such as harps and violins, give Conan a noble, heroic feel.The music, combined with the excellent cinematography (filmed in Spain), creates really excellent results. There are some truly sweeping scenes, such as when the riders raid Conan's village, and his final battle with them. The scene when Conan stumbles upon the ancient tomb and finds the sword is made great because of the music. And the scene when Conan recovers and is practicing with his sword, combined with the softer part of The Anvil of Crom piece, is one that will linger in your head -- a truly iconic scene.It is the music that truly elevates this movie from a mere action flick in a sea of many to a truly epic film. A classic.This may not be a perfect film (no film is), but compare this to many other 80s fantasy films, and you'll know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Visually Impressive Epic","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Despite being panned by critics at the time of its release, Conan The Barbarian is nonetheless a visually impressive sword and sorcery film with many things going for it. The set designs are outstanding on a grand scale. The film looks and feels authentic to the middle ages. The music by Basil Poledouris is unbelievable- a rousing, driving score which perfectly compliments the action. And it features 7-time Mr. Olympia Arnold Schwartzenegger perfectly cast in the title role.The film begins with Conan as a young boy witnessing a band of marauders led by snake cult warlord Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) invade his village, kill his father and behead his mother as he holds her hand. He is forced on a death march to a work camp, where he spends his days walking the wheel of pain. Many die from the brutal conditions, but Conan is strengthened. As he grows older, he develops into a prime physical specimen and is sent off to be a pit fighter matching his skills against other warriors in fights to the death. He eventually wins his freedom and sets out to avenge the death of his parents while seeking the riddle of steel. Along the way, he runs with thieves, rescues a King's daughter, and experiences love, adventure, riches and loss.The visuals are striking; from the temple interiors to the battle sequences to the isolated shots of a chiseled Schwartzenneger posing and wielding his sword. Fine work is done by supporting actors Mako, Gerry Lopez and Max Von Sydow as King Osric. B-Movie great William Smith has a small, thankless role as Conan's father (killed early in the film). Even ex-Oakland Raider Ben Davidson (is there a more inspired job of casting?!) turns up in a meaty role as villain Rexor. And the stunning Sandahl Bergman is well utilized as Conan's love interest.It is James Earl Jones who REALLY delivers. With one of the greatest voices in cinematic history, he cuts a commanding presence as the evil ruler Thulsa Doom. He is totally believable in this role and his performance shines.Even though it's nearly 30 years old, Conan The Barbarian can stand with any of today's similarly themed epics. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Deep","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A sublime movie on a seemingly blunt subject; fighting Barbarians.The first thing that is going to hit you is the music, a superb score inspired by Orf's Carmina Burina plus some Turkish influences, strong enough to make any dialogue superfluous. The score alone can tell you about great open spaces and the decadent pomp that is to be found all over the picture.By any other standards the actors here and the dialogue would be sub-par, but let's take a closer look They are a happy marriage.The title character, his companions noble Subotai and graceful Valeria, are people of little talk, but when they do, they do as if every word would be their last, they don't talk for nothing; almost every sentence in the movie carries philosophy, of a surprising dept about faith, wealth, freedom and destiny. All that is being told by characters who are quite credible in what they represent; in fact, a actor that would be too good would stick out like a sore thumb in this raw setting, and yet, some do with ease like James Earl Jones, magnificent in his role.The sets are magnificent; rough and full of authenticity where prostitutes, beggars, religious zealots, abusive dealers and thieves acting just in the right tone to provide a rich background, without hogging the screen. One has the impression that everyone of them have its own story to tell. You can almost feel the open air, smell the crowded markets and animals, resent the ambient heat. The costumes, apart for a biker-looking coat, hair and mustache on one of the actors, are rich and savage-looking. You will have no trouble believing it all.Un-suspected dept, synergy and yes, intelligence, if of a basic, wise sort, made of Conan the Barbarian the leading Barbarian movie, up to this very day. "},{"Title":"Conan the Magnificent","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Featuring a towering, monosyllabic protagonist, a dark-skinned and dark-hearted villain, a mesmerizing soundtrack by Basil Poledouris (most certainly inspired by Greek Orthodox ecclesiastical chants), the movie bulges with wild, untamed, barbaric strength.Although Conan the Barbarian seems somewhat slow by today's standards, and the plot is rather haphazard for casual viewers, it is much more thought-provoking, immersing and masterfully crafted than most present fantasy films. The writers have taken pains to choose the more flavorful bits out of R.E. Howard stories (finding the Atlantean sword, raiding a wizard's tower, being crucified, receiving aid from the spirit of a deceased lover, etc.), creating a cohesive story that combines common fantasy clichés with complex philosophizing.Conan the Barbarian is a pagan, an agnostic, and a Nietzschean at the same time, a man that trusts only his sword, his strength and his ego. The Cimmerian may seem haughty, selfish, and obsessed with revenge, but his nemesis, the wizard Thulsa Doom, is a paragon of pride. A mixture of a political demagogue, a New Age guru, and a professional hypnotist, this character is a lover of long-winded speeches and a perfect contrast to Conan. The Cimmerian is the power of the steel; the wizard is the power of the flesh. One cannot live without the other, but in the end one shall fall. Conan will have to endure slavery, bloody gladiator combats, travels through the wilderness and personal loss to exact revenge for his parents' death. There have been many fantasy films before and after Conan the Barbarian, but it still beyond comparison. A truly unique movie that has brought together a lot of great and diverse talent (Milius, Schwarzenegger, James Earl Jones, Poledouris...), both a cult classic and a fantasy flick mainstream enough to appeal to a very wide audience. And my personal sentimental favorite I remember seeing it at a very young age, on post-Soviet Russian TV that cared nothing about R-ratings, political correctness, or copyright. Conan is a character that can change people's lives - and if don't want to live forever as you live today, see this film! "}{"Title":"Star Wars for psychopaths?","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At least, that's what one critic called Conan the Barbarian at the time of its release.It's easy to see why.  This movie is from the head-chopping, blood-fountaining, spiked-gauntlet-splatting-into-your-neck school of non-subtlety.   But it's also a masterpiece.  For whatever reason, I really prefer John Milius' vision of a fantasy world to that presented in Lord of the Rings by Peter Jackson.  Whereas Rings features grand storylines involving clashing armies, not to mention a dull Liv Tyler swooning on various Elven couches and professing her love for the nice man with the stubble, Conan eschews epic storytelling and focuses on a very personal quest for revenge.  As Conan memorably says to Thulsa Doom, You killed my mother...you killed my father...you killed my people!  You took my father's swoooord! And he's gonna make James Earl Jones pay.So, will you dig it?  That depends.  Large portions of the film are silent, and the pacing is, by modern standards, rather slow.  However, Ron Cobb's production design is simply beautiful (The Mountain of Power in particular; they would never build something that cool for a movie today, would they?) and Basil Poledouris' music some of the most stirring ever recorded for a movie.  And, although Arnold is no Olivier, his screen presence is, as ever, magnetic.  The sword battles are well choreographed, the supporting cast is strong (Max Von Sydow does a memorably loopy turn as the king), and the viewing experience as a whole will effectively immerse you in a strange and savage land (if you let it, anyway!).  Probably the best fantasy movie ever made - even if you're not a psychopath.  "},{"Title":"Dated but an all time great.","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have heard that Hollywood plan to remake this movie my advice would be DON'T. Most of the remakes that seem to be coming out are very poor and I can't think of many remakes which have been better than the original, Batman was good but even that had some issues. I'm sure there are probably a few others but most of them are way too buttered up for a generation of kids who have probably never climbed a tree in their life let alone made a bow an arrow due to Mommy and Daddy worrying too much. This film is one of those films that should just be left alone because it doesn't matter what actor you use they simple aren't Arny they aren't Conan maybe do a sideline story that is linked to this film but just don't remake this into another diabolical spectacle.Some of the reviews on this film are utter rubbish. I hate people who say this film is not like the comic book so it's no good or it's not accurate enough and so on and so on. Basically if I wanted to watch a film based 100% on the comic I would watch a cartoon or animated version of it or perhaps read the comic itself or even maybe a TV series based on the comic. If I wanted something that was 100% accurate I'd watch a documentary. These thing's don't make a movie an enjoyable experience to watch but feel more like a history lesson or an utter bore that drags on for far too long because lets face it, the entire comic book collection of any hero is going to be massive. I agree that things should have a sense of realism about them but I fail to see how Conan The Barbarian fails to deliver this but just in a different story line.Why do I think this film is amazing? Basically it is fun to watch, serious to a degree, has some fantasy and gives a sense of barbarian times while delivering satisfaction as Conan hacks down his enemies one by one, also the sound track is good and for some reason instantly makes me think of war, everything you want in a movie is here you just have to open your eyes and stop looking for the real world or the comic book because you will never find it in 2 hours of a movie. Arny does an amazing job as Conan makes you feel like he's actually a Barbarian in the fact that he doesn't speak much due to his lack of acting talent during this time but everything he does is pretty much 100% perfect. Personally I feel a talented actor trying to redo this film will overshoot the mark too much or simply won't be able to pull it off. Hence a remake will fail to beat this, maybe a fresh audience will appreciate it but old school viewers will shunt it no doubt.The sequel to this film is awful why because it's buttered up for a family audience. This is a master piece and master pieces are exactly that for a reason. "},{"Title":"Why I rated this movie 10/10","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The story is simple and makes a relevant point sometimes you need to crush your enemies and see them driven before you. At its core this is a story of revenge. The most brutal human emotion we possess after jealousy. The blood-lust is sated and many people are saved in the process as a cult crumbles thanks to our hero Conan (unless you were cheering for Thulsa Doom, which is understandable.) Sure you can get way deeper with the script. That's why this movie rules, but this movie is straight up grabbing a sword and sticking it in the gut of your enemy. No gigantic explosions or car chases. No, it's much more personal. As many sword and sorcery epics come out and make more and more use of CGI effects the natural tendency of some will be to look back at the vision of Robert E. Howard. Low fantasy (as opposed to high fantasy. You know, wizards like Harry Potter and stuff going to wizard school and getting his doctorate in f***ing with niggles (IMDB wouldn't let me use the appropriate term ha ha).) Magic is strange and if people use magic, you cut their throats just to be sure. I really love this movie, by the way. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, has that classic feel to it","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was going to give this movie a 5, but recognizing that it's about 25 years old, I gave it a bonus point. I think a lot of people gave this a higher rating also because of the nostalgia factor. I never saw this as a kid though...Plot B+, it's supposed to be the classic tale of Conan the Barbarian, so you basically know what to expect (although I heard this movie doesn't follow the real story exactly). I would say there was some room for a twist or two, but hey, it was good overall.Acting C, some of the acting is good, but some of the lesser quality actors brought it down a bit. I think Conan's partners could be blamed for a lot of this. Not to say Arnold is the greatest actor ever, but he fit the role well, and I thought he did a good job.Character development B, Conan was well done. You start off seeing Conan as a child, and you see him through the different stages of his life to the point he becomes Conan the Barbarian. He doesn't talk much, so I'm sure it was a challenge for the writer/director to really improve this aspect of the movie. The other characters seem more static unfortunately.Special effects B, I have to be fair here. It's a 25 year old movie, so I can't expect amazing computer graphics and true-to-life sound effects. For the time the movie was made, I would say the effects are pretty good.The best aspect of the movie The movie has a real classic feel to it. If you saw this movie back when it came out, and you saw it again recently, it probably brought back nostalgic memories.The worst aspect of the movie Some of the lame lines from the characters just made you wonder what the director was thinking. I suspect that better actors could have pulled it off much better, but some of the acting in the movie was not superior. "},{"Title":"for those that didn't like it...","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  sure, it has campy lines, but even if you are a fan of Arnold as some of you have written, you can't say this was a horrible movie for it's time period ( the 80's ). To compare it to Rambo III for its' explosions is confusing, I didn't see any explosions, and I am watching the movie as I write this review. Who cares how many lines Arnie has, did you watch it for the dialogue, the action or the entertainment? If you are watching for dialogue, you might think you are smarter than you really are. It is a great movie, gore, violence and campiness included all. Complaining about a character based on a comic book is like complaining that Christopher Reeves wasn't a good Superman because he couldn't really leap tall buildings. I gave this movie a ten out of ten. So, I am biased...I won't try to review musicals to even it out.  "},{"Title":"This Movie is Still Great!!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I was only 12 years old and I saw it at a Drive-in as a double feature with Halloween II. This movie has always held a nostalgic place in my heart so I recently purchased it on D.V.D. and I must say that at the grand old age of 31 I still find this movie very entertaining and I would venture say that it would hold it's own even if it was released today. No, it's not on the level of Gladiator or Braveheart but with a solid script by Oliver Stone and John Milius and solid performances by James Earl Jones, Mako, and yes even Arnold this movie is definitely worth a second look. This is one of Arnold's best! "},{"Title":"Hyborian Age in an Alternate Universe","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is by far the best Sword and Sorcery film produced to date.  Being a Robert E. Howard fan years before this film was made I have to say I liked it and I hated it.  Accounting for these plusses and minuses I give this film a rating of 7 out of 10; mainly because one of the positives is extremely positive.The extremely positive factor is the musical score by Basil Poledouris which I believe to be one of the finest musical scores ever to grace the silverscreen.Other things tip the scale toward the positive, too.Milius is a gifted filmmaker who pays homage to my favorite director of all time, Akira Kurosawa and relies heavily on visuals to show the film's story turning to the captivating voice of James Earl Jones, playing the antagonist, only when narrative exposition is absolutely required.  This is a wise decision since the cast is mostly green.  The aforementioned Jones is the only veteran actor in a key role although Max von Sydow and William Smith are good in their cameo roles as King Osric and Conan's father respectively.Milius also pays homage to the stunning art of Frank Frazetta in the costumes/sets and scatters Howard moments throughout the film; such as the scene where Conan beds a witch taken from a Bran Mak Morn tale titled Worms of the Earth, sneaky thievery reminiscent of The Tower of the Elephant, Conan's crucifixion from A Witch Shall be Born, and Valeria (a name from Red Nails) returns from the grave to protect Conan evoking Belit, the Queen of the Black Coast.The film's ultimate treatment of Robert E. Howard's Hyborian Age tips the scale back in the negative direction, though.Milius paints the Cimmerians as a peaceful agrarian culture while Howard's Cimmerians are strong, grim and war-like.  Milius provides a history of a young Conan that completely contradicts Howard's.The Milius Conan is sold into slavery at a tender age after seeing his parents brutally murdered while Howard's Conan apparently never even had a tender age; born on a battlefield and respected by the Cimmerian war council when he was not yet fifteen years old.Howard's treatment of the character Black Turlough who was tossed into a snow-drift at birth to test his right to survive in The Dark Man is an indication of how Conan may have actually been raised in Howard's Hyborian Age Cimmerian culture.  Black Turlough is Gaelic and Howard's Cimmerians are the direct ancestors of Gaels in Howard's fictional essay The Hyborian Age.This film must be a Hyborian Age in an alternate universe since contradictions between the Howard Conan and the Milius Conan cannot be resolved. "},{"Title":"A serious and not-for-everyone stab at the sword-and-sorcery genre","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Long ago, in the distant time before The Lord of the Rings (well, before Peter Jackson's LOTR, not before the books or the earliest adaptations), before Thor (before the modern movies, I mean; not before the Thor comic character, which itself came long after the Conan pulp character), before Skyrim (OK, it was unequivocally before that), there was Conan the Barbarian! It would be wrong to say that Conan was the progenitor of anything other than Arnold Schwarzenegger's film career; the origins, influences, and manifestations of the major sword-and-sorcery franchises are complex and mostly separate from one another, hearkening back to and appropriating for their own purposes centuries-old, half-imagined stories and traditions that at this point in history belong equally to all.In the case of Conan, the milieu is the fuzzy line between West and East in the age of Genghis Khan's Eurasia-spanning empire, imagined here as a world of tribalism and ritualism. Conan's immediate textual source is itself, a cartoon from a 25-cent cult magazine. Director/writer John Milius, however, infuses his adaptation with overtones from the ostensibly more serious traditions of sword-and-sandal films and quests films it is difficult not to think of Spartacus (1960) during Conan's first half hour, which sees the hero go from slave to pit fighter to outlaw iconoclast, and hard to miss the connection to The Searchers (1956) at the end. Milius, who also wrote Apocalypse Now (1979), takes Conan's made-for-action-figure characters and genre trappings seriously in a way that not every filmmaker might have, and his commitment keeps it from becoming too campy. It is not a cheap production attractive Spanish shooting locales, titanic sets with a sense of weight, endless detailed costumes, and thoughtful iconography elevate the basic storyline, as does an enthralling score by film composer Basil Poledouris. In all production categories Conan outperforms its near-contemporary, the noble but spectacular failure Excalibur (1981). Conan's supporting cast also stacks up well with the inclusion of Max von Sydow and James Earl Jones, two actors who are constitutionally incapable of bringing anything other than gravitas to a role. But the most surprising of Conan's achievements is its female lead Valeria, played by Sandahl Bergman. Her skill and capability are unqualified, and in a movie that is not always judicious in its depictions of women, her equal and at times grander stature to Conan's is a relief.However, the element that most sets Conan apart from later and earlier examples of its genre is its well-earned R rating. Today, studios that make their shareholders happy by dint of teen and preteen ticket sales do not allow their blockbusters to cross that line, so movies of this ilk today are often bloodless and sexless affairs. That is not to say that they are not violent and frequently sexist they merely code their violence and objectification of women in ways that modern censors (MPAA reviewers) are either too dim or too hypocritical to acknowledge. The downside of Conan's show-it-all approach to sex and violence is that it is occasionally degrading and often excessive. Yet there is something to be said for the principle of taking off the reins and making a film that is proudly not meant for all audiences something few fantasy movies today have the courage&#x97;or, yes, the naivety&#x97;to attempt. "},{"Title":"Let me tell you of the days of high adventure!","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Fantasy films are rarely bold in spirit. Most of them offer colorful, vivid spectacles in wonderful places, but when drawing on ancient myth and legend, very few truly recognize that our history is full of darkness and savagery. In the 1930s, Robert E. Howard created a legend of his own, channeling all the primal brutality and bloodshed of the ancient times into one savage hero Conan, the Cimmerian who would become a warrior, a pirate, a conqueror, and eventually a king. Conan's adventures in literature took him across all corners of the ancient Earth, to battle countless enemies, vicious monsters, and the darkest magic. Films with this same rawness seem to only come once in a great while.1982's cinematic debut of Conan is a welcome break from the typical sugar-coated fantasy fare; the film doesn't hold back on showing brutal warfare, liberal bloodshed, rampant sex, and savage landscapes. Right from the beginning, the savagery is palpable. At the same time, the film is not all that trashy about it; is uses only as much blood and gore as it needs to to tell the story. Using only a light amount of excess, the film progresses through a lengthy adventure full of cool battles and memorable scenes, with the right pacing and an appropriate tone that's not too bleak but not too lightweight. As it is, this incarnation of Conan is fun and awesome to watch, and even after a sequel, remake, and video game, it hasn't been matched since.The original stories can get a bit derivative Conan usually appears somewhere to slay some bad guys, get the girl, get the treasure, defeat evil, blah blah blah. This film ventures into the same formulaic territory, but before doing so, it lays the groundwork by chronicling Conan's origins, in a tragic opening sequence that's so fundamental in nature that it's been seen before. From then on, the film maintains a solid pathos that allows us to follow and root for Conan on his sprawling quest of vengeance. Conan is a fundamental hero to the core, and the film expresses all his characteristics - his strength, his beliefs, his motivations - aptly. The side characters he picks up are lovable, and their enemies are bad guys we love to hate. The plot is pieced together using some scenes inspired by the original stories, but it all flows really well, thanks mostly to the characters and their chemistry. It's all set in a world that looks primal, but not quite as dark or magical as the original stories.This film boasts some good-looking photography. It can be pretty murky and drab at times, but the camera angles are great and the imagery overall is solid. Editing has a few weak parts, but is still mostly good. Acting can be a bit silly, but Arnold Schwarzenegger fits Conan both in body and spirit. I love Sandahl Bergman's performance as Valeria. James Earl Jones is literally hypnotic as the main villain, and everybody else does okay. Writing has a few weak spots, but there are still quite a few good lines. This production uses some limited, but very real-looking and detailed sets, props, and costumes. Basil Poledoris' music score is epic, grand, and a thing of beauty in itself.Conan the Barbarian is one of the very few epic/fantasy films that's so raw and brutal, but it's still a fine adventure with lovable characters and solid plotting. Some may call this film overly violent or stupid, especially in the way it revels in savagery. But I've always valued the beauty of savagery, for I believe there is something compelling about the primal nature of this character. If you enjoy stuff like this - like the 300 series, the Berserk manga, the God of War video games - then Conan should be a must-see.On home video, the unrated cut of the movie includes a few bonus scenes that elaborate a bit more on the characters, but aren't really all that necessary for the plot.4.5/5 (Entertainment Very Good | Story Very Good | Film Good) "},{"Title":"Epic film, EPIC film score!","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my Top 5 favorite films of all time. This isn't your typical hack and slash blood-fest like the film industry has become saturated with in present times. I remember seeing this in the theater with my dad when I was 11 and I was blown away. Conan the Barbarian is action, romance, drama and just plain fun. Excellent screenplay, sets, design and costume all around. And the film's score, from the late great Basil Poledouris, really puts the icing on the cake and makes this film truly memorable. I won't even speak of the remake of this classic piece, other than the fact that I made it about half way through before I turned it off. I LOVE THIS FILM!!! "}{"Title":"Who needs dialogue in a movie ?","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i usually don't review a movie unless i feel there is something that must be said. and in this movie there is something like that.do you want deep and long conversations ? yells and roars of battle ? well you came to the wrong place !in this one they speak short and important, the rest, the viewer must know threw visual and music purely.the visuals which were not too much but not too little, always was completely synced with the exact music and sounds that led us through the movie. but when needed some 'push', a few sentences came but enough to be considered unnoticeable.this movie, which is 2 hours long with some weird sorcery and costumed fighting that most of the time make the viewer(me) unconformable and unwatchable, this one actually make us even more deep in the movie's experience, no matter the age.with this new age of extremely developed CGI technology, there is no need in casting 100 people for a ceremony and action scenes will be much more faster stronger, but they will always miss something that i find very important, sometimes much stronger than the use of CGI, REALITY. "},{"Title":"Infidel Defilers. They shall all drown in lakes of blood.","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnold has entertained me in many movies over the years (The Terminator, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, True Lies, Collateral Damage, Eraser), so I can forgive his pitiful acting in this film and just sit back and enjoy it.Of course, the best thing about the film was the presence of Sandahl Bergman, originally a Golddigger from The Dean Martin Show. She can act and did a very good job of it.I also enjoyed Mako (The Sand Pebbles) and Gerry Lopez, who I guess gave up acting for surfing.It is just a plain guilty pleasure that shows some great sword fighting. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated classic","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When Conan came out in 1981, critics griped about its elephantine pacing and ponderous dialogue, and long stretches in which nothing much happened, giving evidence that they expected traditional action- adventure in the vein of, say, Sinbad. But director John Milius had set out to create something very different an epic Aryan myth which translated the qualities of Wagnerian opera to cinema, and in large part he succeeded. Conan has a sweeping epic feel, and is heavily dependent upon and driven by its setting and music to a degree that is very rare. As important as the deeds of the legendary hero, which are shown in brief and violent spurts of action, are the place and the culture that shaped that legend. The journey that created the myth, in short, is equal to the myth itself, and this is the logic and justification for the setting-heavy approach taken by Milius. And Basil Poledouris' wonderful music, which starts out Wagnerian and brassy, but adds middle Eastern touches as Conan's journey takes him in that direction, tracks along with Conan to show up the breadth of his epic journey while celebrating his heroic achievements. Ultimately the story that gets told is somewhat less worthy of Milius' Wagnerian ambitions than are the music and the visuals, but the overall results more than justify the effort, especially when compared to the Italian sword and sandal knock-offs which followed this much copied but never equaled classic of the fantasy genre. "},{"Title":"Manly! Exciting! Ah-nold!","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is the epitome of manliness. If I deem something manly, it better be a super-buff barbarian giving a one-punch knock-out to a camel! That is NOT satire either; I'm completely serious! This movie rules.People say that it is cheesy or over-done, but how many films have you seen lately that take place on ancient Earth with barbarians and rogues trying to take out an occultist sorcerer on a revenge streak? Thought so...Look, this won't be everybody's thing. If you didn't like The Lord of the Rings trilogy, that means you don't like fantasy-based story lines, and in turn, you probably won't care for Conan.At least be honest and say that though. Don't attack the film where it is truly strong. Great film if you're into fantasy. "},{"Title":"a classic epic","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i first remember seeing this movie about 20yrs ago when i was in my teens and remember it well,iv'e seen the film several times since and still rate it as one of my favorite few films of all time.it has a very powerful storyline about how a young boy's family and home was taken from him and how he grew up to be a great warrior and king from being taken as a slave and forced to fight to the death by his captives.his ultimate revenge on his enemies gave me a sense of justice.the acting is good to,arnold was tailor made for the role of conan and james earl jones played an excellent bad guy.the fight scenes were well choreographed to and there was even a love interest for the central character which moulded well into the storyline.the music is epic and is well used throughout.this film is nearly 30yr old now but has not lost it's appeal as a classic epic. "},{"Title":"Being an Early Work of our beloved Governor of California; Also, a successful transfer of an Imaginary Prehistoric World from page to screen!, 7 January 2009","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" SEEMINGLY it took forever to get CONAN to the screen. After literally years of hemming & hawing, shuckin' & jivin' and otherwise put off; the script from Director John Milius for CONAN THE BARBARIAN (Dino DeLaurentis Pictures/Universal Pictures, 1982) finally saw the dark of the projection room, (As opposed to the Dark of Night or the light of Day!).CLEVERLY and ever so wisely casting former Mr. Europe, Mr. Universe, Mr. World and multi-year Mr. Olympia winner, Arnold Schwarzennegar, Mr. Milius looked like a Cecil B. DeMille or a John Huston. Physically perfect, with a seeming drawback of having limited experience as an actor; and being confounded with a very German accent; plans went ahead to use the young Austrian.ODDLY enough, quite to the contrary Arnold's raw physical presence, his somewhat unpolished speaking and his youthful enthusiasm won out. The young immigrant bodybuilding champion became the living embodiment of Robert E. Howard's pulp magazine and (later) Marvel Comics headliner.SURVEYING the roster of cast members, one finds a very diverse and widely varying array of acting talent. On the one hand we have James Earl Jones (Thulsa Doom) and Max von Sydow (King Osric); who certainly represent a very high degree of class acting abilities and accomplishments. On the other hand, we have players such as Franco Colunbo (also a Pro Bodybuilder & Mr. Olympia winner) and big Ben Davidson (former Oakland Raiders Defensive End). Somewhere in the middle ground we find folks like Miss Sandahl Bergman (Valeria), Cassandra Gava (the Witch. Which witch?), Gerry Lopez (Suboti), Mako (doubling as the Wizard and the Narrator) former stunt-man and Western Player William Smith (Papa Conan, Sr.) Nadiuska (Conan's Madre) and many others in a cast of (literally) thousands.SEVERAL locations in Spain and in British Columbia worked out very well as they doubled for Europe in the last Post Ice Age Glacial period. The outdoor photography is excellent; even in the opinion of this writer, making a good run in rivalry for so much of that outstanding scenery and colour work that is seen in those John Ford Westerns.SUFFICE it to say that Mr. Milius and company did an outstanding job in bringing the World the view of a far different land. It's not like a HERCULES epic, nor is it TARZAN. It is just what we wanted; the World of the prolific young mind of Robert E. Howard.IT was followed by CONAN THE BARBARIAN (Dino DeLaurentis/Universal, 1984) and a CONAN Television Series (Multi Companies/1997).WHAT do you think that Schultz and meself give it for a rating? If you said ***, just you go right to the head. (Of the class, of course)POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"Took my expectations in a completely different direction","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I had waited a long time to see this Arnold Schwarzenegger classic cult film and found both films on DVD for very cheap. I had very defined expectations of this film and turned out I was completely wrong in some ways. I had expectations that it would be cheesy, poor quality, bad editing, with monsters and characters that looked like the old dinosaurs from 50's movies and the original King Kong. So as I started to watch it I suddenly realized within the first few minutes that this was much more than I had expected. This was actually a big release in it's time with a decent budget and big backing behind it. The quality of the film was not gritty or poor at all, and the editing (particularly the sound) was as good as any film made during that time. The special effects were actually very well done and the pure violence and power of the film is really quite astounding. There are some great performance that hold the film together, a terrific epic story about vengeance and power, and the film is truly watchable not as an eighties cult classic, but as an actual medieval action flick comparable to anything in it's time. I am however blown away by the amount of IMDb reviewers that talk about this being there favorite film as a kid considering the sheer violence, nudity, and content of the film.Story has it that Arnold Schwarzenegger was still barely stumbling through English sentences when this was made. His dialog is practically non existent and if you're a Schwarzenegger fan from other action films you're going to want to hear that infamous voice more. Still he manages to create a powerful, royal-like character in Conan with sheer strength, body language and look. He's a better actor than people give him credit for and he really tries to show off his stuff in this role. He is heroic but in an almost anti hero way as Conan. Gerry Lopez is terrific as Conan's sidekick Subotai. The two make a great team without every really establishing a bond between them. They work great together and Lopez is terrific as Subotai. Mako adds a little flair to the cast as the Narrator for the first half and then the strange little Wizard from the second half. His character is fun and adds a little something different to the quiet, brooding, muscle ridden cast. Sandahl Bergman is apparently idolized for this role as well as her role in Red Sonja later on. I just think what I read about her kind of over hypes her as this graceful brilliant action heroine and maybe she was for her time because we hadn't seen the likes of Angelina Jolie, Demi Moore, Jody Foster, Xena...and so on who play strong, kick ass woman unapologetically. Bergman is tough and can wield a sword but she still has no problem peeling her clothes off to succumb to her man. Still her character adds the element of a deep romance which is good for the film. The mighty James Earl Jones is magnificent as the downright creepy, disturbing and demented Thulsa Doom. First of all he looks the part and makes you shudder just to see him and that voice and presence commands such a power house performance against Schwarzenegger. He is brilliant and possibly a top movie villain in my opinion.I have to give special mention to director John Milius who seems to really have a knack for writing and directing particularly bleak and powerful worlds (Conan, Red Dawn, Rome) that you are taken aback by the gritty feel to everything around it. I think that the way Conan is described and kept as a classic by people makes one think it's some sort of Indie low budget production when it actually cost as much as any big film during that time...Return of The Jedi, Blade Runner, etc. There are definitely classic moments in the film that you will remember forever including Conan's crucifixion, his battle with the enormous snake, and his battle with Doom himself. There are downsides to the film I think including the lack of character development with Conan and Subotai, the lack of dialog, and the poor choreography on some of the fights that has swords missing their mark by literally feet (ironically saying that Bergman lost her finger during filming by a sword that got too close.) Still those of you who think you don't like indie films you don't have to worry about Conan because it will entertain you like it was made yesterday and I'm looking forward to catching the sequel!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"What is best in life...","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" People always talk about this film as the mindless fantasy classic, but there's more going on here than meets the eye, at least I'd always thought so growing up. My suspicions were re-ignited when I realized Oliver Stone wrote the screenplay.There's plenty of sex and violence, but Conan's enemy inspired by Hassan I Sabbah(the old man in the mountain),and played oddly by James Ear Jones, spouts a philosophy of emptiness and the surrender of will and self, makes a perfect foil, to Conan's self made man individualism, and materialism. The res a very literal crucification and resurrection scene here as well, followed by the film's end in a kind of public diecide, as does the second film. It's a simple philosophy in Conan, but one well told enough that I still remember it and could pick up on it as a kid, no God, no magic, no King, no object or steel, is of any value at the end, just will and a zeal for life. It's easy to pick on any film staring the current Governor of California, but this was one that crystallized the grim, Sword And Sorcery genre, and there hasn't been a better film since. Kull The Conquerer ,The Scorpian King, Conan The Destroyer, etc., maybe a one note genre for some, but for others this is as good as it gets "},{"Title":"Do you want to live forever?","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnold has entertained me in many movies over the years (The Terminator, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, True Lies, Collateral Damage, Eraser), so I can forgive his pitiful acting in this film and just sit back and enjoy it.Of course, the best thing about the film was the presence of Sandahl Bergman, originally a Golddigger from The Dean Martin Show. She can act and did a very good job of it.I also enjoyed Mako (The Sand Pebbles) and Gerry Lopez, who I guess gave up acting for surfing.It is just a plain guilty pleasure that shows some great sword fighting. "},{"Title":"R E Howard's Conan by way of Nietzsche","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is an near perfect movie featuring Robert Howard's most famous character. It contains some of the best music ever produced for a film score and fleshes out its lead characters admirably. In many ways, it mirrors Howard's original Hyborian world with somewhat muted fantasy elements, beautiful women, violence, revenge, sword fights, and fatalistic philosophy. It doesn't completely follow Howard's design for Conan but instead drifts off in an overtly Nietzschean direction with Conan becoming an avenging ronin battling an evil sorcerer and merciless vikings. Both Conan and Valeria are empathetic if incredibly violent and somewhat exaggerated characters, while the theme of strength gained through adversity and vengeance gained through sheer perseverance--the most distinctly Nietzschean aspect of the film--is apparent from beginning to end. Had Milius made this more like Howard's Hyborian Conan rather than adding much philosophy and an eastern warrior code not present in the original work, it would definitely rate a 10. As it stands, though, it is a brilliant piece of work in its own right and stands well even now a quarter century after its initial appearance. "}{"Title":"Schwarzenegger Will Always be Remembered for this Role!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is really a good movie. The music is wonderful and fitting. The love story between Conan and Valeria is inspiring and alluring. This is a great tale of courage against impossible odds, love, loyalty, friendship, (between Conan and Subotai the Archer), and brutality and cruelty as depicted by James Earl Jones as the Snake King who kills Conan's parent's when he was a boy.There is a journey to far off lands, training in the martial arts of swordsmanship, the ferocity of ancient gladiators, wild dogs and wolves chasing after Conan, (his gift after freedom), the mystery of ancient kings and the Excalibur powers of the Sword of a god-like king bestowed upon him in crisis, cannibalism and cult worship (like a giant Ku Klux Klan meeting), crucifixion, and snakes galore. Subotai, Conan's alter ego friend, and the wizard who tells the tale (Mako), are trusted allies of Conan who make this film work. Valeria is beautifully portrayed by Sandahl Bergman as a warrior princess and Conan and Valeria together have presence on screen.A scene with the Temptress Witch is dazzling. The battle at the end when Conan prays to his god Kromm depicts the courage of ancient times - when two stood against many. With sword in hand, Conan displays the grace and power he has always been noted for. This scene comes after the gods of death tried to take him away to Hades after his crucifixion and subsequent rescue by Subotai and Valeria. This is an heroic and masterful scene that will always be the signature piece for Schwarzenegger as a powerful figure on screen. This film was an inspiration for me many years ago and it still is today. "},{"Title":"Very Good for what it is....","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of those movies that should be viewed for what it is. Its not really all that different than other movies from the same steel, although with a minimal acting structure. More is done with looks and subtle insight than with heavy acting sequences. Mostly just a fun romp through a fantasy -type adventure. Not to be taken seriously by any stretch of the imagination, but actually better to me than some of the 80's run-n-guns Arnold did. The ending isn't what I would have envisioned, but I have to say I have watched the movie many times. Recently I watched the movie in 1080i HD, which brought a whole new perspective to the movie, allowing a better expression of the atmosphere that was obviously sought originally. "},{"Title":"The Grandest Flexfest of the Hyborian  Age","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It took nearly 50 years from the untimely death of Howard, one of the most promising short-story authors ever, to bring his best-known hero to the big screen. The randy, brawling, but honorable freebooter of most of the Conan stories (Jewels of Gwahlur, Black Colossus) is ignored in the Stone/Milius opus in favor of the brooding avenger that Howard more rarely portrayed (Beyond the Black River). In the mythical, pre-Atlantean Hyborian Age, Conan, the young son of a master swordmaker (Smith) in uncivilized, frozen Cimmeria, is enslaved & eventually trained as a gladiator. Winning his freedom, the grown (overgrown) Conan goes in search of the cult leader (Jones in a wig borrowed from Elvira, now live-action creepy instead of Star Wars creepy) who destroyed his home. Though he had acted before, Schwarzenegger was then best known as Mr. Universe, so his entourage & antagonists are suitably filled with the best that the modern physical arts can provide. These include snake priest Rexor (football star Davidson, nearly as commanding as Arnold), cult lieutenant Thorgrim (fellow pumpmeister Thorsen), wiry thief & archer Subodai (surfing legend Lopez) & sexy loner Valeria, Conan's love interest (dancer Bergman). If seasoned actors Jones, von Sydow & Mako are intimidated by all the surrounding sinew, they never show it, but tough character actor Smith is fit enough to keep up with the athletes. Milius fields the peculiar but limited talents of his cast with an ingenuity that Genghis Khan would admire--he's probably as good at chess as Kubrick. Arnold is convincing as the grimacing, grunting Conan, who rarely speaks unless he's drunk (so THAT'S why he talks funny!), a basically decent guy who's Just Gotta Do What a Man's Gotta Do. Bergman walks him through their scenes together like Annie Sullivan working with Helen Keller (now that is creepy). There's plenty of skin & action (very impressive, spectacular action), but not quite enough to justify Conan's length. A fast reader could get through half the Howard collection more quickly. Conan is an interlude in the post-Vietnam, baby-boomer angst between Milus's Apocalypse Now script & Stone's Platoon, with the same sense of the futility of finely honed warriors betrayed by the collective madness of the decayed world they must live in. They fight one another in the madness, but they can only escape by betraying the warrior code (that is, being a sissy), or dying & going to Valhalla. With Conan, Milius had a chance to get beyond the stiffness of that theme (and Stone beyond the despair), but the film doesn't quite manage, despite its ebullient cast. Basil Poledouris's fantastic music--the most heroic yet pensive dramatic theme since Beethoven's Coriolan Overture--is occasionally the only thing keeping Conan from being depressing, something that just wouldn't do. Still, watch the other big-budget fantasy efforts of the next 20 years (including Conan the Destroyer) to see just how far wrong Milius & Stone could have gone. In fact, Conan the Barbarian is a worthy, if gloomy, resuscitation of an enjoyable, timeless genre that went into a coma with the last of the Sinbad series & the advent of Star Wars. It's not quite a star-making role for Arnold, who in a couple of years would start merging his own identity with that of the Terminator. In time he would become Governor by popular acclaim and wear a silk suit beneath a troubled brow...but that is another story. "},{"Title":"Conan","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian... A cult classic with an awesome storyline, wonderful score, and beautiful cinematography. The Gubanator does an excellent job portraying a gladiator turned hero. Also it's nice to see Oliver Stone piece together Bob Howard's classic yarns. This film has much to offer for anyone who can look past Arnold as an actor, and just enjoy the story. When people run down this movie, I can usually remind them that it is the sequel they speak of(that they caught on a certain run-down cable channel two years ago), not the classic original film. I am a musician, and the thing that keeps brining me back to this picture is the score. The powerful music along with the films ideology, and beautiful shots get me every time I watch it. I would recommend this film to anyone I know. It's the age old tale of a slave who becomes more than what the world gave him at birth. "},{"Title":"A Great Fantasy","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan The Barbarian(1982)StaringArnold Schwarzengger, James Earl Jones,Mako,and Sandahl Bergman.A worldwide hit that skyrocketed Arnold's career. A vengeful barbarian incurs a perilous quest to thwart the ruthless megalomaniac Thusla Doom.Who is now a devious cult leader,who is trying to take over the world.He meets the skillful archer Subotai,the beautiful thief Valeria, and the sagacious wizard.Together they vow to vanquish the nefarious villain and save the world.I really enjoy watching this fantasy hit again and again.Schwarzengger is flawlessly casted,Jones is gold as the villain,and the others were amazing too.8/10 Is My Rating "},{"Title":"One of the BEST! An epic classic.","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I gotta say as I write this I am a little biased, this is probably my favorite movie of all time (although I have a few of those ) ). There is just so much to love about this movie. The writing is great, it is truly an epic story. Conan is a thief, a warrior, a gladiator, a lover, and an instrument of revenge. Arnold plays the character perfectly. He is never too over the top (unlike the horrible sequel) and although a brutal warrior you also find yourself identifying with him in some aspects. The plot is decent and reaches beyond the standard cheesy 80's fare. The supporting cast is also great. The thief is fearsome, the wizard is hilarious, the woman warrior is well played, and James Earl Jones as Thulsa Doom is an excellent piece of casting. What I also really like is the setting and costumes. Basiclly the feel. Everything looks very primitive and dirty. Its convincing. The setting is sort of an Asian/Mongolian dark ages type area. Very fitting. Everything looks very dirty, tattered and period correct rather than looking clean and Hollywood fantasy-like. The combat is quick, brutal and bloody. Another shinning light of this movie is the soundtrack. Basil Poledouris has crafted one of the most powerful and epic scores I've ever heard. The whole thing is very fitting and thrilling. It goes from brutally pounding to melodic and adds infinitely to the experience. From the brutal opening scenes to the thrilling conclusion this is an excellent piece of cinema and is definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"King of Fantasy","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is the best fantasy movie I've ever seen, and one of the best films ever. The lighting, costume and set design, and even the color on the film stock blow away every other fantasy film of its time. Even today, few movies come close to its beauty. The music is the best music ever composed for a film. I like John Williams and Danny Elfman, but Basil Poledouris wrote the perfect soundtrack to Conan. The instrumentation was perfect. It didn't ground the film in a specific time or place, just an ancient time. The music also played a very important part, since Conan was a very visual film with little dialogue. The opening scene alone is a perfect mix of well delivered lines, good cinematography, introduction of characters, music to reinforce the visual mood, and metaphors that flesh out throughout the movie. The pace set in the first three minutes keeps up until the last credits roll. This kind of perfection may never again be achieved, even by the people involved in creating this gem. "},{"Title":"A Classic of its Genre","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really enjoyed Conan, the Barbarian! It was very light on duologue, usually relying on the wonderful score and cinematography to carry it, which is does.Conan has great action scenes with plenty of meaty gore and severed limbs, cool weapons, and intense combat.Films of this kind need a good villain and James Earl Jones delivers. Thulsa Doom and his fanatics provide plenty of live attack-dummy action for Conan and his buddies (Subotai rocks).I recommend you don't take this once seriously, but for a geeky, testosterone filled, hack n' slash, fantasy film, don't count this one out! And remember, what is steel compared to the hand that wields it? "},{"Title":"Always getting a bad rap... why?","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know why this movie is always underrated by so many including famed Lord of the Rings director, Peter I'm going to bore you to tears Jackson. It was a good movie.. sorry, it was. The lines were memorable, the action was well-choreographed (without the hyper-kinetic, excessive editing of today's films... you can actually see what's going on), and it was true to the source material (Read the source material, kids, this was meant to be simple and straightforward.) And as for the charges that it is self-important or takes itself too seriously, that's the problem with most genre films of late, they don't take themselves seriously as the actors, writers, and everyone involved seem intent on letting the audience know that the film they are presenting is based on source material that, as far as they are concerned, is a joke. The only real blight on Conan is the fact that it produce a throwaway sequel in Conan the Destroyer. Now, that was garbage.  "},{"Title":"The greatest movie ever!","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Acting is not Arnold Schwarzenegger's strong point.  And yet here, he excels in the role of Conan, the driven barbarian.  It is the work of John Milius and the supporting cast who offer most of the dialogue (the narration being provided by none other than Mako).Arnold's screen presence is what carries him through this film.  His days of being the best in the bodybuilding world paid off well here, making him totally believable as the warrior he portrays.Though not the same Conan as Robert E. Howard's stories, this film does quite a lot to mix and match the tales, keeping some of the basics and using ideas and dialogue from Howard's created worlds.  The brutality of this film is holding, the wonder of the film awesome, and the film's musical score is captivating and grand.  Too bad the sequel was so lackluster.  This film, however, is a MUST-SEE! "}{"Title":"Arnold The Barbarian","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The other film that made Arnold Schwarzenegger a star (before The Terminator) casts him as Howard's barbarian Conan, unfairly enslaved as a child after his parents are murdered by James Earl Jones. He grows up to be Arnold, fights as a gladiator, learns how to wield a sword properly and makes love sweet love to women folk before being freed and setting out on a glorious path of vengeance. In addition to being used for breeding purposes, he makes sweet love to a freaky wolf witch and the lovely blond Sandahl Bergman (don't miss the then 31 year old Sandy stripped of her clothes so everyone can get a good look at her 5'10 figure).Arnold is powerful and commanding in his silent, Terminator way, but also more fallible and strangely less invincible than some of his later characters (the ones who made jokes); don't miss Arnold brooding. James Earl Jones is a great villain, and Bergman's a great love interest. Too bad she didn't go on to better things.Plenty of blood and guts, great sets and props, some nice sex and a rousing score. Followed by the inferior though funny Conan The Destroyer in 1984 a few months prior to the Terminator's release. Special edition DVD has lost footage that actually helped develop Conan's character.Long live Conan the Barbarian.  "},{"Title":"One of the best fantasy films ever","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this film for the first time in 1988. I started playing D&D and some other fantasy-role-playing games (today TDE) and this film all combines it Barbarian, Thief, Mage...Arnold Schwarzenegger is at its best and this film made him to the star in my opinion, not the Terminator from 1984.As someone who likes LOTR or fantasy at all, this is a must see. There is not another film made around 1981 that I have watched more often with friends or alone, and if there is the film around in TV again, I'll always stop there and watch it to the end.Normally after 2 or 3 times a film gets bored, because one knows everything, but this is the only one I've seen in almost all versions, cut, uncut, directors cut - I started to count after several times of seeing it and normally it should be 25 or 26 views I gave this film.One of the big points is Conan himself, who is not the bright hero winning his fights easy going, it rather is a sad story, and almost every character in this film has his personal fate. It is a story you'll be thinking about.10/10 Points. "},{"Title":"One of the best fantasy films ever","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this film for the first time in 1988. I started playing D&D and some other fantasy-role-playing games (today TDE) and this film all combines it Barbarian, Thief, Mage...Arnold Schwarzenegger is at its best and this film made him to the star in my opinion, not the Terminator from 1984.As someone who likes LOTR or fantasy at all, this is a must see. There is not another film made around 1981 that I have watched more often with friends or alone, and if there is the film around in TV again, I'll always stop there and watch it to the end.Normally after 2 or 3 times a film gets bored, because one knows everything, but this is the only one I've seen in almost all versions, cut, uncut, directors cut - I started to count after several times of seeing it and normally it should be 25 or 26 views I gave this film.One of the big points is Conan himself, who is not the bright hero winning his fights easy going, it rather is a sad story, and almost every character in this film has his personal fate. It is a story you'll be thinking about.10/10 Points. "},{"Title":"Much better than Lotr. Arnies classic.","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was Arnolds breakthrough. Not exactly breakthrough, Terminator was probably the last step to stardom. Conan the barbarian is old movie but it feels so fresh. Basil Poleadouris made legendary music to the film and Arnie really amazed the big screen.STORY IS  Conan who sees his parents and his village get killed when was child. Whennhe grows up he seeks revenge. So he begins searching the Thulsa doom. Im not gonna spoil anything just watch the movie! This is such a great movie, it is Sword and Sorcerer genre classic. I think its better than Lotr. Schwarzenegger should made Conan 3. Imaging what box office it would be. Governor returns as Warrior. The sequel was also greta Cona the Destroyer. oOverall I give this movie ****/*****.  "},{"Title":"Best Action-Adventure movie ever made.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Beyond all the wonderful things that can be said about this film and one of the best movie scores ever, Conan the Barbarian contains many layers of subtlety often overlooked.  Near the beginning of the film, Conan looses his parents to Thulsa Doom.  This shock leaves him extremely vunerable and you could say re-imprints Thulsa Doom as his father who then shortly thereafter sells him into slavery.  This instills him a tremendous degree of rejection and rage towards Thulsa and a subsequent quest for revenge or re-demption.  This is why when Conan approaches Thulsa at the end of the film with the intent of killing him, Thulsa points out rather poignantly that who would Conan be if it wasn't for him.  That Thulsa gave Conan all these desires, that without these desires Conan would not be the person he is - strong and powerful.  Conan hesitates to kill Thulsa with the truth of Thulsa statement, realizing that ina way Thulsa has played a father-type significance in his life.  But shortly Conan trancends his childhood programming iniatiated by Thulsa as well as the current hypnotic trance Thulsa puts on him and kills Thulsa - thus ending the cycle of revenge, pain, suffering and the ability for Thulsa to continue his evil on the world. "},{"Title":"Simply the best movie ever","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To tell you the truth, this movie is the reason I bought my first VCR.The whole film looks candle-lit, the scenery is great, the costumes are fantastic.  The beautiful music does most of the talking, I don't know how the academy could overlook Basil Poledouris' score, it really deserves an Oscar. Never before and never since has there been a film where the music is this much in sync with the action.  And speaking of the action... WOW! Very bloody, but very entertaining too. "},{"Title":"A sword and sorcery epic which has not been matched","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my favourite film of all time. It is a sword and sorcery epic which, unlike many such films since, is very good viewing.Arnold Schwarzenegger is perfectly cast as Conan. He plays Conan as a tough warrior in a tough world. He does not try be funny, unlike in many of his films later. This is where he really succeeds.The music, by Basil Poledouris, is also one of the contributors to the film's success. The two scores at the beginning of the fim, The Anvil Of Crom and Riders Of Doom, I think are exceptionally good.The amount of sex and violence may not appeal to many people but it is mild compared to many films in 90s.  "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking in the Fantasy genre.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian is in my opinion the earliest Fantasy movie made that is worthy of the name. In fact, it might still be the best Fantasy film ever produced, with the possible exception of The Princess Bride. In itself, this might not say much, but I think that Conan the Barbarian manages to capture the special atmosphere of Robert E. Howards works' very well. This is a great movie, despite the aging and somewhat cheesy special effects. Furthermore it is a crying shame that Basil Poledouris did not get an Oscar for the fabulous soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Well I thought it was entertaining","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" While a little too long and a little too simplistic in the storytelling, there is a lot that makes Conan the Barbarian entertaining. It looks fabulous, with beautiful scenery, sets, costumes and cinematography, while the score is brilliant particularly in the first fifteen minutes. The dialogue is pretty good as is the direction, while the action sequences are top notch and the special effects decent. The pacing is brisk enough, while the acting I had little problem with. Arnold Schawarznegger is great as Conan, while James Earl Jones has fun as Thulsa Doom and Max Von Sydow is good value as King Osric. All in all, while no masterpiece Conan the Barbarian is very entertaining and worth watching at least once. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Best Sword&Sorcery movie of all time","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" what Robert E.Howard created in his books John Millius brought it on the big screen.Conan the Barbarian is the best film of it's genre ever made.it has it's originality,good plot,great locations,one of the best soundtracks of all time.movies like tis are not made anymore,instead this we have fantasy movies packed with computer effects.with is what makes this movie so special.movie blends perfectly with it's characters,plot,locations and soundtrack.many clones where filmed trying to copy this great movie but none until today was so great like this.Basil Poledouris composed one great masterpiece where in every sequence music is perfectly matched.Attack on the village,when Conan finds the sword,when Conan runs with Subotay,the orgy in the temple of the Tulsa Doom every song blends perfectly with the movie sequence and atmosphere.John Millius made a masterpiece of fantasy genre which has become a cult movie of its own.must see for every fan of this genre. 5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Rousing fantasy adventure","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This tops my list of the greatest fantasy adventures of all time. Epic in scope, light on dialog, filled by a pulse pounding soundtrack with phenomenal fantasy sets and action sequences, this has stood the test of time.I have read many of Robert E. Howard's original material, including his only Conan novel, titled Hour of the Dragon, and feel he would have been proud of this adaptation of his most popular creation. The casting is excellent and fits well with the limited dialog. Only Schwartzenegger had the presence to portray the world famous Cimmerian and was therefore perfectly cast. Even the side characters were well cast - hardened warriors and thieves are not eloquent speakers and therefore there is no need for top quality actors to fill such roles.There is almost nothing wrong with this movie. Naturally some of the dialog is poor, but it did not feel off and did not detract from the film. This will always remain among the best of fantasy adventures, and comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Lessons For Life One Of my Favourites of all time","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan this film is timeless due to not pandering to the ratings . When this was first released the theater was full of cheering hells angles and such. Sometimes simple right and wrong is great. The character is the man all little boys want to be when they become men respected, hard,and in control of his own destiny and no matter who stands against him if he is right the gods will grant him victory or death.Sounds corny but it really isn't hero's don't always have to be complicated somethings are better simple the force of will is often underestimated. The sound track buy Basil Polidris (excuse bad spelling) Is also Oscar worthy although finding a stereo recording is virtually impossible.Arnie is just about perfect for the role although I am very angry that they strayed from the Blue eyes and Jet black hair of the original Robert E Howard Character The whole cimmerian race in the books are known as the black hairs (Bad Choice John Milius).No great acting is necessary the chacter was always of few words and great deeds actions speak louder than words anyway.The Older cast James Earl Jones and Max Von Syndow fill out the story with great performances and voices which really rounds the film out nicely.The sword play is realistic with no over gore a great balance of realism no flying people just good fencing and really very good broadsword work there is a great speed to the fights that really i don't think has been equaled in any other movie Lord of the rings is ridiculous blade almost to showy this is very believable If you ever swing a broadsword with enough power to sever a limb you will know it takes a sec to recoil adding that sense of realism there were a lot of injury's during filming by the way.If you look at this as a way to wet your appetite for the books your on the write road the books are infinitely better though with great moral values and fantastic pace to the story telling.The one thing that I am particularly glad about is that this stayed with the R rating after all killing looting wenching and the slaying of evil wizards is hardly a child's passtime. With the rights for a new Conan Movie now in the hands of Millennium Films sold to by Paradox I hope they follow this theme in fact if they went along the lines of 300 or Sin City they would not be far wrong. "},{"Title":"Best barbarian movie of all time!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is a superb movie about a child who grows up with nothing more than a desire to avenge his family and home. He fights his way out of slavery, masters many weapon/fighting techniques and becomes the greatest warrior with a sword (ever in my opinion). This is the best barbarian movie of all time. Nothing else comes close to Conan the Barbarian when it comes to swords and a good story. I have personally seen this movie countless times and enjoy it each time. For some reason though I have seen 3 different endings. The camel-punching scene is a classic. A lot of the bad guys look very similar to 80's metal band members if you ask me. A wonderful film and should not be missed. The movie that put Arnold on the map. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Epic Masterpiece","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Ultimate Epic Masterpiece. Even Swarzeneker is great in that film (speaks less than in Terminator, that's why, hehe). Whatever Dino De Laurentis touches is pure gold. And what about Polidouris music... brilliant and classic!!! The Greeks have done it again. Only greeks or Scandinavians could write such lyrical and yet powerful epic music. A 10+ out of 10 is too little to describe the movie. Should come up with a third Conan instead of making another Terminator. The rest of the cast is great, the story is great, the scenario is awesome (a young Oliver Stone!! gives his best). Who hasn't seen and appreciated this movie is a criminal and his head should be taken by this noble savage that calls himself... Conan!! "},{"Title":"Arnie at his best","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnie is perfectly cast as Conan, and James Earl Jones a perfect last surviving godlike creature.. All the cast did an excellent job and I remember being left breathless when I first saw the film in 1982.. Seen it numerous times since then and still never get tired of it.. One question regarding the movie for a true Conan fanatic like me is, can you see the spirit of Robert E Howard's Conan the Barbarian throughout the movie? The answer is probably not...Seeing a bowing and shamefaced Conan in front of King Osric, or a beaten, exhausted and broken down Conan in front of Thulsa Doom is not a sight that you would see in the comics or read in the novels, Conan bows to no one in the novels I have read.. However viewed as an alternate Conan, similar to Howard's, but far from a strict interpretation, this film is a timeless classic.. This film is probably the best of the lot when it comes to sword films, it is so believable that it is amazing we are only watching a film. The locations, costumes and characters all bring to mind a world full of darkness and death.. Lest I forget, a most wonderful soundtrack as well.. This film pretty much defines the genre, and it also set a standard that I'm not sure has been reached since 1982.. "},{"Title":"The Best Heroic-Fantasy film of all times","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yeah, I know that Schwartzy isn't the greatest of actors but this movie is just as good as it gets. This is his best movie along with the first Terminator. Even if the story isn't very subtle it transcribes R. E. Howard stories. The landscapes are splendid and Poledouris' music ties the film together, possibly better than the soundtrack of any other movie. The minor characters are great, especially Subotai, the Wizard (Mako) and King Osric played by the great Max Von Sydow. James Earl Jones does a great job as Thulsa Doom. This movie has such a feel to it that, in my opinion, it beats The Lord of the Rings hands down. The opening scene with the charge of Thulsa Doom's cavalry on Conan's village gives you a good idea of what this movie is going to be like  Epic! Other scenes such as the infiltration of Doom's mountain, or the attack on the ancient burial ground just make the movie even better.  "},{"Title":"Best Sword and Sorcery movie ever made...","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw Conan the Destroyer, wow! and i love it 8D... and i still like it. But the first, Conan the Barbarian its one of the best sword and sorcery fantasy flicks ever made!!! Everything is perfect, the actors, the costumes, the scenario, and the soundtrack (Basil Poleudoris) is absolutely FANTASTIC!!!! John Milius did a great job, and Dino Di Laurentis productions rules!! Conan is an epic, the best sword fights i ever seen in cinema, one of the best fantasy movies ever made, for fans of fantasy, specially sword and sorcery, its HIGHLY Recommend!!! If you like sword and sorcery movies i recommendedConan the Destroyer (the second best); The Beastmaster; The Sword and the Sorcerer and Conquest. "},{"Title":"Perfect.","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan is the first film I ever remember watching. We had it on laserdisc when I was young, and later on VHS and now I own it on DVD. This film has literally shaped my life and followed me as I grew up. I have no further praise to add, for others have posted more eloquently than I can manage. Simply, this is a story of revenge, redemption, freedom, power, and true strength. The score raises this film to true greatness, never wasting a note. No author yet has had such a faithful adaptation of his work, with perhaps the exception of the LOR trilogy. I only hope that this epic film never gets re-made, because it could never be so perfect again. It may be dated, the effects non-flashy, and the pace a bit slow, but it still speaks to many on a deeply personal level which can never be put into words. If you haven't seen it yet, do so. Tell your friends, and let them see it too. "},{"Title":"most powerful movie ever","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" everything about this movie, the characters, every single line said, everything that happens is of pure power. what Conan says IS what is best in life. the speech Conan's father tells him in the beginning is something that everyone,(but very few will understand) should know. Conan is crucified, but unlike the weak and pathetic Jesus, he still fights back. he looks at his hands and not his mother when she is killed because his own flesh is all he has. he looks at his hands again in the film because he realizes how powerful he is, he has defeated the will of the gods that wanted him dead. makos line they told him to throw down his sword and return to the earth, HAH! time enough for the earth in the grave. is on of the greatest things anyone has ever said. its a shame more people don't understand the power of this film. "},{"Title":"Still my No. 1 movie","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Even 21 years after its release, this is still my No.1 movie. Big, brutal and bloody, watching this movie is still a great experience. The visual effects are not up to date, but otherwise it hasn't lost any of it's power over the years. This is the only John Milius film I liked from the first to the last minute. The look is great, it has phantastic camerawork, superb production design and a score no other composer has ever come close. Composer Basil Poledouris has never composed anything nearly as good as this rousing and sweeping music. Even his music for the sequel was a letdown and sounded as if they slashed the number of musicians half the size of the first recording session. The fight sequences are fantastic and include some stunts that preceded today's Wire-Fu by 20 years.  The story and the way it is told is also great, primarily because of the little amount of dialogue in the film. Everything is transported through the music and the camerawork, so that there are no more words necessary to let the audience know what is going on. So for me this film succeeded on every level and I hope that if King Conan really materializes, that it will be true to Conan the barbarian and will let anyone forget Conan the destroyer. "}{"Title":"Just.... Brilliant","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot believe this movie had not been inserted in the top 250 movies of Imdb. I searched the database, then the Conan site itself, and the database one more time, but soon realized it was a worthless cause as it obviously was not going to be there with a shocking grade of 6.2. This movie is fantastic for all, especially for all you fantasy, warrior, dreamers out there, such as myself.Conan the Barbarian as a movie can simply be put as brilliant. I'm not going to get into any details that may have some overhauling philosophical outlook throughout the movie, even though there may not be too many, but I just want to bring forth a few pointers...The movie is all fantasy, adventure, and a slight taste of action, all brought into one. Even though there may be a few movies out there that have these same elements, none can be so picturesque and captivating as this. Once seated in front of the screen to watch this epic, (yes, an epic), a person simply cannot budge. While Arnold grows from child to man we too grow our relationship with the Great Oak himself and therefore want to simply watch more. The directing is also brilliant. When Arnold and his mates run through the barren fields we feel as if though we too are part of that group and are joining in with the great escapade, where at any point we may have to release our double-bladed sword and fight some mercenary warrior...If there was anything I would have to downgrade on it would probably be the scene with the large snake as the snake itself may look rather odd at first. Still, this movie was made quite a while ago, and does not affect the movie - in a direct manner of speaking - in any way. Also I personally would have loved some more blood and gore. As I've mentioned this movie is great for all you fantasy, warrior, dreamers out there, or just if you're looking for a good, enjoyable movie. Just go watch this movie, and then buy it, so you too can wave your battle axe, sword, or any other weaponry in coordination with the musclebound warrior himself, whenever you want to. You can thank me later.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"A personal favorite","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Stunning, to both the eyes and ears, Conan the Barbarian is a brooding, brilliant film. The dialogue is very limited, purposefully - the intent of co-writers John Milius and Oliver Stone. Rather, they wanted the feeling of the film conveyed via the fantastic soundtrack composed by Basil Poledouris. The music is as grand and epic as the scene settings, huge and majestic. James Earl Jones and Schwarzenegger were both awesome in their respective portrayals. Certainly not a hack-and-slash sword and sorcery film, Conan is a film of tremendous depth. The emotion is evident in mood, facial expressions, and sound, not words. If the viewer either desires or requires things bluntly explained to them, the film will seem largely unexplained and perhaps less enjoyable. However, that won't be the case for someone proficient in more subtle communication. Forget renting this one, do yourself a favor and go buy a copy. 10/10. "},{"Title":"The most manly movie in filming history","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well friends , im 41 years old now..and i have seen this movie over 40 times..maybe 50.I have seen hundreds of movies..action and sci-fi and fantasy movies,Police movies, all mafia movies, cyberpunk movies you name it and i have seen it..i love movies. But Conan the barbarian is the most manly movie i have ever seen.The soundtrack by Basilis Poledoures my countryman is perhaps the best epic mousic ever, the photography is glorious, John Millius done a great job.the cast is great.the plot is great. everything is great.The intro is magnificent..you know...That which does not kill us make us strongest..i got the chils every time..and then the narrator speaks ..and the anvil of Crom start playing ..and Conan 's father tell him the story of steel...you know..this you can trust! not men, not women.., hell yeah!!They brought so nice and smooth the cimmerian is the film..well he is not so dark haired or blue eyes..but OK!Arnie is great as a Conan! There no movies like that anymore kids.forget it..this golden era is finished.ps.Thanks Dino De Laurentis for this epic film, I m sure Robert E Howard..would love this film. ps2..The remake sucks big time. "},{"Title":"What is best in film","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With 1982 classic Conan The Barbarian, writer/director John Milius and champion bodybuilder Arnold Schwarzenegger not only made the best fantasy adventure movie of the 1980's, but also one of the finest motion pictures ever. I applaud director John Milius's choices. Although unconventional, he made them work. Casting many non actors with Arnold as the lead was one of them. What Arnold lacked in acting skills, he more than made up for with presence, charisma and the ambition and dedication to succeed. His million dollar physique and massive athleticism did'nt hurt either. Plus Milius, made the best use of the rest of the cast. James Earl Jones brings class and menace to evil cult leader Thulsa Doom. Max Von Sydow has a brief but memorable cameo as King Osric. Although definitely in the fantasy realm, most of what is contained in the film is authentic and realistic. In this period(the early 80's)many of these type of films were taken less seriously by those that made them and were very campy and tongue in cheek. The tone of this film is pretty serious. While there are a few one liners and some humor sprinkled around, this project has a deadly serious theme of revenge and Conan is a product of tragedy and violence. The film looks sharp and the sets, costumes and weapons are all top notch. The action choreography is fluent and the fight scenes look great. Basil Poledouris's epic score is truly the best and helps carry along the story with little dialogue. It also gives the film an operatic quality that makes the film more powerful and gives it a lot of class as well. Conan The Barbarian is a timeless classic that holds up well. John Milius is truly a genius and one of the most underrated filmmakers of our time. "},{"Title":"Solid Fantasy A Motion Picture Masterpiece","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Like many here, I've watched this celluloid masterpiece more than once. It deserves a 10/10 along with Gandhi and Bladerunner, due in most part to that most elusive of artistic achievements telling a story well with cinema cameras.The screenplay for Conan is outstanding, each scene is brimming with spectacle, magic and meaning from Conan's early servitude, through his training as a warrior, culminating in his defeat of Thulsa Doom.The production values are high, not a CGI pixel in sight, giving the film a solidity from which many modern filmmakers could learn. In fact, its a powerful statement regarding how little film making really needs CGI trickery.Memorable performances from the cast, my favorite remaining the committed portrayal by Sandahl Bergman as brave brigand, Valeria. She was injured during a fight sequence, but returned, to finish filming. That's true courage, film fans! "},{"Title":"Why Conan is one of the Best Movies Ever","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have watched many times this movie, and it is the best sword and sorcery movie ever made.I have read that some people criticize some things about this movie First, that the actors are bad, and that Arnold Schwarzenegger acting is wooden . I beg to differ. Conan is a primitive Barbarian Warrior, always circumspect. So, no laurence Olivier performances are needed. The interpretation of Arnold Scwarzenegger is what the movie needs, as it conveys a sensation of simplicity and authenticity. Barbarians are not chatty ,witty and funny, but silent, circumspect and primitive. So, Scharzenegger does look the part and is perfect for the movie. We do not need Stanislawsky Interpretation techniques. It is just Conan. As for other actors, they are OK. People seem to forget that in this movie there are excellent actors Max Von Sydow, who gives a short but convincing performance as King Osric, and Earl Jones, who gives a good performance as the evil Thulsa Doom. As for the others,they are effective, and serve very well the story's needs without unnecessary displays. Second, they say that the action is slow, and that there is not much dialog. Again, dialog is not much needed in this movie, and when it is necessary, it is done by great actors like James Earl Jones. In fact, the fact that there is not much dialog conveys a sensation of reality and authenticity to the movie, even of antiquity. This fact helps us believe that we are actually in a primitive and primordial world. We do not need in Conan chatty characters making jokes to appeal to a poorly cultivated audience and keep the interest of the less cultured and intelligent audience. So, in my opinion, the fact that they do not speak much is a key factor in the success of this movie, as it makes us believe that we are in a primitive, magic, cruel, ancient and primordial world, where action speaks louder than words. In sum, the lack of dialog makes the movie far more credible and authentic.Some other guy said that there is little violence in this movie this is just not true. The movie starts with the burning, pillage and mass extermination and murder of the inhabitants of a whole village, and the children of the village sold as slaves to some northern mercenaries. In this first scenes, a child, the young Conan watches like his own mother is beheaded in front of him. We see how the child still holds his mother's hand when his mother's head is chopped, dismembered, and flying among sprays of blood.The success of this movie is total, and this is because the story is so well told that this is probably the only Sword and Sorcery movie that makes you feel that it all could have happened in a distant primitive world, thousands of years before. This does not happen with other epic films like Lord of the Rings, where you see characters falling from a precipice fighting with dragons, only to be saved in the last minute(therefore, unreal, a stunt designed for young audiences who shout Wow¡¡ in the cinema). In Conan is very easy to suspend disbelief, and think that all really happened, as the movie conveys a true feeling of authenticity and classicism. Not many movies have done this in this movie genre. Perhaps none. Conan is not actually a movie for children. While we all know that the children of this time are used to see lots more of Violence than Conan's, we all must remember that this is a 1982 movie, made 31-32 years ago. In this movie we see violent murders, beheadings, ritual cannibalism, non consensual sex, mass orgies, prostitution, ritual human sacrifice, ritual suicide, temple profanation,alcoholism, thefts, mass murder, slavery, religious fanaticism, primitive demonic rites, necrophilia, black-magic, drug traficking, magic use of hallucinogenic substances, desecration of tombs, robberies, witchcraft and even hints of homosexuality. So, this is not for Children, as it is Lord of the Rings. Also, here, the characters are not so plain as it appears. In fact, in a movie like Lord of the Rings, the characters are far more plain actually, as they are all Black & White. This means that the good guys are unbelievably good, and the bad guys unbelievably bad(therefore, unreal). Here, none of the good guys are actually good, and morals are not important. They are described just as they are, and for that reason, all the Conan Characters are very credible, real and authentic. A great Movie, a true legend, with a superb atmosphere. Conan the Barbarian is the story of a revenge, told in epic friedrich Nietzsche grandeur. Conan is the incarnation of the myth of the Super-Human or Super-Man. Thulsa Doom represents religion, superstition, and religious power as a way to control people. Conan, in epic Grandeur, is the wronged man who takes revenge by taking control of his own life by Killing the Demigod Thulsa Doom, beheading him in front of his followers, and throwing his head down the stairs of the temple for the astonishment of his cult followers(it symbolizes the death of god and the coming of the super-man). Then,he burns the temple, and takes the princess with him, being the final scene a so speaks Zarathustra epic end, in which a new era, free of the slavery of religion is about to come. Some criticized this anti-Christian or anti-religious ideology. The movie does indeed praise individualism above all, and it does indeed criticize religion. That is also the reason why some saw in the movie some fascistoid ideology related to the Master-Slave morality of Friedrich Nietsche. "},{"Title":"Not a classic in the true sense, but still one great movie","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan is a movie of swords and sorcery and one of Arnold Swarztenegger's earliest. It was not his first but it was the movie that brought him fame. Conan is a movie with very little dialogue and the story is told through action and a narrative. When I first saw it I was a little put back at the lack of dialogue but now I think that it is an effective way of telling a story. I don't think that it would work that well with audiences, especially if they expect dialogue, but I think that it effective.Conan begins with Conan's village being attacked by a band of raiders bearing the standard of a snake cult. They slaughter the villagers, including Conan's mother and father, and take him as a slave. We later learn that they were after the secret of steel, which the village had, and they were caught by surprise giving the raiders and advantage. Conan grows up as a slave and later is thrown into a pit to test his worth. He begins to win victories and as his fame grows, he is rewarded with knowledge, and finally freedom. With his freedom he sets out to seek revenge for his fathers death.Conan is a story and not an intellectual film. The character Conan is reasonable, and we see how he is obsessed with revenge. He also believes that he is powerful but is humbled when he attempts to break into Thulsa Doom's (James Earl Jones) castle but is caught and crucified. His girlfriend saves him but forfeits her own life after they battle with spirits to prevent his soul from being taken.The movie is based on a comic strip and also a series of books by an author whose name escapes me. I have never read the books nor have I seen the comic strips so I do not know how close they have kept the character. Assuming Hollywood is typical then the character has probably been adjusted to suit them. I do not know whether the story is original or taken from the comic strip. Still, I enjoy the movie and would recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"Excellent Music, Good Story, so-so Acting","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Giving Conan the Barbarian a generous 6/10 mark mostly because of growing up in the 80s. Recently re-watched this early 80's saga especially enjoying the downright momentous music. However the acting really doesn't keep pace, and the fighting scenes are clumsily put together for the most part. Costuming is fairly well done, and the story does pretty well especially through the first hour and a half with the mixed in homages to various Gods and Barbarian Philosophy. And a Witch and Wizard thrown in for good measure. However, the movie suffers from a poor finale and final battle(s). (mild spoilers) Despite a fairly entertaining infiltration of Doom's stronghold with a strong set piece replete with cannibal-goulash, the director/producers run out of steam/ideas (budget? ) ) subsequently taking us next back to a tired Stonehenge-esquire setting with some unimaginative albeit gory fight scenes. Yes the gore is piled on gratuitously and shamelessly - too much surely. So as an Arnie fan, you better have watched this unless just starting out - it's requisite. A romp as far as music, but not nearly to the acting level as say Excalibur ('81). Nonetheless it's always pure fun listening to Arnie's dialog and Austrian accent. Worth a look for Nostalgia's sake and music. "},{"Title":"Ethos and Pathos of leadership with the ancient world","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is a great mythical adventure tale that seems to have many archaeological facts inter-woven into its plot. Especially with themes of religion, where the essence of character's ethos and pathos become even more outstandingly portrayed.Within the Hasmonean kingdom as a reference I think this ancient period deals with the control of political power via religious competition. This seems the main battle within Conan the Barbarian movie plot where the ethos and pathos of self righteous actions are being controlled. Hence the use of suicide to demonstrate this overwhelming power by the leaders, or priests, of the snake cult. I think that this movie plot is a tangent theme of the quote, might makes right, where the movie quote, Riddle of Steele, is grounded in the knowledge of doing business, political fairness (striking of coinage), and mass production of metal weapons. "},{"Title":"Conan the Barbarian - Sword-swinging, epic entertainment","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The realm of fantasy is a difficult genre for filmmakers to grasp and master, with many films either being spectacular successes (i.e., Star Wars or The Lord of the Rings), cult icons, or disastrous failures; Conan the Barbarian is the cult icon.Released in 1982, with a script co-authored by Oliver Stone and directed by John Milius, Conan the Barbarian rocketed its star Arnold Schwarzenegger into the Hollywood spotlight, which would be cemented two years later in 1984 by his role as the cyborg killer in The Terminator. Schwarzenegger gives what could very easily be considered one of his best and most overlooked performances as Robert E. Howard's muscular sword-swinging cult hero.In a story that strangely enough mirrors the life of the film's star, a horde of bloodthirsty raiders led by Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) massacres his peaceful Cimmerian village, murders his parents, and in turn this becomes an event that leads a young Conan into 15 years of slavery grinding grain on the Wheel of Pain. By the time that we're in the present, Conan (Schwarzenegger), now an adult, has forged a magnificent body and finds eventual use by his owner as a pit-fighter.This earns him a degree of infamy, as one after one, many pit combatants meet their demises at the hands of savage Conan. Soon after, he is freed and left to roam the desert countryside all by himself. He soon finds a king's sword, which will come in handy in the many battles that await him.He finds comradeship with Subotai the Mongol (Gerry Lopez) and romances the very tough but very HOT Valeria, the Queen of Thieves (Sandahl Bergman). Eventually, along with some spiritual aid from The Wizard (Mako, also the story's narrator), the four become a team of unlikely allies, as they all come from vastly different backgrounds, and organize their respective talents to battle Doom's evil snake cult.Many people may often tend to look at Conan the Barbarian and just think of it as an early wooden performance from stone-faced Schwarzenegger, which really couldn't be any farther from the truth, in my view.The immortal, so-called Riddle of Steel and other mystical Asian and Middle Eastern philosophies abound in the film's script. The Riddle of Steel ultimately asks a fundamental question that could still hold true today (in some respects), the question of which is more powerful, the steel, or the mighty hand that wields it?These sort of mystical questions and philosophies allow Conan the Barbarian to elevate itself above any average qualities and into cult icon status; this film's apparent devoted fanbase might confirm my assertions. The film's costumes are certainly representative of the setting, and certainly do look like they were worn on and off the set.The epic musical score by Basil Poledouris is also worth some special mention. According to IMDb's trivia section, this score has been used as a temp track a lot in subsequent films and television trailers, but has never been matched in terms of quality and audience arousal.Schwarzenegger is good, his performance is a bit choppy in some places but then again, what are we to really expect? Even though this film is deep thematically, it's serving two purpose in regards to its star 1) to get Schwarzenegger into Hollywood stardom and 2) show off his muscles and labor-forged torso.The supporting roles are excellent and keep the film above water, especially from Gerry Lopez as the Mongol and Golden Globe-winning actress Sandahl Bergman as Conan's love interest. The best role of course, is that of James Earl Jones as the very evil Thulsa Doom. Jones is vile and repulsive as this wicked sorcerer who's bent on achieving immortality, willingly sacrifices his female followers without hesitation or remorse, and also has a seemingly unhealthy relationship with snakes.Well, should Schwarzenegger fans see it? Yes. Did I like it? Yes. Will fans of Robert E. Howard like it? Yes.Conan the Barbarian is an excellent fantasy adventure that's held up well since its time in theaters 23 years ago in 1982. It's achieved an important cult icon status that hasn't diminished at all. (That could be because of the adolescents who view this movie as a living representation of their innermost fantasies - the sword-swinging hero who goes on wild adventures, beds a beautiful female warrior, slays an evil madman, and becomes a king - all the stuff of incessant teenage daydreaming.)Beware though, as with any mature fantasy, Conan the Barbarian is by no means a children's movie and its R rating is there for good reason. This film's explicit sex scenes, excessive nudity, and graphic sword + sorcery combat violence should definitely win over those looking to quench their voracious bloodlusts.8/10 "}{"Title":"What a Movie","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  22 years later and this is still my favorite movie... I have of course seen much better films, with superior acting, special effects, story but there is something about this movie that just feels special... If you love action and sword fighting you cannot go wrong with this movie... 10/10 and that is hard for me to say as no movie is perfect but this one does exactly what it advertises... "},{"Title":"The movie that made Schwarznegger famous.","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of Arnolds earlier films puts him in the feudal ages with no shirt and a big sword. The storyline is surprisingly quite good, more than you would expect from an early Arnie movie. The best acting performances in this film must go to Akiro (??? ???) and Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones). Akiros narration through the first part of the film is a brilliant touch, and Thulsa Dooms stare remains clear in your mind days after seeing it. James Earl Jones was perfectly cast for this part, his menacing glare and authoritive voice fit Doom's character to perfection. The fight scenes and cinematography are also very well done.The musical score deserves special mention as THE best in any movie ever. Never has the music in a scene fitted so well with what is happening on screen. You will be humming and whistling it for days I promise.Overall a great film, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hindsight is 20/20","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Back when it was originally released, CONAN THE BARBARIAN was dismissed by the critics as a disposable Sword & Sorcery B-movie.  It was criticized for it's excessive violence and Arnold's wooden performance.  It's brilliant score and memorable sets are ignored by reviewers, as is the well choreographed swordplay. Thirteen years later, BRAVEHEART is showered with praise and Oscar respectability.  It is embraced by critics despite it's graphically violent battlefield sequences, which are praised as exhilarating and authentic. Many of these battle sequences (as well as some of the costume design) bare just a little resemblance to the ones in CONAN THE BARBARIAN. Eighteen years later, GLADIATOR becomes a box-office blockbuster in a matter of weeks, taking in almost one hundred thirty million thus far.  It receives generally good notices from critics despite it's historical inaccuracies, poorly edited action scenes and predictable plot.  The basic story is reminiscent to the one told in CONAN, and the films violence is every bit as brutal. Isn't it funny how times change?  What was once laughable and disposable is now respectable.    "},{"Title":"The best sword fighting movie of all time!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  An almost flawless effort, crediting all talent that went into it.  The TLC taken with the story enhances its vision, not entirely true to Robert E. Howard, but close enough.  It's TIME NOW and LONG OVERDUE for Arnold and company to resurrect the closing scene and film Conan the King - bring the gleaming cities of the Hyborean Age alive with CGI!  10/10. "},{"Title":"ARNOLD'S FINEST","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian (hereinafter CTB) is quite simply Schwarzenegger's best movie.  Forget the big budget blockbusters and special-effects-tour-de-force-romps of the eighties and nineties.  Along with `Pumping Iron,' his bodybuilding documentary, CTB represents the perfect showcase for Arnold's natural talents (including the self-confidence of ten action film stars, a commanding physical presence, and a whip smart sense of humor).It does not hurt that CTB follows a predictable, albeit proven format, the three classical unities of the kung-fu genre  (1) wrondoing &#150; the snake cult massacres Conan's family; (2) rebirth &#150; Conan learns the `riddle of steal' during his years as a pit fighter; and (3) revenge &#150; Conan goes after the snake cult to avenge the killing of his parents.  CTB also boasts several veterans of the screen, including Max Von Sydow and James Earl Jones, and a moving and powerful score by Basil Poledouris.CTB is not about dialogue or what is spoken between characters.  Entire scenes that are central to the plot unfold without Conan uttering a single line of dialogue.  Take for instance the scene where Max Von Sydow charges Conan and his companions with the task of rescuing his daughter; the scene between Conan and Valeria where she tries to talk him out of accepting the rescue mission; the death of Valeria; and the climax where Conan confronts James Earl Jones.  But every scene sells itself and Arnold's co-stars are able to fill the void left by Conan's silence.  After all, Conan is a man of action, not a man of words.Instead, CTB is about the unspoken bond between friends, lovers, and family. Arnold is able to convey with stares, smirks, and laughter what lesser actors and films do with rambling, awkward, unbelievable dialogue.  Two shining examples of this, less is more approach, include the scenes where Conan cremates his lover and silences the King's daughter with a menacing look.When Arnold does speak, his timing has never been better and his delivery never more convincing.  Arnold seems completely at ease and comfortable in this role.  He does not fumble over dialogue and corny one-liners.  If Arnold were to make just one more movie, it should be the third installment in this series.Arnold is certainly no Deniro or Spacey, but he is wildly charismatic and easier to like as a person than either Brando or Nicholson.  And while CTB never experienced much success, at least it has achieved cult-classic status, which is more than can be said for rather forgettable Oscar winners such as Dances with Wolves and Driving Miss Daisy.  Anyone who does not like this film simply will not allow themselves to.  To CTB's detractors, I say shame on you for being movie snobs.  "},{"Title":"Whatever faults this film has are easily forgiven...","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This may not be one of the greatest films of all time, but for fantasy-fans like me it is one of the best fantasy movies ever made.  Fantasy adventure movies should not always be something that you take your kindergartener to go see.  I enjoyed Willow, but this genre is better defined by movies like Conan The Barbarian, than by any Muppet's Go Medieval type of movie.The movie is far from perfect.  People can easily point to the dialogue and say 5 out of 10.  But I always viewed Conan as a grunting, heavily accented kind of guy anyways. )  I would have been skeptical had he come out with some theological sermons or preaching about the rights of the weak and poor.  Arnold does a good job.  And besides, he looks so much like a real Conan that by looking at him you gotta believe that's how Conan talks... 'cause Arnold is Conan!!!Some have complained about the plot.  I think the plot is fine, although of course it's not meant to be picked apart and rigorously, mathematically tested.  It's a great story.  It offers an explanation of Conan's youth and then applies that history very nicely to the trouble he gets into later on as an adult (I suppose he looks for the trouble himself).I'll admit there are some things that even I would want to see changed if we could dynamically alter the movie now.  I'm sure even the director would agree to a point.  There are a couple of scenes which may not directly affect the main plot, but then again, these should only bother folks who want the story to move along so they can watch Citizen Kane or Casablanca and admire their own good taste. ;-)Bottom line Conan the Barbarian is the best warrior movie ever made.  It could have been the start of a nice 2-3 movie saga, had the sequel not been so bad.  I would love to see something similar be made today.  There are more than a few great fantasy stories out there, complete saga's in fact(with swords, magic, terrific evil, great heroes) that in the hands of a good screen-writer and director could make a hell of a movie(s).  And more importantly, I believe it would make a lot of money.Oh well, all I can do is hope that The Lord of the Rings isn't another rated-PG kiddie-fest with funny monsters, silly villains, and comic relief at the end of every scene. (even though you know I'd still go watch it with my 5-yr old son anyway, im pathetic. ) "},{"Title":"Swords and Sorcery Epic","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Though differing from the Official origin-story of Robert E. Howard's legendary character, the movie still manages to capture the quintessential elements which are definably Conan. The film is an epic, sweeping work of panoramic vistas and powerful background music by Basil Poledouris.Look for James Earl Jones' performance as the villain, Thulsa Doom - part evil sorcerer, part Old Man of the Mountain (of the ancient 'Hasheshin' legends). Look also for Sandahl Bergman's performance as Valeria, a woman who is more than a match for the somber, taciturn performance Arnold Schwarzenegger gives the role of the powerful barbarian. "},{"Title":"The best adventure movie","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As maligned as this film has been by some critics, it's the best of the high adventure movies, in my opinion.  The second film, unfortunately, doesn't hold a candle to this one.  The glorious score by Basil Poledouris, the cinematography, the fantastic acting by many of the characters (especially James Earl Jones and Max Von Sydow, with a strong contribution by Mako) make this the adventure movie of the decade, perhaps of the century.  I've seen nothing to equal it thus far.  On first viewing, you may end up missing some details.  If possible, see this movie on DVD.  Summary Glorious High Adventure! "},{"Title":"At first it was just another snake cult...","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie.  Not a great movie like Casablanca, the Wizard of Oz, or Lawrence of Arabia.  It is great in that you could not make a better movie about Conan.  Arnold is perfect for the part with his early '80s steroid-enhanced size and thick Austrian accent.  The plot is silly but action-packed; the characters are interesting; and there are so many macho/corny lines that stick with you afterwards.  Almost every male my age (born in 1969) that I've talked with loved this movie and, even more than the movie, the music - the score is memorable and is perfectly suited to the picture and action.  If you buy the soundtrack CD, the liner notes express my feelings about the music and the movie exactly. "},{"Title":"Conan the Entertainer","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" (spoilers ahead)I have to give it to John Milius; despite his right-winger ramblings over the years (i.e. Red Dawn), the man directed one of the most truly entertaining movies I've ever seen &#x96; Conan the Barbarian. Regardless of how many times I've seen Conan, whenever it happens to be on I have to stop and watch it, and there are not many films I can say that about. Released in 1982, Conan the Barbarian is also one of those films I remember most fondly from childhood, along with Clash of the Titans and Xanadu (tell you much?). Of course I realize that childhood probably sounds odd, considering Conan is full of nudity, sex, graphic violence, buckets of blood, etc., but my brother and I had progressive parents. Or maybe they just never bothered to actually look at the video boxes we had them rent for us? (This laissez faire attitude of my mom and dad also resulted in me seeing Blue Velvet when I was thirteen years old&#x85;not a good idea, or was it?)For many sword 'n' sandal movie lovers I've spoken to over the years, Conan the Barbarian is the film which first got them addicted as well. The never boring revenge-plot, the seemingly futile quest, the evil cult of snakes and its bare-breasted acolytes, the over- sized monster, the steamy and wanton orgy, the fierce black body-paint, the wonderful Basil Poledouris score, and my personal favorite &#x96; the scene-stealing, take-no-crap, glamazon that is Sandahl Bergman, as Valeria this all makes for a wonderfully spent two hours. And of course, the Governator. Even when first viewing it, I knew that there was something good- bad about Arnold Schwarzenegger. I didn't know what camp was yet (something very hard to believe now, like admitting there was a time I didn't know how to breathe), but I would always giggle whenever he tried to act. Apart from this, it's not hard to admit that he has a cinematic presence in Conan the Barbarian &#x96; the film that launched him as a full-fledged movie star. Arnold admitted during interviews held at the time that his favorite actor was John Wayne, and that he learned everything he knows about acting from watching Wayne's movies. Now I just viewed The Searchers again the other day, and let me tell you, sometimes I forget just how dull of an actor Duke really was. Not exactly the thespian I'd be mimicking to enhance my performance. I'm told that Conan the Barbarian is true to the original Robert E. Howard stories, if not in characterization (debatable) or plot, at least in its edge-of-your seat adventure and the overall fantastical tone. The cinematography is almost exquisite, with many scenes ostensibly shot through pale gold or russet filters &#x96; the candlelit scenes being striking as well. And the meticulous art direction is perfectly balanced between the pseudo-bizarre (the orgy scene, Thulsa's temple) and the realistic (Von Sydow's throne room, Mako's abode). Nothing is too gaudy or purposefully unreal either, like the purple or green lights that seem to come from nowhere in the typical '50s and '60s Hercules/Goliath/Samson films of yore, i.e. the movies of Mario Bava, or Sergio Cottofavi. Perhaps that's what makes the giant snake, and Thulsa's transformation all the more eye opening. You don't expect them to happen. The moments in the film which incorporate monsters, magic or the like are so few and far between that they truly jolt you when they occur. This dual-existence, unfortunately, is not carried into the sequel, Conan the Destroyer, which is clearly a flat-out fantasy cum monster movie, but it does have Grace Jones, whose feral performance alone warrants an essay.With the over-saturation of CGI, and our unfortunate dependence on them for the genre films of today, this movie is a wonderful chance to see what heights fantasy-loving filmmakers could reach without the aid of a computer. If you ask me, the 0s and 1s don't make for a better-spent time. "}{"Title":"Heads roll","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Filled with gore and nudity, Conan the Barbarian captures the spirit of Conan perfectly. Schwartznegger shines in his role of a crude man out for revenge and I cannot imagine anyone else performing the same role. His acting even pulls some emotional strings which is very unusual from him. Even with some corny and outdated special effects this film is extremely beautiful to look at. Conan riding through the steppe in a fantasy setting has something that not many movies have been able to top.The plot is solid and clear. Even though it is basically a straight forward tale of revenge, the plot incorporates many unusual turns of events and does not hide the barbarity of the character or the world that he lives in. Supporting characters are really well fleshed out and you come to care about them instead of wishing to see them die in a spectacular manner. The only real downside of Conan is poor dubbing. None of the lines said on screen fit the characters' mouth movement perfectly which gives the film a somewhat campy form.I do not understand why Conan the Barbarian has only 6.7 rating on IMDb since it cannot be boring to anyone and it is certainly seen in good light by the more attentive film goers. This is easily one of the best movies of the 80s and deserves whatever praise it gets. If you haven't seen this classic already I recommend you see it before you die. "},{"Title":"Very Good Sword and Sorcery Film...","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is so over-the-top, that it's actually a very good sword and sorcery film. It lives up to the title in that this is one barbaric movie. Several scenes can make one laugh, be it when Conan is tethered to the Tree of Woe and kills a vulture with his own mouth, or the other various acts of pure brute strength of the main character. The dialogue is so barbaric as well that some lines will stick with you for a long time, if not for ever.The acting is okay. Conan has very little dialogue, and whenever he does speak it ends up being slightly bad. James Earl Jones is probably the only person in this film, as well as Max von Sydow, who give genuine performances. Everyone else is just awful -- which kind of adds to the film in its own weird sort of way.The music by Basil Poledouris is stunning. It's very loud and subtle. The action cues alone make it well worth the money to buy if you have the opportunity, or are into orchestral music.An R-rating is very fitting for Conan the Barbarian. There's a ton of blood, though not a gory film -- with guts or insides spewed all over the place. There's also a lot of nudity as well -- you do see Conan have some lovey dovey time a few times.Overall, Conan the Barbarian is a fun movie. It's very '80s and it's very macho. I definitely recommend this to anyone who loves fantasy -- such as me -- or is looking for a good film to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, and thoroughly well-done","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnie in the lead role. James Earl Jones as the villain. Clear effort and care, that shows, in every department. Really, what more could you ask of this film? I have not read any of Howard's stories, so all I know about Conan is how many times the character has been done, and of course what this film told me. Be forewarned, there is some sexuality(not many places, but when it's there, it can be strong), a lot of violence, and a seemingly endless stream of death throughout this, and you should only watch this if you are prepared for(and able to tolerate) such. The plot is quite good, and I understand it does incorporate several elements and occurrences from the original stories by Howard(R.I.P.). The pacing is pretty much flawless, I was never bored. The action is well-done, intense and with great choreography. Acting is spot-on, more or less. Jones is a more intimidating presence elsewhere, but he's not bad at all. Schwarzenegger does rather well. Production values are of notably high quality for the entire feature. No expense seems spared. Vast sets and locations, detailed costumes and props, countless extras. Special effects are magnificent, and not just for the time it was made. Sound is reasonable, a lot of lines seem ADR'ed, but the music is masterful. Dialog varies, but most of it is marvelous, both writing and delivery. Cinematography and editing are top-notch. This builds atmosphere skillfully, and the amount of dialog and where it occurs is chosen with care. I would advise against reading the Trivia entries, or at least all of them, before the viewing, as they do give some things away. I recommend this to any fan of the genre, Arnie, and possibly Jones and/or Sydow, as well. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A supremely tough, gritty and exciting sword and sorcery fantasy action winner","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger in the tailor-made role that launched his career) vows to get revenge on evil cult leader Thulsa Doom (a grandly wicked James Earl Jones), who killed both of Conan's parents and everyone in his village. Conan is assisted by the brave Valerie, Queen of Thieves (a fine performance by the exquisitely graceful and gorgeous Sandahl Bergman), loyal thief/archer Subotia the Mongol (an extremely likable turn by champion surfer Gerry Lopez), and a batty, but wise wizard (the excellent Mako). Director John Milius, who also co-wrote the smart and gutsy script with Oliver Stone, does a masterful job of creating a hard, serious, rough-edged tone, maintains a steady pace throughout, and stages the action scenes with considerable rip-snorting brio. The sterling cast qualifies as a significant asset Max von Sydow hams it up deliciously as the drunken King Osric, William Smith makes a strong impression as Conan's father, Valerie Quennessen is absolutely ravishing as a fair princess who falls under Thulsa Doom's spell, Cassandra Gaviola has a memorably sexy bit as a lovely, yet lethal witch, brawny behemoths Ben Davidson and Sven-Ole Thorsen serve as perfect foils for Conan as two of Thulsa Doom's nasty henchmen, and Jess Franco film regular Jack Taylor even pops up in a small part as a priest. Kudos are also in order for the wonderfully robust, stirring and flat-out beautiful full-bore orchestral score by Basil Poledouis. Duke Callaghan's stunning widescreen cinematography and Ron Cobb's striking production design add immensely to the overall breathtaking epic scope and majestic sweep of this hugely enjoyable rough'n'tumble fantasy action treat. "},{"Title":"A sharp, unique, and well-crafted adventure.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A very ambitious and serious take on the stories by R.E. Howard and the adaptation turns out better than one would expect.Conan the Barbarian follows the long and difficult journey of Conan who seeks revenge for the savage massacre of the people in his village - including his parents and the theft of a sword that Conan's father took his time in creating.Arnold Schwarzenegger (in one of the few roles) that made him a star portrays Conan who doesn't say a whole lot but makes up for it with simply being honest. Throughout the movie, Conan picks up a few friends (Sandahl Bergman, Gerry Lopez, and Mako) in his quest to find the one person who led the attack on Conan's village, Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones), a cult leader who has a large legion of followers. Conan and his quartet certainly have their share of adventures that are nothing short of seriously intense.The director, John Milius (who was the right choice to direct this movie) co-wrote the script with Oliver Stone and here, Milius lets the film go at a steady pace and the battle sequences are well done instead of being too violent and careless. Also, another issue of note, the movie's handling of the characters and humor is treated with care and going way over the top.The performances by the cast in the movie are very respectable here and Milius' direction is excellent. If there's one thing that I can't forget bringing up in the review here, it's the magnificent musical score composed by the late Basil Poledouris. The music itself in the battle scenes reminded me of Elmer Bernstein's best composed work (The Magnificent Seven, The Great Escape). For me, you don't hear composed music like this these days (and if there's a few noteworthy examples, then please forgive me).A sharp, unique, and well-crafted adventure. "},{"Title":"Fantasy Fun","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love a decent sword and sorcery epic. I have heard a lot about this, and decided to buy it on DVD. I had never read any of the comics, so did not know what to expect, all I knew was that it had Arnie in it, and contained 'strong bloody violence'.The first half does drag on a bit. we See Conan(Arnie) as a child, and his village massacred and his young self forced into slavery. here he takes part in Gladiatorial contests, and his rise to stardom. He is than given the chance to be free, and he takes it. Que a long, brutal, bloody revenge saga.After about an hour to actually get to the revenge bit the action gets going And what spectacular action it is. Decapitations, severed arteries and group sex all follow. Arnold plays his character down to a tee, stripping his characters dialogue. The direction is lavish, and it really draws you into his world. all this is accompanied with a magnificent musical score.Go see. "},{"Title":"a very good theatrical introduction to Conan","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this is a very good movie.it contains lots of action adventure and excitement.the acting is pretty decent,although acting isn't really the focal point of this movie or most in the genre.the movie has a pretty good story that is fairly simple and easy to follow.it'a good beginning look at Conan,portrayed well by Arnie.this is probably where he is at his largest size.for a sword and sorcery epic,this movie is pretty good,although i admit i haven't seen very many.i like the colourful cast of characters,which add to the story.the movie is fairly dark in tone,though there are some fun moments.i thought the movie moved along at a good speed,without seeming too rushed,thus retaining its epic quality.for me,Conan The Barbarian is an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Better than most thought when it was released","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Though I am not fond of agreeing with Ebert, who liked the movie a lot, both he and I liked it when it was released. The Widescreen Laserdisc was not bad at all and, of course, Ahnold is perfect for the role. The new DVD is excellent.I want to comment on something in the cinematography of the movie. What few people mention is Milius's obvious homage to Eisenstein. Add snow to the battle scenes and they could easily be from Alexandre Nevsky. The film is good on many levels and may be the best example of the genre ever made. For that reason alone, it is a keeper.I am happy to see that time has corrected the sneering of self anointed sophisticated critics. They may still sneer at the sequel (as do I), although Grace and Wilt made a lotta money. "},{"Title":"Its a great movie","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A fantastic movie considering that it has no real special effects ala Dragonslayer. Arnold does a great job as our favourite hulking cimmerian.It has a great score that is reminiscent of John William's rousing pieces from Star Wars and Superman, Great villains in Thulsa Doom and his two looming side-kicks and gorgeous women in Cassandra Gava as the exotic witch and Sandahl Bergman as Valeria. John Milus does a cracking job of directing this movie squeezing in huge amount about Conan's life. The film is fast paced an never boring.Just a few corrections - thulsa doom is a Kull villain and its Crom not Krom. "},{"Title":"Swords and sorcery...","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan The Barbarian stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as the title character, a warrior barbarian who travels the land looking to avenge the death of his parents at the hands of a snake king (James Earl Jones) who decapitated his mother right in front of him, after fighting in pits all his life, Conan becomes a thief, falls in love with a warrior woman Valeria (Shandahl Bergman) and learns kung fu from Mako, while avenging his family and solving the riddle of steel. Wow, talk about a plot heavy movie. Actually that's a good thing because Conan The Barbarian works because of it's business, due to it's popularity we were treated to very bad sword and sorcery movies in the 80's but this classic features everything you could want from the genre. The sets are beautiful, the action crisp and exciting, acting adequate and full of gore. This is a great movie. One of Arnold's better features also.* * * out of 4-(Good) "}{"Title":"Teenage boys never had it so good!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is one of my personal all time favs! I've loved it ever since my buddies and I, fresh from playing Dungeons and Dragons back in the early eighties, convinced a friend's parent to rent it for us from the video store! This movie ROCKS! It's got blood, guts, orgies, philosophy, and SEX! Sure, it's a bit ham-fisted at points, but what the heck, it's SUPPOSED to be hamfisted! It's about a BARBARIAN, fer cryin' out loud! Despite the low-brow appeal, much of this film is still artfully done. I particularly enjoy the pacing of the scene where Conan and his comrades kill the giant snake in the temple. The eye of the snake as it slowly awakens, set to the haunting temple music, still haunts me to this day! Lots of people talk trash about Arnold, but honestly, he was perfect for this role. His accent only adds to the barbaric qualities of our protag, Conan! James Earl Jones as Thulsa Doom is NOT TO BE MISSED! Those of the hippie persuasion be warned! This movie was partially written by Oliver Stone, and he lays waste to the hippie myth! Thulsa Doom's followers are the naive and foolish flower children, many of them sons and daughters of the nobility, who have been tricked into believing in 'nothingness.' One might make the case that this film inaugurated the backlash against the sixties, arriving as it does on the cusp of the eighties and the Reagan era! The excesses of the sixties become the fodder for our ridicule in this 'little gem' of a film...The cannibalistic orgy rites of the cultists will particularly shock (or titillate) the uninitiated! Sensitive (read 'homosexual') cultists are also thrashed (actually beaten) by Mr. Conan, so be warned -- this is not a film for the politically correct or faint-of-heart...If you are into swords and sorcery, I heartily recommend this film! If you are into high-brow social commentary, you might be offended, so don't bother! "},{"Title":"This is my favorite movie.","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I admit it. Conan the Barbarian is my favorite movie. I don't remember the first time I saw Conan the Barbarian; it was before elementary school. However, this film has stayed with me throughout the years when so many sword & sorcery films miserably miss the mark. Why? First of all, the imagery is beautiful. Unlike Conan the Destroyer, Red Sonja, Kull the Conqueror, and the myriad other fantasy films out there, Conan the Barbarian features beautiful outdoor imagery and sets that were obviously painstakingly created for that dark gritty feel of the written series. The costumes are well done. One sees earth tones prevailing, none of the incredibly silly colors or fabrics seen in the afore mentioned movies. In other words, the costumes don't look cheap. The outside locations were positively beautiful. They filmed outdoor sequences in Spain instead of on indoors set like many films. The range and beauty of the landscapes are stunning. The music is haunting. Basil Poledouris' score is incredibly moving, and, in a film with little dialog, the music helps to move the movie along. As for the script. For a fantasy movie, it is incredibly well written. (Actually, compared to many movies of the late 1990's and early 2000, it is superb in comparison.) They do change Conan from the books though. He is much more honorable in the movie (trust me) than in the books. He is also well taught both in fighting and in learned pursuits (no, he isn't a scholar, but he is literate). Most people think this is a hack and slash movie. Maybe so, but it also has a deep message; revenge does not bring peace. All throughout the movie, Conan searches for revenge for a terrible wrong. However, his quest for revenge costs him dearly...too dearly. In his final scene where he is alone, where does the culmination of revenge lead? It doesn't regain him what he lost, but it was also something that he had to do. However, not all feel about it that way, and that is only the way I choose to view it. The acting is a bit wooden here, at least from our heroes. However, Conan is supposed to be stoic and Arnold's face does capture a wide array of emotions without ever having to speak. Sandhal Bergman does a surprising credible job as Valeria, fellow thief and companion. However, it is James Earl Jones who over powers the audience with his lush voice and expressiveness. As Thulsa Doom, the main villain, he shines. The gore factor here is fair, so you may not want to let your kids watch it. Also, a little bit of nudity is here within as well. Anyway, if you want to see a nice sword & sorcery movie, this is probably one of your best bets. It has a little bit of everything. "},{"Title":"Lost Oliver Stone Patty Hearst Story","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I know that Milius (sp?) rewrote the Stone's script, but I've always believed that Stone was basing the script on the Patty Hearst Kidnapping. Not to make too much of this, it's really on the latter part of the movie, but think about it The King/Hearst has his daughter kidnapped by a black clad army that hangs out with hippies and flower children.Otherwise, all I've to add is my rating. I've always loved this movie (hated the Destroyer). And I'm still upset that at the end, we were promised King Conan (I always thought Arnie looked pretty cool as the old bearded king at the end) and all we got was governor Conan. "},{"Title":"An epic fantasy movie about revenge and the power of steel","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are not that many good fantasy movies out there. There are less of those which really have a depth beyond being a genre movie. This epic movie based on a great literary character, manages to capture the raw and unforgiving atmosphere that make Conan's world in a very breathtaking way. Furthermore, the deep philosophical themes of revenge in the form of Conan's quest to kill Tulsa Doom first trying to find ultimate secret of the power of steel(a path that strongly connects him to Conan) and later finding the ultimate power in the flesh itself by creating his snake-sect couldn't be more timeless. It is for this depth that I can enjoy this movie again and again. If you can get over any hidden prejudices about the fantasy genre, watch this movie, it's a treat.The slightly over the top voice overs and the scene in which Conan's parents get killed are a treat for every movie aficionado.Where movies like Willow or Fire&Ice are good entertainment, next time you watch this movie, think about how much we have been praying to power through machinery and other forms of technology that came after the invention of steel. "},{"Title":"A very good fantasy film","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a very strong film that tells a VERY modified story of Conan, the character created by Howards in his series of books written in the 1930's. Actually I don't see a good reason for modifying the original stories in those great fiction books... but well, maybe the director John Milius also wanted to put a piece of his imagination on the tale, but it is clearly he isn't a writer that could compete with Howards.However Milius is a good director in this film; The film is very constant in keeping the mood up, the actors are also good, specially Arnold, to whom the role of Barbarian Conan fits more than perfectly. The other main actors have also an acceptable acting, even the role of the wizard.The special effects are not so bad for the time, only the ghosts that try to take Conan's body look kinda funny, but without the computers of today, I think it was just not easy to represent such things...Another important thing of this film is the music... The score written by Basil Poledouris s doubtless a classic; Conan without this music wouldn't be the same! This is a good film for the genre.Just a last advise If you like this film, please be careful with watching the second film of Conan the destroyer which is really, really, really, reaaally crappy, and has not much to do with the first one. "},{"Title":"Arnold's best","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love Conan the Barbarian. It is probably the best Arnold movie there is. Yes, you heard me, even better than Terminators or Predator. Many people speak about CtB like it was based on comic books. And by comic books they mean Marvel comics, which was the style of that god awful sequel Conan the Destroyer. Conan The Barbarian is more like Robert E. Howards short stories presented Conan. And he even wears different kind of outfits instead of prancing around in some silly Tarzanian loin cloth. Of course, this movie is not fully Howardian, but the feeling is there. And that is what matters.What else is good in this movie? Well, as I said the atmosphere. But the musics. Ah, the wonderful, pompous music, one of the greatest movie scores ever made.And actors. No, I won't claim here that Arnold would be brilliant as an actor. But he fits in Conan. He IS Conan. But there are good actors in this movie. James Earl Jones does excellent role as cult leader Thulsa Doom, probably most evil villain of movie history. And most captivating. Max Von Sydow does small, but important role as king Osric, who sends Conan to rescue his daughter form that grasp of Doom. Garry Lopez (Subotai) and Sandhal Bergamn (valeria) do great supporting roles as Conans rogue friends. And of course Mako, playing the role of unnamed wizard. Great parts, all of them.All this is crowned by John Milius's directing. Not brilliant in all places, but enthusiastic and energetic. Very fitting for this movie.I couldn't give this movie a full 10, because there are some scenes that feel a bit awkward, and not all the actors are that good. But the funny thing is, that even some of the actors are Arnold's bodybuilder buddies and hulking athletes, it doesn't matter. It's just their presence that is needed, not their communication skills. They don't have that much dialog, that it would bother the viewer. A wise decision.All in all, very good movie. Forth viewing for fantasy fans. And especially for Robert E. Howard fans. I think he would have been proud out of this movie. "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favorite Movie","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" WOW! What can I say about Conan the Barbarian that I haven't said about it in the past 22 years? In my opinion IT'S THE GREATEST MOVIE EVER PUT ON THE SILVER SCREEN and definitely Arnold's best movie. Ya see, I was seven (I think) when I went with my parents and saw it at the movies for the first time. From that point on, it has been my favorite movie of all time.Now, not only am I a big Conan and Arnold fan, but a big Sword/Sorcery/Fantasy movie fan as well. I have seen it probably thirty times and will never get tired of seeing it. Arnold was born to play the role of Conan. Everyone in the movie truly delivers 110 percent. The story and plot are solid, the fight scenes are well done (and bloody), the characters are interesting and likable, the props and scenery are great looking, the score by Basil Poledouris is AWESOME, and the movie just has a feel to it that I feel most movies lack today. A feeling that the movie is really authentic and the actors in the movie are the real thing and not just actors. You can really lose yourself in these characters. James Earl Jones plays a truly despicable villain called Thulsa Doom and Max Von Sydow plays the aging and tired King Osric brilliantly. Another thing I liked about it was that it was rated 'R'! This was one thing I did not like about the sequel among others reasons. It's not a light hearted depiction of the character and it doesn't have that family feel to it like the sequel has. Conan is not a character that should be portrayed and taken lightly. The director lives up to the character and the world he lives in he shows that it's not a pretty and friendly place. It truly has that Robert E. Howard feel to it. If Mr. Howard were alive today, I think he's be truly proud to see his greatest character done so brilliantly and beautifully portrayed. Very true to the original character of the old pulp stories and novels. Anyway, if you like sword,sorcery, and fantasy type movies and haven't seen Conan the Barbarian,GO RENT AND SEE IT!!! Better yet, go buy it! You will love this movie! Just be cautious about the sequel but that is another review!!! "},{"Title":"Movie vs. Books; Odin vs. Genghis Khan","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In writing this, I should start by stating that I love fantasy and sci-fi when it's done right and this is one of my favorite movies of all time. I've also been a big fan of the origanal Robert E. Howard stories for a long time now, reading many of them over and over again.The movie and the books are different.  There are also a lot of themes from the movie that are taken straight out of the books.  As we examine them be warned about the SPOILERS!First off, Conan's village and parents were never massacred before his eyes as portrayed in the film and Conan was not put into slavery at that young of an age. 'The Thing in the Crypt' (Lin Carter and L. Sprague De Camp) tells us that Conan was enslaved at the age of sixteen during a raiding campaign with a band of the Esir against the Vanir and the Hyperboreans.His flight through the wilderness with a pack of hungry wolves after him is taken directly from 'The Thing in the Crypt', except that the skeleton in the tomb actually comes to life and Conan has to destroy it with his newly aquired sword.Conan becomes a thief in both the movie and the book but his first heighst is a little different.  In The Tower of the Elephant (Howard) it is the Heart of the Elephant, not the Eye of the Serpent which is the chief prize of the Tower; and it is guarded by a giant spider instead of a giant snake (although he fights giant snakes in more than a couple other adventures).The crucifixtion scene is taken pracicaly verbatum from A Witch Shall Be Born. Especially the part with the vulture.Conan never dies and is brought back to life in the origanal stories and it is the pirate queen Belit whoes love is stronger than death in The Queen of the Black Coast.  She is the one who comes back from the other world to fight by the side of Conan, not Valaria.In the books, Thoth-Amon is the prime evil Wizard that Conan must eventualy overcome, not Thulsa-Doom.Many of the themes we see in the movie aren't from the Howard stories at all.  Conan's search for the riddle of steel is completely made up for the movie.  And never was he taken to the East to be trained to fight like a Samuri (a stupid idea at first which  managed to turn out really well). Conan's fancy sword moves are practicaly a trademark.  Only Arnold could pull that off with a broadsword!Conan doesn't spend half of his life seeking revenge either.  Most of his motives in the books aren't that personal.  But this is a movie, not a serial.  If you want it to be an epic, you gotta have drama and a bigger sense of purpose.  However viewers who look closer at this film will find more than just a revenge story.  The main theme of the movie can probably be found in the quote at the beginning credits That which does not kill you makes you stronger.  But there are other morals as well.  Conan is a person who lives by a simple philosophy.  He doesn't have a disconnected fascination with the vague and mysterious like the brainwashed followers of Thulsa-Doom.  He represents the realistic side of our souls with his feet planted firmly on solid earth.  He gets what he wants by the sweat of his brow,  and gives honor and respect toward his heritage, unlike like the Children of Doom who look for paradise by shirking responsability and rebeling against their leaders; your parents; those who would call themselves your judges!  Those who have lied and corrupted the earth! supposedly.Aside from the in depth look of the movie, some other things that make this movie great are the costumes, scenery and a fantastic musical score. John Milius created a fantasy world as if it were a real historical time. Totally believable.  Anyone who likes fantasy will love this movie.  There just aren't as many good sword & sorcery flicks out there.The vikings verses the mongols and a battle to the death with and evil snake cult and you've got Conan the Barbarian.  Watch it.  I highly reccomend it.  Lots of blood and nudity though.  Catch it on T.V. if you have to. Oh yea, Conan's sword is way cool! "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best sword 'n sorcery movie ever","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you've only seen this movie in an edited form on cable TV, you've got to go out and rent the original. And not just because it has naked boobs and more blood in it.Based on the brilliant short stories of Robert E. Howard, Conan The Barbarian tells the story of young boy who watches as his family and his village are destroyed by a band of marauders and grows up to seek revenge. Along the way, Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) hooks up with Subotai (Gerry Lopez), a thief and archer, and falls in love with Valeria (Sandahl Bergman), a warrior woman.The first bit of praise for this film has to go to the music. This is probably one of the best soundtracks ever for an action/adventure film, and that's central to the appeal of the movie because it's drenched in music to an almost operatic extent. In fact, The majority of Conan The Barbarian is without words. It's just action on the screen and the soaring, pounding, solemn and funny score of composer Basil Poledouris. This isn't a film that just needed an opening theme and some short musical cues to get it from scene to scene. Poledouris had to come up with several complete instrumental pieces, each of which has to strike a different tone depending on what's going on in the story. The music in Conan the Barbarian is so good, I would actually encourage a blind person to watch it if they couldn't get their hands on a copy of the soundtrack.The second thing that deserves recognition is the quality of the writing. When a movie doesn't have its first conversation take place until 25 minutes into the story, you generally wouldn't think of that movie as being well-written. But Conan The Barbarian clocks in at over two hours and there are no dead spots in the film where you're just waiting for what comes next. This is a film that shows us who its characters are instead of telling us. It shows us what they're feeling and how they're strong and where they're weak. And while there's not much said, there are a lot of memorable lines. Conan The Barbarian may take the prize for highest ratio of great lines to overall amount of dialog. Contemplate this upon the Tree of Woe. What is best in life? To crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and hear the lamentations of the women! He is Conan, Cimmerian. He will not cry. So I cry for him. Let me breathe my last breath into your mouth. Now they will learn why they are afraid of the dark. Now they will learn why the fear they night. And what's also notable about the writing is that much of the dialog sounds contemporary, like it could have been written last week. Too many scripts reflect the speech patterns and vernacular of the moment in which they were written. Conan's goes beyond that and builds its dialog on real situations, behavior and feelings that transcend any particular era.There's also some pretty good acting in this movie. James Earl Jones is magnetic as Thulsa Doom, the man who destroyed Conan's world. Sandahl Bergman is wonderful as the strong woman who gives her heart and her life to Conan. Gerry Lopez manages to make Subotai into Conan's companion, not his sidekick. Mako as the Wizard who chronicles Conan's tale and Max Von Sydow as King Osric, the man who hires the three thieves to steal his daughter back from Thulsa Doom, are also wonderful. These actors give the sort of performances you always want to see, making you believe that these characters have a history and a depth that goes beyond what's on the screen.And while no one would really call Arnold Schwarzenegger a great actor, he has come up with some great performances and this is one. His Conan is uncomplicated and not quite as smart as the other people in the story, but there's nothing cartoonish about him. He's a simple character but one who feels real, deep emotions. Some might dismiss his work here and in The Terminator by calling it perfect casting, but the fact that other, more talented actors couldn't match his acting in those roles is a credit to Arnold and the people who cast him.The look of this movie is also outstanding. The costumes and sets may have been created almost 30 years ago, but they look as good as anything you'd see in a sword-and-sorcery flick today. At a time in movie history when you actually had to built sets and not just throw up a green screen and let a computer do everything, the filmmakers create a believable and visually attractive world. Nothing in this movie looks fake or contrived or like something no one would ever really wear or ever really live in.And as I said before, you really need to see the original cut and not the version edited for TV. I've seen both and there are so many little moments in the original that give the story a greater emotional and artistic heft that you really do miss something when they're gone.Conan The Barbarian came out in 1982 and I've seen it numerous times on TV and on videotape in the following years, but when I watched it again to do this review&#x85;I enjoyed it just as much as I ever did. Movies don't get much better than that. "},{"Title":"Its my generation","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Sure it had goofs and well the special effects didn't date well. But boy what a great story line that amazes me how many people just don't get it.Yes we can say its a comic book cheesy style but that is just one level. I find the story good and i find it reflecting so many things that we see today. It had a hint of magic without the need to make it completely unbelievable and thats how i like fantasy stories.Think about this, the story is about power, control and mind of matter and the ability to control others. (quote from the movie) Conan The riddle... of steel. Thulsa Doom Yes! You know what it is, don't you boy? Shall I tell you? It's the least I can do. Steel isn't strong, boy, flesh is stronger! Look around you. There, on the rocks; a beautiful girl. Come to me, my child... Thulsa Doom (coaxes the girl to jump to her death) Thulsa Doom That is strength, boy! That is power! What is steel compared to the hand that wields it? Look at the strength in your body, the desire in your heart, I gave you this! (end quote) Its about the The riddle to life and manipulation and control of yourself and others. To me it says a lot about religion and how it can control people to do things that normal people just wouldn't do.If we could freeze Arnie and James Earl Jones for 25 years then redo this movie with all the special effects and CGI we have today with some minor changes to the script to include political correctness you would have a MAJOR hit on your hands.Sadly most cant see past dated special effects, so I gave it a 10 to counter it. "}{"Title":"By Crom this is not too bad a movie","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If the big guy Arnnie Burger had not made the Terminator movies, he would have been for all time been defined by his role as Conan the Barbarian. Instead of the Governator, he would be know as Conan the Governor.The story is simple. Orphan boy, raised as a slave, taught to fight by the best so he can compete in the arena of death, escapes and using his huge muscles and an even bigger sword, he seeks out the killer of his family.Set beautifully in an only slightly mythic past in the near east where Western, middle eastern and far eastern cultures come together is many strange and interesting ways.By keeping true to the original Conan books the story is possibly the only sword and sorcery movie that has any real depth. It's main problem is that the story waivers at the end in it's attempt to have a Apocalypse now style confrontation between Conan and Thulsa Doom.Just one question for you gentle reader, do you want to live forever, well do you punk! (It is a pity they didn't offer the role of Conan to Clint Eastwood). "},{"Title":"The best of all time story, mise-en-scene, characters.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan changed movies forever. It mixed seventy style film-making with eighties superstar actors and an epic story. Look at the movies that followed Braveheart, Lord of the Rings. I promise Mel and Peter Jackson took a look at Conan and said, Wow! That's how it's done. Everything is perfect in Conan. Arnold was made, reaching many homes. Through Arnold and Bruce Lee, actors could start taking their shirts off, selling movies to female audiences more and more. For all of the gun movies, it's nice to see a powerful sword movie. Highlander botched it, not because of story, because of Christopher Lambert. And Lord of the Rings did it correct. But Conan, Conan did it with gore. It didn't hold back. Oh, I thought we were talking about the Destroyer. Nevermind. The Barbarian sucks! Ha, ha, ha. I'm joking, but I'm not.  "},{"Title":"Terrific fantasy film","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The greatest fantasy film of all time, surpassing (in my opinion) even the wonderful Lord of  the Rings Trilogy.  The dark, brooding atmosphere, beautiful scenery and obviously  extensive budget, masterful soundtrack by Basil Poledouris, combined with Mako's wizard  as storyteller make for magnificent entertainment.  My all time favorite. It gets a solid 10/ 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film that made Arnold Schwarzenegger a star.  He is perfectly cast in this movie as Conan.  James Earl is also great as the villain.  He has a classic villain name  Thelsa Doom.  I'm glad this movie has been released on a special edition DVD.  Now it can be enjoyed by a new generation who will fall in love with it all over again.   "},{"Title":"This is a great movie and well worth watching.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a sad fact that there a very few good fantasy movies. There are a number that emerge as B-movie classics such as The Beastmaster, but most are just plain rubbish with cheesy acting and cheesier effects, like Dungeons and Dragons. Conan the Barbarian is one of the few fantasy movies to combine a good story, with excellent production values and believable acting, all tied up with a score that it is just perfect for the film.Likewise, there are some roles where you can't help but feel that no one else but the original actor can play that part...ever! Arnold Schwarzenegger is Conan. No if's, but's or maybe's about it. I can't think of anyone who could do the role justice and I don't mean just physically. Let's be honest, Arnie isn't a fantastic actor, but he knows what he can and can't get away with. And the strong, silent hero (or villain, a la Terminator) is his forte.Add to his performance the likes of James Earl Jones as the bad guy, Mako as the wizard and a great performance by Gerry Lopez (who was a surfer, I believe) as Conan's side-kick and you can't really go too wrong.Basil Poledouris' score is first class and really captures the mood and theme of the whole film. His Anvil of Crom theme will always be one of my favourites.The plot is interesting in that its a classic tale of revenge, with Conan seeking the warlord that murdered his people whilst he was only a child. The fact that the warlord has become the leader of an evil cult and that kings and rulers would also like him dead means nothing to Conan. Revenge is all he is interested in. Nothing more, nothing less.This is a great movie and well worth watching. Even taking into consideration such recent films as LOTR it still holds up well on its own merits and will do for years to come.  "},{"Title":"A very underrated gem...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an oft overlooked film. Good plot, James Earl Jones, humor, some nice romantic moments, social commentary on male bonding, and an amazing score from Basil Poledouris.  I throughly enjoyed this film.  A well made pop-corn flick.     "},{"Title":"If you didn't like this movie... THEN THE HELL WITH YOU!!!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film (and Ridley Scotts Legend) has done what no other has EVER done - pull off a non-comical Sword and Sworcery movie with falling to the abyss of cornyness and bad acting.  The Score gives me goosebumps to this day, and the the Set really takes one back to a time of GREAT adventure.Although appealing to me, this movie was not meant for Horse lovers, MOST women, and Intellectuals that are afraid to stray off the path of iuntellectualism every once in a while. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen!!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Conan the Barbarian is a movie about Conan going to defeat the bad guys. It also deals with Conan(Schwarzenegger) going to defeat Thulsa Doom(Jones) almost in the end also. And he did. It is also about him praying to Crom in the middle. Conan the Barbarian is a movie that is worth seeing, buying, or renting. Enjoy! **** out of **** stars. 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  John Milius has caught the Howard's hero well to the big screen. I've heard rumors that he's the one to shoot the next Conan(III)and that gives me really something to look for...if it's true. Arnold Switzernougaths first coming and the best appearance ever in its neutral but not soulless performance is really great to watch. Bare and wild landscapes , brisk dialog and divine music makes this movie one of my favorites. I even had to purchase the sound track of the film composed by Basil Poledouris and every time i listen it i can really SEE the movie. This hasn't happen with any other sound track so there must really be something there. There are some bad moments in the movie but the greatness of the other ones make those fade in no time. Do not think this movie like it's one of the Arnold's ego trips.By Crom ! It is not!  "},{"Title":"Beautifully Brutal","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Slight SpoilersThis movie represents a bit of a quandary -- how exactly does one go about reviewing Conan the Barbarian on a site which also includes Driving Miss Daisy?  On the one hand, compared to Daisy, Conan's dialogue, acting, plot, human insight etc. are laughable, at best.  On the other hand, I am fairly sure that Conan could kick Miss Daisy's butt.  So I think the only fair way to do this is to review Conan as an example of its genre -- does Conan do what it set out to do?And if that's the scale, then Conan is a great movie.  This is not the gentle tale of a friendship which buds over a period of decades between an elderly southern lady and her black chauffeur, this is the tale of a musclebound barbarian who watches his family get slaughtered when he is a kid, and dedicates the remainder of his exceedingly violent life to seeking revenge on the guys who did it -- you just can't judge the two movies on the same scale.  Does Conan have its limitations when it comes to acting? Yes, emphatically.  But does that seriously detract from this movie doing what it sets out to accomplish?  Not in the least.  A movie like this doesn't need pinpoint acting and deep, insightful conversation, it needs some serious butt-kicking going on from start to finish -- and that is what this movie delivers in spades.Arnold simply IS Conan, and with the exception of one unintentionally hilarious episode with a giant latex snake, the movie rarely strays into cheesiness.  It was actually one of the few fantasy flicks before the current Lord of the Rings triology to have the guts to take the genre seriously -- its actors all deliver patently ridiculous lines with complete conviction (especially James Earl Jones, who is great), and the result is that this movie is NOT a joke (unlike its much inferior sequel which was almost a parody).  This movie is brutal and primitive, and that is exactly as it should be -- even Arnold's broken English fits the part perfectly (not to mention his ridiculous physique).  Conan hacks a wide and bloody path through his world, and its great fun if this is your sort of thing.  Two warnings however first, between all of the blood and body parts flying around this may be the ultimate NON-chick flick -- don't expect your girlfriend to get it; second, this movie is such a testosterone rush that you really shouldn't try to drive or operate heavy machinery for at least six hours after viewing it. 8/10 (with special mention to the awesome soundtrack -- as perfectly barbaric as the rest of the movie). "}{"Title":"The Best Fantasy film of all time","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is incredible. Not only in the solid writing of Oliver Stone but also the top notch directing of John Milius.  For me, this movie is leagues better than Star Wars and Indiana Jones. The score for this movie is amazing.  The acting is pretty good. The battle sequences are spectacular. A film of this magnitude has yet to be rivalled.  Watch this movie, you will not be disappointed.  A Five Star movie.  "},{"Title":"A stark telling of a stark tell which does what it does very well.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Great score, great use of Arnold, very good movie, one of the very best of its kind. This is good story telling and I think some people expect a happy movie or a typical heroic fantasy but this is a grim tell that uses grim story-telling effectively.  If only the sequels would have followed that example. And where is the next film, Conan The King? "},{"Title":"The greatest movie ever","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen many many movies like this one, a lot of them are good. None of them compare to this. The realism of the setting, the customs, the sets just give you the feeling that this is the way it was back then. This is a movie that needs no computer generated effects to use as a crutch. The battle scenes are phenominal. The acting is great. You never once in the movie question any of the characters. The direction is nearly flawless. The story is everything you want in an action-adventure. The character of Conan is a very emotional one, from the sorrow of losing his family and his people to the joy of meeting new friends and new hope to the sorrow and sadness of losing his girlfriend. The development of Conan's character is wonderful, you get to see exactly where he's been and what make him tick. Conan is a true hero. The violence and realism of this movie with nothing held back is what I expect from action movies. Especially since this movie was made in 1982. Nothing else comes close to this day. Will there ever be a movie like this again? No. I have seen this movie more times then I can count and every time I find it as entertaining as ever. The score for this movie is one of the best I have ever heard. The music gets you pumped up and perfectly fits every scene. The swordsmanship of Arnold is phenominal. I love sword fighting movies. No fencing here, its raw swordsmenship skill. The weapons look genuine and they look awesome.Words cannot fully describe the greatness of this movie and the fact that its only got a 6.? rating from the voters totally does it unjustice. I would without a doubt give this a 10. This is a full movie with everything in it. Its got a great ending and leaves us wanting more and more. Leaves us wondering what else becomes of Conan?10/10 absolutely phenominal "},{"Title":"My favorite film since I was a child.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is quite simply, nothing better than this. The story, the scenery, the music (WOW!), the acting, the dialogue make this the most underrated film EVER. Common people brush it off as an Arnold film without actually going beneath the film's surface. The whole film center around the philosophy of Nietzsche and his Ubermenschen theory. But hey, you can't have Arnold in a movie and have it be good unless James Cameron's name is emblazoned on it, right? Siiiigh, what a sad, pathetic world...Oh, and might I mention the sequel is deplorable and a waste of time and celluloid. Don't bother with it. Somebody is going to make a third film taking place right after the first, ignoring the second one completely. Gee, I wonder who... "},{"Title":"more than meets the eye","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian is much undervalued as a movie. I think it's one of the best fantasy epics ever filmed. The work of Oliver Stone and John Milius shows, as Conan is presented, not as an all charming, smart swords-hero, but as a person who became revenge, growing from an animalistic state to something more. It is so often forgotten that Conan, whose family and people were murdered when he was a child, isn't a great intellectual even in adult age. Therefore the performance of Arnold Schwarzenegger isn't so disturbing. Milius directed Arnold to be plain, muscle-hero - which Conan would have been in those circumstances. Conan was a child in a grownup's body, longing only to avenge the deaths from his past. The issue is in the name of the movie, Conan the BARBARIAN. The barbarian got civilized in Kitai, but that doesn't change the fact that if a person has lived his late childhood in a labour camp (wheel of pain), he's not fully grown mentally. Arnold was the perfect child, and counting the brilliant role performances of James Earl Jones, and Max von Sydow, and the outstanding music of Basil Poledouris, I rated this movie with a nine (9).  "},{"Title":"Classic, but why does IMDb hate it so?","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You durn fanboys just don't know great cinema. Yea, LOTR was great and all, and so was SW, but Conan the Barbarian is in the same league as those films! How can you not see that? I do admit that it does get to be boring at times, but both LOTR and SW HAVE THOSE SAME PROBLEMS!!!What makes this film so remarkable is how well the score, by Basil Poledouris, ties the film together. The score drives this movie, from beginning to end. Maybe that's why I fell in love with this movie when I was a young lad. Just the percussion of Anvil of Crom (opening title) keeps reverberating within my head on a continuous loop, but not a loop that's truly conscious. Yea, I know, a movie score doesn't make a movie, but ya know what does? Characterization. James Earl Jones, The Governator, and Ben Davidson (Rexor for the uneducated) do splendid jobs. Though JEJ doesn't quite have the screen time I wish he had, the mystery surrounding his character is fascinating and how he delivers it to. The Governator, well, obviously lives the role of Conan and will always be Conan. Rexor was probably the best character of the film. He was emotional, driven, and just plain fun to watch. ***SPOILER***The final battle was by far the best. The climax of the movie is when Rexor is struck down by a Valkyrie-esque Sandahl Bergman and the furious Conan. Absolutely great music and fighting! "},{"Title":"04 Zamoraaaaaah !","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" We are again in the time of my teens around the years 87-89, so the period when I got to discover sex, to being aroused&#x85; Don't get mistaken, it wasn't the sculptural body of Schwarzy that got me hard but rather his hot meeting with the brunette sorceress ! As the movie is really a door to another world, very rude and salvage, for sure, the intimate relationships are like this too, except that there wasn't any warming for that in the movie and that I couldn't fathom that then ! So Conan strolls a forest and his path leads him to a forest hut with a woman standing at the gate who beckons him&#x85; As the night falls, he comes in and to get the informations he needs, the woman asks a payment in kind. What is totally upsetting and exciting is that this woman moans so terrifically and loudly that you can imagine she has an incredible orgasm. It gets all the more hot than she spells every word of data with long « Ah ». Actually, the scene doesn't show anything except that they are stuck in the missionary position and that this unbelievable sorceress squeezed Swarzy to get more sensations ! As quickly as this copulations begins, the woman changes into a demon and Swarzy punches her to the fire ! In a way, « the howling » has a bit the same scene  dark knight in the woods, sex with a bestial brunette&#x85; Anyway, as my father taped the movie on a VHS, I kept watching it to get in the mood, even editing the audio and finally it was the best introduction to sexual education I could get  i could understand what it means and how to do it ! "},{"Title":"An epic classic tale, the best film of adventurer Conan!","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian (1982) is a classic epic adventure of Conan the Barbarian. The most awesome tale in the universe. Conan what is best in life? To crush your enemies, see them driven before you&#x85;etc Such a great movie, Arnie at his best, great lines! A must watch. This is the only true original movie of the 80's. Arnold Schwarzenegger was born as a star in this epic tale. I love this film and it is one of my favorite Schwarzenegger films, the same way I love the sequel Conan the Destroyer. I am sorry I hate the remake they gave this film a bad name. The remake was stupid film and boring with fake CGI's this film has none CGI. I grew up with this film, my first movie of the duelogy was Conan The Destroyer, I wanted to see this film so badly and I did. Weeks later it was on TV and I watch it. I always enjoyed this film and I still do. Terminator is Schwarzenegger's famous role, but Conan is also the same famous on his own way. Awesome movie and one of the best classic films from the 80's wasn't 1982 an amazing year for sci-fi and fantasy? That year was a fantastic memorable year for movies. I saw this when I was 6 on TV and thought it kicked ass and one of the films that made a fantasy fan. James Earl Jones as Thulsa Doom did a wonderful professional job as the villain in this adventure. The special effect creating a snake are wonderful and believable. Arnold Schwarzenegger with only few dialogues did a wonderful job performing of one of the best characters in cinema. John Milius as writer and Director did an excellent job as both directing this film and helping writing the script. This movie is what it is, a perfect 10, because it takes the vision of one of the most imaginative directors on Earth, and realizes them almost perfectly with all the tools that fit the task -- actors, stunts, puppetry, models, and special effects.Before CGI allowed filmmakers to cheaply create any fantasy world they can think of fantasy films had to rely on real locations, practical effects, and deep imagination to bring those worlds to life before the camera rather than in post-production. It may not be bestowed with Oscars, but Conan The Barbarian is just as classic as Ben Hur and more brutal than Gladiator (2000). Schwarzenegger makes his breakthrough performance as the titular character in search of barbarous vengeance. The Austrian champion bodybuilders acting career was off to a very slow start after The Terminator, but it wasn't until his role of the already-iconic Cimmerian slayer that his career suddenly catapulted his unique name to superstardom. And he's the perfect fit for bringing the heroic fantasy to the big screen. Though, Schwarzenegger didn't have the same acting experience as he does now, and he never really was the most dynamic actor in the world; Too much Schwarzenegger in any given movie doesn't necessarily mean a good thing given his range, he still brings unmistakable screen-personality, practically bursting at the seams with muscles and with his raspy brusque accent, and actually accomplishes more with his stares and expression than any of his dialogue could.Milius' film is loosely based on author Robert E. Howard's original Conan the Barbarian tales would be an understatement. Milius' Conan is a different creature entirely and shares little in common with Howard's Conan, or the personality, motivations, quick-thinking and charisma that have long defined the character on the page. Howard's Conan (and many later incarnations of the swordsman) is a cunning adventurer; as clever as he is powerful, as deadly as he is daring, as fierce as he is fearless. Milius' Conan, at least initially, is a lost puppy by comparison. A vicious, dangerous pup, mind you -- one that would just as soon rip out a man's throat as curl up beside him -- but still more of a wayward vagrant than a decisive, as-yet-unmatched warrior. His self-awareness, intelligence and authority evolve as the film plows ahead, no doubt. There just aren't many defining moments other than those our defiant hero stumbles into thanks to twists of fate and a bit of dumb luck. Both Milius' re-workings of Conan's origin and Schwarzenegger's casting take a toll.Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as the legendary warrior and hero, Conan the Barbarian. When his parents are killed by a band of brutal marauders and the gang's cold-blooded cult leader (James Earl Jones), the orphaned Conan endures a childhood of merciless slavery only to become a gladiator for the amusement of his captors. Eventually set free, Conan begins a dangerous, full-blooded quest to avenge his parents' massacre. Now, the sword-wielding warrior must vanquish his bloodthirsty enemies in this death-defying action-adventure about courage, strength, character and the triumph of good over evil.Conan the Barbarian is a 1982 American fantasy film co-written and directed by John Milius. It is based on stories by Robert E. Howard, a pulp fiction writer of the 1930s, about the adventures of the eponymous character in a fictional pre-historic world of dark magic and savagery.10/10 Score Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Universal Pictures, Dino De Laurentiis Company Starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, James Earl Jones, Sandahl Bergman, Ben Davidson, Gerry Lopez, Mako, William Smith, Max von Sydow Director John Milius Producers Buzz Feitshans, Raffaella De Laurentiis Screenplay John Milius, Oliver Stone Rated R Running Time 2 Hrs. 09 Mins. Based on Conan the Barbarian by Robert E. Howard Budget $20.000.000 Box Office $37.567.440 "},{"Title":"2nd Best Movie of All-Time","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" only a 6.9 rating? The reviewers who scored this movie less than a perfect ten- you are all a bunch of imbeciles and you know nothing about what truly is a great movie;This movie has lot of action and all the violence and sex you need- at the same time, it is a very compelling movie of a strongman who is touchingly human... Arnold portrays a savage barbarian as a person who loves with great tenderness and deeply mourns (even though he lacks tear glands LOL) the loss of his loved ones.This movie is a masterpiece PERIOD. One of the best movies of all-time. The music score is the undisputed best of all-time. "},{"Title":"Sort of Apocalypse Now meets Excalibur meets Red Dawn John Milius' Militarized Take on Robert Howard's Conan","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Robert E. Howard (1906-1936), writer of pulp genre fiction in the late 1920's to early 1930's, had a vision or dream of a Celtic-Barbarian warrior. Legend has it that in this dream and/or vision the warrior identified himself as Conan and confronted Howard, instructing him to write his stories. Howard, then looking for a new character, went to work, and created not only Conan, a hulking barbarian warrior, part of Howard's mythical Cimmerians, a race which is a cross between Celts, Vikings, and Visigoths, but also the mythical time in which he lived, called the Hyborean Age. The Hyborean Age is a cross between the Dark Ages and Antiquity. These Conan stories appeared in Weird Tales during a 4-year period and became Howard's most memorable and beloved creation, spawning the fantasy sub-genre known as Sword and Sorcery. After Howard's death in 1936, other writers would not only try their hand at Conan, such as L. Sprague de Camp, but rip-off characters would also appear on the fantasy literature landscape, such as Kane by Karl Edward Wagner.Fast-forward about 45 years after Howard's death. Universal released Conan The Barbarian, directed by John Milius and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, based on the original character created by Robert E. Howard. The film was produced in the wake of the successes of Star Wars and Excalibur when fantasy-genre films were in vogue. The resulting film is loosely based on several of Howard's original stories, although the slavery sequence towards the beginning is not the original history of the character. (He was a warrior in a Cimmerian tribe which went into demise, and he became a wanderer.) After having viewed this film on the new Blu-ray edition, I have to admit the original Conan film, for the most part, seems to uphold relatively well. The look of the film on Blu-ray is no less than spectacular. The best aspects of this film are the visuals which well-portray the Hyborean Age.In this version of Conan, which I don't believe exists in any of the original stories, the plot-thread is a revenge story. Conan is a pre-teen among a small tribe of warriors. They appear to live a relatively happy and carefree existence until they are ransacked by a group of blood-thirsty warriors sporting superior armor and inferior moral codes led by an evil wizard-warrior who has a fetish for snakes, Thulsa Doom. (Thulsa Doom is a Howard creation, but he appeared as an adversary of Kull, not Conan.) Thulsa Doom and his minions kill the men and women of the village, and enslave the children, who are taken to a remote compound where Conan grows up working on some kind of large mill, The Wheel of Pain. Later, he becomes a gladiator-like warrior, engaged in combat entertainments. Eventually he escapes and becomes a thief, but decides to track down Thulsa Doom and his strange religious order in which snakes are worshiped. My favorite scene is one in which Conan, newly liberated, stumbles into a cavern of sorts and meets the figure who will become his god, Crom, and there finds a sword.Some aspects of the Milius Conan do come off dated. The music is a bit cheesy in parts, although the low brass with bass drum accents well portray the brutal era as envisioned by Howard. Some of the acting is a bit funny although fantasy adventures set in mythical times don't always require the best acting. No question the stand-out of the production in the acting department is James Earl Jones as the main baddie of the film. The most memorable line of the film, Crush your enemies. See them driven before you. Hear the lamentations of their women, uttered by Conan towards the beginning still sounds funny come out of Schwarzenegger's mouth but somehow it kind of works. Its the most quoted line from the film.One of the striking aspects of this film, after having seen it for the first time in over 20 years, is that the violence is relatively head-turning. Even today, a lot of films are not quite as violent as this offering. In a few notable scenes, heads are hacked off in true Milius style. Although you could never make a case that Arnold Schwarzenegger is a great actor, he seems the perfect choice for the part. Conan is burly and brutal, and so there was no need for a character actor in the lead role. (Legend has it the producer, Dino de Laurentiis, initially refused Milius' first choice for the lead, Schwarzenegger. When Milius then suggested Dustin Hoffman, Laurentiis threw Milius out of his office but financed the film anyway.) The film more or less works on its own terms. Probably the saving force is the incredible acting of James Earl Jones which makes up for the weaknesses of some of the other talent. Also, the set designs are no less than spectacular. Violent but occasionally tender, I do think it does justice to Howard. He might have been put off that the storyline was not directly based on one of his stories, but I think he would have appreciated the landscape and the big muscles of Schwarzenegger. "}{"Title":"A big gorgeous vulgar jewel of a movie","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Brabarian is a film where the bad is quite bad and the good is really good.The acting ranges between heaven and hell. It is Arnold in the main role, and not just any Arnold but a relatively early Arnold, so his acting leaves much to be desired, his charm notwithstanding. He is not the worst however. Some actors got even poorer and more poorly dubbed lines attached to them. The boy at the beginning of the film does not say anything at all, just stares all confused, even when his most beloved ones die. Someone forgot to tell this kid to begin acting.However, this movie does the smart thing by limiting the amount of dialogue for those who cannot act and saving the speeches for those who can James Earl Jones, Max von Sydow and Mako Iwamatsu.Now we come to the most painful part of the film. The writing can be pretty good but there is a lot in this movie that either does not make much sense, is unintentionally funny or just plain stupid. Quite a few scenes, although have a point and purpose to them, contain nonsensical events. Conan wraps a fur around a naked woman but then immediately takes it off. Then for some reason he decides that a random dead guy in a cave is his God. A woman helps him only to immediately try and kill him. And the dialogue&#x85;oh dear. The creators actually try to make the phrase You wanna live forever? a catch phrase for one of the characters. Stupid dialogue contrasts strongly with some really good lines from James Jones' villain, Thulsa Doom.There are a number of things about the story that are good. There is more to this movie than just a collection of action scenes. There is a theme about the power of mind body versus the power of weapons and about blindly following leaders. The story is not too formulaic. For example although the movie does have a romantic interest for Conan, she does not start like a typical lady character and does not play out like one. And despite the odd writing for certain scenes and dialogue there is an overall structure to the story that makes sense and flows well.The art in this film is epic and it is what defines this film. Misty forests, snowy mountains, deserts and huge sets combined with some of the best costume design create an unforgettable looking film. Those outfits are really something with the big fur mixed with leather, Nordic runes and Arnold's glistening muscles. A lot of these costumes look like one of a kind and it seems that Conan himself carries a whole wardrobe because he is in something new every day.The weapons can get a chapter of their own. They are important to the story so care was taken with their appearance. Conan's sword has become a recognizable icon, but there are also various Asian fist blades and bows.The best thing however that really makes this film for me is its music. There may be a little too much of it. It cannot help itself but play over everything, pumping on and on, but it can stay as long as it wants as far as I am concerned. String section, French Horns, piercing trumpets and the everlasting heavy thundering base drums come together to make this film feel truly epic. The main theme for this movie ended up on my mp3 player, then in my custom soundtrack for Elder Scrolls Morrowind and the subsequent Elder Scrolls games. When those drums start roaring, I know right away where I am - in the far away steppes, with the wind on my left shoulder and my sword on my right shoulder.Despite its flaws Conan the Babarian is one of my favorite movies of all time. The things that are bad about it are entertainingly bad and the entertaining things are properly entertaining. As soon as you start buckling under the poor dialogue, the movie throws a great looking scenery with an epic theme at you and sucks you right back on board. It is largely about the adventure atmosphere brought on by the great looks and music. This movie could have easily been a really bad adventure film, but it ended up in the right hands and it shines. It has so much character. It is an eternal dragon breathing fire. I am in awe of this movie's art and feel of adventure.Please be aware that while there may be women who will like this, at its core this is a very male-oriented movie. Those biceps are not flexing for the ladies. This is a power-fantasy movie through and through, power-porn if you will. "},{"Title":"The king of sword movies","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is the best. I feel so sad these new sword and sorcery shows like game of thrones are more like soap operas with no monster barbarians like Arnie. I especially like how Conan and his woman were supposedly so in love but he only says maybe 5 words to her the entire movie. He spends the rest of the movie chopping people to bits, no drama, back stabbing or politics. When he burns his girlfriends body he doesn't even cry so his Asian sidekick has to cry for him. This is what a sword movie should be. It was especially a nice touch at the end when thulsa doom gives his last speech to Arnie and Arnie just has that look on his face for a second like his brain was hurting ... Until it hit him he doesn't think he just chops and that's how it ended with a thwack. They don't make them like they used to =*( "},{"Title":"Solid 10/10 for me. Very underrated.","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As far as other films of this genre go, this stands head and shoulders above all in terms of visual and audible stimuli, authenticity or gravitas, and general 'epicness'.In an era of lightweight CGI filled action movies, 'Conan The Barbarian's combination of relatively a simple story with rich thematic undertones, a mix of bad and great actors, sparse yet interesting dialogue, and an incredible score, make this a film that has stood the test of time admirably. The direction by John Milius is really very skillful, with most major scene's seemingly being directed and edited to some of the finest epic orchestral/choral music to be committed to celluloid. Basil Poledouris should go down as one of the all time great composers.Really, this is the kind of film that simply doesn't get made these days, and that's just another factor to to it's awesomeness. "},{"Title":"My Childhood Hero","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was 10 years of age when this movie came out... Conan became my hero and I wanted to be Valeria. One of the best fantasy films ever! Who better to play Conan than our own Arnold Schwarzenegger?! I've always felt that he fit the role of Conan like a dead center bullseye shot - right on the money! The character of Valeria was no different because Sandahl Bergman was just as awesome in this film... and oh so beautiful! The rest of the cast was wonderful as well. I could go on and on about and the casting/acting - perfect! And the story of the life of Conan captured my imagination - it's still one of my all time favorite films. I can watch it again a feel just as entertained as the first time I viewed the flick.Conan the Barbarian (1982) one of best sword and sorcery fantasy films ever! I will recommend watching this movie followed by Conan the Destroyer (1984) for a great double feature! Rant This movie is way to underrated on IMDb.10/10 "},{"Title":"Genesis of a Hero","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well, Conan the Barbarian is everything and by now an icon and undisputed benchmark of the genre of heroic fantasy.There are very , very few persons within the genre films that can overshadow has this , let alone overcome .And is that Conan has something that distinguishes and elevates it above almost all the rest.Y that something for me are mainly two things the narrative structure and the soundtrack.John Milius gave here a lesson worthy of a master in regards to narrate a history.La film is not slow, it just does not want to go fast , but wants to take his time to explain the birth and physical development and intellectual character .The genesis of the character is clear , and serves to identify with Conan , because who is not able to understand a child who has seen his village destroyed and enslaved the most cruel and brutal way possible , which has seen his father was killed and eaten by a pack of dogs that has finally seen his mother has been beheaded in front of their own eyes.Por that understand and identify with the desire for revenge of Conan and all their actions.No would we do the same?Do not condemn , but to understand and support the character completely in what will be his sweet yet bitter vendetta against those responsible for his misfortune in that great and ruthless world Hyborian .Schwarzenegger was able to give more than the physical and all the charisma needed the character.The other side is simply unbeatable , pointing to a scary and absolutely unforgettable James Earl Jones as Thulsa Doom .And the Soundtrack? . A band of the most beautiful , magical and unsurpassed in the history of cine.That glory're dear Basil.That said, Conan the Barbarian is a masterpiece of its kind, a wonderful film that even 34 years later continues to fascinate as the first time we saw her . "},{"Title":"A classic that gets better with age","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With a remake of Conan in the news I found myself needing to re-watch the original. Would it still hold up after a decade plus? The answer is yes, even better than I recall. The artistry (implying a beheading instead of showing it, with excellent musical score and even quality child acting) is unheard of in modern cinema. The musical score is incredibly appropriate for this film and really sets the bar to be matched for any sort of sword & sorcery movie. If one were to purchase a Conan replica sword and heft it there is no doubt the main theme would be running through you head when doing so! Regarding the acting, costumes, set pieces, etc - it seems to fit the film well and carries a certain charm that has stood the test of time. My biggest gripe with Arnold is the odd grunts of pain that Conan makes constantly during the pit fighting scene and a couple other times in the film. Fortunately this role didn't have a lot of dialog but did require a massive/imposing individual - which a Mr. Olympia can fill nicely. There is a lot to like in this movie even decades later and it now acts as a poster child for the power of a musical score to elevate a film to greatness. 8 Stars, five of which come from the soundtrack alone. "},{"Title":"An exceptional epic that holds up astonishingly well","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan witnesses his parents get brutally murdered as a boy. After being forced to serve as a slave, he escapes as a grown up to try to avenge the death of his parents. Along the way he finds love, friends, and encounters many challenges. This type of genre is not usually my thing. I've never been into this type of stuff, in all honesty. I saw this movie a few years ago, and remembered being somewhat impressed by it. I'm a huge Arnold fan. I'll watch almost anything with him in it, so I decided to revisit this movie. It is a bit plodding in the middle section at times, but this movie was a highly entertaining way to spend 2 hours or so. One thing that amazed me was how well it holds up. The production values are immaculate, the set-pieces are amazing, and the special effects are still pretty solid. Even the picturesque scenery floored me. John Milus does everything he can to ensure the viewers that he's creating some enthralling storytelling to make a memorable epic. That's exactly what Milus did. The opening packs an emotional wallop. The fact that there was very little dialog made it even more effective. Jorge Sanz (Young Conan) did a tremendous job of selling the horror of the events with perfect facial expressions. Conan himself is a pretty cool cat. The poor guy seems to lose almost everybody he starts caring about. Arnold doesn't have to do much acting as Conan, but he fits the part like a glove. He looks the part, and he had the perfect physique. It was neat to see Arnold evolve into the strong character he becomes. The love story between he & Sandal Bergman was pretty potent stuff, and I bought into it heavily. This is one of Arnold's best roles, and for good reason. Nobody else could give Conan justice like he did. Sandal Bergman is easy on the eyes, but she's also an above average actress. I thought she held her own when it came to her performance. I'd love to have her on my side in a fight. Mako doesn't appear, until around the 63 minute mark or so. He was entertaining when he was on-screen. I enjoyed him a lot. James Earl Jones is quite chilling as Thulsa Doom. He had an intimidating presence. When he speaks, you listen. The showdown at the end between him and Conan gave me chills. Gerry Lopez is a hoot as Conan's friend, Subotai. There is plenty of nudity, exciting sword fights, violence and all sorts of creative things. Aside from the laughable wigs most of the cast had to wear, the slow mid-section, I thought this movie was excellent. If you're a Conan fan, an Arnold fan, or a fan of this type of genre, this movie will please you. 8.6/10 "},{"Title":"Now THIS is an EPIC.","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Had heard about this for years but never got an opportunity to view it before now. Turned out to be slightly different from my expectations. It turned out not to have a well-defined plot but more a series of random incidents - at least in the beginning - which somehow lead the protagonist to the ultimate confrontation as if destiny has preordained it. There is also an emphasis on minimal dialogue which works in the film's favour by reducing clunky exposition and making it more of an action-packed visual spectacle. And of course Arnie is not the most lucid English speakers around so it's good that he has so little dialogue.The film is full of gorgeous scenery and production design. II found it to be very different from the usual medieval fantasies - a lot more animalistic and primal, to be exact notice the heads of animals carved on the ends of each of the arms of the Wheel of Pain and also the snakeskin-like outer walls of the Tower of Serpent.A lot of people have lamented that Conan is made out to be a buffoon which clashes with the source writings. I did not consider it to be a problem within the film. Had Conan had a normal childhood with his parents by his side, there was a chance that he would have turned out to be an erudite and well-balanced individual. But this was not to be. He was forced into slavery and isolation at first and mindless fighting machine later. Doubtless his social skills would not have had much chance to develop. Once free, he passes through the world with a wide-eyed countenance which lends an aspect of apparent buffoonery in some people's eyes.That doesn't mean that there isn't a lot of hilarity and weirdness in the film. The camel-punching scene is, of course, legendary but there are plenty other moments in the film. Why was Conan freed? Why were dogs set upon him afterward? Every time Conan sees something inexplicable, all he can manage to say is, Crom! in an awed voice as if it is a final, irrefutable explanation of things. Thulsa Doom and the wizard also provide plenty of entertainment with their restless, manic behaviour.Thulsa Doom's temple reminded me strongly of Col. Kurtz's compound in Apocalypse Now. Since Milius was involved in both films, the connection is intentional, I guess.Max von Sydow appears in only one speaking scene. The lines he is given are not exactly top-class but it is a proof of his brilliance that he makes them sound so good. In the hands of a lesser actor the performance would have been cringe-inducing.All in all, I loved every bit of it. Basil Poledouris's magnificent score towers above everything. It takes its time in setting up the characters and their dilemmas instead of rushing into it in a workmanlike fashion, which was what the sequel did. "},{"Title":"By Crom, What a Good Movie!","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A barbarian named Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger), trained as a warrior, seeks revenge on the man who destroyed his village and murdered his parents. That man is Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones), leader of an evil snake cult. Together with a wizard (Mako), a thief named Valeria (Sandahl Bergman), and an archer named Subotai (Gerry Lopez), Conan takes on Thulsa Doom to rescue a princess and get his revenge. A great sword & sorcery movie. The pinnacle of that subgenre of fantasy. Directed with flourish by John Milius, with a wonderful script by Milius and Oliver Stone (!). Fantastic score by Basil Poledouris. Schwarzenegger is great in a role that plays to his limited strengths as an actor. Obviously he is not a favorite amongst film snobs. But those of us who see the merits of good action movies appreciate him. James Earl Jones is memorably creepy as Thulsa Doom. Bergman is surprisingly good as Valeria. Mako nearly steals the movie. He's a treat in every scene he's in. A really great movie. The best of its type. You can't go wrong giving this one a shot. "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger and long hair-a recipe for success!","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning contains minor spoilers. Arnold Schwarzenegger has never looked cooler than in Conan the Barbarian. As a long haired male myself, I appreciate it when the hero of a movie as great as this one is not afraid to have his hair long. Anyway, enough of that. This is a great film, but it wasn't perfect. It is possibly Schwarzenegger's greatest performance (2nd to Terminator 2) and definitely one of his best movies (after the first two Terminators). First of all, while classified as a fantasy, this movie is gritty, very violent, and, to a degree, realistic. There are no magic keys or jewels or silly magical monsters (like there are in the sequel, Conan the Destroyer). In fact, there is very little traditional fantasy in the movie at all.At it's heart, Conan the Barbarian is a revenge story. Thulsa Doom (played wonderfully by a perfectly evil James Earl Jones) and his cult of snake fanatics raid young Conan's village, kill his parents, and sell Conan into slavery. Years later, he is freed, and begins the quest to find the man who destroyed his life, and to get his revenge. Also, this film is great in all the technical aspects of movie making. The direction by John Milius is good, and he keeps the pace going for the entire movie. The screenplay, written by Milius and Oliver Stone, is not silly or corny, like most fantasy adventures-it is straight and to the point. There is no unnecessary dialog (there is very little at all) and what speaking there is explains what is going on, while making sense at the same time. Perhaps the best aspect of the film (besides Schwarzenegger) is the beautiful score by Basil Poledouris, which conveys perfectly all the emotion portrayed on screen. On top of that, the art direction and costumes are original and flawless-no fake looking sets of crazy outfits, and I'm surprised that they did not receive Academy Award nominations. Finally, all the supporting actors are superb. As mentioned before, James Earl Jones was great (one wishes he could have had a bigger part), while Sandahl Bergman, Gerry Lopez (you couldn't tell that they weren't real actors at the time), Mako, and, most especially, Max von Sydow who, in little more than a cameo, give truly remarkable performances. However, in a movie filled with so many good things, there have to be some bad ones. First of all, the violence, which, for a while is realistic (something rare in fantasy films, which is a good thing), becomes extremely gory and bloody towards the end, and so much is really unnecessary, even for this kind of film. Also, the sex scene with Conan and Valeria borders on being pornographic, which is definitely not needed in this type of film. Those things aside, though, Conan the Barbarian is a great film and great for anyone in the mood for a rollicking adventure story.  "}{"Title":"Still a cool action adventure movie","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when I was about 10 years old. My cousins and I rented it from the video store and watched it over and over and over, over the course of one weekened, until we had just about the whole thing memorized. I am Subotai! It was cool then, and it's still cool now, even by today's standards.I rewatched it tonight, for nostalgia's sake, half expecting it to be a groaner that only an early 80's kid would enjoy, but I was pleasantly surprised to find it a pretty cool movie.All a movie needs is essentially a good story. Some movies become timeless classics, while others, though they were popular for a while and made a lot of money, are inevitably forgotten and are resigned to late-night nostalgia TV and Wal-mart bargain bins. Forget about acting, set design, sound and picture quality, and all manner of special effects. The difference always seems to be the story. Interesting characters taking action in exciting circumstances. If a movie has these simple elements it will become a timeless classic, if it doesn't, it will be forgotten, no matter how much money is spent on it.When I'm watching a movie, I'm looking for a good story as defined above. Special effects, star power, epic battles, love scenes, romance, comedy, and all other Movie Magic elements are bonuses, but they can't carry a movie that is missing its essential heart.Conan The Barbarian had these elements. Star Wars(1977) had these elements. Willow had these elements. Indianna Jones' movies had these elements. Shrek, Matrix(I), LOTR, and Kill Bill had it. I could go on, but you get the idea.  "},{"Title":"Still Holds it's Own After All These Years","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In a moment of undeniable nostalgia I had to rent the DVD for Conan the Barbarian. I had recently seen Conan the Destroyer and was horrified to see that it was even worse than I remembered. So I was a bit nervous that the Barbarian wouldn't live up to my rose tinted memories. Thankfully my concerns were unwarranted as Conan the Barbarian stands the test of time well. Everything from the casting to the art direction is impressive in this movie, quite the feat when you can't rely on CG. The story itself is also nicely paced and tells a lot of the Conan back story. Oliver Stone stated how he expected Conan to be a 12 episode series, it's doubtful they could have kept the quality up but maybe someone will revisit the tale. And this story shall also be told ... "},{"Title":"An strong, bloody adventure with a game cast and an amusing sense of humour.","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Living in a peaceful village, Conan (Jorge Sanz) has a loving father (William Smith) and mother (Nadiuska). But things changes, when a group of brutal warriors. Which they are known as the Snake Cult, which is lead by Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) and his warriors. Which they killed the villagers and Conan's parents. When young Conan is slave, along with other children of the village. Which they worked like animals. When years later, when Conan (Now played by Arnold Schwarzenegger) is sold to an new master. His master trains him to be a Gladiator and a Warrior. To make Conan learns how to defend himself. When his master frees him. Along the way, he meets several warriors. Conan meets Subotai (Gerry Lopez), Valeria (Sandhal Bergman) and an Chinese Wizard (The late Mako). They teamed together as Warriors and Thives until King Orsic (Max von Sydow) hires Conan and his warriors to rescue Princess Yasmina (The late Valérie Quennessen), daughter of King Orsic. Which the princess is been seduced and spelled by Thulsa Doom. Now Conan takes his revenge on Thulsa Doom and his Warriors for killing his people & his parents.Directed by John Milius (Big Wesnesday, Flight of the Intruder, Red Dawn) made an strong, imaginative, violent epic film. Schwarazenegger is perfectly cast in the lead. Jones plays an effective villain. The supporting cast are good as well. Which it's based on the fictional stories, created by the late Robert E. Howard. This one of a kind Sword and Sorcery adventure was definitely superior to these cheap knock-off that came out in the early to late 1980's. This has excellent production designs by Rob Cobb (The Last Starfighter and Leviathan) and an superior music score by the late Basil Poledouris (Free Willy, RoboCop, Serial Mom) are the highlights of this movie.This review of this DVD is from the Franchise Collection, it is double featured with the campy Conan the Destroyer. This DVD has all the DVD features from the previous 2000 Collector's Edition. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) and an good Dolby 2.0 Mono Sound. DVD has an good hearted commentary track by the director and actorSchwarzenegger, an documentary, deleted scenes & more. Since this film turned into an box office hit, this turned Schwarzenegger into an major Hollywood star. Do not miss this Cult Favorite. Written by Three Time Oscar-WinnerOliver Stone (Any Given Sunday, Platoon, Wall Street) and the director. Todd-AO 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"The best Conan film and better of the Sword and Sorcery genre.","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is a vastly under rated film. Compare it to other early titles in the Sword & Sorcery Genre however, and one can quickly see it deserves a space high on the podium. It is one of the few films in this genre aimed at a more mature audience, with some excellently choreographed fight scenes (including a surprisingly refreshing amount of gore), and very subtle sorcery that comes across as more believable. On reflection, perhaps less subtlety would have improved it, but then again, special effects at the time were a little limited.James Earl Jones gives an excellent performance of Thulsa Doom (who is laughingly referred to as Thulsa Boom on my DVD cover - kinda ruins the image of a villain *chuckles*). As for Arnold, although some might laugh at his acting, the character fits his skills rather well.The soundtrack is an excellent addition to the movie, doing much to add to the atmosphere of the fight scenes.Definitely the better of the Conan films. While not up to the standards of say Lord of the Rings, I'd still recommend it to anyone interested in this genre. "},{"Title":"One, two, no three","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm surprised that there weren't any more movies after Conan the Barbarian. How many Conan movies did Ahnuld do? Two. It was one, two, no three. Conan the Barbarian was about the life of Conan but it was a montage of Conan and Kull stories. Thulsa Doom, after all, was Kull's enemy and not Conan's. The same with the serpent men. Conan never fought them. Conan's fights however, were with men, and in some stories, vampires. Arnold Schwarzaneggar was chosen as Conan despite the fact that he looks nothing like the character that was created by Robert E. Howard in the 1930s. Or should I say reinvented? Conan was the reinvention of an earlier character named King Kull. Both Conan and Kull share the same backgrounds. They were both barbarians and they both became king by usurping a throne. So why didn't Universal make more Conan movies with Arnold? I don't know. "},{"Title":"An excellent opportunity to journey into the ancient kingdom of Nostalgia...","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Firstly, I will openly admit to owning Conan books but not actually having read them - yet. I'll get around to it I'm sure. Now, Conan the Barbarian starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and James Earl Jones (the original Darth Vader!) is by far one of the most memorable films from my childhood - I still cherish the times my late father and I would hop in the car and go rent 'one of those Barbarian movies' and watch it together because no other family member enjoyed them as much... Aah yes I remember The Beastmaster, The Barbarian Brothers, Ator the Fighting Eagle, and Amazons among others. Conan the Barbarian remains in my eyes second only to my favourite sword-&-sorcery film Red Sonja although the drama and story are actually better and more 'adult orientated' in Conan even if both movies have the same entertainment value. And I don't care what anybody thinks Arnold IS good as Conan the Cimmerian, quite a striking image and not just a faceless muscle-man. Especially since Conan is a Celtic name and Arnold hails from Austria, where archaeologists discovered the earliest traces of Celtic culture - related to the culture of the Cimmerians, a race of horsemen which really did exist on the European continent although not as long ago as 12 000 BC and certainly not in the form of romanticized 'noble savages' that they and other barbarian peoples were considered as by some in the late 19th century. I think the Conan films are better than the comic books, and if you've ever enjoyed films and television series such as Kull the Conqueror, Gladiator, Willow, Xena or Hercules I would recommend Conan the Barbarian as well as its sequel Conan the Destroyer to a slightly lesser extent, and most of the above mentioned films (except maybe for Amazons and Ator unless your expectations are low...) for the sheer fun of letting your imagination run wild and free for a couple of hours! "},{"Title":"Conan = Arnold","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is the only and best Swarzenegger movie ever. Arnold should never have made anything but Conan. Unfortunately it was not his decision alone. We will all miss and remember Conan as the best fantasy hero ever. The story is one thing, but the music score is the best ever made for any fantasy movie. And you will never be able to forget James Earl Jones as Thulsa Doom. The most powerful villain ever. I cannot ever see Darth Vader as anything but a bad copy of Thulsa Doom. Just remember his face when he kills Conan's mom. It is priceless. Thulsa Doom is evil, but Conan is not just good. He wants revenge. The story is epic and Thulsa Doom is evil incarnate. "},{"Title":"one of a kind","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dark, violent, visually stunning, brilliant music..and little but well chosen dialogue is what makes CONAN THE BARBARIAN, arnold´s  breakthrough on the big screen. this is what i´m hoping to see in a barbarian movie, and CONAN delivers the goods. not to be compared to the comical,light and fantasy oriented sequel,which has little of the original´s feel to it. i have yet to see a movie quite like conan. though others try, they never get close to the athmosphere in this one.one thing i don´t understand is why basil poledouris wasn´t nominated for an academy award. cinematographer, art director or director for that matter. guess fantasy movies have a tough time trying to reach the oscars.CONAN has long been my favorite sword movie, still is in a way, but i guess nothing can compete with THE LORD OF THE RINGS saga(though made ca 20 years later). other titles worth mentioning are BRAVEHEART, HIGHLANDER (the first),DRAGONSLAYER(also pretty dark) and THE 13TH WARRIOR(though a bit disapointing).*really hope that john milius consider making the next conan movie(if the deals aren´t already made) "},{"Title":"Great classic!","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  His (Arnold's) best and first movie that caught my I as well as the nation's. It was authentically done. The settings and scenery were masterfully done. How they put his character in all these demeaning and dangerous dilemmas. And yet when you think he will make it. He,In the end, loses everything! The action, well, speaks for itself! As I said Great movie! "},{"Title":"A role perfect for Arnold.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This like the terminator is a role that is just right for Arnold to play.  Here he plays a warrior slave who as a child witnessed his mother killed at the hands of James Earl Jones who is a great bad guy here.  He is raised as a slave and he becomes a fighter slave.  He is one of the best until one day his master frees him.  Once freed he meets allies and enemies alike as a king finally catches him after stealing stuff from this tower that worships snakes.  The king requests Conan and his two friends to go find his daughter being held by James Earl Jones.  At one point Conan is captured and left for dead before they infiltrate the base.  Then near the end of the movie there is one heck of a battle between Jone's men and Conan that is really the highlight of the movie.  One gripe though is that through the whole movie you expect Jone's character and Conan to have an epic battle...the ending is still satisfying even though that doesn't really come about. "}{"Title":"This movie is amazing.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was young when I saw it for the first time, but Conan stayed in my mind. I loved Conan and the world of fantasy he lives in. He is the perfect warrior, a fighting machine in a medieval scenario where swords and magic ruled. "},{"Title":"Best action adventure movie of it's kind.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I too have seen Conan more times than I can recall, but it's the kind of movie that you can enjoy, time after time. I really like movies...and I hope that this movie does not get remade in hopes to just make money. You you remake Citizen Kane? I didn't think so. Hey this isn't C.K....It's Conan!  "},{"Title":"Best action adventure movie of it's kind.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I too have seen Conan more times than I can recall, but it's the kind of movie that you can enjoy, time after time. I really like movies...and I hope that this movie does not get remade in hopes to just make money. Would you remake Citizen Kane? I didn't think so. Hey this isn't C.K....It's Conan!  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, hands down.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best movies that I've seen in a while. I've watched Conan The Barbarian at least twenty times and I still enjoy it every time. Arnold does a great job as Conan even if his Austrian accent can become awkward at times thoroughout the movie. I would recommend it to people who like fantasy films with lots of action and sorcery type stuff. "},{"Title":"One of Arnie's best!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a Schwarzenegger fan, you have to see this movie. This is one of my personal all time favorites.  It has great atmosphere, music and its fun to watch. Don't bother watching Conan the Destoyer. "},{"Title":"Best Fantasy Film EVER!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  O.K.  I ranked this movie a 10...some may be quite puzzled.  I am not saying that this film is a masterpiece in the way The Godfather might be, but against its competitors this film is king.  I have seen all of the fantasy films that will come to mind; Dragonslayer, Excalibur (quite good), The Sword and the Sorcerer, Hearts and Armor... Whatever...Conan the Barbarian is what we want all of these other films to be.  Arnold rules, Sandhal is the ultimate warrioress, Lopez is a great second and Jones is a fully realized threat, with power, magic and pure evil in his soul.  Great set, great performances and a great effort to show violence the way we want fantasy movies to.  No comedic side-kick here of note, just blood and warfare.  "},{"Title":"Arnold's best movie!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well either this or T1.  Forget Gladiator, THIS is a swordfighting movie.  This movie really gets you pumped!  Watch Arnold rise from a wheel-pushing idiot to the strongest warrior in the land.  The definitive guy movie with a thunderous score, amazing sets, buckets of blood, and dialogue that really holds your attention.  Conan may not speak very much, but when he does his words will knock you out of your chair!  This movie packs more testosterone than anything else ever made.  Conan is an opponent to be feared- he's a monster, a butcher, an animal, and he's the GOOD GUY!  How great is that?!  As all reviews end, I close with the immortal words, avoid the sequel. "},{"Title":"Arnold is CONAN! There will never be another!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"     This movie displayed the making, survival, and triumph of the one man, who delivers a character all guys wished they could be (more than once)! I didn't know much about bodybuilding, but I got the fever after seeing this flick. The budget wasn't great, but the actors and music fit together like a sword in a sheath. James Earl Jones was mesmerizing, and get a kick out of Max Von Sydow. This is the BARBARIAN movie of the century hands down..      10 pts. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The absolute best adventure saga. About a vengeful pit-fighter out seeking the killer of his people. No imitation(or the sequel) can top this extravagant peace of art. This movie is truly a masterpeace.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"A strong story with a wonderful music","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  R.E. Howard fans might argue that this film doesn't present the real Howard hero but I would like to point out some positive points. The plot is very strong (Oliver Stone participated) and has nothing to share with the rather disappointing follow-up, moreover the characters are well defined and memorable. Eventually, the music is truly impressive, it really fits each scene (check for instance the Wheel of Pain theme...) according to me it is the best thing of the film, making it a pure chef-d'oeuvre. Try it, folks!  "}{"Title":"The best fantasy/comic book movie. Great soundtrack.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A comic book movie that starts with a quote from Nietzhe is going to be good. Especially with a thrilling sound track that makes all the battle scenes more intense. Arnold is near is all-time buffness, James Earl Jones almost steals the show with his portrayal of Thulsa Doom. Remember to crush your enemies.  "},{"Title":"One of my fav movies!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is great, it's set in a time where there were no rules. Lands were free, to take for the picking. Only the strong would live. Thus came Conan who would one day be king at his own hand. This movie has something for almost everyone. Plus it has that line and I quote For no one can you trust and thats true and used today. All and all this is a excellent movie! "},{"Title":"The best film of it's genre EVER!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can I say about this movie? There's just the right amount of fantasy, violence, gore, passion, and overall excitement that makes this one of the best movies ever made! The fight scenes are really well thought out and exciting, while the soundtrack rocks!The movie does significant justice to the Conan books. I hope that, if they ever make a third instalment, they write it with the first movie in mind. "},{"Title":"POWERFUL DEPICTION OF HYBOREAN AGE.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This giant of the sword and sorcery genre is a thrilling piece of work and is typical fare from macho director John Milius.It features Arnold Schwarzenegger at his imposing best and the ferocity of the action in which he is involved accompanied by the pounding and evocative score by Basil Polidouris results in a powerful depiction of the Hyborean age as portrayed in the novels.The opening sequence when young Conan is explained the power of steel by his father is enhanced no end by the playing of veteran actor William Smith who is as far as I am concerned one of the unsung heroes of cinema.Too numerous to mention are the movies that have been improved by the very presence of this imposing and charismatic man who deserved A list status far more than some of the so-called stars who emerged in the 70's and 80's.Strong support too comes from Sandahl Bergman as the beautiful warrior Valeria,a pre Xena fighting machine of no mean ability.This movie may at times be to solemn and portentous for its own good but this is a trait of Milius and suits the material here better than in some of his other fare.All in all,CONAN is an impressive achievement ripe for re-evaluation,insipid indeed is the viewer who cannot feel his pulses racing at the sight and sounds of Conan and his comrades as they infiltrate the snake cult orgy and massacre everyone in sight to rescue the princess.Action movie fans the world over will always look back on Conan with fondness as the real screen birth of one of the great action icons of movie history.Arnold has nothing to be ashamed of here. "},{"Title":"Time to remake!!!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A great movie, it would have been excellent, if Arnie was a better actor. He was just starting up, but if they were to remake I'm sure this time it would smash box office records. Special FX of today. And Arnie is a much better actor now. Back to the movie, Big baddie gets princess, Conan and two friends go to rescue, conan dies, but saved by a wizard and his female side-kick. At the end Conan wins but loses everything. (love interest). Good fighting axes swords and arrows made of snakes. Just one more Item there was meant to be Five movies of Conan. Where's the other three? "},{"Title":"Fabulous Film","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Aside from a few bad actors and some cheesy special effects, this is an awesome film with existentialist overtones.  If you don't believe me, look for the themes of creating an essence out of nothing, finding your own meaning in life, and the absurdity of putting faith in petty gods with deaf ears.  The action and dialogue are great as well.  I liked this film so much that I added it to my personal collection. "},{"Title":"History the way it SHOULD be!!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie, for me, shows the ancient world not as it was, but as it should have been. It is the best adventure/fighting flm of all time. It was the first DVD I bought with my DVD player!  "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all time","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an excellent action and sword/sorcery film. Arnold Schwarzenegger is perfectly cast as Conan.There are plenty of action scenes and the music by Basil Poledouris adds to the overall atmosphere of the film and is, I think, the most memorable score in film history.The sequel, Conan The Destroyer, was nowhere near as good but then again how could it compete with this film. "},{"Title":"The Greatest","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is Arnold's Best Movie hands down. James earl jones is very good also. Arnold is at his biggest and his best, the fight scenes are classic. The storyline is awesome following the young conan avenging his parents death. The gladiator scenes are very intense "},{"Title":"Classic Barbarian Epic","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie on a big screen tv in 1983 as a young teen, and let me tell you, it left a lasting impression on me. To this day not another movie in it's class can touch it. I am not so fond of the sequel but the original is a sure winning classic all the way!!! This movie has everything!! "}{"Title":"the best film ever","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  the best film ever, epic tale from director john milius based on story of Robert E. Howard , tale of barbarian that was slave and became king. the film include action and fantasy. the Arnold Schwarzenegger best film ever . the second movie conan the destroyer 1984 and now  release the new conan movie king conan.  "},{"Title":"Showed Arnold's potential & growth as an actor","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was the first time I saw Arnold's depth and potential to become a star. Each of his films and performances have grown in complexity and sophistication.  By the time he did Total Recall, he was known more for putting together a block-buster than for his acting, but he continues to develop his characters within the expectation's of his audience. He came to terms with his type casting in Last Action Hero and moved on. I was most impressed by his acting and character development in Collateral Damage 2001 where he played a clever fireman, as far as he could get from the idealized Conan. He relies less on spectacular effects now which Last Days proved couldn't top T-2. I'm also impressed by his story selection more recently which forecasts trends early enough to have a film released when the public is hot on the topic (6th day- Cloning, True Lies & Collateral Damage- Terrorism, etc.).  Starting with Conan he manages to bring out the best in a talented cast, often those not yet well-known, not well-used supporting actors, or those out-of-favor with Hollywood Studios (James Earl Jones, Mako, & Sandahl Bergman here, Vanessa Williams, Tom Arnold, James Cromwell... later).  Terminator-3 2003 as a story is no more complex than Conan and he doesn't have the muscles he once had. But its success will be in the character development and logical story-boarding of each scene since he never fails to work with a director and screenwriters who produce a first-class film before the cameras roll. I credit Arnold for working with so many talented directors like Conan's John Milius (Apocalyse Now, Magnum Force). Like Shakespeare's prose Arnold's films work for an audience at many levels, and remain tongue in cheek, a formula that started in Conan the Barbarian. I can hardly wait for True Lies 2 2004.  Finally, Arnold's management skills have developed with each new multi-million dollar movie project. This may come in handy when he moves on to politics & govt. He's come a long way (I can finally understand him) but I recently saw Conan again on TV and it remains a performance of which he can be proud. "},{"Title":"Hyborian milieu by Milius","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can one say about this first true Hollywood attempt at Sword and Sorcery?The direction is strong and linear,the acting and the dialogues are absolutely fitting for an epic,the production is superb,far superior to what it was offered then,the musical score is ponderous and unlike anything one would expect from this genre,the visual feast truly magnificent.It's also quite evident that the film serves as a vehicle for director Milius' own idiosyncrasies and personal codes of behavior,which are uniquely,well,barbaric and therefore well-suited to the subject.His passion for all things heroic is evidently demonstrated especially with bits of homage to Kurosawa and the Japanese cinema.All in all,a highly entertaining film that is also time-transcending and a true bible to all noble savages out there,masterfully crafted by a literate barbarian himself,John Milius.Alas,mythology isn't done like that on the silver screen anymore.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious guff occasionally, but it works","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If nothing else, Conan deserves respect for having the balls to quote Nietzsche at the beginning of the film. A sword and sorcery film that doesn't go for the easy and obvious option of extreme cheese is very rare. Indeed, Conan the Destroyer, this film's mutant half-sibling, falls into that very trap.  Having set this curiously ambitious standard, Conan veers wildly from pole to pole. Visually, the film is very impressive. The desert landscapes of Spain; Thulsa Doom's intimidating temple; the party to end all parties and Conan's rippling muscles are all pluses. Basil Poledouris's score is excellent.  But there are times when the film is just silly. Sandahl Bergman's endless cries of Do you want to live forever? are a needless modernistic touch and always sound rubbish. Witness when she comes back from Valhalla at the end to save Conan's ample butt from being wasted.  The film's silliest moment, though, is ultimately its greatest. A sublime moment that encapsulates everything about this film brute strength and insanely cruddy dialogue. Conan, asked by a wise Warrior master to describe what is best in life philosophises Crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and hear the lamentation of the women. What self-respecting Republican could want more? "},{"Title":"Best Film Ever","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is by far the best film ever made. The film was both an action adventure as well as a love story. The score expresses the characters feelings with every note. The film keeps you enraptured with every minute. Every thing about this film was done perfectly. Even twenty years later this film is still among the best. "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorites ever","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has so many wonderful parts.  A real favorite was when Conan and Subotai meet the woman who tries to sell Subotai an amulet to ward off evil and he tells her, I am evil.  Also loved Arnold's speech about the best things in life. "},{"Title":"Good violent movie!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian is a very violent sword fighting movie that puts Arnold in alot bad situations. James Earl Jones is a bad villain here and his performance is good. Arnold packs a punch here also and Sandahl Bergman looks stunning! Max von Sydow is good as always and Sven-Ole Thorsen looked menacing like he always does! The score is awesome by Basil Poledouris. Conan the Barbarian has a sequel that is just as good as this called Conan the Destroyer! If violent sword fighting is what you like then watch this great Arnold film soon! "},{"Title":"Anvil Of Crom!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the time when the oceans drank Atlantis, and the rise of the sons of Aryus, there was an age undreamed of... and unto this, Conan, destined to wear the jeweled crown of Aquilonia upon a troubled brow... It is I, his chronicler, who alone can tell thee of his saga... Let me tell you of the days of high adventure! And then Basil Poledouris starts his music .. epical "},{"Title":"More fun than LOTR's","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A wonderfully entertaining film, with some great moments.  Maybe the best sound track to any film, ever.  Arnie at his minimal dialogue, muscle flexing best.  Classic fight scenes over the top sets and skimpy costumes, what not to like about this film.  Yes, the film does look dated and has a huge rubber snake but it's no worse than the cgi in the Mummy and looks much better than the Mummy returns.  Although everyone will disagree with me, I say Conan the Barbarian is more enjoyable than Lord Of The Rings and is maybe the best fantasy film of all time.  I just hope that if Arnie does make a third installment of Conan, it will be better than Conan The Destroyer. "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled by stereotype.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People assume that just because this movie has Arnold Schwarzenegger slashing snake-worshippers and orgyists that it's not a good movie.  But Conan the Barbarian is a brilliant movie and a great existentialist work. Not only that, instead of using a lot of dialogue, the movie relies on the music to make its points.  Basil Poledouris's score for Conan is my one of my all-time favorites.But, yes, Conan the Barbarian is also a great slash-em-up barbarian flick. And that's not bad either. "}{"Title":"A classic adventure movie","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best adventure movies ever made, after The Indiana Jones series it's the first thing that pops into my head when I think of an adventure movie. A movie that relies on its visual and acustic elements (Basil Poledouris has really managed to compose one of the most memorable scores ever, as usual - Robocop, Starship Troopers) and makes the most of its rather empty script. When I first saw it a kid I didn't like it, but over the years I've come to truly appreciate this work of art, to say the least. An excellent two hour entertainment with a deep and powerful story. James Earl Jones is really funny looking; probably because I'm used to him being older, but the base is there non the less. A CLASSIC.     9/10  "},{"Title":"Arnold's best performance","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian has entertained me since I was a child.  The epic story of a man fighting evil incarnate with his friends never ceases to amaze me. Chalk full of special effects (great even to this day) this movie is a must for video collections. "},{"Title":"This is the best sword & sorcery film ever and a great film over all.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece. Visually stunning and groundbreaking at the time, in the way it takes fantasy seriously. Not until Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring, The (2001) has there been any attempt on this. This is indeed a very visual film. The acting is superb in its minimalism. Most of the dialogue is made trough looks which is very fitting in a movie starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. This is truly the best performance of his career. All in all, this movie is very much a masculine movie. It captures the very essence in the male persona. The Nietzschean/Darwinian approach with eastern influences depicts a pragmatic and yet a very fantastical approach to life. Everything is possible if you put your mind to it. There is no absolute truth and one should not hasten into condemning something which one knows little of. Conan tries everything once and learns from it. Sometimes he benefits from it and sometimes he gets hurt. But he always learns. That which does not kill you makes you stronger is truly the essence of this film. It may not be true towards the original books but this movie stands on its own. As Milius said, these movies are not made anymore - a big production which actually can teach you something. For a long time we only have brain-dead blockbusters which are made to sell toys or to make little girls get wet over the latest teen pop-pinup. That is until today when we can look forward to the continuation of the Lord of the Rings, the Matrix and finally King Conan Crown of Iron!PS This review is of the special edition DVD which is quite different from the original.  "},{"Title":"Just like Dungeons & Dragons","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For fans of sword & sorcery movies, it doesn't get any better than this.  The story has enough emotional centerpiece in Conan's quest for revenge, which is rarely done well because most revenge plots are brainless.  Arnold is right for the part, and it's not just the muscles but the facial type required to potray a barbarian.  James Earl Jones is just great as a villain, and I can't imagine Thulsa Doom being portrayed by anyone else.  But all in all, this movie is all about setting the right kind of atmosphere to suck you into it's world.  From the amazing sceneries, sets, and memorable heart-pounding score, I say Conan is a film production that uncannily brings life to fantasy. "},{"Title":"The best film (of it's kind)","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The screenplay of this film isn't anything to jump up and down about, but for what it is, it is very good. Most of the films from this genre are laughable from beginning to end. This one is laughable but only in portions. It contains a lot of blood as is expected. What makes this film stand out from it's peers is great direction from John Milius, (the end is a bit like the end of Apocalypse Now, which he wrote) interesting photography, and probably Basil Poleduoris's best film score ever by far. Arnold barely talks in the whole film so he pretty much does as good as he could in this stage of his career and Sandahl Bergman is awesome, and this was probably the peak of her career. James Earl Jones gives the best performance and probably carries this movie as the villain more than any character. It's very much fun to watch this, which is all it was intended to be.  "},{"Title":"Vastly underated epic adventure.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Full of awesome action sequences. A great musical score. Fantastic set design. Crystaline character archetypes. Memorable dialogue. Nearly a perfect adventure movie. (dragged out demonic ressurection scene) "},{"Title":"More subtle and emotional than you may think","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Others have gone on at great length about the epic qualities of the cinematography, score, sets, costuming and action sequences. All are justified. I wish to point out the fantastic, literate dialogue, especially of Thulsa Doom. Where is the praise for the intelligence of the screenplay, what with its familiar yet fresh retelling of the archetypal hero's journey?Much philosophical and theological debate ensues between characters without real resolution smart. I would like attention to be directed at the moments of acting scattered throughout the film that touch without words Conan practicing the sword then contemplating his own hands, Valeria and Conan embracing tightly at the end of their lovemaking scene as if desperately holding on to each other might stem the tide of tragedy that is sure to follow, Thulsa Doom hypnotizing Conan's mother with only his deep, impossibly intense eyes before cutting her brutally down before her son... These are all moments of sheer visual impact, of small things writ large through the body language of the actors and the eye of director John Milius.Keep your Braveheart if I want to revel in mythical storytelling with swords galore, I'll watch Conan again. This is an absolute classic, marred only by the stilted delivery of... Sandahl Bergman! Many complain about Arnold's acting, but Conan IS a barbarian, after all his character is NOT silver-tongued! Arnold inhabits the role well physically and his lack of facility with English does not detract from his performance one bit. Well, okay, I'll also concede that the animated demons that come and try to take Conan's soul in one sequence are a bit hokey. But in 1983, they gave me chills up and down my spine. "},{"Title":"A rousing epic about one man's path to becoming a legend.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian is a wonderful film that blends the best of story and action, providing an experience that is not easily forgotten.  The movie contains great chracters and the actors bring them to life, namely Arnold and James Earl Jones.  Not only is it a wonderful action/fantasy film, the rousing score (provided by Basil Poledouris) entertwines with the visuals to create a film that is better with each viewing.  Overall, a great film. "},{"Title":"Probably Arnie's Best","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not sure which of Arnie's films I enjoy more, this one or Terminator 2. Either way, they both rock.  This is the film that truly defines a Dungeons and Dragons movie.  It is the ultimate fantasy film of swords and sorcery(until Lord of the Rings which comes out next year).  This film does have many flaws, mainly lame dialogue, but the film is still superb.  It's a fun movie, and that's what it is all about. Arnold portrayed Conan perfectly.  He may not be a true Oscar winning performer, but he is so likeable that many legendary actors will not be as remembered or admired in the future as he most likely will.  He barely speaks in the film and portrays Conan with mainly body language and facial expressions perfectly. James Earl Jones is terrific as well.  In this movie we see one of the greatest villains in movie history ever!  He is so sick and evil, that his facial expressions make my hair stand on end.  This is a character who truly believes he is helping the world through black and Satanic rituals and the plundering of peaceful settlements. When it comes down to it, this is a movie full of action, sword fighting, wizardry, beautiful cinematography, a stiring soundtrack, romance and heroism which any adventure film freak could watch over and over.  A cult classic that will be remembered forever.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent score, and some of the best sword fights you'll see on film. The acting is adequate, but nothing to write home about.  An impressive film visually, even if the plot is a bit thin.  In all, it's worth seeing a few times, if for no other reason than to listen to the score.  "}{"Title":"NOTHING like what Howard wrote!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I hated this movie when I first saw it in a theater upon its initial release in the spring of 1982. I almost walked out on it in disgust. I *did* step out in the lobby and smoke a cigarette in the middle of the movie, but I went back and suffered through the rest of it. I hate it even more now that I have another relatively FAITHFUL adaptation of a classic work of heroic fantasy -- _The Lord of the Rings_ -- to compare it to. The people who made that movie actually *respected* the original source material a little bit, and actually *tried* to tell somewhat the same story. I blame writer-director John Milius primarily. He has done a lot of other very fine things, but he sure fouled up here. My impression is that what he *really* wanted to do was make a movie about the historical Genghis Khan and the Mongols, which would have been a perfectly okay thing to do, but they wouldn't give him the money for that, so he just grafted or spliced the name Conan onto his (Milius') pet Mongol story.  Plus he threw in some elements clumsily lifted from *another* series of Howard stories, those about the adventures of the Atlantean Kull, who usurps the throne of mainland Valusia, and has to contend with the remnants of the pre-human Serpent Men civilization (not snake-worshipping *cultists*, but actual intelligent humanoid reptiles), and an *undead*, *skull-faced* sorcerer (*not* a circa 1978 Jim Jones-type cult leader) named Thulsa Doom. Get this as Conan's creator Robert E. Howard wrote it, Conan the Cimmerian (*not* to be confused with Sumerian, please) never had his tribe or his family wiped out by any snake worshipping Jonestown-style cultists. The teenage Conan just got bored and restless in the chilly, gloomy, backwards, and isolated hills of Cimmeria and *left* to see civilization and to find out if there really were girls without hairy chests. He *was* very *briefly* enslaved but soon made his escape. Subsequently he wandered his world widely and had various adventures, motivated variously by curiosity, greed, a thirst for excitement, a sheer love of fighting, and *occasionally* by a desire to avenge himself upon some human or supernatural enemy. In no sense was his whole career one big, long, wearying revenge quest.  Also, he was not merely a dumb muscle-man. Although a bit green at first about the ways of civilization, he was naturally intelligent and cunning, and quickly became not only fluent but literate in a long list of languages, and knowledgeable about a wide range of topics. Howard wrote *only one* novel-length Conan tale. All the rest of Conan's adventures were told of in a number of short stories and novellas. These were not written in the chronological order in which they were supposed to have occurred, but the chronological order can be roughly worked out, with The Tower of the Elephant taking place when Conan is about seventeen, The Queen of the Black Coast when he is kind of thirty-ish, and the novel-length _Hour of the Dragon_ (a.k.a., _Conan the Conquerer_) taking place when he is about forty-five, and starting to get a little slower than he used to be. Anyhow, the original stories written in the 1930s by the tragic Texan, Robert E. Howard, are still where it's at. Read those, if you can still find 'em, and forget this mockery of a muscle-man movie. "},{"Title":"A most misunderstood film...","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is almost great.  Believe it.  The photography is superb (often copied) and the score is EXQUISITE...not just the same theme repeated over and over.  Enough has been said (by others) about the acting, fighting, blood, etc., so let's talk about different aspects.What of the humor?  This movie is often very funny. Priestess  What do you see Conan (looking into water)  Uh...infinity. Priestess  ...Good.And who can forget that slimy priest trying to talk Conan out of his skivvies?  The look on Conan's face as he says  I'm afraid I'm shy...can we talk over there, where the others cannot see?The best part of this smart movie is the philosophy, though.  The circular arguments of Thulsa Doom's point of view, as experienced by Conan on the Wheel of Pain, and glimpsed in Thulsa's battle standard.  The refutation of Conan's father's cosmology as the steel breaks in Rexor's hand.Anybody notice that Conan is a Christ symbol, by the way?A full throttle film that delivers is a rarity.  Embrace this work so Hollywood might make another, I say! "},{"Title":"A fun glimpse at the start of a legend in the making!","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Though definitely a guilty pleasure from the cheesy 80's of which I grew up, this is such outstandingly fun. It's so unique a cinematic experience, knowing what we know of Schwarzenegger's life and career the 34 years since, seeing him at this juncture, as he's just starting out. (No, I haven't seen 'Stay Hungry' yet.) Part of me always wishes he had simply stuck to these films (as well as the 'Terminator' series), and was still making them. In his prime, I dare you to find anyone better at this kind of material. Director Milius has a fine feel for the swords-and-sandals/fantasy worldscape this material requires. An excellent and underrated supporting cast is here at well to help Arnie out, too. "},{"Title":"A Classic of its Genre","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" a film about a young barbarian's quest to avenge his parents' deaths. The story is set in the fictional Hyborian Age, thousands of years before the rise of modern civilization. The film opens with the title card, That which does not kill us makes us stronger, a paraphrasing of Friedrich Nietzsche, followed by a voice-over that establishes the film as the story of Conan's origin.I love the use of Genghis Khan's speech The greatest pleasure is to vanquish your enemies, to chase them before you, to rob them of their wealth, to see those dear to them bathed in tears, to ride their horses, to clasp to your bosom their wives and daughters. I mean, you know, it's sexist and horribly crude, but perfect for the world of barbarians.For all its faults, this is a true staple of the fantasy genre. It can be denounced as overly violent (true) and feeding into male prepubescent fantasy (true), but look at the source material early 20th century pulp. This is exactly what it is supposed to be. "},{"Title":"This you can trust","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Effort can cover a lot of sins, and so it is with John Milius' take on Robert. E. Howard's pulp anti-hero Conan. It's not a great film, and maybe not even a good one, but it feeds off of the energy and total commitment of all those involved.Arnold Schwarzenegger brings his unmatched physicality and natural charisma and he's blessed with an excellent supporting cast. Veterans James Earl Jones and Max von Sydow add gravitas, while co-star Sandahl Bergman more than holds her own swinging a sword beside Arnold.And honestly, if you're not on board with this film after the first few notes of the late great Basil Poledouris' Anvil Of Crom, then there's no hope for you. "},{"Title":"perfect role for Arnold","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a boy, Conan is taught by his father to admire the power of steel. His village is destroyed by marauders led by Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones). Thulsa kills his mother right in front of him. He and the other children are enslaved and sold. Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) grows up to be a gladiator. He is taught battle skills and the art of war. He escapes and finds a sword in a king's tomb. He saves thief Subotai (Gerry Lopez). In a city, they follow the snake symbol to a serpent tower where they join fellow thief Valeria (Sandahl Bergman). They kill the giant snake and steal the jewels. King Osric (Max Von Sydow) recruits the three thieves to rescue his daughter who had fallen under the spell of cult leader Thulsa. Conan goes off on his own and meets Wizard (Mako) on the way.This is the perfect role for Arnold. He's not asked to do too much acting. His persona fits this character perfectly. The only drawback is the lack of better actors in some of the other roles. It also lacks humor to lighten the mood although it works quite well taking the material exceedingly seriously. It accepts the material on its face value. "},{"Title":"The role Arnie was born to play.","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Directed by John Milius, this hugely entertaining slice of sword and sorcery is epic stuff from start to finish, opening with Conan as a young boy witnessing the slaughter of his tribe by the evil snake-cult leader Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) and his henchmen, charting Conan's subsequent life as a slave, a gladiator, and a thief, and following him as he and his loyal friend Subotai (Gerry Lopez) and sexy squeeze Valeria (Sandahl Bergman) travel to Thulsa Doom's mountain lair to rescue a king's daughter and exact a little revenge.As an actor, five times Mr. Universe and seven times Mr. Olympia Arnold Schwarzenegger might only be slightly less wooden than The Tree of Woe to which he is nailed, but with more muscle mass in one arm than the average man has in his entire body, he makes a perfect Conan the Barbarian. As expected, Arnold mauls his dialogue like he's chewing on a vulture's neck, but he gives the role everything he's got, especially when it comes to swinging a sword and slicing up men like they're so much Extrawurst. Arnie flexes his muscles, blood and limbs fly in all directions, and Hollywood's greatest action star is born.Milius's film might threaten to become mired by a sense of self importance at times, but with bags of atmosphere, superb production design by Ron Cobb, and stunning cinematography, plus oodles of brutal hacking and slashing, all accompanied by a breath-taking symphonic score by Basil Poledouris, Arnie's first major movie ultimately emerges triumphant. "},{"Title":"Classic Schwarzenegger,","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is a good movie with a very well developed storyline and a talented cast.It's action sequences are fantastic and it is filmed very beautifully.,it didn't seem to have a huge special effects budget so they used as many real locations as they could and they picked some really great areas that suited the tone of the movie perfectly.Arnold Schwarzenegger was a great choice for Conan,he had the right build and his accent and macho personality suited very much.The biggest problem is mainly that it takes itself way too seriously,there is little to no comic relief the lighten the mood,it is simply a dramatic movie from start to finish.Action packed and still holds up very well today.i would recommend Conan the Barbarian to anyone looking for a good action. A powerful barbarian sets off to avenge his deceased parents. Best Performance Arnold Schwarzenegger Worst Performance Mako "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A brutally cool movie. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. There are fisticuffs back and forth. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do, however, drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. Arnold is a unique presence in American cinema and hopefully this is a sign that he will do more of these kinds of austere, gripping character pieces more often in the future. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Near Epic Drama and great scripting","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian is one of the most underrated films of the 80's. Contrary to another posting I saw here, there are not two narratives, and there is no similarity of techniques between this and 2001A Space Odyssey. The imagery is fantastic, and of course this is something which can work great on a Conan movie - as we saw if we read the comic....It is indeed lucky that 'a more common action prototype' was NOT used ... The film would have been one-dimensional then..... and it was produced in a much more 'epic' style. The editing was superb, and the film was just the right length. Oliver stones perceptive scriptwriting techniques can be seen most when Arnold is talking.... he doesn't do it much!Basil Poledouris' music is in fact very well done on this movie... it is precisely the counterpoint of the music and mood that works so well.This movie rises far beyond being a muscle movie, and is far from mediocre.By far the best fantasy movie of the 80's it rises far beyond being a fantasy movie, and is far from mediocre.If you are looking for kids movies such as Dragonslayer, or Krull, then leave it. If you are looking for epic visuals, great music, and tight scripting then this is for you  "}{"Title":"Epic style adventure-fantasy yarn","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian tells the story of a comic-book hero - who is on a quest to avenge his parents' death at the hands of a snake worshiping cult. Conan, of course, features Schwarzenegger in one of his first starring role.  He actually is well-cast to the Barbarian role - he only has a couple of lines in the movie - but he is definitely a mostly brawn, little brain character.  Badly cast (in my opinion) as Valeria is Sandahl Bergman - her American accent is an off-putting one and she is just there for her looks not her acting ability. The scenery and sets are all very grand and epic in nature.  The musical score holds this picture together (due to the lack of dialogue) - definitely a big plus on this picture. The movie has a strong emphasis on violence and bloody violence at that.  But hey - it's an Arnie film - so isn't it expected?! The plot is a little thin (not much depth) - but you couldn't expect a deep plot about a barbarian with a pea-sized brain. Definitely worth it - if you are an Arnie action fan - you wouldn't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One of the best fantasy movies around...","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've been a huge Conan fan for years, collecting hundreds of copies of the famous Savage Sword series. I was 13 when I saw this film with my father, after begging him for months to take me to see it. It was my first R rated movie and I left the theater to play video games during the sex part, (chuckle). Regardless, I've always held a deep love for this movie.It's a simple tale, true, of revenge, but the brutality of the movie (spurting limbs, fountains of blood) is what the comics and books were always about - it's a very violent world filled with very violent people and I was happy to see that the violence wasn't watered down in the movie - otherwise it would not have been true to Howard's original vision.Arnie plays an absolute perfect Conan. If ever a man was born to play a character, our favorite Austrian was born to play the barbarian from Cimmeria. And I've seen this movie mentioned as a historical and not as a fantasy - at least not in the sense as Willow or even the Lord of the Rings series.Why?There is no magic, in the sense of fireballs doing 42 hit points of damage, but there is a man who turns into a snake, a witch who turns first into a snarling creature and then into a fireball. There is also a giant man-eating snake and talking dead. If all of this doesn't make a movie fantasy, then what does?Wonderful movie. Absolutely stunning musical score. It should be placed on a special pedestal next to Krull and the Lord of the Rings trilogy as hallmarks of the movie fantasy genre.9-of-10. "},{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore...","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Conan on the TV last night thinking, Oh great, nothing better than Conan the Barbarian to watch.  Then I realised that I was watching a terrific movie.  Sure, some things like the actors and special effects date the movie pretty solidly.  But the movie was just great!  I figured out pretty soon that the music was uncommonly good, and I was pleasantly surprised an hour or so into the movie when I discovered James Earl Jones was the villian, back to his old I am your father tricks!  Conan also showed me something I both never expected, never had seen, and probably never will see again.  What am I talking about?  Arnold Schwarzeneggar hitting a camel across the face!  I recommend this film to anyone even remotely interested in action movies and cultural icons.  There is warmth in fire.  Wouldn't you like to warm yourself by my fire? "},{"Title":"one of the great films and one of the great musical scores.  do NOT overlook oliver stone's intellectual themes.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i am so upset that this movie's dvd release is in mono; perhaps some studio exec will read this review and remedy this crime!mr. poledouris produced a soundtrack masterpiece.  the waltz that accompanies the burglary of the mountain stronghold is itself one of our culture's enduring legacies.  sandahl bergman in that scene not only puts celebrated feisty contemporaries like sigourney weaver's ripley and carrie fisher's leia to shame, but also shames many a modern dancer for the elegance of her movement.  james earl jones's work here may still be praised even as his darth vader is mocked, then forgotten.  nadiuska is unforgettable.but do not overlook the contribution of oliver stone to the script. this is an entirely deliberate, fully conceived, politically astute morality play.  it raises the question of how dogma can be contested, how political power in the hands of demagogues can be stemmed. stone's answer is pure violence, but violence born of indomitable will and unharnessable ability.  it pits the uebermann, the gloriously rugged individual, against the mediocrity of the masses.  one imagines nietzsche crying with joy at the spectre of mr. schwarzenegger's righteous barbarism, carried out in de laurentiis-style cinematography, to redeem the soul of a wayward princess, with the discipline of sword master yamzaki, for the love of ms. bergman's valeria... "},{"Title":"What Sword and Sorcery is meant to be","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is classic fantasy without the killer mistakes - no cute little animals or children, no pathetic attempts at making it a comedy (the sequel is atrocious) and enough blood and gore all over the place. Let's face it; if you hack into someone with a great big sword it's going to be messy. None of this self-cleaning weaponry routine here. What makes this truly classic though, even without the usual downers? Well there's the soundtrack for a start. You know from the start that this is going to be an epic and at no point does the action really slow down, at least not until Conan is left sitting in the aftermath. The props look real. No bendy blades or rubber axes then (personal pet-hate). Almost every shot in the film has been carefully lit and even Ridley Scott would be hard pressed to fault it. Best of all, it's believably violent. But it IS a little flawed in some places, most notably plot. Arnie manages to survive everything that has been thrown at him, we're waiting for the final showdown, and . . . it doesn't really work out at that point. Let's face it, what everybody really wants to see is the Evil Overlord taking on the hero in a last, climatic, bloody fight. So I was a bit disappointed when he pretty much butchered Thulsa Doom on the spot. And why did Doom turn into a snake, anyway? To wrap this up all I'll say is that this is the one to measure all other films of the genre by. And try to forget that the sequel was ever made.  "},{"Title":"A rumbustuous romp of a fantasy film.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To be honest, what truly makes Conan stand out for me in the realm of Sci-fi/fantasy films is not the stunning cinematography, not the good-for-the-period special effects, not the strong, well cast lead (Arnie) or even the sense of mythic grandeur that pervades the film.  No.  All these facets of the film only serve as support to my main reason for liking this film.  The reason?  This, for once, is a fantasy film that doesn't pull its punches.  The violence, whilst cartoon-ey and fanciful (as is appropriate in a fantasy film), shows real blood, real dismembering and real emotional intensity in the different theatres of combat. The film is also shot through with a sort of malevolent eroticism and consistently shows scenes of sexual intercourse in all its glory.  The scene featuring the kinky witch and Conan is every bit as good as the incest scene in 'Excalibur' by John Borman.  The actresses in both cases are not classic beauties, but have a certain worldly desirability to them. The reasons that I have flagged up these elements of the film are not desire to see nudity and violence in every film, in a juvenile way.  It is simply because, for too long, fantasy (although, bizarrely, not sci-fi) has been seen as kids stuff.  It is films like Excalibur and Conan that break this mould and show fantasy adventure for what it is.  A genre every bit as 'adult' as any other,  with infinite opportunity for allegory, metaphor and symbolism, depth of characterisation, genuine pathos, not the absurd bathos largely seen in modern action or sci-fi films, and most of all a darned good immaculately fashioned story, in the same style as we see in the work of Tolkien, Tad Williams, Edgar Allan Poe and even the greek dramatists.DO NOT DISREGARD FANTASY ADVENTURE MOVIES AS KID STUFF, I IMPLORE YOU!!!!!!!!!!!!!!    "},{"Title":"Conan the Barbarian","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lively action/adventure with Schwarzenegger playing a sword wielding warrior who takes on a smite snake king(James Earl Jones. A good pace coupled with some very exciting sword play and a sexy performance from Bergman, as Conan's love interest.Followed by the sequel in 1984.  "},{"Title":"It'll pump...you up","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A beautifully crafted movie.  Great scenery, costumes, hardware, etc.  It has its campy moments, but it brings the hardness of Hyboria to life on the big screen (or on your TV).  Schwarzenegger was a perfect fit for this role, and James Earl Jones is ominous as arch-foe Thulsa Doom.  The only bad thing about this movie is how weak it makes most other sword & sorcery movies look--including its sequel, the PG-13, made for kiddies Conan the Destroyer. "},{"Title":"Are You Kidding Me?","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the greatest epic films of all times. They don't make 'em like this anymore... Come to think of it they didn't before either. No, this is a one of a kind film. If you can't appreciate this movie perhaps you should stick to books and documentary films. Really, what more can one say?This is one of the greatest epic films of all times. They don't make 'em like this anymore... Come to think of it they didn't before either. No, this is a one of a kind film. If you can't appreciate this movie perhaps you should stick to books and documentary films. Really, what more can one say?Holy crap, I must be drunk to be submitting a review like this. To hell with it, I stand by my rant! "},{"Title":"to hear the lamentations of the women!","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is cheesy, but it's really good, Wisconsin grade cheese, so that makes it fun. It also hearkened back to a day when they built real sets, did real action and just didn't have actors stand in front of Green Screens and pretend that they cared.This was Arnold's first movie where he had to act, and he had a long way to go. His first line, 23 minutes into the film, is hilarious because of the way it was shot.But the action scenes are great, and Arnold looks good in the role. He is matched against a really good villain in James Earl Jones. The pacing is solid.God, I miss the 1980's. "}{"Title":"Fun Epic Fantasy Flick","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is one of the better serious swords and sorcery movies out there. The story of a boy sold into slavery after his family was slaughtered, who as a man became a peerless warrior, Conan might seem like typical fantasy fare but it rises above the crowd.The score and cinematography are just a notch below Lord of the Rings, which should be good enough for nearly anyone. Sweeping landscapes, realistic cities and castles are accompanied by good but not overbearing music. The acting, while a bit cartoonish by necessity, is very good, especially James Earl Jones as the villain and the legendary Max von Sydow as the fading king. Arnold is quiet even by his standards, but hey, what are you really expecting? He more than looks the part and shouldn't disappoint with his overall performance.The movie does seem a bit generic, however, with its overall story of revenge and with its archetype characters. However, as the movie came out in 1982, it is evident to me that a decade or two of video game designers, among others, heavily ripped off the characters and art from this movie, so I'll give it a bit of a pass here.This might have been the best swords and sorcery movie yet made when it came out. It's since been surpassed but is still easily worth a look if you like the genre or the actors. "},{"Title":"This is not Robert Howard's Conan the Cimmerian","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Now that I've read a few of Conan's adventures, I can rightfully say that this film is an exploitive effort to cash in Conan. No problem there, thats pretty much what all movies do, but Milius' Conan is single minded and lacks a higher moral ethic.Conan is a slayer of men, but not a murderer. He is a man who has a zest for life and ill tempered with those who oppose his passions, and though he has a great amount of presence and unrefined brutal gravitas, he is not thoughtless. He may come across as thoughtless, but he is actually more considerate than schemers in the civilized world. This is Howards' primary thrust with his creation.Conan is not entirely the thoughtless brute with criminal tendencies portrayed in the film. Schwarzenegger's Conan is a single minded warrior of great strength and of single mind. Conan's response to what is best in life is uncharacteristic, and diametrically opposed, of the Conan in Howard's books.Conan of short story lore and comic books wields a sword or axe to kill any and all enemies. But he has a criteria for this when engaging in combat, and does not thoughtlessly dispatch the opposition for the mere sake of it.So, what does all this mean? Well, the Conan of film legend is more of a black idealization of what casual aficionados consider to be Conan. Me, I'm not a fan of Conan, but I find the stories to be well written, even if Howard's views on race and ethnicity don't gybe with me own.Which leads to the next big question about the Conan stories. Is there a racial component, or racist mechanism at work here? Probably, but not in the severe form most people think. Remember, Conan is said to have brown skin, blue eyes and black hair. Apart from the eyes there's not much to identify Conan with so-called white races as he is described to be a rich dark tan brown. Not only that, he is said to be of a race of men who, from all descriptions, would not appear to moved up along the food chain. Kind of ironic, ain't it? Then again, this is what made Howard a great writer; his inner conflicts of what he believed and what he changed his mind about over the years. And, given Conan's description and Howard's own dynamic ethics, it's down right curious why bikers, specifically white North American bikers, take to this character.Conan has a code of conduct, in spite of his gruff manner (a criminal code often times). So how does this person become the person created by Milius and Schwarzenegger? Well, studio money seems to be the key here. There was an opportunity to make money, and they took it.Well, it's not a bad film as such, but had they a better actor, then I think Conan the Barbarian might have been a truly legendary film in terms of not just cult cinema with a huge mainstream following, but honored in the more prestigious realms of filmOh well. Too bad.p.s. a fantastic score accompanies this film. "},{"Title":"A Triumph of Howard's Vision!","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I think Howard would have wished he could have seen this epic. Milius does an outstanding job bringing the Hyperborean hero to life. The storytelling is tight and the cinematic scope is beautiful. Arnold was perfectly cast, and deserves a lot more credit than many give him for this role. The sheer physical presence of Conan helps create the fantasy. The brutality of Conan's world is uncompromised here. The supporting cast is excellent, and James Earl Jones' portrayal of the villain is mezmerising.Conan the Barbarian is the definitive Sword & Sorcery movie, and probably Arnold's best film to date.This movie is perfect and an adventure classic. By Crom! You need to own this one on DVD! "},{"Title":"One of Schwarzeneggers finest hours","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As was the case with Terminator 3, script and director will decide what kind of movie you get. Terminator 3 is a violation of the Terminator series, it is a total piece of crap. I did not know how good Conan the Barbarian was until I saw it a few weeks ago, had not really bothered with it until then. Oliver Stone and John Milius wrote a good script, and Milius did not let it down directing it. I especially liked the opening scene where Conans village is attacked and his father killed by dogs and his mother be-headed by the beyond evil Thulsa Doom. Of course justice prevails when Conan cleanly chops off Thulsa Dooms head at the end. It was almost a bit over the top, reminding more of a clip from a Leni Riefenstahl nazi propaganda film. Not to be forgotten, Sandahl Bergman is supersexy as Valeria, Queen of thiefs. You can not go wrong choosing Conan the Barbarian. "},{"Title":"An all time classic&#133;.","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has everything, exciting action, sword fights, a well written script and probably one of the best &#145;Sword and Sorcery' genre bad guys in the form of the wonderfully evil James Earl Jones in a role he seemed born for.The action sequences are excellently executed with great swordsman ship and stunt work as Arnie does his usual trick of despatching several hundred goons almost single handed.Add a great soundtrack by Basil Poledouris and some wonderful cinematography and all in all you have an entertaining and exciting film that has been rarely bettered.Pity about the sequel&#133;..  "},{"Title":"this is my favorite movie D","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  some people may not agree whatever- this is the movie i grew up watching as a kid- its just something i cant say one bad thing about- i think there is no one that could have done a better job other then arnuld- personally i think this is his best film- he can be great in terminator and predator- but the emotional power and vivid action made me salute him as an actor- he didn't need to speak that much but when he did- u believed he was conan- and that he really wanted revenge- any movie that i have ever seen to date- i would still rate lower then this just because i think its that good- some people will view it as corny, a plot that is not coordinated, stupid characters, and whatever else people think (i like movies because of the romance, drama, action comedy etc- not because of a well developed plot or in depth characters), but I see this as a great sword/sorcery movie for anyone who wants too see the genre at its best, and arnuld at his best.- 10/10  "},{"Title":"First CONAN a Brutal, Poetic Masterpiece!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  CONAN THE BARBARIAN, the film that single-handedly created the 'Sword and Sorcery' genre of the 80s, was a world apart from the more refined fantasy epics of today. Unlike the 'civilized' Middle Earth of THE LORD OF THE RINGS, author Robert E. Howard's vision was of a anarchistic world of ruthless kings, decadent cities, merciless outlaw bands, monsters that lived only to destroy, and women who leaned towards easy virtue. Life was cheap, and it took a strong man to survive...and Conan was 'born' to excel in it.  Orphaned as a child, sold into slavery, and outlasting his peers, he becomes a gladiator, then, when freed, begins a career as a mercenary, pirate, and thief...on a road that would eventually earn him his own kingdom.  With the extraordinary success of the reprinted 30-year-old stories in paperback (with their famous massive-physiqued renditions of Conan, by legendary illustrator Frank Frazetta), and the popular 'Conan' comic books, it was inevitable that Hollywood would 'discover' him. Producer Edward R. Pressman, a fan of the comic, felt confident a Conan movie would 'work', bought the rights, and brought in Oliver Stone, who wrote a fantasy-oriented screenplay. Pressman had only one candidate in mind for the lead...Arnold Schwarzenegger, the body-building champion who was trying to establish himself as a film star. While the Austrian was familiar with Frazetta's paintings, he'd never read a Conan story, but after a night of 'catching up', he agreed to take the role.  Unfortunately, Pressman could not get a studio interested in the project, and finally, in frustration, sold the property to Italian producer Dino De Laurentiis, retaining only a 'Producer' title. De Laurentiis, always a shrewd judge of material, and with a long track record of successes, approached Universal, and got the backing to make the film.  John Milius, who had proved himself a first-rate action director with THE WIND AND THE LION, was De Laurentiis' choice to helm the film. Milius was also unfamiliar with the stories, but immersed himself in Howard's work, then read over Stone's screenplay, which he threw out. Rewriting the story, he toned down the fantasy elements, and built a story around Conan's quest for revenge against the murderers of his parents, and his metamorphosis from slave to an unconquerable warrior. Full of graphic bloodshed and with two nude love scenes, the director defended the 'R' rating he knew was inevitable by pointing out that everything that occurred was plot-related, and not gratuitous.  Joining Schwarzenegger were James Earl Jones, as the villain, the god-like Thulsa Doom, dancer Sandahl Bergman as Conan's love, Valeria, Milius' surfer buddy, Gerry Lopez and Japanese character actor Mako, as his allies, and, as Doom's massive henchmen, football legend Ben Davidson and fitness guru, Sven-Ole Thorsen. Popular TV actor William Smith did a cameo as Conan's doomed father, and, to the delight of everyone, screen legend Max von Sydow made a brief appearance as King Osric, who hires Conan and his companions to rescue his daughter from Doom's clutches.  Filmed almost entirely in Spain, the story was hard-edged and brutal, but under Milius' sure hand, was also a testament to honor and courage, with Schwarzenegger spectacular in the lead. Taciturn and primeval, he dominated the screen, and, with the movie a major hit, achieved the film stardom he had set as a personal goal.  Even with the world-wide success of CONAN THE BARBARIAN, De Laurentiis and Universal were not pleased about the film's 'R' rating, and, despite Milius' desire to film a Conan trilogy, dismissed the director. Replacing him with more 'family-friendly' Richard Fleischer, the sequel, CONAN THE DESTROYER, would achieve the 'PG' rating the studio wanted, but lacked the power and intensity of the original, bombing at the box office.  Here's hoping that Milius and Schwarzenegger will someday be able to make the third and final chapter! "},{"Title":"Conan verdict.","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is an entertaining tale of swords, sorcery, lust and revenge. It delivers the goods on many fronts but falls short on others.I found this film to be quite fast paced which is always a good thing in fantasy adventure films because they can often become too wrapped up in plot which usually involves heavy dialogue.The action in this film is mediocre and is not believable at all despite the half decent sword choreography. There are some nice gore scenes though they are few and far between and it leaves me wondering where the barbarism is, this film is called Conan the Barbarian, right?.One thing I really did like about this film was the musical score which adds depth and some well needed emotion to the movie and makes it seem just that little bit more epic.Overall the film is entertaining to watch, but it could have done with a bit more graphic violence and realistic action to get across the barbarity of Conan. "},{"Title":"In some ways, a classic","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Watching this movie again, I had mixed feelings about it. Some scenes really stand out as great while others I could do without. The director and cinemtographer should be commended, they produced some incredible effects especially considering the year this came out and the genre of the movie. However, the gratuitous nudity and gore somewhat cheapen the film, though I guess I can forgive them for it. All in all, this movie is definately worth watching, and fans of action/fantasy will probably love it. Like I said, some of the action scenes are very memorable and are what made this movie stand out to begin with. My rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best fantasy movies","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After his village has been attacked and his parents been killed by Vanir under command of Thulsa Doom a snake worshipping priest (funny, I was always thinking that he was the enemy of King Kull) a young boy named Conan and other children are taken away as slaves. Many years later Conan has grown up to a strong barbarian and got sold as a gladiator. After a long journey to the east and after many fights he gets free again. Free to take revenge. On his way to Doom's temple he meets some friends and a king who pays them to free his daughter. As the first solo action is unsuccesful, and Conan got nearly killed, they try it for a second time as a team. Many stories of REH have been put together to make this movie a classicTogether with the sometimes Wagnerarian music of Basil Poledouris it is one that still is worth  to see it and see it many times again "}{"Title":"Best Fantasy & Action Movie (and Arnold´s BEST)","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is just fantastic. The scene actions are the best of all movies. It´s far superior To LOTR Fellowship of the ring. It has more emotion, more feeling and a better soundtrack.I´m sorry but the acting isn´t very good, but I liked Arnold a lot. And Max Von Sydow made a great job. Really, I liked the actors.THIS MOVIE ROCKS        8.9/10P.D. I think if LOTR would be made in 80´s with less digital effects I would like it more.  "},{"Title":"Thief;Warrior;Gladiator;King  Sword and Sorcery at its greatest.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Conan The Barbarian is the most impressive Sword and Sorcery movie in my opinion. For two main reasons, the first, a capable actor who resembles the part of Conan  Arnold Schwarzenegger, and a director with enough enthusiasm and an obvious love of his material  John Milius. Add to the mix fantastic sets, a truly dedicated script by Milius and co writer Oliver Stone wich is the perfect homage to Conans creator Robert Howard, and brilliant support from the likes of Max Von Sydow and James Earl Jones. Arnold's acting isn't his most impressive, but works because of all of the above things, and also perhaps because of his on screen gelling with co-star Sandahl Bergman. For what it is worth Schwarzenegger IS Conan. His casting is as good as Christopher Reeve as Superman, or Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones. James Earl Jones is EVIL as the villain, and Max Von Sydow comes over as very creepy. And Basil Poledouris comes up with one of the most muscular and memorable soundtracks in motion picture history, so much so that i can't wait to hear it in the upcoming Milius directed, Schwarzenegger starring King Conan. Keep your Star Wars, for pure fantasy adventure, watch this. "},{"Title":"one of Arnie's best in entertaining epic","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" SPOILERS Two years prior to Terminator and even more before Predator, Arnold Schwarzenegger shot to fame as the blood thirst Conan the Barbarian. Slightly stretched at just over two hours, this film is one of the highlights of the early 1980s. Your regular heroes and villains tale, Conan the Barbarian is surprisingly obsessive. Once you get into the film, it's difficult to take your eyes off the screen.Raised as a slave, Conan (Schwarzenegger) is released with plans to revenge the death of his family by slaying Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones). With friends Valeria (Sandahl Bergman), Subotai (Gerry Lopez) and The Wizard (Mako), Conan believes his God will give him vengeance.As an actor, Arnold Schwarzenegger has always been finest in the roles which require little speech. Whether as Conan or The Terminator, Schwarzenegger has made a successful name for himself as a man of brute strength who keeps an emotionless face. In fact, it's perhaps the only role where he's been remotely decent. With that in mind, this film is one of his finer moments.The weird thing about Conan is it's obscure plot. Difficult to fully comprehend what exactly is going on, you grow to either love or hate it, but for some strange reason, you can never take your eyes off the screen.All in all, Conan the Barbarian is not the finest film you'll ever see, but the curiosity is it's obsessive nature. You put it on and irrelevant of how weak the film gets, you can't turn it off. "},{"Title":"This is a good action flick","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I like this movie a lot. Of course, the star Arnold is bulging in his younger days still. He's a very impressive specimen at that time.This movie starts out with Conan as a young child. His father is a blacksmith, and knows the importance of steel. Conan learns this as a child as his village is attacked and everyone is either murdered or enslaved.Conan grows, eventually his masters use him as a prize fighter. Eventually Conan grows beyond their control, and his masters decide to let him escape only to turn around and hunt him down to kill him. However Conan actually escapes his masters, and survives to learn the ways of the barbarian.The rest of the movie plays out as Conan seeks the man and people that killed his parents, and destroyed his village. This is no easy task, as Conan searches on for the murderers. Eventually he learns what he needs to, and makes his way to the land of the murderers. But he must still then figure out how to exact his revenge.Fortunately there is a lot of detail to this story not outlined here.The supporting cast is excellent, including James Earl Jones, Mako and more.This movie features some great special effects during some important scenes that are even shockingly realistic. Of course, there's some slightly cheesier effects as well.Just watch the movie, and enjoy it for what it is a good flick.6/10 "},{"Title":"should have been good, but sadly isn't","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian has its share of redeeming qualities. It's got a good, if underused, villain in James Earl Jones, whose monologue on flesh and steel and snake arrows are fascinating, and it's got an inspired, if overused, soundtrack. So what's the problem? For one, it moves at a snail's pace. For two, the majority of the content consists of decapitations, spurting blood, and overlong pagan ritual. Oh, yay. I am told that Arnold Schwarzenegger's Conan is extraordinarily faithful to the character from the books, but is this a good thing? Someone behind camera had the gumption to have Conan punch out an animal (a nice move if only to offend those flighty individuals easily put out by a movie pretending to harm an animal but who don't bat an eyelash at mowing down humans by the score), and that's the only scene where the character intrigues me in the least beyond the first promising fifteen minutes. Conan the Barbarian could have been good, should have been good, but sadly isn't.   "},{"Title":"You will laugh and suffer","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film was extremely entertaining. Not only was the plot superb, but also the acting was excellent, just as the music and the set. An experience I would definitely recommend - IF you are a fan of trash. If not, well, this isn't the film for you. (except you plan to become a trash fan, in that case,go ahead!)The plot is well planned and entirely thought through, will a complexity you have to love Arnold gets revenge. Amazing and really exciting! Will he make it? Will he have Sex with this woman? Endless excitement!Arnold, just as every other actor, met the for this film necessary requirements perfectly Do not show any kind of emotion and make children cry with your smile. Great!The music was ... okay, but used at the worst moment possible. The set was cheap (but what do you expect?) and the special effects surprisingly good for the time.So, in conclusion I was greatly entertained, laughed and suffered a lot, which was precisely what I was looking for.6 stars "},{"Title":"Conan Is Awesome","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnie is perfectly cast as Conan, his acting is great despite what some people say. He is supposed to be a killing machine, deprived of human contact, hence the strange interactions when he speaks, which is rare.I love the amount of needless violence towards animals in this film. ARNIE KNOCKS OUT A CAMEL, EATS A VULTURE, STABS A SNAKE AND KICKS A RAT. AMAZING! He also comically throws a woman into a fire and MURDERS AND SLAYS MANY PEOPLE! His buddy who he roles with in the movie is a joker and a cool actor. Arnie sleeps with lots of hot girls in this movie and most probably in real life too!the music and directing deserve shout-outs too!I LOVE ARNIE "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing 'special edition'","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Much criticised at the time of it's release, Conan the Barbarian spawned dozens of inferior imitators such as 'Beastmaster' & 'Ator', but none came close to Milius's movie. Based on Robert E Howard's hero, Conan is a man of action and very few words. For this reason, it's role which suited Arnold Schwazenegger perfectly. He's physically perfect as the vicious hero who fights his way from the gladiatorial pit to a brutal climax versus the minions of villain Thulsa Doom (played by a marvellously sinister James Earl Jones). However, the most dynamic character in the movie has to be Valeria, played by ex dancer Sandahl Bergman who displays some of the best female swordfighting moves I've seen outside of Hong Kong. It's a pity that unlike Arnold, suitable big budget action vehicles never came her way. Recently saw the movie on special edition DVD (region 4), which is a bit of a disappointment. True the picture is far superior to the original DVD release of Conan, but the extras are on examination a little lacking in substance. The film was toned down on release (for an example a scene of Conan killing a woman gladiator was cut as were scenes of Valeria fighting as a gladiator) & regrettably these are not included. I'd only recommend the commentary track to ardent Arnold fans, as both he an Milius don't provide the kind inside information on the movie one would expect from the director and star. Despite this, the movie itself is an action classic! "},{"Title":"Barbarians And Bad Hair Days.","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are few stars that can lay claim to a character as being solely their own. But Schwarzenegger can undeniably count sole proprietorship on two characters. The first, and undoubtedly the most famous, is the &#145;Terminator'. Who can ever begin to imagine any one else playing this role? Without him, the &#145;Terminator' franchise can only produce products based on the three movies. He is the franchise &#150; period. Then there is &#145;Conan'. If there ever were roles tailor made for an actor, these two were made for Schwarzenegger. Here was another story that could not continue without this star. The audience identified Arnold with the character. No &#150; one else would suffice.The obvious implication of the above statement is that Arnold was a huge contributor to the movies success. This together with the story &#150; albeit with some cheesiness &#150; and a powerful soundtrack helped to prevent the negative factors detracting from an entertaining movie. The detracting factors of note were the obligatory 80's cheesiness, weak special effects and hammed up acting. Oh, I almost forgot to mention the wigs. How can anyone ever forget those?The gargantuan presense of Arnold is all conquering from the moment we see him. He is perfect for the role. Besides fulfilling the physical appearance needs of the character with his obvious girth, he radiates the charisma of a leader. As in real life, the audience is in no doubt as to the fact that this is a man destined for greatness. His chiseled features and thick accent accentuate him as a mighty warrior with a deadly purpose. It also gives us the audience's visual pre &#150; conception of barbarians. The word barbarian conjures up an image of powerful warriors who ensured that their foes met with a bloody end. They were ruthless and justice was meted out with powerful swings of their oversized weapons. Their history has been more than glossed over with tales of fantasy and folklore. This is a fact that is also attributable to Arnold when we hear of stories of incredible feats in his bodybuilding days. The character thus demanded someone larger than life and Arnold fills the tag quite comfortably.The story tells of a man who when released from slavery, seeks revenge and embarks on a dangerous journey with many perils in the form of creatures of the night and fearless warriors. He befriends others as daring as himself and their combined talents draws the attention of the King whose daughter has been kidnapped by Conan's enemies. This is a classic version of the hero's journey where he rises from suppression against his enemies overcoming seemingly insurmountable obstacles and wreaks his revenge. This is a story that has mass appeal since most people feel suppressed by the system and would like to cause their own havoc in overcoming it. The resonance of the characters therefore has a real effect despite the fantasy aspect of the story.The mixture of characters is reminiscent of folklore, especially the barbarian's small sidekick. All knights and warriors have their dependable right hand man who is usually very much the second man. This is also evident in other media and I was particularly reminded of &#145;Slaine' from the 2000AD comic strip. It is this combination of characters that keeps the story moving forward with added interest. Each new character must add something different thus making a worthwhile contribution. This necessary element is well included here.Movies in this era were unfortunately burdened with obligatory cheesiness in order to have appeal to the audience. A concomitant factor to this is that the acting becomes hammed up. Although understandable from a financial point of view since movies have to be in tandem with the current trend, better scripting could have been used in order to retain the stories respectability. It would have also contributed to audience appreciation in later years. Lines such as &#145;Do you want to live forever?' should be changed to &#145;They can keep their cages for somebody else'.The soundtrack resonates the strength of the lead character. Its booming drums are the battle cry of the barbarian. A barbarian must make a loud entrance to be in character. The larger than life character now has a larger than life soundtrack and the movie explodes into life in front of the audience. The strong opening number is thus very effective as it sets the tone for the movie. Audience mood is initiated as value is added to the character as well.The special effects as delivered to today's audiences will result in these on show here being a detracting factor. Audiences are now inundated with high &#150; tech CGI and will immediately notice the artificial nature of the effects. Most of them looked very fake which will adversely affect the movie's longevity. It is difficult to immerse yourself into a story when you are jolted to reality with effects that literally stand out like a sore thumb.I will take one final look at the last of the detracting factors. It concerns the little matter of the wigs. Although this could fall under the previous paragraphs discussion, the wigs were so bad that they deserve special mention. Even in the 80's where big hair and even bigger wigs were the norm, these must have been noticeable. The wigs looked exactly like what they were &#150; wigs. Forget the sore thumb &#150; this one was a sore limb.Well told fantasy stories will always have an audience. Together with a strong cast the story will carry itself through to general acceptance. Members of the cast of special note were William Smith, Franco Columbo (a small appearance but the well known name draws attention) and Max Von Sydow. Powerful character players were well utilized here which complemented the aura of the age of the barbarian. It is this factor together with the story that will keep the movie available to future audiences, although the flame is starting to falter in the face of greater expectations for CGI. Production companies will invest heavily in CGI as this is what the current audience expects. There will, however, be fans of Arnold for many generations to come and it will be his star appeal that will be the key to this movie's endurance.This also means that the continuing story of &#145;Conan The Barbarian' will not be told for many years to come. There is no &#150; one today who can prise this role from Arnold. Any remake can only be attempted long after Arnold has left the movie arena. Others will only pale by comparison as movie fans have resoundingly chalked up another character for Arnold. If a remake is attempted, please do not raid the props cabinet where the old material may lay. Maybe they can digitally animate the wigs.               "},{"Title":"Until LOTR, the best fantasy movie made","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This one is easily an underrated classic, and one of the few films I actually like better every time I see it.  It has all of the elements of your standard swords and sandals fantasy - the buxom warrior babes, the bloody swordfights, the unstoppable hero - but what makes it work are a few choice directorial decisions made by John Millius.Most of these sorts of movies get bogged down in heavy-handed, or simply corny, dialog.  Millius's decision was to stip out every bit of dialogue that wasn't absolutely needed for the story, and allow huge chunks of the movie to play out in near silence.  The movie is 90% carried solely by the visuals and Basil Poledouris' incredible operatic soundtrack.  This allowed them to show a story which would normally be trite, cliched, and even corny in such a way that it comes off more like a Wagner production.It even has surprising depth, or at least the illusion thereof.   By stripping out the dialogue, the movie *suggests* as much as it actually tells, which adds greatly to its rewatchability.   Why, for example, does Conan laugh upon the Tree of Woe?  We're never told, we're only given the vaguest hints - but contemplating what could have been going through Conan's mind at that point makes it appear far richer.Excellent photography and an almost dream-like flow furhter add to it. But if artistic stuff isn't your bag, it also has loads of sex, nudity, and some truly spectacular battle scenes.  And contrary to a lot of reviewers, I love James Earl Jones' understated performance as Thulsa Doom.  Chewing the scenery and going over the top would have been too easy.  Instead he is the wolf in sheep's clothing, someone you *know* to be evil, yet casts a seductive air of love and peace around him.All in all, a truly great action movie, and one that deserves to keep being seen. "}{"Title":"A film forged from blood and steel.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian A child born of hate and steel Conan had become a great warrior under the eye of Cromn. When a long awaited day of vengeance arrives Conan must become more than a warrior, he must become barbaric in hopes that he may be able to avenge his parents' death and overtake the ultra-powerful, Thulsa Doom. Conan, like many children in Cromn's great world, grew up in a small village with his parents and a few hard working others. One fateful day, during a raid on their village by the villainous Thulsa Doom and his evil henchmen, Conan's parents are murdered before his very eyes. Conan however is spared and brought up as a student of the mighty sword. Through years of hard work and training Conan becomes a mighty barbarian with strength unparalleled in all the land. After gaining freedom Conan wanders the land like a nomad traveling from place to place searching for adventure. When Conan's journeys line him in bad standing with a great King, Conan, along with a group of three, must once again cross paths with the terrifying Thulsa Doom. Only this time Doom has become even more powerful and has no plans on sparing Conan a second time. The first installment in the Conan films perfectly casts a young Arnold Schwarzenagger as the mighty barbarian Conan, and the mesmerizing James Earl Jones in a shoe-fit performance as the very heinous Thulsa Doom. Jones is such a fantastic character actor he can play a likable and compassionate character, which he displays with ease in Kevin Costner's baseball film, Field of Dreams, and then do a complete three-sixty and be the most horrendous character on the planet, as is the case in this film. Jones is so good in fact he doesn't even need to be on screen to be one of Hollywood's most memorable and formidable villains, he need only use his voice. Half the movie viewing world saw this example in George Lucas's Star Wars, in which Jones supplied the voice of the Dark Lord, Darth Vader. Although only having worked on a few films at this point, such as Hercules Goes Bananas, Schwarzenagger's star power was on the rise and he seemed the only logical choice in a starring role in where little acting and an abundance of physical presence is required. Alongside of Schwarzenagger in his battle against Jones are Sandhal Bergman, Gerry Lopez and Mako who all bring to the screen there own unique persona. Writer/director John Milius fashions one of the best fantasy yarns to date with this piece. The scenery is lavish and there is some great swordplay. The action is great, but there are times in the movie where there is not a lot of pace, and that gives this film a tendency to drag in certain areas, especially when Conan is trying to infiltrate Thulsa Doom's lair. Oliver Stone helped co-write this film which does have some snappy dialogue and some good social aspects of the time thrown in, such as Thulsa Doom's cult and their reaction to new member Conan. Kudos must go to producers Raffaella Delaurentis and Buzz Feitshans, who helped put Conan in a film of epic proportions. If spending a couple of hours in a world of fantasy and swordplay is how you believe your evening will be best spent then follow closely the adventures of Conan the Barbarian.Overall Rating 7.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Classic.","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian is truly a classic action/fantasy movie.  The great cinematography and flawless score really cement CtB among the greats in the genre. Disregard any negative comments about this movie--some viewers don't understand that different genres require different sets of guidlines to be rated on.  Naturally, CtB doesn't display great acting or a great plot- that is irrelevant- it's still a classic. "},{"Title":"The Mother Of All Movies,The Greatest Movie Ever!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Great director,great screenwriter,and great actors.The movie is flawless,don't see the sequel!Arnold's first lead part is one of his greatest.This is what a movie should  be,way better than most films today! "},{"Title":"CROM!","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Heads and shoulders the best movie that Schwarzenegger has done.  This is also one of my all time favourites.  I've finally been able to enjoy this movie in its original format after purchasing the DVD.  What can I say about this film?  The cinematography is just spectacular.  The other thing that just makes this movie stand out is the impressive film score by Basil Poledorious, the best film composer in the business today, better than John Williams IMHO.  The music is sweeping, exciting, and haunting, starting with the minimalist sounding The Wifeing to the loud, complete with full orchestra and choir, Battle of the Mounds.  My personal favourite is the Orgy, which is this incredible waltz.Conan is the last descendant from a race of Atlanteans, and witnesses the slaughter of his people and family by the ruthless Thulsa Doom.  He is enslaved and brought to a work camp for children.  It is through years of hard labour does he bulk up and become Conan.  After his master sees how large he is, he has him compete in some gladitorial combat, where he becomes victorious.  He is later released, and quests to destroy Doom, who is now the leader of a religious cult.  Conan meets the love of his life on his way, Valeris, and a friend, the thief/archer Subotai.The acting is pretty standard for an Arnold movie, but not as cheesey. The scenes with James Earl Jones are really well acted, as well as the boisterous Max Von Sydow.  The thing that sets this movie apart from the other films in its genre is the heart in this movie, and the fact that it really doesn't focus as much on the sorcery as it does on the setting, and trying to ground this movie in history.  It has a historical feel to it, like it existed at some time, in some place.  There is a mystical aspect to it, like Thulsa Doom shooting snakes as arrows.Action wise, this is THE movie to own.  The sword play is very well done, and Arnold is quite believable as a barbarian warlord.  My personal favourite is the battle of the Mounds, just after Conan's prayer to Crom, where three men take out a chunk of Doom's army, especially the surprise that Conan delivers to Thorgrim.   "},{"Title":"An adventure of unparalleled excellence","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For anyone who's got a pair, this the film for you. Who needs deeply emotional dialogue when you can cleave a man in two w/ a battle axe? This is Arnold pure and bloody, no Hollywood BS. A stirring soundtrack and excellent personal conflict between James Earl Jones and Arnold create all the plot that's needed. Not to be missed are the fantastic local color added by the Franco-era Spanish setting and extras. As all real men know, only Clint can rival Arnold's maleness in this film. I've been told that this movie is the reason those Hollywood fruits put that label that No animals were actually harmed in the production of this film. Too many horses were hacked to death. Conan, what is good in life? To crush your enemy, to see him driven before you, and to hear the lamentations of his women. "},{"Title":"The Movie that got Auh-nold going","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Terminator made him famous, but the movie that made people notice Arnold Schwarzenegger was Conan.  It's much better than most barbarian movies, it goes beyond simply hacking and slashing the enemy.  It looks into human nature and meaning, what makes us what we are and what is really important in life. Far too many people dismiss it as a hokey movie, without really trying to watch it.  Still one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Testosterone-ey but intelligent","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, right off, people are going to either see this movie or remember it as a knuckle draggin cro-magnon type of flick.  But, there's more to this than the swordplay and bulging muscles.  Arnold is the perfect fit for Howard's Cimerian Barbarian. If anyone has ever come in contact with either the original literature or even the oversized comic books (issued by Marvel - great series), they could see not only the physical similarities, but the attitude in casting.  Granted, the story should have stayed a lot closer to its roots (i.e. comic book and novel based), but for a movie production, it was right on.  A great deal of thought went into this movie, more than most people will give credit. They'll see the typified roles for Arnold and Sandahl Bergman (did anyone notice she was the director's wife?), and a cast of pumped up extras, but unless they let go and simply imagine life in a time of barbarism and wizardry, they'll never truly understand the scale of this film. Yeah, maybe I played Dungeons and Dragons when I was a kid, and watched countless hours of cartoons too close to the t.v., but a creative imagination can take what would regularly be a steroid induced fantasy, into an experience in another age, if you just let go. "},{"Title":"Errr, Mr Govener....?","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Press Mr Scharzenegger, what is the best thing about politics? Arnie To crush your enemies, to drive them before you, and to hear the lamentation of their women Press Uhhhh, and you intend to practice this? Arnie Drawing a broadsword Crom, this interview is over.Arnie now makes a daring escape with Maria Shriver, to a rousing part of the Polodouris soundtrack. For no reason the whole building now catches fire. Bystander 1 Now thats what I call politics! Bystander 2 Damn right, I'm voting for him! "},{"Title":"one of arnold's best","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the best fantasy films ever - even though director John Milius deliberately left all the fantasy elements out that Oliver Stones original script had. Milius made it more a straight foreward historical epic, which doesn't necessarily has to take place in a fantasy world. Great, straight directing by Milius, great use of arnold's rather wooden acting, espiaclly since he was more or less a first-timer here - granted he never really much improved over the years, it all just depends on the kind of director he gets (like Cameron). Here Arnold just perfectly fits the character of Conan and Milius proves that a straight story of revenge about a grim barbarian doesn't have to be silly or b-moviesh. Conan stands the test of time, it's one the great sword and sorcery epics. To bad great writer-director John Milius got kinda lost in the shark tank that Hollywood is. But classic hero movies don't come much better than this one.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is fantastic. I admit the acting for the most part is not that good. But it is well crafted, well thought out, well filmed, well designed (swords and accessories) and well... well it's got a damn good score. From an Arnie fan point of view it's got the essentials. That's not to say it doesn't have flaws, but they're part of the movie going experience. I mean, can anyone truly say that they went to see an Arnie movie for the acting? Arnie knows his audience, he plays to them, and they love him for it. This is definitely a must see. "}{"Title":"A classic","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful epic movie. Conan's prayer to his God still echoes in my ears ...Crom, you may not remember if we were good or evil, why we fought, or why we died. All that matters is that two men stood against many. Valor pleases you Crom, so grant me one wish. Grant me revenge!.How wonderful and how arrogant Conan's prayer is. This is the epic spirit of Conan the Barbarian. Conan is a hero who lives by his discipline of steel. Conan dares to fight against demons and against dark wizards and, like Christ, he is crucified and resurrected from the dead after three days. False religions, prophets of doom and gigantic snakes all are destroyed under Conan's sword in this epic story of how man can discover his own strength. The movie has a wonderful script written by John Milius and Oliver Stone and an even more wonderful score written by Basil Poledouris. This is the best work of Poledouris and perhaps the finest music score written for a movie in the eighties. Yes the special effects are not great and Arnold doesn't talk much throughout the movie. But Conan is a rare gem to see "},{"Title":"Strong meat","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Swallowed up by the subsequent two decades of top-dollar techno-porn, the charms of Conan the Barbarian are not as evident as they should be to younger viewers. The consistent pace, virile soundtrack, surprisingly good acting, and terrific fight scenes all make for a well-rounded and durable entertainment. For some this movie will be what the Sinbad movies of the 60s and 70s were for others, but it will certainly outlive its cheesy and boring follow-ups and spinoffs. With all this competence built into it, one wonders why Milius found it necessary to overload it with several erudite Bergman references (von Sydow sitting at his table in furs worried about his daughter), a superfluous joke probably only of personal interest. Basically it's just a great movie. See it next to Star Wars and shudder for Mark Hamill. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch people get chopped up","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My favorite movie would consist of fight scenes from the Patriot, Braveheart, Blade, Excalibur and most of the movie Conan. I might throw in a couple of speeches from Dune about crushing Harkonens and some scences from Up in Smoke for comic relief, but I digress. Enough with movies trying to teach us something about life, I just want to see bad people really get it in all sorts of creative ways. For this reason, Conan is the greatest movie ever. There is little conversation, besides the famous what is best in life speech, and that is pretty much all you need. If Conan has a problem, he smashes it. So what if the story isn't a thing like the books? He's big, powerful and he crushes his enemies like ants, what more do you want? The sequel wasn't as good though. Unfortunately, people tried to actually talk in the sequel, which took away from the main vein of the story which was watching Conan destroy everything in his path. You'd do best to stick with Conan. "},{"Title":"Deeper Than You Figure","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For years, I put off seeing this movie.  I thought it was two hours of grunting, oiled-up musclemen in fur Speedos hacking away at each other, an impression I gained from the sequel, Conan the Destroyer, and countless other barbarian films.  Finally, I swallowed my pride, sat down to watch... and was completely enthralled.It may not be a literal adaptation of Robert E. Howard (Conan's creator), but it comes so close to capturing the spirit of Howard's work.  Conan fans can pick out bits and pieces taken from different Conan stories (I counted The Thing in the Crypt, Red Nails, Tower of the Elephant, A Witch Shall Be Born and Queen of the Black Coast), but it somehow goes even beyond that.  The film itself packs an elemental power, creating a unique world has its own brute force.  Dialogue is sparse, but director Milius instead relies on imagery and acting to carry the story along.  You could almost make this movie without any sound at all, except that would waste Basil Poledouris' excellent score (and you wouldn't get to hear James Earl Jones, one of THE great speaking voices of our time).Make no mistake, this is a violent movie, but it is a realistic, necessary violence.  When you cut a man apart with a sword, there will be gore (unlike plenty of action films where gunshot wounds don't bleed, and knife wounds are just photogenic little scars across the hero's face).  I think part of the problem with the sequel was that the filmmakers tried to open the series up as a family-friendly franchise, and the whole Conan concept just doesn't fit that.Many people comment that this is the film that launched Arnold Schwarzenegger's career -- here we see Arnold when he is developing as an actor, not as a star.  His acting range is limited, but he conveys the brute force and obsession necessary to pull Conan off.  James Earl Jones makes a haunting villain (a startling change from the grandfatherly persona he has today), and Sandahl Bergman gives us a perfect mix of tough and tender. For actors like Bergman and Gerry Lopez, this is their best work (come to think of it, what else has Gerry Lopez been in?), a tribute to their skill, masterly direction from Milius, and a good, logical, tight script.I hear Arnold's open to the idea of playing the Cimmerian again; if a third Conan film is closer in tone to this movie than that horrid sequel (of course, you'd have to get Milius back), you just might have the makings of a masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Lots of beer and this movie go hand in hand.","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I would love to say that Conan the Barbarian is the best fantasy flick ever made.  I would love to say that it was flawless.  However, while all the parts are there for a great movie, this one just does not go together like it should.  The soundtrack is fantastic, one of the best I have ever heard. But the line delivery between the three heros is so bad that you can't help but groan.  The costumes are excellent, the sets stunning, the mix of several world cultures to create something that seems older is superb. There are two aspects of this film that I must point out.First, the philosophy and literary references are very well done.  From Christ to Ghengis Khan to hamlet to Dracula.  Milius cleverly hides his references to other authors.  Also, plotwise, the hat is tipped to Robert E. Howard and L. Sprauge De Camp.  However there are only two scenes that even remotely resemble anything from the Conan cycle, everything else resembles more the Kull cycle.Some things are out of character.  Conan was multi-lingual.  Thulsa Doom originally had a skull for a face.  In the original stories Conan avoided the black lotus.  Conan was a slave, but he was a rower.  Kull was ponderous, Conan was not.Over all it is an alright movie.  I think it is really good until they meet up with Valeria.  After that it is kind of lame until the end.  It is more fun to watch this film with a large group of drunk people as they heckle it. The script is so short that you can remember the entire movie and quote it at work or while running around with friends.  My favorite line is  the paraphrased quote of Ghengis Khan.  In my opinion, it is not the worst, but it is not the best.   "},{"Title":"Big Man, Small Story","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In 1982, a movie was supposed to serve as the breakout device for an adventure fiction icon. Instead we got a two-decade pop-culture phenomenon named Ah-nold.Even though I've come to like Arnold Schwarzenegger, and find things in this, his first big action role, to enjoy, I felt shortchanged then and still do now. A character brimming with intrigue and life like Robert E. Howard's Conan deserved better than a rote tale that highlights the director's fixation with Nietzsche and will-to-power thematics over realizing a compelling alternate world of fantasy and magic.Something's wrong the moment we meet our main character as played by Schwarzenegger. He's walking around in circles amid a high arid landscape, pushing something called The Wheel of Pain that seems to be a mill of some kind but serves no apparent function. He's literally stuck in the middle of nowhere, walking in circles to no apparent purpose.This continues for much of the film. Picking up bits of stories that would be known to Howard readers in a kind of mash-up form, we see Conan at work as pit warrior, thief, and avenger, the latter being the main business of this film. Years ago, when he was a boy, Conan watched a warlord named Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) ride into Conan's village and kill his parents. After about an hour of grunting, running, and stabbing, Conan discovers a clue as to where this Thulsa Doom might be, and sets out to settle a score.It's around here that the story, written by director John Milius and Oliver Stone, finds its groove. Jones is a cool villain, the kind who can make one of Milius's philosophical exposition scenes work with a single jab of his finger. Never mind that the guy looks like a Breck girl with his long, straight hair, he's the class of the production.Schwarzenegger makes an impression, too. First it's his physique, as a lot of labored, stretchy scenes call upon him to do little else but flex his muscles and mutter Crom! now and then. But Schwarzenegger's considerable charm and way with a camera come across as the film rolls on. He is not a strong actor here, but from the moment he punches a camel in a crowded street, a kind of gonzo energy works its way into Schwarzenegger's performance, a sense that he's making us laugh on purpose and enjoying it.As to the rest of the cast, Sandahl Bergman looks good, moves better, but can't deliver a line convincingly as Conan's lover Valeria, while Max Von Sydow overplays a silly scene as a vexed king. Better are Mako as a wily wizard and Gerry Lopez, apparently a full-time surfer from what Milius says on the DVD commentary, who plays the thief Subotai and brings some badly needed charm and sympathy to the proceedings before the Arnold we all know finally shows up.The film builds to a gripping conclusion, if one borrowed from Milius's Apocalypse Now script like other reviewers here have noted. Of course, when the blood flows as thick as it does in the last half-hour of this movie, it's not hard getting and keeping an audience's attention.As a Conan fan, I would have liked more development of the world Conan lived in and the people around him, if not as conceived by Howard at least re-imagined convincingly by Milius. Here you get some visually arresting sets, a rich Basil Poledouris score, and Arnold in his youthful prime, but none of it really comes together, except a little near the end. It's not a bad film, but it's not a world I want to go back to like I do that of Howard's Conan. "},{"Title":"Adult fantasy told with the scale of a war epic","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A film of few words, Conan the Barbarian strays from the path of most action films as far as storytelling goes. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who would become notorious for delivering one- liners has only one or two opportunities in this film. But how can one possibly complain about an action/adventure film that doesn't waste its time blabbering? Conan should be applauded for creating the epic feel of a war movie like Spartacus, but elaborate sets and costumes don't count as points toward character development.Writer and director John Milius, who penned Apocalypse Now, knows a thing or two about war films. Namely, he gets the power of telling a story without words. Except for a narrator, significant chunks of Conan are told with music and images that attempt to spin the story into a folk legend akin to Greek mythology. Aided with a healthy budget for creative and inspiring costumes and set pieces, Conan sells itself as a true epic.The lack of dialogue, however, causes a fair share of problems. Events seem to lack a rhyme or reason with only the thread of a common revenge tale holding it all together. Conan sees his parents die, gets sold into slavery, grows up, becomes a gladiator, trains to be a warrior and then is suddenly free. The film doesn't need dialogue for the sake of telling us what will happen next, but in developing some of the relationships between the characters that provides the motivation for the story to travel in one direction or another.Schwarzenegger wastes no time becoming an action hero you can root for. The script throws men waiting to be crushed and naked women at his feet and for a barbarian, he shows that he's not so much an animal as someone who refuses to act entirely human as a way of defying the system. When he's given a woman to mate with, for example, he doesn't simply take her and have her like a dog, and when he's in the arena, he clearly kills not for his owners, but out of some emotional void.On the opposite end of the spectrum is Thulsa Doom, played by James Earl Jones at the height of his voice of Darth Vader fame. An unforgettable villain from the name inward, Doom gives Conan the evil force it needs to make Conan's motivation function successfully. His philosophy of seeking human followers rather than wealth and riches makes him rather unique as well and it allows for some intriguing philosophy for an otherwise shallow movie.I suppose swords, sweat, snakes and sex have their place in adult action/fantasy; the trouble with Conan the Barbarian only lies within a conflict of objectives. The film cannot seem to settle on being more of a war epic or completely embracing its potential for cult fantasy. Its characters lack too much depth for the former and its story too long-winded and humorless for the latter. Either way, it presents a world and mythology that makes for an intriguing revenge tale.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Dated, but very epic and worth the watch","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian makes me want to pick up a sword and bang it on stuff.The dialog is great, almost Shakespearian in feel. The characters speak to one another as characters in the old world should. Arnold's acting (for being an earlier/earliest film of his) was really superb. The orgy/doom-snake scene was masterfully made, I wish there were more scenes of the cult's doings.This movie needs to be remade. I understand that a CGI/animated Conan movie is coming out next year... I think it's going to turn out like Beowulf. Even the best CGI isn't 1/100th as pleasing as the worst props and wardrobes.Conan excels in it's sheer epicness. Once a slave, then a king by his own hand... it doesn't get much better. The movie re-ignites a bloodthirsty manliness that usually isn't there. Not even 300 does that for me.I wish modern filmmakers would take notes from Conan before attempting to make movies of the same genre.Conan isn't a perfect movie, but I'm sure that if I were a teen/adult in 1982, this would probably be one of my favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"A terrific production let down by the cast - 68%","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Having always been drawn to swords and sorcery as a child, it isn't surprising that this interest has continued into my adult life. I have seen The Lord Of The Rings trilogy more times than I'd care to admit and completely fell in love with playing Skyrim on my trusty PS3. Back in the day, however, it wasn't enjoying so many riches. The genre had become stagnant and nobody took it seriously. So in many ways, I should be thankful for this early Schwarzenegger vehicle which arguably kick-started the revival in fantasy. But it is a joyless affair, full of all the violence and medieval iconography you'd expect from such a character but totally lacking any sort of humour and saddled with uneven pacing and long periods of inactivity.The future Governator plays Conan, orphaned as a young boy by marauding forces led by the evil sorcerer Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) who slay his parents and burn down his village. Taken away to live the life of a slave, the young Conan gradually becomes a vast hulk of a man and is thrown into a series of gladiatorial contests, becoming hugely successful. But after being unexpectedly freed, Conan sets off after Doom with revenge on his mind and a number of companions at his side - cunning thief Subotai (Gerry Lopez), an eccentric shaman (Mako) and Conan's lover, warrior Valeria (Sandahl Bergman).Conan The Barbarian takes a long time to tell this simplistic tale, filling every scene with surprisingly quality production values. This must have been an expensive film to make, given the lack of CG (although there are creepy, animated spirits which look just as good, given the film's age) as sets, costumes and sets all look exquisite. Sadly, the weak link in the chain is Arnold - obviously still grasping at English, I got the feeling that a lot of his dialogue had either been cut or written out given how little he actually speaks. But Conan is not a character of words, he is a man of action and it's difficult to picture anyone else in the role. Schwarzenegger's almost-cartoony physique is every bit as impressive as his acting is disappointing. Jones, given little screen time and saddled with a ridiculous wig, also isn't much of a baddie - he doesn't even have much to do during the many fight scenes because his two henchmen (Sven-Ole Thorsen and Ben Davidson) do all the work.From a production point of view, it's difficult to find fault with Conan The Barbarian. It looks and sounds good, is filled with brutal and bloody action scenes and effects that aren't as dated as you might expect. The problem is the cast let the side down and the screenplay needed much more work on it - there are long periods of time where nothing of interest happens and the ending is also a massive let-down. Personally, I also felt it a bit seedy - there is plenty of nudity in the picture and I can't really see the need for it. The characters are also underwritten and simply pop up whenever they are required, as though they were waiting there all along. It isn't as bad as other fantasy films from the Eighties - Red Sonja especially and even sequel Conan The Destroyer simply aren't as good as this. But I just wanted it to engage me, to make me care about these characters on their epic quest. Instead, I watched it impassively and fought to keep my attention on the screen. It may be big and strong but it's also pretty simple and mildly disappointing. "},{"Title":"A Different Action !","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Back then, they were the days of sword and sorcery movies, where sword beats sorcery, based on Robert E. Howard stories trend. Because after 20 years, we'll have another sword and sorcery movies, where sorcery beats sword, based on J.R.R. Tolkien stories trend. I believe the first kind harmonized with the metallic, one-man-army, action hero of the 1980s (such as Conan, The Beastmaster, and He-Man in Masters of the Universe). And the second kind harmonized with the sorcerer kid of the 2000s (such as Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, and Percy Jackson).In (Conan the Barbarian) Schwarzenegger proved himself as one of the best metallic heroes of the era (in the 1970s, Charles Bronson was considered for playing Conan). He's a man of a few words. I liked the fact that he spoke just 5 words to his girl during the whole movie ! And this is great considering the known nature of these movies, whereas &#x96; frankly &#x96; the muscles are needed above anything else. In a word, he played the metallically written character perfectly metallic !Generally it's an effective movie that makes you believe. The production is generous, the cinematography is dazzling, the sets are inspiring, and the costumes are mostly reveling to assure the sex factor and &#x96; in the same time &#x96; dirty to evoke the uncivilized age which the movie takes place in. The fights are damn memorable. They were so real; remember that Schwarzenegger required many stitches and suffered a back injury. Not to mention that Sandahl Bergman had the tip of one finger cut off while shooting a sword-fight. Well, they're things you won't find in the CGI action of today's movies !Still, the pace of the movie is one of the most interesting points in it. It isn't another action with desert adventures and hot sword-fights; it is rather more atmospheric and sullen. It added a considerable portion of realism and seriousness, which ensured a different sense and meditative taste. Speaking about the seriousness and meditation leads to the most interesting point at all. The movie isn't a revenge story only. It has extra with the shadows it uses to fulfill that revenge story. It's where the sword is barbarian idolatrous man, and his enemy, the sorcery, is civilized religious dictator. So when the first bests the second eventually; it's not the usual happy end of similar revenge stories; it exceeds this..It's strange, or kind of bold, to have the barbarian as the heroic figure, and the civilized as the nasty evilness. Then to make the idolatrous man vanquishes the religious dictator. But this is the movie's substance and intellectual point of view; where barbarianism is better than despotism, and idolatry is better than self worship. You may think that it somehow refuses the dark ages while supporting darker ages. But for me, when despotism has no ethics, then it is barbaric. Plus idolatry and self worship are alike. So I see the matter as barbarian idolatrous man fighting another barbarian idolatrous, yet more powerful, man to end the latter's unfairness. And there is a fervent speech against religious dictatorship after all. For others, the movie has else meanings though, which range between being an analogy of Christ's life, a Nazi story where a Nordic superman slices off a black's head and an allegory for Ronald Reagan's cold war with the Soviets (??!), all made by guys think a bit too much as you see ! The cons can be felt in few elements  The music score was so loudly bombastic to boring and annoying extent. Sandahl Bergman wasn't that sexy or beautiful. Gerry Lopez is anything but a funny sidekick. The matter of the antagonist's daughter falling in love with the protagonist at the end was too fast to believe. And the climax lacks a satisfying final encounter between the movie's 2 conflicting powers. James Earl Jones's head flies too quickly, disappointing fairer climax. So this is a different action. Not due to the abundant sex and violence (which you can find in many other movies). But due to the high qualities, the distinct pace, and the forceful atmosphere. Its message is controversial, which adds to its difference, by originally having a message in a movie of this kind. "}{"Title":"Not perfect, but so, so good","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember first seeing this movie in the theatre many many years ago. It was amazing for me because I was only fourteen and I loved the whole swords and sorcery stuff. Also Arnold was amazing because he had the voice, muscles and raw energy to fill the part of a comic I had collected for many years.I know the movie isn't perfect, but it has so many classic one liners in it. It also has a (almost) all star cast with several other minor stars in it.There isn't much to the plot, the writing is very simple, but it moves every thing along really nicely and you don't have a chance to yawn or go to sleep. It leaves a lot of room for action and blood, so don't let your little kids watch it.The movie rates a very high replay value, and I highly recommend the television version from AMC (or was it TNT) where they have all those cool tidbits about the making of the movie. Definitely a movie to own on DVD with lots of extras. "},{"Title":"Doom's children...the children of Doom!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can one say about Conan?I confess, the first few times I tried to watch this movie, I fell asleep. It may have been the late hour, or the contorted, meandering plot, or maybe because nothing happens for, like, an hour in the middle of it.Now that I've actually seen the film (cheated and watched it during the day), I can say this it's not as bad as I thought.This film, pure and simple, is about hedonism.  (The story isn't, but the movie making is!)  Lots of naked women.  Big, expensive sets in the desert. James Earl Jones with long hair.  Spiffy-looking swords.  Arnold Schwartzenegger.  Sandahl Bergman.  It doesn't get any better than this.Yeah, the dialog's bad.  Yeah, the plot is hard to follow.  But this is a film that revels in its excess. "},{"Title":"Only watch if you are an Arnie fan.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is true that Arnold barely speaks in this movie.  It would be an interesting activity to go through it again and actually count the number of words he says.  This movie is not exactly fantastic.  It can be slow and tiresome at times.  Its redeeming quality is the soundtrack which plays very well and fits the scenes.  The sets are not so bad either.  There is a nice mixture between the sandy deserts and snowy mountains, indeed the entire movie was filmed on location in Spain.  My favourite scene is when Arnie is practicing with the sword on a hill with the wind blowing his hair and the awesome accompanying tune.  If you are the average Joe Blow you will not enjoy Conan, but if you are a true Arnie fan at heart you might enjoy this.  You should appreciate that this is not one of his conventional action films.  It is a fantasy type production.  I only counted one smart-arse pre-killing comment - when he takes one of the cult leaders behind a mound and letting off a trade mark quote before breaking his arm off.A previous review mentioned the blood and guts.  Yes, there are quite a bit of blood scenes but it is not horrific or anything.  The fight scenes are fairly well choreographed.  You also get to see at least three naked chicks if that entices anybody as well as Arnie going for it hard rooting a witch.An okay movie but it could have been better. 6/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best lines ever","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Chief Conan! What is good in life?Conan To crush your enemies, see them driven before you, hear the lamentation of the women! "},{"Title":"FANTASY-TASTIC!!!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  'Wow!' That's what I thought after I watched this on DVD. It's so refreshing to sit through a well made and thoughtfully done film.  It didn't insult the intelligence, and the primitive effects from the early '80s were good enough to tell the story.   If only all comic book conversions could be this way. Only a handful have been executed in such a respectful manner, Supermans 1 & 2 spring to mind.  Let's forget about Spiderman and Batman.It just goes to show that when Arnie gets a suitable role, it works. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, by Crom!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ahnuld makes his big debut (ok, ignore Pumping Iron and Hercules) as the Cimmerian barbarian, created by pulp master Robert E. Howard.  Arnold was meant to play this role and makes the most of it.  I have always said that Arnold's best roles are those where he has a minimum of dialogue.The film captures the feel of the REH stories and the Roy Thomas/Barry Windsor-Smith Marvel comics.  Conan is the warrior/thief, slaughtering his enemies and fighting wizards.  Instead of the pirate queen Belit, we have Valeria, John Millius' valkyrie (his words).  Unfortunately, we have Sandahl Bergman for the valkyrie.  Sure, she's easy on the eyes and a pretty good dancer; but, as an actress, she makes a good dancer.  Her dancing past gives her grace in the fight scenes, but her acting has two left feet.  James Earl Jones makes a fine villain, although Thulsa Doom is from REH's Kull series, not Conan.  The rest of the cast fill out their roles ok, with Max Von Sydow pretty much wasted, and looking a bit uncomfortable.Until Lord of the Rings came along, this was the finest of sword & sorcery film.  It holds up fairly well and has a great score.  If you pick up the DVD, skip the commentary.  Millius is a bit full of himself and Ahnuld doesn't add much.  The deleted scenes should have been left on the cutting room floor.  Check out the outtake where Arnold is attacked by the wolves/dogs.  I know he got hurt, but it cracks me up;  Ahhhhhh! God demmit!  Sounds like a McBain bit on the Simpsons. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My brother was once talking with a friend about what are some of the greatest movies of all time, and he said Conan the Barbarian is one, the other replied Conan? Isn't that a stupid movieAnd a lot can be said for this, Conan has a simple linear plot which sidesteps rarely and doesn't exactly lead you into a trance of afterthoughts (though it has some speeches that are great in their shortness and power, however, when you look closely at the movie, you'll notice certain things. I draw up one example Kiyoshi Yamazaki, the Sword Master in the movie, was actually the one helping in making the sword fighting realistic.And that's what makes the movie great, brilliant action that looks authentic, coupled with an atmosphere that runs all through the movie and has an enormous, powerful authentic feel. This is a must-see film for any fantasy lover, Arnold Schwarzenegger has never been so good. "},{"Title":"Swords and Sorcery done right...","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Watch Dungeons and Dragons and The Scorpion King to really get an appreciation of Conan the Barbarian. This is, by far, the best action-fantasy movie ever made (LOTR is better but it is more a straight fantasy movie).With the likeable screen presence of Arnold, John Milius constructs a truly epic, rough and tumble picture. The fights aren't done with wires or CGI; it's real actors holding real swords beating the crap out of each other. The story is classic and predictable, like a great myth - Conan's parents and village are slaughtered, but he survives. Now it's time to kick some ass.The plot meanders, rolls around, and almost gets caught in stupid optical work (the scene with the spirits comes to mind as completely dated), but eventually finds its way, ending with the incredible Battle of the Mounds.All that said, the movie really depends on music. Basil Poledouris' score is, quite frankly, one of the 10 best motion picture scores ever made, and certainly one of the most evocative. The soundtrack elevates what would have been good action and cheesy dialogue to the realm of opera. When the brass, strings, and amazing Eastern European-style choral work come together, the result is movie magic.Watch it, and watch it again. Then buy the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Moody epic, more intelligent than it seems","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't view it as musclebound and unintelligent; this is a mythological epic, played straight. Schwarzenegger is physically perfect as Conan, and the limited dialogue is no problem when the Basil Poledouris score conveys the emotion from moment to moment as effectively as a Wagner opera.  The outward action has a deeper subtext as events and experience make Conan, brought up as an unthinking killing machine, a thinking and feeling human over the course of the film.  The casting is inspired, with James Earl Jones as a charismatic villain, a sympathetic cameo from Max von Sydow, and others who bring their physical confidence as surfer, wrestler and dancer, to their roles. Marvellous film.  "},{"Title":"Celluloid immortality for Arnie...","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked this movie,it revived the whole sword and sandal genre that was popular in the sixties and has recently been given a new lease of life with movies like Gladiator,more recent Arnie movies have been far slicker in their production values,but it's fun to see the movie that started this versatile performer on the road to celluloid immortality!I really think it would be great if some enterprising film maker would have a stab at adapting that other great barbarian,Lin Carter's Thongor series, with the current vogue for fantasy movies eg Lord of the Rings,they could make far worse choices! "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan is probably the best of the lot when it comes to sword films, it is so believable that it is amazing we are only watching a film. The locale, the costumes, the characters are bring to mind a world of darkness and death. Arnold is superb as the devoid Conan, his brute strength speaks for itself. Look for him painted in black stripes fighting some of the snake guards, truly spectacular! "},{"Title":"... there is no words","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can I say about this movie? The first time I saw it, I was a child and I like it because it has swords, action and stuff. You know, you didn't expect anything more from movies when you are young, but the years passed, and some day I watched the movie again in tv. When it ended, i realized it was better than I remembered. This time I saw a lot of more things the great secondary actors, the great music and the great story. Now I'm 23 and i consider this film a truly masterpiece, because it tolds a story about hate, revenge and fight, but also about love, friendship and sadness. Along the story, Conan it's searching for the man who killed his family, but he's also searching another thing, more important to him, the secret of steel. I think it's a very important part of the movie when Conan's father talks him about the secret of the steel, and he needs to confront Thulsa Doom to find it out. To those who didn't like the movie, please try something. If you see the movie some other time, heard to every word of the dialogs (there are few but they worth it), listen with three ears to the music of Basic Poledouris, look at the faces of the characters (they say it all by themselves), and do all this at a time and FEEL the movie, because you cannot just stare at this movie, you have to feel it deep under your skin and your heart. That's all i have to say about Conan the Barbarian. Love it or die trying it. "},{"Title":"The mixed bag that put Schwarzenegger's name on the map","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Possibly the purest sword-and-sorcery epic ever made, Conan the Barbarian finds the eponymous Schwarzenegger orphaned after his parents are slain by the evil Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones). Raised in slavery and honed into a bloodthirsty gladiator, Conan embarks on a journey to avenge his parents; one that will see him try his hand at thievery and meet an archer (Gerry Lopez) and a like-minded female robber (Sandahl Bergman). And it would be a kick-ass movie if all of the exciting parts weren't saved for the remaining forty minutes. Conan the Barbarian takes more than it's sweet time getting to the thrilling battle scenes that the movie seemed to promise at the start. Admittedly, there are plenty of hallmarks of a great adolescent fantasy sprinkled in the first half more than a few topless ladies, Schwarzenegger playing the (mostly) silent hulking warrior, his delightfully buff lover (hello, Sandahl Bergman!), and the star even gets to punch out a camel.But it felt like a long slog through molasses until James Earl Jones showed up again. You know Conan's an unparalleled warrior, so why aren't we seeing this guy throw down? For most of the time, he broods more than he fights. And it's not until he goes on the offensive at the bad guy's palace that the swords start flying and the blood really starts to spill. Cue Basil Poledouris to ride in and save the day. Poledouris is the real star of this movie, with a thundering and chest-beating score that keeps you trudging on through the boring parts and catapults you into the sweet end-battle.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Rhapsody of the degenerate","Date":"29 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Surely any movie where Arnold Schwarzenegger punches a camel or we're told that the meaning of life is to have 'falcons sitting on your wrists' is not meant to be taken serious. It's as if the movie wants to be stupid and will take innumerable weird facial expressions to do so. It's the embodiment of male testosterone, mindless and showy, part heroic rhapsody of the degenerate part triumphant guffawing after a bloodbath, as though a person needs to think less the bigger a hammer he wields, his cause becoming more noble and dignified with every swinging blow he deals, instantly justified in the sweaty bloodsoaked action. Sometimes the movie calls for MST3K riffing, sometimes it almost becomes the noble savage hero, in the way that you walk into a Manowar concert and loud epic metal music is blaring out of the speakers, and you can either sit in the corner and pass judgement or mingle in with the frenzied crowd and raise a fist at songs with titles like Hail and Kill and Blood of the Heroes. If you pause and listen to yourself screaming the lyrics, you realize you're part of a silly spectacle, but in the heat of the moment it makes sense.I don't like that Conan seems to seduce Valeria with a big shiny stone. But it's something a guy would write, the same guy who'd later write about evil wizards morphing into snakes. And I don't like omniscient narrators who tell us what a protagonist can think in a time before they had even met him. But it's an epic adventure and people who write epic adventures will tell us what even gods think. This movie is all man of the Dark Ages, all bravado and heroic feats, ignorant and thoughtless. I like it because I used to have Death Dealer posters in my bedroom, it's so silly I find myself guffawing along, so John Milius must be doing at least something right. Twentyfive years later, the echo of that guffaw can be seen in movies like Apocalypto and Valhalla Rising. "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun, and lots of violence too.","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My Take Cheesy, comic book madness. Enjoyable enough.One of the most anticipated releases in 1982, CONAN THE BARBARIAN is a big-budget production by Dino DeLaurentiis, based on Robert E. Howard's works. Conan is played by Arnold Schwarzenegger in his first, real role (forget that so-called movie titled HERCULES IN NEW YORK, who even knows that exists?). The film is also directed by John Millius, who also co-wrote the screenplay along with Oliver Stone.CONAN has a certain amount of violence. Even by today's standards, the violence is still worthy of its R rating. What doesn't hold up, however, is its seriousness. The films takes itself seriously, with its story of vengeance and redemption, but now, it's quite campy and often unintentionally hilarious. Stil, CONAN can be entertaining. Fans will gobble it up (some even go far as to say it's the best adventure movie they've ever seen, but I won't go that far), but non-fans may find it quite enjoyable, with some action decent scenes as well as some strong and memorable ones.After his parents were mercilessly murdered by an evil ruler called Thulsa Doom (This is CNN's James Earl Jones), young Conan was sent to a life of slave-hood, then he becomes a gladiator, than a warrior (Schwarzenegger) bent to avenge his parents death. On his side is a brave woman warrior named Valeria (Sandahl Bergman), a sidekick (Ben Davidson) and the famous wise wizard (Mako, in a familiar voice).The film doesn't hold up pretty well. What once was expensive, is now quite cheap and often cheesy. The giant snake that Conan does battle with is pretty cheesy, as with other special effects. The screenplay doesn't hold up pretty well either in terms of dialog. It's often filled with very cheesy lines, as if it were written by a rookie B-movie writer (but as a matter of fact, they were written by A-listers Milius and Wood). The film is also quite sexist. It's basically a man show, where the ladies (except the Valeria character) just stand aside while the men do all the fights and stuff. The woman on the other hand, are either damsels much in need of rescue, while others are sacrificial baits.But taken in the right spirit, CONAN THE BARBARIAN is still a worthy nostalgia. It's cheesy and often campy, but I like it for what it is. It is maybe perhaps that I am not a Conan fan. Conan fans will still surely get a real kick out this film. It's quite enjoyable, but it ain't for all tastes.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, by Crom!","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To crush your enemies, see them driven before you and hear the lamentation of the women or something like that. Great words, spoken by a great man. Obviously this film is silly. Bombastic, overblown, self-delusional, unintentionally funny. However, it's also a lot better than I was expecting, and is actually pretty decent, all round. Arnie is, well, Arnie, but with long hair and vaguely unsettling sex scenes, up against the endless forces (ok, about eight guys who he slaps with the flat of his sword) of Darth Vader's voice. It is worth watching, if only for the funny bits and Conan's less than heartfelt prayer to Crom before the final showdown. One to borrow, but give it a chance if you've not seen it. "},{"Title":"Nice battles, not so good story...","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ** HERE BE SPOILERS **When Conan is just a young boy his village is attacked by Thulsa Doom and his allies. The village is destroyed and Conan's parents are killed in front of his eyes. The children of the village, which seems to be the only survivors is lead of to the north to become slaves. Conan grows up to be a slave labourer, but when he is older is turned into a gladiator. One night he is set free and old memories of freedom and revenge come alive again. He accepts the quest of a king to steal back the king's daughter from Thulsa Doom, who now leads a snake cult. But Conan has some revenge of his own in mind.Although very violent, this movie is not a stream of battle and fight. Long sequences is devoted to tell Conan's history, from the attack of his village to the present adventures. Also there are some scenes that shows his far journeys. This sets the mood of the movie to a kind of tragic, and Conan himself is bitterly determined and offer few words to his companions. This might be in line with his personality but the movie and story lacks a little. Even if his lack of words tells us much of the character we might have learned more from a healthy dialog. There are some discussions about gods, and Conan cannot fulfill his destiny until he has come to terms with his own god.The fight-scenes are good, not choreographed like dances like many fights in movies of today, Conan's technique obviously relies more on force. His style reflects his barbarian heritage. Shwarzenegger is perfect as Conan, only someone with his physique could be a plausible Conan. The other cast and characters are good as well, though there is no room in the movie to learn another character, due to the above mentioned lack of dialog and the focus on Conan. All in all, the movie is above average due to good fights and a good effort from the makers to make a movie with good details in weapons and uniforms. The magic and spirit parts do not bring something to the movie or story and should, in my opinion, have been cut. But I guess there had to be some in a movie like this.6/10  "},{"Title":"sometimes I wonder how arnold got to be such a hit.....","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  yeah.........so, I just got done watching (or fast-fowarding through) Conan the Barbarian.  Apparently this was the one that made A-nuld such a big star.  I can't really see why, considering the fact that this was the worst B-movie I've ever seen.  Naturally watching one of his movies isn't the same as watching Brando or Pacino, but man....what was the point of this picture??  if it was just sheer popcorn entertainment, I think I missed something...Luckily James Earl Jones saves some of this piece with a few good lines of dialogue, but other then that, the action is cheesy, the blood is way over the top and ridiculous and the acting is....well, not really acting.  There's not even what you might consider plot development.  Just conan the quiet boy, conan the quiet man, conan the gladiator, conan the sex machine, conan the crucified, conan the executioner.....that's it ya'll....So get some popcorn and have the fast-foward button handy, b/c you're going to be pushing this one through to the end so you can finish in time to watch leno.......play on playa... "},{"Title":"A fun but flawed action fantasy movie.","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan The Barbarian is one of those movies like The Rocky Horror Picture Show and Highlander that for one reason or another has a rather large cult following but the majority of critics find despicable. When watching Conan I found I was kept entertained the whole way through, but under real analysis the movie isn't really that good.I won't spoil the plot for you but it's relatively simple. Just a basic villain kills protagonist's father, protagonist grows up in harsh conditions and fights back basically. Sure there is a bit more to it then that but nothing that particularly great. However I will say that the few twists in the film keep it entertaining. Conan played by the now legend Arnold Schwarzenegger is the first in the movie's flaws. The character has basically no personality in this adaptation(though to be fair he was never exactly a greatly personified character in the first place) besides being a brute, and Arnold's acting is laughable at this point.Then you have Valeria played by dancer Sandahl Bergman(who admittedly has a pretty nice body but is ultimately boring and unimpressive). She's a bit better at acting(and her character has a tad bit more personality she's smart, tough, but also sensitive) but that's not saying much not to mention the way they show her personality is rather clumsy, and the sidekick Rexor played by Ben Davidson leaves no impression. The only other real players in the movie are Mako as Akiro the wizard and narrator(who is very entertaining in a campy way here) and James Earl Jones as Thulsa Doom(who delivers the only genuinely good acting performance in the movie).So that's how the cast and acting fares Relatively wooden and uninteresting. But what about the action? After all, the only real reason to watch this movie is the action sequences and they are all top notch. In fact, the reason this movie is so much fun is simply because of 4 factors The action, the music(some of the best in an adventure film), the visuals(and effects), and the simple story(which is simple but keeps you excited and interested the whole way through). The movie delivers the goods in that way because all the action is remarkably well executed and exciting(made only more so due to the charging orchestral score), and the sets and costumes are great to look at.I've read a couple of places where people have tried to say this movie has some kind of religious message about the crusaders and such, and though I suppose you could read into it enough to see that I personality don't think that was intended. In the end the movie is just a basic sword and sorcery movie that entertains on the basic action and technical level but fails for the most part on the dramatic end. It'll entertain you, but it's likely the movie could've done more.I should also add the majority of the women in this movie are portrayed as sexual objects with no personality, so if that really bothers you(and it did bother me a little) you may want to steer clear of this movie I don't know but if you are in the mood for mindless action packed fun you could do a lot worse than this. "},{"Title":"Incomprehensible trash.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a long time fan of Conan I was looking forward to seeing him on the big screen. What a disappointment. The set designs and music were dead perfect, everything else was strictly amateur hour. The script starts and stops, jamming in incidents from various Conan stories with no thought to the movie's flow. Sandahl Bergman (Valeria) and Gerry Lopez (Subotai) steal the show away from Ahnuld who displays none of the agility or charisma of Conan as written by R.E. Howard. Add to that the fact that he gets his butt kicked in nearly every fight in the film and he certainly doesn't convey the image of an indomitable, wilderness bred hero. Mako's narrator character is dragged in to help explain the proceedings and fails. If you need a narrator to explain your plot, you're in trouble. If the narration doesn't clarify things, you're really screwed. One plus, James Earl Jones performed as if he was actually in a good movie. His Thulsa Doom was a very good villain. Too bad he didn't get a good hero to play off of. "}{"Title":"Classic Fantasy from before the time of Lord of the Rings","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) was still a child when he saw his parents murdered and his village burned by a horde of savages, lead by the semi-god Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones). They took him to the north, where he grew up working like an animal, and was later sold as a slave. His master trained him to be a warrior, and made a fortune by using him in fights. But there comes one day, when he gives Conan his freedom, and the chance to take his revenge after so many years.Its too dull to be unintentionally funny and takes itself way too seriously, but somehow has a certain charm to it that keeps you watching. Arnold is well-cast in his first real movie role which would lead to films like The Terminator. The films premise isn't that complicated and the action scenes are fun, The ending is memorable and the overall tone of the film is good, it doesn't try and be kid friendly it just tells the story. "},{"Title":"Slow, dull, unimaginative","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian is another example of Hollywood taking a work from another medium(pulp fiction) and being unable to translate it properly for the big screen.While some of the themes were high brow(flesh is stronger than steel) they cant make up for a very dull story, some terrible performances, and an absence of monsters. Where were the monsters?? A rubber snake???I used to think Schwarzeneggar was the ideal Conan--until I read some of Howard's work and realized he was all wrong for the part. And where  was the fantasy? There was alot of sword in this sword and sorcery flick--but not much sorcery. It cries for a scene out of Harryhausen's Jason and the Argonauts(a far better genre picture).One final note the women were not particularly attractive! And Sandhal Bergman is NO Lucy Lawless. Stick with Howard's writings if you really want to delve into a fantasy world. "},{"Title":"At times basic or self important but still an OK `swords and sorcery' tale","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  With his father, mother and whole village killed by a savage group of warriors as a boy, Conan is taken into slavery to labour.  As a man his physique makes him a well known prize fighter for his masters and he is trained as such.  He escapes to freedom and becomes a thief, but revenge and a chance meeting brings him back seeking revenge on the group that took his life.By coincidence I saw this film again on the same day that Schwarzenegger announced his running for political office.  It is hard to see his character Conan without remembering that the man who played that role is very different (at least outwardly) to the one that we now know.  That aside the film is very basic &#150; both in it's own right and in comparison to more recent films in the same genre.  The plot is well worn but still effective, although it does feel a little long and drawn out at times.The action is probably it's main selling point and, in the age where all fighting has to be complex and involve CGI, it is almost refreshing to see slashing sword fights played out simply and without too much flair.  Some of it does take itself too seriously, and this takes away from the film more than I expected it to.The acting is a strange mix.  Arnold himself is as rocky and robust as he needs to be, but doesn't totally manage to make his character any more than just muscles.  He doesn't have any humour, which may have helped, I suppose this was made long before his characters became in need of a little knowing humour to help them work. Earl Jones is much better and gives a good performance at all times &#150; it is a shame he only has a few key scenes to do his stuff.  The support cast all play it straight and at times seem to have been pretty badly dubbed.Overall I did enjoy this film even though their isn't that much to it.  It has a heavy, indulgent air of self importance to it that doesn't help it any, but again &#150; the ironic self-mocking humour of these films is a recent thing.  Worth a watch but at times it is all very wooden and feels like it was made very cheaply &#150; still reasonably enjoyable though. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, wish it had a different cast though","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Yes, we have to remember this is a movie from the early 80s. Also, the original stories, written for pulp magazines, weren't exactly deep, yet Conan and his stories still are beloved all around the world - for a reason. Howard was able to dream up a quite believable world, full of myths and secrets, a dangerous place to be in. And he dreamed up a character that was more than just a brute. He wasn't running around in a loincloth 24/7, and he used his brains just as much as he used his fists. He was cunning, ironic, funny, and definitely not a mere brute.While this movie does a good job (considering its age and the era it was made in) at showing us a world quite similar to what is described in the stories.However, what kills it for me is Schwarzenegger. While he physically surely is able to portray a barbarian, with a very muscular and well-toned body, his accent, the bland look on his face and the totally emotionless delivery of lines make Conan look like some grinning, stupid mountain of muscles, which does NOT do the stories justice at all. I am sorry, I know Arnie polarizes a lot, and I guess there is a certain trademark thing he has with the accent etc, but he surely makes Conan look totally sad here. As much as I think the recent remake (from 2011, I think?) was pretty much a failure regarding acting and plot, the Conan in that movie seemed to have at least a tiny bit of intelligence, slyness and wit. This movie has its moments, and I wish they could do another remake with some of THIS movies atmosphere plus a less hur hur I beat you to a pulp, puny little man type main character, but an actor who is able to portray Conan better - as someone who was a powerful fighter, yet also a smart, cunning man. "},{"Title":"A Mixture of Good and Bad","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian is an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie based off a comic book, which I have never read. This movie starts with a monologue about steel which is neat and is referenced to a couple of times later in the movie. We are then introduced to a young Conan living with his family in a tiny little village. Raiders led by the powerful villain Thulsa Doom. Young Conan is spared and used as slave labor, where he grows up into body builder Arnold Schwarzenegger. Conan, now a cloud-like adult, is sold into a gladiatorial arena and learns to fight. He soon escapes and proceeds on his journey. This section of the movie features limited dialogue and large amounts of violence and gore, although the gore is very fake. Conan travels far and meets a witch. The witch seduces him and we get to watch them have graphic sex with lots of, um, noises. Conan, however, soon gets tired of witch wench and throws her into a fire, killing her. This is all fun, and Conan leaves a happy man. He meets a friend, who happens to be a thief, steals something from Thulsa Doom's snake cult, and meets the love of his life. He then has graphic sex with the love of his life. The three of them go out on an adventure to take down Thulsa Doom and his evil snake cult. They even meet Max von Sydow playing a king whose daughter was kidnapped by Thulsa Doom. They eventually hunt down Thulsa Doom, with the help of the narrator, a wizard. That brings me to the subject of the villain. In a gore and sex filled cheesy movie that marks one of Arnold's first big American movies, you have James Earl Jones himself as the evil sorcerer Thulsa Doom we've talked so much about. James Earl Jones actually gives a memorable, credible performance as the villain. It was rather surprising actually. Thulsa Doom is a frightening villain who uses sorcery and honeyed words to gather completely devoted followers to his cause. The rest of the movie consists of Conan and his friends hunting, and eventually killing, Thulsa Doom. Along the way, Arnold's lover dies, Arnold is crucified on the Tree of Woe, dies, is resurrected, and lights a tower on fire with a perfect throw of a torch. That's about it. It is worth mentioning, however, that the scene where Conan wreaks his revenge on Thulsa Doom is very entertaining, and worth the rest of the movie to see. "},{"Title":"Great coming-of-age movie","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The screenplay for this movie was written by oliver stone. One of his first and one of his best.People who have ever felt it's them against the world will be able to identify with this movie (and at least everyone has at one time or another - so everyone should see it).Conan breaks free of his past as enslaved young child to become a great warrior (among other things), and along the way he has many adventures that are accentuated by awesome early eighties special effects -- no cgi here. "},{"Title":"Conan the Barbarian","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The first film to get Arnie on the way to the man he is today, and the first of three very similar fantasy flicks. Based on a pulp comic character from the 30's this film franchise turned the idea on its head and into a cult spanning many different formats and influencing other fantasy films, it also helped some videogames along the way.The plot is simple, Conan is taken from his family who have been conveniently killed by a band of nasty warriors dressed in black. He is put into slavery and made to do hard labour for the rest of his foreseeable future. The torturous slavery makes Conan big and strong despite the apparent lack of decent food, nutrients, fishfingers or milk. He eventually is sold into gladiatorial fighting where he becomes a brilliant battler and swordsman and wins his freedom. From there on he's off to avenge his families death, as you do.Obvious premise but its an old film folks. Yes the film is old, back in 82 things were different, what you see now when watching is a horribly clichéd, predictable, hammy, semi cheap looking mess, but back then it was fresh...ish. All the bad guys wear black and look a bit camp with their wigs and handlebar moustaches, you wonder why exactly these groups of bad guys always attack and kill helpless useless peasants, what's in it for them? why they always leave one kid alive to grow up and take revenge on them?? and what is James Earl Jones character actually up to? what's his goal? his plans? why do all those people follow him? etc...Yeah I know I'm being picky, it matters not really, the film is old and all these barbarian films are pretty much the same, its all about the spectacle and fantasy right. This first film is definitely more adult than the rest, lots of blood splashing about with limbs being hacked off...good stuff. Yet despite that there isn't too much action really, more character development surprisingly and what action there is has some nice effects too, nice snake work and some nice animated spirits also.To be honest I've actually always preferred the original 'Beastmaster' film over Conan. There a few nice moments in this but really its pretty tepid, if only 'The Beastmaster' starred Arnie. And what the hell was that huge wheel thing Conan pushes for half his life suppose to be? a mill? a well? or merely for torture? a plan that backfired for Thulsa Doom methinks.In the end the final teasing image and narration about King Conan is actually far more interesting and intriguing than the film that preceded it.5/10 "},{"Title":"Review of the Collector's Edition","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my all-time favorite movies. The tale of a child-slave who grows up to be a gladiator/pit fighter, earns his freedom, has various adventures and eventually becomes a king.The special commentary was pretty good. Arnold apparently has not seen the movie since the premiere 20 years ago, as he couldn't remember even the most basic portions of the plot and most of his commentary consisted of the blatantly obvious, (yeahh...here is where I chop off Thulsa Doom's head), etc. He frequently leaps ahead a scene and remarks on things not yet on the screen. He also makes frequent mistakes and Milius just lets it slide, even though he knows different (as most fans of the movie will). He should have at least watched it once beforehand to refresh his memory a bit.Milius' commentary was a lot more insightful than Arnolds, to say the least. He provided some great insight, from why and how he casted certain people, location information, how some things were filmed, incidents on the set, etc. The deleted scenes section left something to be desired. It consisted mostly of several versions of the same one scene. Nothing really new or exciting. There has to be some other deleted footage that was filmed!The Conan Unchained special was very cool and the highlight of the disc! It was and hour-plus feature all about the Conan movie. It includes some things that Milius touches on in the commentary, complete w/ cast interviews (Arnold, Bergman, Lopez, Milius, Stone, De Laurentiis)There is also a pictures section that shows behind-the-scenes production and cast photos, wardrobe concepts, etc.Overall, the collectors edition could have been better, but is still a must for any Conan fan!  "},{"Title":"Crom is displeased...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only true high points of Conan the Barbarian are Schwarzenegger's physically imposing performance, the great production values, and its roaring score. The story, however, and its secondary characters are quite obtrusive and uninteresting. We learn little of the Hyborian Age's history, and the convoluted vengeance plot really ambles on and on.The movie takes off well, but it never really flies, and we'll never learn of Conan's silver screen fate, because the disastrous sequel, Conan the Destroyer, sheds little light on this Cimmerian thief, reaver, and slaver. "},{"Title":"Aged cheese","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan the Barbarian isn't likely to be popular with the fantasy buffs that flocked to The Lord of the Rings and became engrossed in all the Middle Earth nuances.  What's interesting here is how John Milus smashes two narratives together, but cannot determine which one he wants to use.  He tries using a technique similar to 2001 A Space Odyssey by relying on visual images to carry the story.  Problem is, for a movie with the ideas and style of Conan, it doesn't work.  What he should have used was a more common action prototype to keep things moving.  Such a method depreciates the film quicker, but it tightens the flow between outright boredom and crazed insanity.Speaking of which, the editing on Conan the Barbarian is underdone.  There is no reason as to why this is over two hours long.  Milus' camera isn't very daring compared to the protagonist.  I can't see what parts of the script were done by Oliver Stone because it is loaded with Milus' red-blooded machismo.  I will thank the production designer for trying to create something different even when the rest of the movie is falling apart.  Basil Poledouris' music is often mentioned as being the Best of the 80s, but, outside of the rousing pomp of the beginning, there is nothing else to recommend.  In the slower moments where exposition SHOULD HAVE BEEN, Basil's music falters and fails.  He would improve on it with RoboCop.Arnold, particularly in his delivery, is atrocious.  Only James Earl Jones and Max Syndow are reasonable with their lines, everyone else stumbles along or is exceptionally deadpan.  Face it, this is a muscle show whose message is drowned in mediocrity.  Overall, this isn't the best fantasy effort from the 80s (Dragonslayer holds my record for that), but it has an appealing minority to it.  Everyone else should ignore it.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Mediocre at best!","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw CONAN when it was released, over twenty something years ago. I was 14 or 15 years old and I remember being a bit disappointed. I couldn't remember the whole movie, but I did remember that it wasn't as good as it was supposed to be and it was a box-office flop. Remember that when you're younger, it is easier for a movie or certain music to make an impact on you. Sometimes that impact holds true when you're all grown up, sometimes it doesn't. And sometimes it can be the other way around. So I decided to give CONAN one more chance by buying it in DVD and watching it and hearing it in all its glory on a LCD flat-screen with a loud and proud home theater.The result? ....The movie is STILL a turkey. No, it's not because of Arnold's stiff acting. In fact, I think he's kind of early acting never suited him best as in this picture. He was, after all, a barbarian, so it would have been odd to see a more skilled actor doing CONAN. So in this respect, the movie is a winner with Arnold as the hulking, Neanderthal barbarian. It's the story that doesn't hold any water. What could have been an epic revenge tale was rendered poorly, with alarmingly very few action sequences. Had those action sequences been replaced by interesting plot and character development, then I'd probably wouldn't be whining. The best sword and sorcery movie of the 80's??? Gimme a break! Excalibur, which came a year earlier was better executed and miles and miles more interesting than this. True, production values are high on CONAN THE BARBARIAN. Basil Poledouris score is richly symphonic, yet he doesn't manage to write a memorable theme for CONAN. I mean, how many of you remember the movie's main theme. Poledouris' talents were vastly unfruitful. As a funny note, Jerry Goldsmith's main theme for TOTAL RECALL is very similar to CONAN's. At least, the first bars of the CONAN theme are almost exactly the same as those in TOTAL RECALL. As for the bad guy in the movie, Thulsa Doom (portrayed by Darth Vader himself, James Earl Jones), he starts off as some sort of Genghis Khan, pillaging villages in his path and ends as some sort of cult leader, like some sort of prehistoric Charles Manson. We are never given an explanation as to why he became a cult leader. It is for us to assume that he found immortality through this cult (worshipping snakes). And that, I'm your father crap at the end was so totally lame I almost turned the DVD off! The very few action sequences (like the ambush scene near the end) are edited in a very odd way, rendering then untense and pointless. I give the movie five stars because1 - There's some good T&A in the movie, although limited. 2 - Sandhal Bergman looks hot. 3 - Arnold was totally the right guy to play CONAN. 4 - The cinematography is awe inspiring 5 - Basil Poledouris music rulz. May his soul rest in peace.Other than that, CONAN THE BARBARIAN is a rather boring affair, with little action, a poor story and not even enough bloodshed to make up for other things. Maybe this one really needs a remake! "},{"Title":"The movie that made Ah-nold famous","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the original and still the greatest warrior-adventure movie, and it's the movie that basically launched Arnold Schwarzwhatever's film career.  What can I say about this film?  It's an amazing film, in many ways, though it has a number of flaws.  The plot is this film's biggest weakness.  Some things are not clearly explained.  You are pretty much left to guess why certain things happen in the film.  Furthermore, the dialogue is lame.  However, this is one of the most visually stunning films ever made.  The cinematography is terrific, and the sets are outstanding. Also, the makeup on the actors is fantastic.  I especially like the scene where a form of calligraphy is done on Conan's face and hands.  There are so many scenes that are both spellbinding and memorable.  In addition, there are two great actors in this film James Earl Jones and Max Von Sydow (although his role is small).  Beyond that, this film has one of the greatest film scores EVER.  It's an extraordinary film score.  This is certainly a flawed film...nonetheless it's a truly enjoyable film.  It's full of non-stop action; all along, it stays true to its genre.  Perhaps the story could have been told better, but this film should definitely NOT be remade.  This one is timeless, and will remain a classic.  It's one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"King Conan.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the BarbarianI would bet that Arnold Schwarzenegger barely says over 100 lines of dialogue in Conan the Barbarian, yet it is one of the most famous films in history. The question is whether it is any good. Sadly, though I am a big fan of Arnie's, I just cannot get into Conan the Barbarian. I think it's boring, dumb and odd. That's just me. I know many people like it, but it's just not my piece of cake.Arnie plays Conan, a fierce barbarian warrior who is bred a gladiator, and upon reaching ultimate manhood, runs amock to try and avenge the death of his father, mother, and tribes-people, who were all killed by James Earl Jones (not James Earl Ray!) when he was just a small boy.Through this he gains a trusty comic sidekick, a trusty, lusty babe, and so on and so forth. And a totally cool-looking shield and sword, making him the most fearless warrior of all time. This film was the ultimate in campiness, a small budget film with a leading man larger than most barbarians probably were back then. Arnold fits the part perfectly, but the film is just not fun to watch. The beginning tribe massacre is bloody and violent, but feels like one of those old 80s movies like The Blademaster, where there is lots of fighting and lots of violence for no reason but to entertain - and like films with explosions throughout (Rambo III), it gets old after a while. If you haven't seen The Blademaster, it is an even worse film than this. You always know when a film is really bad if the title has been changed. Cave Dwellers to The Blademaster, Angels Revenge to Angels' Brigade, Weekend at Kitty and Stud's to The Italian Stallion, etc. All terribly awful pictures lacking a certain something - maybe a plot, I don't know. Conan the Barbarian is ten times better than these films combined, but it is still much like them. Maybe there aren't as many continuity problems, or cheap filming techniques (in The Blademaster, they use the same fight scenes twice), but it still has that genuine repulsiveness, the dumbness.The script was co-written by pre-stardom Oliver Stone, whose other directorial and scriptwriting credits go to such films as Platoon and Wall Street. Stone uses a lot of campy dialogue here, and though it fits the film, somehow it just isn't as fun as it could have been. Take, for instance, the opening scene where Conan's father is teaching him about the earth gods and whatnot. Barely quality dialogue, yet almost too campy - it's like Star Trek geeks talking about the meaning of life.Arnold was in a film called Red Sonja a bit after Conan's sequel came out. It was a rip-off of Conan the Barbarian, even though it starred Arnold. I will be submitting a review of that film as part of the Arnold Film Memorial, but the point I want to make by bringing it up is that Red Sonja might as well be called Conan the Barbarian III, because everything about it is similar. Just wanted to point out that little-known film to the Conan fans out there.Anyway, Conan the Barbarian is just not one of my favorites. Skip this one. Even if you're an Arnold fan like me.2.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"Contemplate this on the tree of woe. Didn't do much for me.","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian starts as evil ruler of a Snake cult named Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones) & his men ride into a small village & brutally kill most of the people who live there & sell the other's into slavery including a young boy named Conan (Jorge Sanz). Jump forward several years & Conan (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is now a man, a very strong man who quickly shines as a gladiatorial fighter. Conan is taught sword fighting skills & is educated until he escapes & meets up with a female thief named Valeria (Sandahl Bergman) & an archer named Subotai (Gerry Lopez), they alone dare to stand up to the cult of the Snake which is engulfing the entire world. Out for both vengeance & profit the three allies must do battle against an entire army if they are to succeed in their quest...Co-written & directed by John Milius this was the first time that the character of Conan the Barbarian had appeared in a film, created by author Robert Howard during the 30's Conan appeared in various stories & novels & indeed eventually films such as this which I have to say I thought was pretty average & don't really see where all the love for it comes from. There are a few different versions of Conan the Barbarian in circulation at the moment, the short US released version, a longer European cut & a third even longer more complete cut & I will be basing my comments on the international European cut. The script by Milius & Oliver Stone of all people is actually fairly slow going for the first half & it's also rather ponderous & bitty. There are lots of annoying fade dissolves from one scene & one location to another as Conan grows up, becomes a champion fighter, gets educated, wanders around a lot & then meets up with with Valeria & Subotai as a large chunk of time passes with very little dialogue, apart from the narrator virtually none in fact, & the film never stayed in one place long enough for me to get involved with what was going on. The film is obviously very pro war & there's a lot of sentiment in it's battle scenes as it portrays warriors & fighters as the real hero's. Towards the end when Conan gets to fight the evil Snake cult then the film picks up & becomes watchable but even then I felt very detached from it because the lack of dialogue, the lack of character's & a story that seemed quite random. The fantasy elements of the film were a disappointment, in Howards original stories the character of Conan fought all sorts of monsters, creatures & demons while here the fantasy elements are a bit random like Thulsa Doom turning into a Snake for no reason, the daft scene in which spirits try to take Conan away & a giant Snake which Conan kills. I wasn't impressed with what little dialogue there is either, all the old style talk just got silly & it's hard to relate to it & is it just me or does anyone else find names like Valeria, Subotai, Thulsa, Osric, Rexor & Thorgrim silly & just impossible to keep track of who is who?The film looks quite nice & again try to watch it in it's original 2351 widescreen ratio as so much is lost on pan and scan editions. This is actually pretty violent at times with lots of blood, a couple of gory decapitations, sword fights, impalings, slashed throats & the like. The special effects are alright, the giant snake looks alright although the scenes where Thulsa Doom 'straightens' out a live Snake & then uses it as an arrow shot from his bow do look a bit silly & like they belong in a cartoon. The whole medieval look of Conan the Barbarian is well realised with nicely detailed sets, costumes & production design. Imagine Lord of the Rings if you will without any CGI computer effects work & your probably not too far off what Conan the Barbarian looks like.With a supposed budget of about $20,000,000 this is well made with good production values, filmed in Spain & Canada. Conan the Barbarian is credited as the film that made Arnold Schwarzenegger a star, to be honest I think he's absolutely terrible in this & is so wooden it's untrue, also what on Earth is going on with his hair? James Earl Jones gets second billing in the credits for less than ten minutes of screen time while third billed Max von Sydow has less than five minutes screen time.Conan the Barbarian is a fairly slow moving & for me an average sword & sorcery fantasy adventure film without nowhere near enough fantasy or adventure for my liking at all, it's not a terrible film & it's alright to watch once but I can't say I have that many positive feelings about it. Followed by Conan the Destroyer (1984) & two Conan themed TV show's Conan The Adventurer (1992) & Conan (1992) while a new Conan film simply called Conan (2009) is in production as I write this. "},{"Title":"Casting and mythology","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When casting films written with characters such as Samhaien, Icarthian Rulers and other mythical creatures such as mummy's. It is always best to make sure that an actual person is not being replaced by a studio masked actor or character. Many peoples actual roles are being substituted with studio props. This technique may save money, but as realism and art are concerned, it looks slightly off-set. There are many masks in this feature, which I like. The story line is a bit off-set in my opinion. If someone likes Greek, Roman, Egyption, etc. mythology they would like to view this film. Although there are some obvious mistakes, it is fairly good. Let's say if the film was ever re-done, these rolls would be better suited to the actual people they represent. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Watered-down waste of time...","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First, a confession at the time of this movie's release, I went on record, in print (in an international movie magazine), saying that it wasn't bad (for every positive, however, there was a negative and the reservations I had then I still have now). Second I've been a Robert E. Howard fan since I was a kid. Third the comic book versions of Conan aren't to be confused in any way with the stories that Howard wrote. Nor is this movie. CONAN THE BARBARIAN hacks- er, harks- back to the earliest comic book version of the character. Prior to the release of the movie, director John Milius had promised to be faithful to the writings of Robert E. Howard he would not, he defiantly proclaimed, give us a watered-down version of CONAN. Well, guess what? He lied. It was painfully obvious, from the very beginning. Casting Arnold Schwarzenegger as Conan seemed like a good (Hollywood) idea at the time, although the trailers showing the musclebound Austrian dancing around in slow motion with his sword in his hand (!) were patently ridiculous. (Yes, I know that wasn't slow motion- but it sure looked like it; and WILL, any time you have a musclebound man doing badly choreographed action scenes.) To his credit, he was the wrong man in the wrong place at the wrong time; it was Milius who shoehorned him into a part he really had no business being in. The giant mechanical snake, which I likened at the time to a throwback to the heyday of Toho studios, was actually far less impressive than a guy in a rubber suit and James Earl Jones, badly miscast as a character from one of Howard's KING KULL stories, simply looks laughable in a fright wig. The orgy chamber orgy, I wrote, takes Conan where no barbarian has ever gone before. Well, kinda. There was no orgy to speak of (we see little save the aftermath). As for the rest of the cast, the less said the better. The music, however, was great, and the cinematography was superb. This movie gave birth to a sequel (CONAN THE DESTROYER) which was even worse and a spin off (RED SONJA) that segued Howard's hard-hewn hero into a worthless teleseries (starring yet another musclebound mannequin) and even a (thankfully) short-lived cartoon series of forgettable proportions (though one must be thankful that it wasn't called something like BABY CONAN, BOY BARBARIAN). One can't help but walk away from a movie like this with the certainty that Hollywood just ain't up to the task of bringing Robert E. Howard's CONAN to the big screen. "},{"Title":"Flexing muscles with a bit of slaying on the side.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When Conan was a child his parents were murdered and he was captured for slave labour, which lasted for many years. Then through his young adulthood he was a pit-fighter, but he's let loose. So, this begins his journey, which he starts of as a petty thief, but then he realises he full potential of becoming an almighty swordsman. Wanting to avenge the deaths of his parents, committed by the evil snake god leader Thulsa Doom, he and a few allies decide to take on the towering figure.I don't know, but I never thought very highly, like many do of this pulp sword 'n' sorcery epic based on the fantasy / adventure stories by author Robert E. Howard. Strangely enough, I actually prefer its sequel and that hasn't change after re-watching the original again. But there's no denying the importance of the flick for Arnold Schwarzenegger and how it made him a household name. It's quite an ambitious film that demonstrates some well-shot features, a powerful score by Basil Poledouris, dreary solitude and primitive blood-splattering amongst the kitsch, but I found the yarn didn't entirely grip me and it doesn't capture my imagination. I even found the pacing to be quite sluggish with some creatively, impressive set pieces wrapped around the deflated story. Also at times it wallows a bit it on the pretentious side. The location of the film was extremely piercing with a decent visual scope evident, but I found the camera-work earlier on, got too close to the vigorous combat scenes with its panning, making it hard to make out what was happening. When the blood shed flies, it does so across the screen like in the gory battle climax, where it's truly in-your-face. Director John Milius gets the package done without a whole lot of flair, but imbued into it is grit and a mythological impact. The special effects can look campy, but they don't damage the flick and a stampeding score that evokes such a mystical edge about it crushes us. The plot I kind of found unexciting, it doesn't know where its truly heading and some happenings occur without any true reasoning. The script is filled with dim-witted, testosterone flying drawl, but you kind of expect it, based on the context and it can be quite unintentionally funny. The performances are rather stilted, but it's not the performances you focus on in a film like this. I say they were acceptable. Schwarzenegger does what he has to do and nails it down convincingly. While, James Earl Jones is strong in the powering villain role, Thulsa Doom. Maybe more so, as he only appears every so often. Sandahl Bergman and Ben Davidson are modest, and Max von Sydow clocks up a tiny part.While, I don't think too highly of it. It's still worth a look for its grand scale treatment and for Schwarzenegger's breakthrough performance. "},{"Title":"entertaining but weak story","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 'Conan the Barbarian' is a film about a young boy whose parents were killed by a cult; he is sold into slavery, and when he is free, he goes to track down the cult that destroyed his family. Along the way, he meets a couple of partners in his quest for revenge, including a young woman that he falls in love with. The film has many fantasy elements from wizards to giant-snake worshipping cults. The performances are done well, and the fantasy elements and special effects are good for their time; the story, however, is a little bit weak. The film is entertaining, but do not expect a classic. Rating this film is just about average. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I don't understand the love for this film. It's an overblown pseudo-epic that never fulfills it's promise. This is not the greatest sword and sorcery film of all time. That would have to be a toss up of Excalibur and Lord of the Rings. Even the original Beast Master is more entertaining than this. The film certainly does an injustice to it's creator, Robert E. Howard. This is not Howard's Conan, but Milius' pale imitation.*spoiler* It takes forever for Conan to defeat the evil, all powerful wizard by justcutting off his head. Conan barely works up a sweat and there's no epic great confrontation or fight. James Earl Jones is wasted in this. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but falls well short of the source.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I find that people's opinion of this film varies widely depending on whether they've read any of the original Robert E. Howard stories.Howard was an amazingly powerful writer of great depth and versatility. His Conan was, despite being a barbarian, an intelligent and educated man.  A natural leader of men.  A master of combat, theft, and woodsmanship.As written by Milius, he is a revenge obsessed klutz.  He has all of the fighting moves and dexterity of an anvil.  All of the depth of a dry lake bed.Enjoy the movie for what it is, a fun (if shallow) magic and mayhem flick. Then read the vastly superior original stories.  If you do it in the other order, you'll find your experience diminished by thoughts of what could have been. "}{"Title":"Did I see the Same Movie??","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I read the previous comments on this movie, and I am quite shocked. Did I see the same movie as these other folks?I found Conan the Barbarian to be painfully slow. Very little happens until the final twenty minutes, and by that point, I was fighting to keep my eyes open. I enjoy trashy, B-films more than the average film fan, so I was surprised at how much I disliked this turkey. The sequel is much sillier and over-the-top, and consequently, much more enjoyable.I get the distinct impression that the filmmakers wanted to distance themselves from the oft-mocked sword and sandal flicks of earlier decades, so they tried to make this a serious fantasy film. I think they failed miserably. Way too much drama, way too much romance, and far too little violence.   "},{"Title":"Ho Hum.....","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I dug the books...and the art by 'frenzied' Frank Frazzetta (R.I.P.) was absolutely priceless. The movie does display a bit of derring do...John Milius caught hell for casting James Earl Jones as Thulsa...and he does a credible dramatic job...though there are NO other blacks anywhere in the film . This was also one of the first films I can recall where a female character was able to carry her own in a swashbuckling, sword-clanging sense. But, for me, the film was a very difficult watch. I guess I was disappointed at the translation from the books to the film...it just wasn't the same, somehow. There's enough action...and enough gore...to satisfy most audiences, and that's good enough for most viewers. But, for me, there was just something missing. I saw the film during its original theatrical release, and again recently on VHS. It just left me feeling a bit shallow. It does have entertainment value, though I would not let the kids watch it because of the partial nudity and excessive violence which, ironically, are the hallmarks of this particular genre. This is, afterall, the film that solidified Arnold's stardom, and he does get able assists from his supporting crew, Jones as well as Max von Sydow, who always renders a respectable performance. Watch it if you care to...I found myself dozing off at certain points. "},{"Title":"NOT EVEN CLOSE","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  John Milius' rendition of Robert E. Howard's (REH) most popular character leaves a lot to be desired.Conan did not seek revenge on raiders who left him as an orphan and sold him into slavery.First of all, Conan would have been a perpetrator rather than a victim -- In REH's Beyond the Black River we learn that, as a teenager, Conan was a one of the barbarians who sacked a northern city in a notorious raid.Second, Conan was many things in his career; raider, thief, pirate, mercenary, general and king -- he was never a gladiator.  Gladiators are slaves, and, if Conan ever was a slave it would not have lasted long.  REH's Conan would never tolerate a life of servitude.Hopefully someone will make a movie, animated or otherwise, that faithfully portrays REH's fascinating Cimmerian.  I don't think John Milius is capable. "},{"Title":"Conan the Barbarian","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Before The Terminator, the film that turned him into a superstar, the former bodybuilder from Austria made this little sword-and-sorcery epic, and unfortunately, it wasn't as good as I'd expected. Basically the parents of young Conan are murdered by Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones), and he is enslaved. He grows up, and now Conan (Razzie nominated Arnold Schwarzenegger) is becoming a mighty warrior and being trained as a fighter. Eventually after being a Gladiator, he is set free, and now on a quest, he vows to avenge his parents, and solve the riddle of steel (?). Joined by Subotai (Gerry Lopez), beautiful thief who falls in love with him, Valeria (introducing Golden Globe winning Sandahl Bergman), and the Chinese Wizard (Mako, also narrating), they set out to rescue the Princess (Valérie Quennessen), daughter of King Osric (Max Von Sydow), oh, and Conan can get revenge on Thulsa Doom. Also starring Ben Davidson as Rexor, Cassandra Gaviola as The Witch, William Smith as Conan's Father and Luis Barboo as Red Hair. Like in The Terminator, Schwarzenegger doesn't have the biggest amount of dialogue, I can see what the critics mean about the film looking fabulous, I assume they mean costumes and scenery, but besides this and seeing an early leading role for Arnie, this is pointless film. The continuing sequel, Conan the Destroyer, followed two years later. Arnold Schwarzenegger was number 54 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Adequate! "},{"Title":"A ridiculously overrated waste of two precious hours!","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I won't say much. How this movie has gained such a following, and inspired so many 8, 9 and 10 star reviews is truly beyond me.Having sat through the whole thing, I am left with nothing but puzzlement, and a wish that I had spent my two hours doing something else entirely. What a waste.The acting is mediocre at its best (and I usually like Schwarzenegger, not to mention James Earl Jones). The store is cliché, but okay, that's true of so many movies, good or bad. But it is poorly told, oftentimes not told at all. The scenes are grand, but the props often ridiculously bad, and the effects are laughable. The gore is plentiful, but poorly executed.Don't waste your time, people.. And don't praise the movie just because You're supposed to, it's a classic! It's classically bad! 2 stars, because the soundtrack score was decent. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, bloated and boring. Nothing like the books","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this Dino De Laurentiis atrocity when it was released in theaters back in 1982. I was 15 years old. And was I ever disappointed by it. Nothing works in this film the pace is slow and plodding; the story is almost non-existent; the action is badly edited and never catches fire; the music, as good as it is, is omnipresent and badly used; the acting...eh, what acting? The dialogue is hilarious with the voice-over being totally pointless; the look/design unimaginative and colorless; the whole production is uninspired and workman-like. Aside from the score, there isn't a single memorable thing in the whole film except when Conan punches the camel. That's it. And that scene was even repeated in the uber cheesy CONAN THE DESTROYER. But the biggest fault with this mostly forgettable film is the fact that it doesn't resemble Howard's creation for one second. It's a Conan film in name only. I couldn't believe how little it resembled the books. The story was basically changed to suit Arnold's personality. The cunning character of the novels replaced by the big lug-headed antics of a bodybuilder/wannabe actor.In the end, the bland film is many parts Italian Sword & Sandal films (lots of Peplum clichés), part THE PRODIGAL (the Lana Turner Biblical flick), part ponderous Spaghetti Western, part Texas Chainsaw Massacre (cannibalism, with body parts hanging), part philosophical/intellectual/spiritual masturbation (a crucified Conan, which resembles the crucifixion scene in the great Spaghetti Western DJANGO KILL), part whatever but rarely original as a whole. The score is good but changes gears so quickly and so often that the director obviously has no clue on how to use music to boost the film's action. During the orgy scene, we hear three different scores one after the other as if one was listening to different tracks off a record, totally detached to what's going on on screen. Even the sets are pointless the film's main set-piece is the big staircase built on a mountain side that leads to...nothing. There's no castle, no fortress. Just a big stupid staircase that goes nowhere. It's almost as if they forgot to add the matte painting of the fortress in post-production. The fortress is supposed to be built within the mountain but visually as it is, it just looks stupid and cheap.There's very little dialogue in this film and what there is is hilarious. Here's an example Why do you cry? He's Conan. Cimmerian. He don't cry. So I cry for him. says the character with as much passion and conviction as someone buying a monthly bus pass.That's me on the floor laughing.The GILLIGAN'S ISLAND delivery of the dialogue belies the pretentious direction of Milius, who thinks he's doing APOCALYPSE NOW but ends up with something less solid than an average Roger Corman cheapie. Milius specifically said that he wanted to distance the character from as many fantasy elements of the books as possible because he, being a conservative, didn't care much for supernatural mumbo jumbo. Great choice for director who was responsible in bringing one of the greatest literary creations of fantasy to the big screen.No wonder they only made 2 Conan films. It was aborted from the start. They're supposed to do a reboot of the Conan character. Hopefully they will stay way clear of the Arnold films and focus on the actual pulpy novels but with the sad state of films/remakes these days, my hopes aren't high. "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegr plays big to the Barbarian Crowd! Oscar Time!","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Schwarzenegger has won the acceptance of the Hollywood community and the mayorship (and the nominations) because he has made the film they all wanted made.His argument that the barbarians are somehow just as bad as savages who killed their own is right where the community wants to be.Leni Riefenstahl and Michael Moore did their best to spew nonsense on behalf of their causes, but were hampered slightly because people knew they were making documentaries, and so they looked at their work a bit critically. Even if they didn't expect the documentries to be composed of falsehoods.Schwarzenegger's brilliance was in creating a new hybrid Historical Fiction category, thus putting his audience to sleep, thinking they were watching actual true events.This was smart because He could therefore focus on the murderers as victims, humanizing them. (Not bothering to show the murdered barbarians until the movie was over).He could create a fictional self-doubt imposed on the barbarians, where none actually existed.Look for him to clean up at the Oscars as the self hating barbarian community rallies around this commercial failure of epic proportions. "},{"Title":"The only barbarism is having to sit through it","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't be deceived. This film is terrible and I mean awful. How it launched Arnold Schwarzenegger's career I will never know. After this rotten piece of celluloid it's a miracle he wasn't consigned to the acting equivalent of the black pit of despair. I'm not sure where to start really. The cast does include a number of top actors, such as Max von Sydow and James Earl Jones but they are wasted. They really could be anybody. They struggle with the leaden dialogue and the impressive but utterly ridiculous costumes.The dialogue is an interesting point because the screenplay would probably fit on the back of a beer mat. Exposition is deemed a waste of time and large sections of the film are almost silent. I'd like to think this was an executive decision to avoid Arnie's poor English being exposed but I think it might just be dire scripting. When characters do speak, you rather wish they hadn't. The lack of exposition from the characters mean that (with things happening seemingly for no reason due to absurd plotting) you are quickly left with no idea of what is actually happening.The other point is that the wretched thing is so long. It goes on and on and really, if you don't leave the room repeatedly, it's my duty to warn that you might find yourself losing the will to live. If you like the soundtrack (which is very good but only in places - it can't save the film) then buy it but at all costs stay away from this atrocious excuse for a film. Watch Willow instead. Anything. "},{"Title":"What kind of movie viewer would give this movie even 1 or 2 stars?","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of Arnold's worst movies ever. The acting is pitiful. This movie is for people who are not entertained by a solid plot, human interaction and good content. If you enjoy poor acting and tasteless gratuitous nudity and sex. This movie is for you. If you enjoy fight scenes that look like something you would see in a parody movie then this movie is for you. The movies goes for several minutes with no human communication. The first words spoken are, Sit here. These words appropriately define the depth of all future dialog. I can't honestly say that I would rather be mugged than waste 129 minutes watching this movie but if I was only beat for a few minutes and I didn't lose any money, I might prefer to be mugged. It was quite painful to watch Arnold try to act excited or angry or hurt. His groans were absolutely annoying. Be forewarned. "},{"Title":"By Crom, it STINKS!","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this when it first came out and was shocked even then by the complete failure of the Hollywood hacks who made the film to either put Conan on the screen or even just make a decent movie. Phew. Recently, I tried to watch it again, twenty-odd years later - and I gagged. It's irredeemable. It's on a par with Plan 9. Only it's more boring.Why didn't they READ the books? WHAT were they thinking? Conan was created and made real for readers by a seminal pulp writer, one Robert Ervin Howard, a colleague of Lovecraft and others. He was the man who, in one reviewer's phrase, perfected the supernatural adventure story. Conan was his most popular creation - a taciturn, indomitable, blue-eyed powerhouse - by turns a thug, thief, gang-leader, captain, hero, king. Conan spoke little, did much, and was never beaten. He traveled and strove in a reality that Howard created, a thick, palpable, concrete world, an ancient reality, as though Jack London were writing stories not of Alaska but - with the same grit and vigor - of Ancient Assyria or Medieval France. And better still, to this was added the creatures and world of Lovecraft and Clark Ashton Smith, the supernatural dimensions of undreamt-of, yawning, Hellboy-style gulfs of pitch-darkness and groping nightmare. Pitted against this, alone, lithe but steel-muscled, was the black-browed Conan.Yet, in the movie, we're presented not with the brooding, taciturn ubermensch who bears that name, but with some long-haired victim who happens to have big muscles. Instead of a smart, strong and infinitely tough young man who never knew a childhood, we get a kind of dumb kid, who is growing up. Instead of a grim Sergio Leone-style loner, we get Goofy.Any one of the good Conan stories would have been a wonderful movie, faithfully made, acted out by real actors, invested with decent special effects, and articulated by artists who KNEW the stories, who KNEW the character and the world they needed to recreate. But no, instead these people neglected the story, sloshed some of the names around, neglected acting, neglected the Conan character itself, and in general gave us a drama-less, plodding, amateur-night fantasy with some fake blood, a fake snake, and James Earl Jones in a wig. It's Conan in name only, and barely that.A real Conan movie would be part Ben-Hur, part Sword of Doom, part the Hellboy-dimension of elder evil, and crafted with the sincerity that Jackson and company put into Lord of the Rings. That Conan movie, however, is still waiting to be made. "}{"Title":"The worst film I've ever seen?","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Terrible acting (especially from Arnold), bad footage and camera angles, unrealistic, plastic, unemotional, brutal, boring, too long for being this kind of a movie, bad action scenes...even the music is unacceptable. Some pretty girls. One of the worst films I've seen. 1 out of 5. "},{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen.  There are absolutely no redeeming characteristics what-so-ever.  Arnold can barely speak English, but don't worry, he makes up for it by copulating with or killing everything in sight.  I would highly recommend finding something else to rent! "},{"Title":"Terrible fantasy flick","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the worst fantasy films ever made. The effects were bad, even for the time when this was made. Also, Arnold Schwarzenegger performance was terrible, just like in all the films where he appears (He never made a single good film Many people consider this to be two of the best films with him, but I found just bad as the others) But besides that, the comics of Conan the Barbarian were pretty bad All were boring and with ugly and uninspiring and stupid stories. Also, none of the characters of this movie were likable, I hated all of them.This movie is awful. If you want to see a good action flick, see Watchmen. And if you want to see a good fantasy flick, see In the Name of the king. "}]