[{"Title":"Exhilarating action thriller.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"132 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** 1/2 out of ****After so many years The Road Warrior still remains one of the most exhilarating action films to ever grace the screen.  The car chases are as excitingly pulse-pounding as ever and no film has yet to surpass the final chase as the best in movie history.  Yes, in terms of pure action, not many films have been able to equal The Road Warrior's thrills.The film takes place presumably years after the conclusion of Mad Max.  The world has been devastated by a third world war and has suffered a setback by he rarity of gasoline. The loner, Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson) is still wandering around the Australian wasteland, thousands of miles from civilization, in search of gasoline.  He comes across a gyro-pilot (Bruce Spence), who tells him of a compound that's producing fuel.Max brings the pilot along with him and studies the compound from atop a cliff.  It seems a large gang also wants the gasoline and has been besieging the refinery for a long time now.  They are a pack of madmen, led by the Humungus, a hugely muscular man who wears a hockey mask to cover his face. An attempt is made by the people inside the compound to find a rig large enough to haul the fuel but the effort is brought down when Humungus' men take down all the cars.Max, finding a perfect moment to strike a bargain, makes a deal with one of the survivors and makes it to the compound.  Eventually, he makes another deal there, as he tells the people inside that in return for as much gasoline as he can carry, he'll bring the rig to them.  What follows is classic edge-of-the-seat action entertainment.Having inspired dozens of rip-offs, The Road Warrior still remains the best of the bunch due to the great lead performance from Mel Gibson and the unrivalled car chases, which are very much worth mentioning.  The movie begins with a rousing commentary over the events that led to the destruction of government.  What follows next is a short and exciting car chase.  True, the following half-hour does move by a bit slowly, but it all builds up to a lightning paced final 45 minutes.The final chase, in particular, is an exercise in action craftsmanship. Director George Miller has staged one of the most brilliant and downright exciting action scenes ever.  So many spectacular stunts and on-road carnage occur during this sequence, to describe it simply wouldn't do it justice.Miller's cinematography is decidedly Un-Hollywood.  He gives us many breathtaking camera angles, some of which are sometimes a bit shaky, which serves to make the action even more involving.  Looking back at the film now, it might not appeal to a wide range of viewers.  The odd characters (mainly the villains), ultra-violence, dark tone, and the sparse dialogue may seem a little too offbeat for some people.Mel Gibson remains the only world-renowned actor in the whole film.  He does a terrific job as the character Max, one of his best and most interesting characters.  The development of Max is another intriguing component of The Road Warrior, and serves the film by giving it a human edge by featuring Max's slow transformation from loner to savior.  Not only that, Gibson also creates a great action hero.  There's not a moment in the film when we aren't rooting for Max to smash Humungus and his gang. Bruce Spence as the gyro-pilot is decent in his role and offers the film's few humorous moments.Virginia Hey is also pretty good as the Warrior Woman, and though the script doesn't exactly give her a lot to do, she plays the part well.  Mike Preston also shows a lot of honor as the compound's leader.On the other side of the equation are the actors who portray the villains. Surprisingly enough, though the characters are outlandish, no one ever goes over-the-top.  Vernon Wells and Kjell Nilson are absolutely menacing and frightening as the lead villains, Wez and Humungus.  They personify evil itself, creating characters who we truly grow to despise.To be honest, I am a little surprised that the critics enjoyed this every bit as much as I did.  The film doesn't delve very deeply into philosophical issues and doesn't exactly have a lot of grand things to say.  I suppose with the acclaim this film received goes to show that critics do truly watch movies primarily for entertainment.As I mentioned before, the film was the benchmark of a genre that grew in popularity.  The premise of a loner helping a group of people in need has been used a bit too much now.  Most notably is the big-budget flop, Waterworld (which is a good movie I recommend), though none have yet to match the outright intensity of The Road Warrior.   "},{"Title":"MAD MAX - back and better than ever","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"96 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the enormous success of Mad Max in 1979, it was predictable that a sequel would follow. In fact, two sequels followed, and the first of these is Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior.Released in the U.S. simply as The Road Warrior, Mad Max 2 begins with a narration re-introducing us to wandering ex-cop Max (Gibson) ... and then we're off. In post-apocalyptic Australia, Max wanders the nuclear waste lands in search of Earth's most precious resource gasoline. When he discovers a band of people guarding a large deposit of fuel, he lends his services as a driver to help them escape from a vicious group of bandits intent on taking the gas for themselves.Mad Max 2 is one of the best sequels ever. It's everything the original was and more. Mel Gibson is great, and the cast performs very well. Brian May's skills as a composer have improved, and he gives a very fast-paced score. George Miller's directing skills have also improved, and he deals us out some intense car sequences that have yet to be rivaled.This film is special because, although it was very popular when released and is even more popular now, it is unique in that it is not afraid to be just that. If that confused you, let me put it this way George Miller has created a film that, while trying to improve the flaws from past films, is not afraid to be original and un-Hollywood. And I must say, Mr. Miller pulls it off excellently.I love The Road Warrior as well as the rest of the Mad Max series. I would say that Mad Max 2 is quite possibly the greatest film to come out of Australia. It is one of Mel Gibson's best and one of the best sci-fi films ever. Mad Max 2 is essential. "},{"Title":"Not just a mindless action flick","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"86 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now I give this movie a 10 out of 10.  I used to only give it an 8.  Why the change?  Easy.  I watched the little things.Those of you who haven't seen it, stop reading now.  But for those of you who have...The first 8 of that ten comes from spectacular action sequences.  Anyone can see those.  What the other 2 points comes from is the subtle things that director George Miller slipped in there that you would only notice the second time you watch.Missed by almost everyone else's comments is that The Road Warrior is simply a locked room puzzle.  The good guys have the gas and want to escape from their compound to the coast.  But if they try to leave, they will surely be killed by the savages waiting outside who only want their gas. Their solution is completely unexpected, yet when you watch it again, it is telegraphed the entire movie.For instance, when Pappagallo is giving an inspirational speech to the good guys about how that vehicle is going to haul their gas to the coast, the vehicle in the background is NOT the tanker, as it should be, but instead the school bus that eventually takes them, and the gas, to freedom.And what will the tanker be hauling?  Notice the day before the escape when Pappagallo talks about driving the tanker with Max.  He stares blankly into an hourglass, filled with SAND.  He already knows he's not coming back, as his diversionary tactic will surely get him killed.Anyone who claims The Road Warrior is merely a testosterone-laden guy flick should watch it again.  What it REALLY is is the tightest, smartest, pure-action movie ever made.  No moment is without significance.  No moment is wasted.  It is a testament that every post-apocalyptic movie is referred to as The-Road-Warrior-on-'x'.  The next time you watch it, REALLY watch it.  You'll find there's more there than you ever thought there was before. "},{"Title":"the best movie Gibson has ever been in","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"95 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I saw this at a friends recommendation was in 1985 on our brand new VHS vcr. I was absolutely blown away by it at the age of 16 and I still watch every few months on DVD now.I would give anything to see this on a big screen. This movie started a real trend for a lot of real crappy B movies to follow unfortunately and Mel Gibson has called this movie with an apologetic shrug 'classy B-grade trash' which is sad because it would prove to be his best movie by far. What I truly liked about this film was its lack of dialogue and how it was smart enough to let its settings, action and costumes do the talking. Perhaps this is why Gibson didn't have much praise for it because he is merely a representation of the Western gunslinger in the film. I liked how there was a sketchy explanation of how the world got into such an apocalyptic mess and lets the viewer make their own conclusion to that end. It's not important anyways. The lack of ammunition is indicated quickly through the Wez's use of a wrist-strapped crossbow, the very preciousness of gasoline is established quickly as well by Max's anxious mopping up of it and capturing it in a few make-shift items including a dusty soldier's helmet.The original Mad Max had too much dialogue and proved problematic for the 18 year old Gibson to convey the emotion of losing his family and best friend. It had it's moments but in the end it lost it's impact due to it's own clumsy attempt at trying to establish the family-man Max. The Road Warrior didn't try to attempt any deep characterizations, the pain and suffering was quick and obvious, the need to just survive in this stark world conveyed through a few spoken words and violent actions. George Miller got it right with this one, unfortunately he had to make Mad Max first to get to Mad MaxII and horribly had to make Mad MaxIII. "},{"Title":"on the Road Again with Mad Max and his Dog","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"69 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" But most of all, I remember the Road Warrior. By this time, many people have forgotten that this set the standard for kinetic action on the roadways. The memories fade as the years go by, new action films are released, such as Speed(94), which seem to set new standards. But, it's not really the case. The Road Warrior has yet to be bested, and no amount of money, computer technology or loud noises will ever accomplish the deed. Nothing will ever capture the apocalyptic intensity or, most of all, the sheer elegance of combat on the roads, as depicted here. Raiders of the Lost Ark(81), for example, captured a more frenetic goofy-style action, also relentless, but not with the level of tension. It's exciting, sure, but it doesn't tie your stomach up in knots, leaving you drained yet begging for more.The sequel to Mad Max(79) - also a unique, tense experience - begins with an unusual prologue, giving the viewers a historical background on only half the screen. We are set up for a bombastic adventure, created as a new mythology for our perusal. Iconic figures abound, beginning with Max (Gibson) himself, of course. Here is the quintessential wandering loner hero/cowboy/samurai he is striking - damaged both physically & mentally - but an ultimate survivor. Here are his foes a scarred, massively-muscled atomic-age conqueror and his dogs, garbed in battle-dress for instant death and destruction. Here is his conscience the last vestiges of civilization grouped in a makeshift fort for a final gasp of decency. When these three factions clash, it's the end of the world as we know it. Welcome to the new world of The Road Warrior.The Road Warrior influenced the sub-genre of post-holocaust science fiction throughout the eighties. There were numerous imitators, mostly low-budget efforts, and none of them came close to succeeding at this level. I hope not too many people continue to forget where it all began for this thrilling corner of the sci-fi adventure genre. It is to our downfall and regret that we forget. "},{"Title":"One helluva film!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"59 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Studio executives today could use a film like this one, or its predecessor right about now. The Mad Max films were thrown together with great skill on absolutely shoestring budgets and made a king's ransom in profits. Nowadays we just seem to get one big-budget failure after another, as the box office slump now extends into its fourteenth week.Mad Max 2 (or The Road Warrior, as it is commonly called here in the USA) is an extraordinary sight to behold. The story centers on a loner (Mel Gibson) who roams the post-apocalyptic wasteland of Australia in search of gasoline so he can... I guess just keep driving. He is a man who lost his wife and child to a murderous gang of bikers in the previous film. He seems to be without a soul, or any feeling for his fellow man. One day he corners a man who tells him about a refining community besieged by a gang of ruthless outlaws. Thirsty for the large amount of fuel this community has, Max barters his way inside. To his dismay, the community has no plans to let him just take the fuel and run. They use him to provide them with a vehicle big enough to haul that fat tank of gas, and by the climax of the film, he is driving the fuel through a gang of about fifty or more savages looking to take it for themselves. Max never really endears himself to anyone, but you can feel the humanity within him as he volunteers to drive the tanker. After just surviving a horrendous accident he can barely walk, but he knows he's their only chance.This film is absolutely breathtaking. The characters we meet inside the walls of the refining community are stubborn and resourceful, but just not strong enough to deal with that vermin on machines waiting outside for them. The vicious gang holding the community hostage are a motley crew of desperadoes. Many are dressed like WWE combatants. Some are even dressed in MFP uniforms similar to what Max and his fellow officers wore in part one. Are they former cops gone bad, or did they murder the cops to get the uniforms? We are never told. The script refers to these men as GAYBOY BERSERKERS. The various motorcycles, hot rods, and trucks used in the film have to be seen to be believed. Maybe more fuel-efficient vehicles would be a better idea for a world so short on fuel! But these souped-up vehicles make for some great chase scenes! You have to hand it to the stunt men who worked on this film. With no CGI to do the work for them, many of them were putting their lives at risk each day. Both stunt team leaders Max Aspin and Guy Norris were severely injured during filming. Aspin was driving the car that went airborne after we see the driver shot in the back with the four-way arrow gun. I believe he suffered a concussion when it landed just short of the fortress wall. Norris shattered his ankle after being launched off a motorcycle and sent flying through the air in one spectacular shot during the final chase scene.The film has a great soundtrack, as well by Brian May. (Not the guy from Queen) Not too many lines are spoken throughout the film, but so what? This is a film about action, and it's a treat to watch it any time. The Hound will give it 10 of 10 stars. What a way to introduce American moviegoers to Mel Gibson!! "},{"Title":"The quintessential action film","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"54 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My life fades. The vision dims.  All that remains are memories.  I remember a time of chaos.  Ruined dreams.  This wasted land.  But most of all, I remember the Road Warrior...What can be said that hasn't already?  The Road Warrior is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular action films ever made.  It's very rare that I grant the score of 10 for a movie, but this one gets it and deserves it. From the opening imagery and narration, it almost seems like we're watching an alternate reality rather than a future sci-fi film, much unlike Mad Max's A FEW YEARS FROM NOW... prologue.  This was a film that inspired countless ripoffs and wannabes; perhaps imitation is the most sincere form of flattery (I was secretly hoping the Y2K computer bug would destroy society so that I could put on my black leather jacket, get a pair or half-pair of football shoulder pads, and a sawed-off shotgun so I could drive around the desert and kill people for their gasoline).    I've always loved movies presenting larger-than-life heroes.  Indiana Jones, Conan, Dirty Harry, Flash Gordon, James Bond, Luke Skywalker, Robocop, whoever Jackie Chan or Bruce Lee play, John McClain ...  the list goes on and on.  But Mel Gibson's Mad Max is #1 on my list of the greatest action movie protagonists of all-time.       "},{"Title":"My Dad Was Right !!","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"68 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Iam a big action move fan and have seen mostly all the best and worst Hollywood action films ever.But for some reason i still don't know why i kept ignoring this movie for years in spite of hearing so many good things about. sure, i like Mel Gibson, I've seen all the lethal weapon movies.My dad always told me that the first 2 mad max movies are great but i kept ignoring these movies and man i was SO wrong.This weekend i had nothing great to rent and i rented the first 2 mad max films and yes i was blown away. These movies are light years ahead of all the modern action movies, the camera work the setting sound effects ,editing everything is just superb. mad max 2 is a legendary action film for me and I am going to add this to my collection.It's not filled up with unnecessary action but when it starts it blows u away. Mel Gibson was great . Now I am interested in watching all George miller movies , i don't know how many else he has made. If u r looking for a great action movie, pick this one. U will love it.8 on 10. "},{"Title":"Like fine wine, improves and enriches with age....","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"39 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit that at first viewing, I wasn't the greatest fan of this film and preferred the original 1979 classic. However, on more recent viewings, I have grown to admire director George Miller's signature style, which matured from MAD MAX into the bigger budget and riskier MAD MAX 2 (THE ROAD WARRIOR) Utilising the oil strikes of the 70's and transposing them into a futuristic context, Miller builds a sense of desperation into the road movie structure and wisely incorporates the successful elements of the original MAD MAX into a broader canvas. The dialogue is sharper, the action more defined and Vernon Wells is a far greater villain than the Toecutter in MAD MAX. The hero-as-saviour is another clear motif throughout the film and Mel Gibson thankfully uses his charisma to disguise his limited use of dialogue. A true classic as time goes on.... "},{"Title":"Concentrated testosterone, and fun","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this may be the greatest 'car movie' ever made. The chase scenes are gritty and thrilling, and quite realistic. None of that 'car falls over cliff and blows up' crap.In the fighting/war scenes, it plays a perfect balance between hidden action and open action, never overselling the gore nor underselling the violence.The plot is an excuse to have a long highway battle, but I'm not complaining. It's vaguely feasible enough that you don't worry much about it, just accept it as a needed background to hang the fun stuff on. Oh, to be a stunt driver in this movie! Or even to be a mechanic! That would be a story to tell your children.This is every driving fantasy I've ever had, and played perfectly. I know that certainly flavors my review, but tell me that movies which are cathartic for you haven't affected YOU that way?Bottom line thin plot, heavy action, decent characterization. Symbolism absent, directness the rule of the day. Jump on this bandwagon and ram something. Fun all the way. "}{"Title":"A Classic Action Film...","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those who have not seen any of the Max Max films, do yourself a favor and get to your local rental store. Max Max 2 or The Road Warrior as released in the United States, is undoubtedly one of the greatest action films I have ever seen. Starring a young Mel Gibson, who plays the title character, Max, this film is practically at the pinnacle of action films, surpassed only by a few select others. But moving on, this movie quite simply rocks! The setting is a post-apocalyptic world where fuel is hard to come by and so is human life, for that matter. Max, having moved on from tragedy in the first film, (you really shouldn't be reading this if you haven't seen the first one) has now become a Road Warrior, wandering the desert landscapes aimlessly. He eventually finds a small, surviving settlement with a surplus of fuel. However, the town is repeatedly terrorized by a gang of outlaw motorcyclists, led by Lord Humungus. Through a series of staggering events, Max becomes involved with the town's efforts to finally rid themselves of the biker gang. The performances are good enough to propel the film forward and Mel Gibson does a great job reprising the role he made famous in the first installment. The embittered Max and the hopefuls in the town play well off each other and bring dramatic character interaction, uncommon for many present action films. But of course, the film's scenes of brilliance arrive in the form of its action sequences. The action is choreographed well and Max is unrelenting as are the members of the biker gang. The ending sequence is one of the most memorable action portions I have ever seen in any film, past or present. The music played throughout balances and abets the action sequences, adding a furious intensity. Even scenes with the motorcycle gang feature hard-metal rock that suits the tone of the film well. Needless to say, the film seriously delivers all the way to the finish line.The shots of the post-apocalyptic world are frightening and barren, giving a glimpse into what could be. Panoramic shots of the wasteland are featured and even signs of hope are doled out by the camera crew. Of course, this film's true merit will always be its action but where other action films fail with sloppy camera work and boring characters and plot lines, Mad Max 2 succeeds, giving the great journey of a debilitated man and a secluded group. And through all these components, Max Max 2 rises above the rest of the films in the action genre. Ultimately, this film is one of the best action films of all time. It doesn't place all its eggs in that basket, mind you; it features memorable characters, a well-developed setting, and an incredible story. It belongs to a select list of films where a sequel outdoes the predecessor. Max Max 2 is better than the first in every way and stands out on its own as an exceptional action film. "},{"Title":"This stirring movie in comic-strip style is packed with unbelievable car stunts, thrills, chills and noisy action","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Violent movie about a futuristic road-warrior cop with high-velocity action and kinetic energy .This classic is set a few years from now, a dangerous, desolate post-industrial world of the future where rules the strongest law . It concerns about the ex-police named Max (Mel Gibson), some cutthroats and revenge takes place. The nasties attack , rape, ravage to hapless and unfortunates. But vengeance will be terrible against some bands of depraved crazies thirsty for blood on high facility roads. A group (commanded by Mike Preston) located at an oil fortress is besieged by motorised warlords looking for fuel and they'll have to fight against the cutthroats, a band of depraved crazies (Vernon Welles and several others) thirsty for blood and survive some battles to-the-death with lots of blood and gore, including throating-slit ,beheading, impaling and blow up.This exciting picture packs kinetic action , thrills, chills, shocks and abundant violence. Spectacular stunt-work plenty of motorcycle races, cars with bounds and leaps and explosions . Top-notch Mel Gibson as revenger angel at one of his first main roles, he embarks a spectacular escape against vicious murderous. Rumbling and screeching musical score fitting to action by Brian May. Special and weird futuristic atmosphere created by cameraman Dean Semler who reflects splendidly the barren outdoors. The motion picture is stunningly directed by George Miller, author of the excellent post-apocalypse ¨Mad Max¨ trilogy along with the writer and producer Byron Kennedy. It's followed by ¨Mad Max beyond Thunderdome¨ with Tina Turner, George Ogilvie, Frank Thring and again Bruce Spence as sympathetic helicopter pilot. In addition, numerous imitations as the recent ¨Doomsday¨(2008, Neal Marshall), rip offs, and exploitations ,especially Italians products. Rating  Good, better than average, this is one of the most successful Aussie movie of all time. This remarkable action film will appeal to Science Fiction buffs. Rating  8'5, Above average. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"How did they make this work so well?","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Neil Marshall, who happens to be one of my favourite directors, actually failed to create any real excitement in his 80s homage 'Doomsday'. It copied a lot of elements from the Mad Max films, but it didn't work out. 'Road Warrior' managed to be silly, funny, scary, exciting, and altogether outrageous, but it was a delight to watch from beginning to end. It's one of those films that venture into the territory of utter silliness and somehow make it work. It is a rare achievement, and I applaud the filmmakers for what they accomplished with 'Road Warrior'. The humour in the film is rather crude, but still most enjoyable. I find it astonishing that they put a bald bodybuilder with a mask and SM-outfit in the film and somehow made it work. Moreover the bodybuilder proceeds to put a maniac with bare butt cheeks into an arm lock and then chains him to a car as punishment for misbehaving, and yet the film remains enjoyable and the action believable. We remain in the universe the film creates, despite its outrageous character. And that is an incredible accomplishment.What really makes the film work are the action sequences. There is a lot of driving here, and although I am no fan of car chases, these chases I absolutely loved. There are great stunts here, no CGI, no cheap tricks. These stunts are real and the action is well choreographed. I give this film ten stars simply for managing to ride that fine line between great entertainment and utter silliness. As many other films proved, it's a hard line to ride. "},{"Title":"Violent, destructive action sequel. What it lacks in plot it makes up for with energy and action.","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 (or The Road Warrior, as it is frequently referred to) is a visually impressive, thinly plotted action movie that does what it sets out to do with a great deal of success. Let it be noted from the start this film isn't trying to be the twentieth century answer to Shakespeare. The objective here is to present high-octane action and stunts in the most eye-popping, visceral manner possible. Within the parameters of its own agenda, Mad Max 2 is a great film. If you come to the film seeking great depth, ongoing characterisation, clever dialogue and such like, you won't find what you're looking for. If you want to experience an exhilarating action film &#150; and, let's face it, we all need to watch films for entertainment every now and again &#150; then Mad Max 2 delivers by the tanker-load! Following the death of his wife and child, former Australian traffic cop Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson) has become a scavenger who cruises the lawless roads of post-apocalypse Oz in search of fuel. Every time he finds an abandoned or crashed vehicle, he uses bowls, bottles and other such containers to bleed off whatever precious fuel may be left in it. The roads are riddled with similar scavengers, some of whom are even more violent and desperate than Max. Following a dramatic pursuit against a group that includes the fearsome, mohican-wearing Wez (Vernon Wells), Max befriends a man who pilots a primitive form of chopper, known simply as the Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence). The Gyro Captain guides Max to a nearby oil depot in the middle of the desert, populated by a bunch of relatively law-abiding and fair-minded people. However, the depot is under constant threat from a gang of marauders who circle it day and night, taunting those inside with threats of violence and torture, and capturing the desperate few who occasionally try to drive away from the oil compound in a bid for freedom. Among this gang of sadists is Wez, but he is nothing compared to the gang leader &#150; a terrifying masked goliath known as the Humungus (Kjell Nilsson). Max manages to get into the oil depot, where he offers his assistance to the defenders within if they will give him some fuel in return.Mad Max 2 features a number of good points. The costumes are imaginative, the vehicles are intriguing, the setting looks appropriately bleak - while it is most definitely a low-budget film (admittedly, though, slightly more expensive-looking than Part One), the makers have come up with ingenious ways of concealing their limited funds. Performance-wise, the script doesn't ask much of the cast, although Gibson demonstrates a degree of charisma and Spence as the Gyro Captain turns in a weird but arresting acting job. Perhaps the most memorable performance comes from a young lad named Emil Minty, who plays the Feral Kid (a strange, animalistic boy who protects his people with a razor-sharp boomerang!) The stunt work is absolutely incredible, more so when one reflects that there are no fancy computer generated effects here, just a lot of meticulously prepared stunts and crashes performed by a team of extraordinarily brave stunt drivers. Also noteworthy is the intense music by Brian May. Mad Max 2 is violent, trashy, fast-paced fun &#150; a film that doesn't set itself ambitions above its station, and is all the better for it. Perhaps the best of the trilogy. "},{"Title":"A Gripping Film, Start to Finish...Awesome!","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Mad 2, The Road Warrior never fails to impress. A low budget masterpiece of film-making. The films gritty kinetic energy is done out on an open highway in an Australian Desert. A Future of no law...of no order...of pure survival amongst those who wish to keep humanity alive. The film is more advanced than it's predecessor, toning down on the words and focusing on the action. It also utilizes Mel Gibson's youthful heroic image without cliché. He is a wonderful hero and creation.The film is a marvel to look upon at times with it's rapid cuts and car stunts. The actors all fit well into this world of chaos especially the little Feral boy and his boomerang. Sexual images emerge throughout and the homo erotic undertones lie very close to the subconscious.The Antagonists and Protagonists play well off each other. Evil vs Good. The evil in this film is scary!!! A future after a Mass Destruction where Gasoline is Gold and Humanity is an endangered species.One of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"An Action Masterpiece","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I propose that every action movie director be required to watch these movies. The tetrology is everything that action movies should be fast-paced, adrenaline-pumping, and borderline insane but also geographically-minded, well-shot, weighted, and artistic. When people talk about the beauty in a post-apocalyptic future, this is what comes to mind. The landscapes are stark, the world cruel, the conditions demanding. But not so much that you can't take a step back and admire them. George Miller, you are a master.When I watched Happy Feet a few years back, I enjoyed it fine. But I was shocked to learn that it was made by the man who made these masterpieces. Now, every time I watch that movie, I expect gritty trucks to burst into the colorful frames and start running over the penguins. Kudos to Mr. Miller for managing to make an impact on both animation and live-action, there are not many people who can claim that.One would think those movies unconnected to these masterpieces. But think about it. If you're an animation buff like me, you know that animation often uses many different angles to establish the landscapes they have created, planting them firmly in your mind. Do you know what other movie series makes extensive use of that? This one. They may be tangentially connected, but they are connected nonetheless.And as a last note before I go from this series as a whole to the particular movie that I am today reviewing no, I have not seen the latest movie in the franchise. I hear it is fantastic and I plan to pick it up on DVD, but it was a bit inconvenient for me to go to the theatre for the time in which it was widely playing. With that in mind, I do say that this is the best of the original three movies and the one most people think of when they think of Mad Max. It is such to the original trilogy of these movies what the Dark Knight is to the Dark Knight Trilogy.Actually, TDKT is an appropriate comparison for more reasons than that both first entries are remembered and loved. Both second entries are stunning pictures that form the majority of the public's opinion of the series. And the third movie is a widely contested entry that probably receives more of a hatedom than it deserves thanks primarily to the fact that they did not live up to the heights of the previous two movies.There is a reason that this is the film that people think of when Mad Max pops into their head. It has a style all its own. While the first movie saw the world falling into disrepair, this movie goes full out dystopian and is better for it. The colors, the people, the ideas, the use of gasoline as a resource as valuable as water these ideas do not belong exclusively to the Mad Max franchise, but they are as tied to it as the Empire State Building is to NYC. Mel Gibson, though he delivers fine, stoic performances in these movies is not essential to making a Mad Max movie. These things are. And this movie has them in spades.To explain the plot would be an insult to the film. These are not Fincher movies and they do not try to be. The plot is as basic as the plot to an eighties video game. Go here. Do this. Pick up that. Bring it back here. Defeat the villain. The characters are not even much more defined tan your standard hero from that decade of gaming. The acting is not bad. But there is simply not much acting to be done. This is not a bad thing. Not in this movie, at least. Instead, it allows all the focus to put onto the two elements that define a Mad Max movie like the Burj Khalifa defines the current skyline of Dubai action and atmopshere.And oh is this film filled with it. I wanted to sink into the film within the first ten minutes of my first watching. And it helped me do it. To go back to how some of Miller's strengths fit animation perfectly, almost every great animated movie that I've watched, particularly the Miyazaki films, have created a world that my mind could and wanted to absorb. But there are only a handful of live-action movies for which I can say the same. I love the Social Network (to pull a great film out of the air) but I would never say that it strikingly consumed my soul. But this movie did.At the end of the day, the only thing I have to say is, Wow, Miller, wow. For my money (not that I have a lot of it), he is the best action director of our time. Fury Road may have taught that fact to my generation but it has been true for decades on end. There are few movies that are more startling, stirring, and arousing than this one. In fire and sand, it carves its way into movie mythos. It is a film that deserves to be studied and learned from for as long as the art of cinema seeks to remain that, an art. Any day in which this film is watched is a lovely day indeed. "},{"Title":"Warriorworld","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the far distant past and during the post-gasolypse where men, women and grunting children fight their right to fuel, comes a man with a sorta past, a band of unshowered rebels fighting even dirtier fuelites bent on causing confusion and a paradise just beyond the sandy horizon&#x85;The Road Warrior kinda, almost continues the story of an ex-cop in a crumbling future. Before, it was about control which falls apart once supercop and absolutely mild-mannered Max loses his family to unruly bikers. Now, he's just a wanderer attempting to fuel his vehicle so he can continue to roam and eat the dog food which should go to his, um, dog.The movie begins with the worst of all stock footage scenes outside the MST3k world and explains WAR has come to this planet over&#x85;gas. At any rate, Maxie Boy adapted and gets caught up in a feud from more rebels attempting to infiltrate another group of survivors and their long-term goal of a coastal getaway.And speaking of their mission in one of the most unintentionally hilarious scenes, they state their goal is to leave the harsh, desolate and shade-less desert and go to paradise because there's plenty of&#x85;sunshine?Actually, I digress. This movie was oodles better than the first GRINDHOUSE mess of a Bmovie. It had direction, a far less domineering and better score, a minute amount of heart and character and one of the most ruthless, brutal and most importantly, honest climaxes I've seen. Meaning, people die when our heroes venture from their middle-of-nowhere sanctuary to get to the Northern-Most Paradise and you'll never guess who lives or dies. Okay, maybe one or two characters, but the rest were relentlessly slaughtered and it's a shocker. Sad, but refreshing from the goody-two-shoes normality of cinema in general.Question When will Max ever get mad? In #1 he's fairly mild to the point of extremely calm. And yes, we know Mel can get mad, vicious, even&#x85;though that's actually in the far distant future. Here, he might portray a semi-crazy individual for his road warrior'ing skills, but other than that use of the word mad, I still have yet to see a MAD side of this character. Perhaps further in Thunderdome? I can see where they felt the first was an iconic, albeit so-bad-its-enjoyable feature whereas a lot of the same qualities carried over. Such as CRAZY side characters, both good and bad, a lot of desert and lone road scenes and, of course, the gayness lives on, including a whole bunch of pink. The first movie had plenty of homoerotism, and part 2 carried on that tradition. Assless chaps on a guy who's in love with (and yes, they say that) another male and they ride very close on a motorcycle together with the assless chaps touching the other chap. Also, apparently, in the future, bondage including whips, chains, masks and male-on-male control is wildly accepted.Beyond the Valley of the Semi-Gays, lives a surprisingly, yet, partially enjoyable throwback to the early eighties. If you love those movies, where they put very little thought into the script &#x96; such as, Gas = Gold in this future, but everyone finds it satisfying to waste a bunch of it while doing donuts on motorcycles &#x96; you'll probably like this. But be warned if you're a Gibson fan, such as I STILL AM, these first two films really don't define him as an actor or person. The mere nickname the character has, MAD MAX, should indicate a loony or angry individual, of which, he's neither &#x96; even when he's beaten down. "},{"Title":"It looked better than Mad Max","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior starts more or less where the first Mad Max movie ended. Since his wife and child were murdered by a gang of bikers he's completely on his own, driving trough the Australian desert. But one thing has changed after an apocalyptic nuclear war, much hasn't been left of the country and the most precious good in the world is now petrol. Wars are being fought for it between gangs of strange bikers and people who try to survive and protect the precious fluid with their lives. When Max stumbles on a small group of honest people running a remote oil refinery, he helps them to escape and survive the gang attacks, but for a price...Personally I liked the second movie more than the first one. I guess that is because it dared to be more innovative and creative. If you watch the biker gang, the group of honest people, the entire world and environment in fact, then you'll notice that the creators have taken more of their time to make it all look a lot better than in the first movie. The main reason for that may well be that they had a much larger budget than with the first movie of course.Even though it is still the best to watch the movies in the correct order to fully understand what is going on, you can also watch them separately. They can be seen as movies on their own and when you do so, you'll still understand everything of the story. Anyway, this is a good action / Sci-Fi movie that had plenty of good things to offer. A good story, some nice acting, a lot of well developed action scenes... made it all look very good and professional. I enjoyed watching this movie and that's why I give it a 7/10, perhaps even a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is the best classic epic Post-Apocalyptic Action Science Fiction film in the Mad Max Franchise.","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is a 1981 Australian post-apocalyptic action film directed by George Miller. The film is the second installment in the Mad Max film series, with Mel Gibson starring as Max Rockatansky.I grew up with the Mad Max films and Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior Is my favorite best epic Post-Apocalyptic Action Classic Science Fiction film. I always loved The Road Warrior to death this film stayed in my heart. Fury Road and The Road Warrior are Equal for me so I am ranting them 10 and I always tried to take the first film of the Max series as the best one in the franchise but I couldn't, because it is just too dark is not post apocalyptic film enough, it has Drama between the film and the plot starts slow which becomes really boring. The Road Warrior is the opposite of Mad Max which just stayed in my heart and I just love this movie to death and I always will. Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior still remains one of the most exhilarating action films to ever grace the screen. The car chases are as excitingly pulse-pounding as ever and no film has yet to surpass the final chase as the best in movie history. Yes, in terms of pure action, not many films have been able to equal The Road Warrior's thrills.Mel Gibson remains the only world-renowned actor in the whole film. He does a terrific job as the character Max, one of his best and most interesting characters. The development of Max is another intriguing component of The Road Warrior, and serves the film by giving it a human edge by featuring Max's slow transformation from loner to savior. Not only that, Gibson also creates a great action hero. There's not a moment in the film when we aren't rooting for Max to smash Humungus and his gang.The Humungus and Wez for me were the best villains ever in the film. Bruce Spence as the gyro-pilot is decent in his role and offers the film's few humorous moments. And also he has a lot of scenes and a lot of things to do in this film. Like flying that flayer helping Max saving him, fighting against Humungus thugs. Emil Minty as The Feral Kid is awesome. The old man as the narrator from the beginning of the film is The Feral Kid, I love the relationship between him and Max. That's what I love in this film the acting is TERRIFIC from the actors. Virginia Hey as Warrior Woman is beautiful and fantastic in this movie. I seriously loved how she acted towards Max that he isn't trust worthy, he needed to win her trust. I love Max's dog he was so better than in the first movie the other dog was. You could even see a personality in this dog. I love this movie to death and will always be in my heart Forever. For me Mel Gibson is the only Mad Max Rockatansky!Grade A 10/10 Awesome Post/Apocalyptic/Action Classic/Science Fiction film. Studio Warner Bros. Starring Mel Gibson Director George Miller Producer Byron Kennedy Writers Terry Hayes, George Miller, Brian Hannant Narrator Harold Baigent Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 36 Mins. Released December 24, 1981 Budget $4.5 Million Box Office $34.5 Million "},{"Title":"Creates a world replicated numerous times but never bettered","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Mad Max (1979), director George Miller showed us a eerie Australia on the verge on some kind of apocalypse. Bikers gangs roamed the desert roads raping and pillaging as they pleased, while a small group of cops did what little they could to keep law and order. Small communities still existed, shops were operational, and institutions still had some sense of organisation, but when Mad Max 2 picks up the story, civilisation as we know it is gone, and thugs in fetish biker gear do as they like. Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson), driven mad by seeing his wife and child slain, drives alone in his suped-up Pursuit Special hunting for what little petrol remains in the world.It seems he has as little humanity remaining as the mohawked reavers he routinely smashes off the road and executes, until a man known as the Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence) brings a nearby oil refinery to Max's attention. When he investigates, he finds a close-knit community desperately trying to protect what is rightly theirs from a huge gang under the command of a leather-masked brute known as Lord Humungus (Kjell Nilsson) who are laying siege. Max enters the refinery carrying one of their injured, hoping to trade the man for fuel. When the mad dies, so does Max's hopes of getting out there any time soon, and soon the community is turning to Max for help in the hope that he can retrieve a gas tanker capable of carrying their valuable load and lead them to safety.Mad Max 2's reputation as the one of the greatest action films ever made is not to be taken lightly. Good action should be clear, coherent and, of course, exciting, and the climax of the film, which takes up nearly of a third of the running time, is one of the greatest set-pieces ever committed to celluloid. It's basically one long chase scene, as a variety of cars and trucks converted to be bigger, faster and stronger try to take down the tanker. The stunts are performed so perfectly that it will make you wonder how certain shots were filmed without any fatalities. It works as a western too, with Max playing the role of the silent stranger who unwittingly becomes the hero. It may have the slimmest of plots, but Mad Max 2 is pure energy within a fantastically realised world; a world that has been replicated numerous times but never bettered. "}{"Title":"Mean machinery","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Something endears about how this almost never became a franchise, or didn't become one until after this. The first was another exploitation movie about a man seeking revenge, only more riproaring than most. The character was brought back for this and it was also not supposed to lead to more. They had more of a budget here, still none of Lucas' engineering a whole world, with trajectory and conclusions. Here more than the first, they created a sense of world, an edge of which we happened to explore in this episode and left behind in the dust upon conclusion. A lone antihero (no longer a cop) steps out from the sands, becomes embroiled in a squabble between rival clans, the plot around an ambush, the circling savages. In western films it might have been a carriage of gold, or people besieged in some outpost, but everything here recalls westerns.I always thought it amusing how this is a world where gas guzzling beasts are driven around the outback for miles in search of scarce gas. Baddies are dressed in bondage and punk attire, figments of what would be menacing to 80s viewers I guess. It did create a whole futureworld as much as Bladerunner and Star Wars (and with a fraction of the means), rival gangs roaming a wasteland is now firmly entrenched as one of possible futures for mankind in the pop mind. It's really the barreling heavy metal of the action that makes it, more so when you think it's from the time before computers when it was all something you actually crashed. Amazing to think that the filmmaker was just a doctor before embarking on the first one. He proved to be an able mechanic of image, some masterful editing in both.Okay, so I'll take Alien, Bladerunner, Terminator, when in the vicinity, in that order. But for me this is like giving the edge to Lethal Weapon over Die Hard; both wildly effective, it's just a matter of which cinematic world appeals to me more. In specifics it has little to offer me. The way we're placed inside of that world still captivates, stretches of dust that scavengers roam and where the odd enclave may be. "},{"Title":"One of the All Time Best!","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior (a.k.a. Mad Max 2) is one of the seminal action movies to come out of the 1980s. It singlehandedly created the post-apocalypse genre and the look of said genre that still remains to this day.George Miller's direction in this sequel to Mad Max is of the highest caliber and the movie never even slows down to catch its breath. The greatest pleasure with a movie like this is that it's done in a pre-CGI world so the stunt work and chases are practical and as real as you can get for a movie. Show any fan of action the 18-minute finale and they'll be sold.The podcast Don and his Amazing Friend just released an audio commentary for this episode which is pretty great. You can find it on You Tube or on their website (www.donandhisamazingfriend.com). They have some great information and the episode can be watched with or without viewing the movie at the same time.And obviously...if you loved The Road Warrior be sure to see Mad Max Fury Road to witness what George Miller is still capable of creating with a massive budget behind him. "},{"Title":"I'm just here for the gasoline. -A classic, superior sequel","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A superior sequel to the original 'Mad Max' about survival and the endless, violent quest for petrol and assless chaps in a post apocalyptic Australian outback.I remember seeing this in the theatre, (which makes me feel really old) but it stands up well by todays standards. Its just a classic action film; ultra violent, very little dialogue, with unique (strange) characters and fantastic action/car chase sequences.Mel Gibson is perfect as a former Australian policeman now living as a drifter in a post-apocalyptic Australian wasteland. Through a series of events he agrees to help a community of survivors living in a gasoline refinery, helping transport their gas and defend them from The Humungus and the evil barbarian warriors.I did come away this time thinking that they wasted a hell of a lot of gas chasing each other around trying to steal each others gas. I also had to turn away when the blue healer got it. I enjoyed the return of The Gyro Captain and the Feral Kid/narrator, a fantastic character. Just a great movie. 09.13 "},{"Title":"This is more like it","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2, or the Road Warrior if you will, begins with something that the first Mad Max probably should have started with; a little setting exposition. All we knew at the beginning of the first was that is was set a few years in the future, in the Australian desert. This time we are told that it is a post apocalyptic future, overrun by biker gangs, and a drop of fuel is worth more than gold.The ending of Mad Max was disappointing but there was the promise of something epic to come. this is it. Now that we have gotten to know Mad Max, it's time for him to become a hero, and while he only has half as much to say in this one, he has five times as much to do. Max helps an isolated oil community fight back against an invading biker gang led by a goon in a Gladiator's helmet. He must help them to get to a paradise two thousand miles away, driving their precious oil tanker, while a battery of fire power and arrows comes after them.With so many wheels on the desert road, it's no wonder than Mad Max 2 kicks up more dust than any action film around, The climax is reminiscent of Steven Spielberg's Duel, only far more epic. For a b-movie, it gets quite intense, and even though the ending comes a bit quickly, there is a sense of closure to this one, but we are still left excited for more. "},{"Title":"A gulp o' guzzoline and a pair of leather chaps","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Aussie nomad is back - this time with a pariah hound in tow - and he's more disgruntled than ever. The army-issue crew cut and the boyish good looks are gone; this Road Warrior has a flyaway mop and there's a scowling weariness about him that suggests he might be partial to quaffing a little guzzoline himself... were it not in such short supply, of course. You see, gas is the currency of this post-apocalyptic wasteland, and Mad Mel - sorry, Max - soon finds himself wheeling 'n' dealing with a group of besieged settlers. They're about to make a burst for the coast (the Promised Land) with a bus-load of the flammable stuff. Hot on their heels is a biker/buggy gang that makes the Toecutter's goons look like The Goon Show.The incongruous association between the violent marauders and homosexuality is brought up a notch. Toecutter's gang was boyish and chummy, occasionally flamboyant; here, Lord Humungous reins over an orgy of semi-naked kinky boys, all pink hair and S&M leather. (Amongst the baddies is a certain Vernon Wells who, amazingly, in spite of the absence of a chain mail vest, manages to be more camp than Commando's Bennett.) The settlers, by comparison, garbed in their angelic white armour, variously form an (admittedly dysfunctional) hetero family unit - in the safety of the compound convene wives without husbands and sons without fathers, waiting for a wanderer to walk into their world...Pauline Kael described Mad Max 2 as sentimental. Indeed, the simplicity of the relationships on show might be too much to bear for fans of the original's fuller characters. This grouchy, selfish, silent Max brings the archetype to the fore; we see far more of our hero in this sequel, but learn far less about him. But what more do we have to learn? One could argue that the scene was set in part one, and now we can witness an exhilarating fight for survival in a setting too rarely presented in mainstream film.Mad Max 2 may heavily recall Akira Kurosawa's Seven Samurai and Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns, but at least it's got the good sense to borrow from the best. It's also worth remembering that it was influential in its own right. This was 1981; rarely, if ever, before had there been an action adventure so devoted to its own gloriously unembellished cause to provide a pure rush of adrenaline. Its thrills are relentless, and if you can tolerate Brian May's overbearing score all the way to the end, you'll find a climactic car chase that's never been bettered. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining and quickly paced action classic","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lets not fool ourselves. Even though its slightly more science fiction than the previous entry in the trilogy, The Road Warrior isn't really a sci-fi film despite the post-apocalyptic setting. It is, for the most part, an action film through and through. I'm not a massive fan of the action genre, but I must admit that The Road Warrior is one of the finest entries in the genre. Its lightning paced, very well made, and has a refreshing sense of general nihilism. It almost makes me wish that director George Miller had continued on this path instead of talking pig movies, because its obviously his forte. The performances here aren't on the level of Olivier, but what did you expect? As the laconic anti-hero, Mel Gibson shows why he is a movie star. Granted I detest the man in real life, but I'll admit he plays this role very well.So why am I giving this movie only a seven instead of a ten? Because its a real step down from the first Mad Max movie. I know most folks prefer this one because its more quickly paced and exciting, but Mad Max was a far more interesting film. The title character in the first entry was much more interesting, given a sense of moral ambiguity that made it difficult to fully root for him by the end. There was just a sense of nihilistic despair that was quite refreshing for what was essentially a biker flick. Plus, the villains were more original than the cartoon creations here. If viewed on its own standards, The Road Warrior plays as a much better film. Its still leagues ahead of the weak third entry in the series Beyond Thunderdome. (7/10) "},{"Title":"King of the road...","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Max (Played once again by Mel Gibson) helps a civilization fend off a brutal gang looking to steal the oil and perhaps kill everyone there. Max promises to steal a tanker in exchange for all the gas he can carry but after being roughed up and having his pet killed, Max agrees to lead the people out and deliver them from evil. Now this is a great movie! The Road Warrior features one of the greatest action sequences, if not, ever. Gibson barely speaks and the moody atmosphere make this a brilliant spectacle to say the least. Also this is what probably inspired Jason to put on the hockey mask as this predates Friday The 13th Part 3. This movie really kicks ass though.* * * * out of 4-(Excellent) "},{"Title":"A Step Up From The First One","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior is essentially what Mad Max should have been, and perhaps even what the filmmakers had intended to do in the first place. Either way, this film is fun. This time around, we get a back story to why the world is the way it is. Also, the world is a lot more run down than the first one, but we understand why because of this back story given. I also think that the character of Max is more fleshed out now, perhaps because of the events we saw him go through in the first film. Regardless, he feels more like a characters and he's really cool. The bad guys in this movie are also in a way very similar to the ones in the first movie, except this time around the film has a bigger budget so they can make them more crazy. This gang, led by the intimidating Lord Humungus, feels like what the gang from the first movie would have been if it hadn't been lower budget. Also, because the world they are in is more apocalyptic, it makes sense why these guys would be so wild and crazy. They are similar to a crazy aboriginal tribe or something along those lines, and they certainly pose a big threat.The best part about this movie has got to be the final chase. It's absolutely awesome. Lot's of crazy stunts and crashes that make it a lot of fun to watch. You gotta give the stunt crew a lot of credit for the stuff they do. One guy even broke his leg badly and they kept the take in! It's a delight to watch.Overall, this film is a fun cult classic. It's certainly better than Mad Max. It's the kind of movie you pop in to watch with your friends and just chill out. Also, Max is a total badass. "},{"Title":"It's the End of Civilization as We Know It. Natural Resources Squandered. Innocent Lives at Stake. Vicious Road Rage at an All-Time High. For Max, It's Just Another Day.","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In his turbocharged, Super V-8 Interceptor, Mad Max Rockatansky continues to tear up the highways and byways, looking for any and all kinds of trouble. It was a time of great desperation and the end of civilization as we know it. A huge, apocalyptic war broke out among men. They fought heavily, overusing their machinery and burning up natural resources until finally the world's supply of oil and gasoline was dangerously running low. Insanity crippled even the strongest man. Gangs of violent psychos roamed the back roads, causing trouble. One such brutal gang killed Max's wife and child, which drove him over the edge, and since then, he's wandered the desolate wastelands of the Australian Outback alone...With his dog. Today, after an encounter with a maniacal gang, Max was in great need of fuel and was willing to perhaps take a life or two for it. He stopped at a farm house and just as he was admiring a jerry-rigged flying machine, the owner, The Gyro Captain, jumped out and held him at gun point. Max quickly countered and held Gyro Captain at dog point. He told Max where to find all the gasoline he could ever want. Max makes him take him there. They arrive at a huge refinery compound in the middle of the desert. It pumped a 50 year supply of oil. It was also very heavily guarded so Max had to await the right time to go in, so they waited...And waited.Suddenly, Max spots a man and a girl being brutally accosted by a biker gang. By the time Max came to their rescue, the girl was dead and the man badly injured. He lived inside the compound and promised Max some gas for his return. Unfortunately, Max was welcomed into the compound with anything but open arms. They were quite hostile. They consisted of Papagallo, the leader, Zetta, Curmudgeon, Mechanic, Big Rebecca, and juvenile delinquent The Feral Kid. The man died after they entered so the deal was off. Just then, another hostile gang arrived at the compound. They rode motorcycles, dune buggies and oddly shaped cars. These crazed marauders were lead by that brutal psychopath Lord Humungus. He was here to take over the fuel compound. He gave them 24 hours to surrender, then he'd be back to seize the compound and slaughter everyone inside. They leave. Pappagallo was willing to defend the compound and their juice. He had a plan to transport their whole fuel supply 2,000 miles away to freedom. Max came forward then and offered his services. So, with five gallons of diesel fuel on his shoulders, Max hiked back down the road to a broken down rig he found earlier. Gyro Captain happened along then and just basically got in the way. Max and Gyro fix the rig, then as Max is driving it back, he encounters Humungous' gang who attempt to sabotage the rig. It wasn't badly wrecked when he got it back. Max now just wanted to collect the gasoline he was promised and head off. Pappagallo tried convincing him to stay, but Max refused. But then, after Lord Humungus' gang catch up to Max, destroy his Interceptor and nearly kill him, he changes his mind and offers to drive the rig. The next morning, Humungus and his men prepare to storm the compound, when suddenly out burst the marauders in their vehicles. In the lead was the rig pulling the large oil tanker. At the wheel was Max Rockatansky! Max's new little friend, the Feral Kid, secretly rode along. Humungus and his men, Wez, Toadie, and the others, give chase. The road battle has begun. Humungus' men climb aboard the tanker to fight Pappagallo and his men. The number of casualties grew and grew as more people fell off the tanker, some even went right under the wheels. The cavalcade pushed on, tearing up the roads, putting the pedal to the metal. Gyro Captain took to the skies in his gyro copter, dropping a few explosives on the enemies. As they continued down the highway, the gang started to get rough. Wez jumped on the front of the truck, and Humungus was now racing towards Max's rig at top speeds. In one fell swoop, Wez and Lord Humungus were completely obliterated and reduced to debris on the highway. In the process, Max's rig overturned and crashed off the road. Max and Feral Kid survived, luckily, but it was then that Max discovered he had not been hauling a tanker full of gasoline, but rather a tanker of dirt! They had used him as a decoy. Well, Feral Kid and Gyro Captain join the compound gang as they head off into the sunset to restart a new civilization and restore order to the world. As for Max, in true hero fashion he set off alone back into the desolate wastelands of the Australian Outback.Well, what can I say about Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior? It's a good movie, with lot's of action, but it's also a bit bizarre. There's almost no talking in this movie so it's hard to identify certain characters. Mel Gibson is back as that mad-to-the-bone Mad Rockatansky in his super Interceptor he had from the last adventure. Too bad it was destroyed in this movie, so it won't be in Mad Max 3. Bruce Spence is Gyro Captain. He's in Mad Max 3, however, but as a different character. Also here is Kjell Nilsson as Lord Humungus, who wasn't quite as evil as Toecutter, but still just as scary and brutal. Michael Preston, Vernon Wells, and Emil Minty are here as well. If you like all-out action movies with road rage at it's angriest, then The Road Warrior is for you! Good performances, terrific action, and some intense violence, it's not for everyone but it's still a good movie. Check it out today! And please, drive safely! Don't drive like the people in this movie!- "},{"Title":"A great action movie, and easily the best in the trilogy.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this for the first time in ages recently, and still found it highly enjoyable. The &#145;punks on wheels' movie that spawned hundreds of such movies during the eighties, this easily stands above all its pretenders, and is also the best in the trilogy of Mad Max movies.It's a great action movie. So great that Kevin Costner decided it would be a good idea to remake it on water. Shouldn't have given up the day job, Kev. It probably wasn't a good idea to try and emulate the wild, low-budget excesses of this movie with a bloated Hollywood budget.Max is a laconic drifter, only interested in scraping together enough gas and food (prioritised in that order) to survive from day to day in a post-war wilderness. When he stumbles across a gang war between violent punks and peaceable settlers, he unwittingly becomes the hero the settlers have been waiting for.Gibson is great as Max. He has little to say, and little emoting to do, but it's the measured performance  of a talented actor and, proving that there is sometimes justice in the world, helped set the scene for his subsequent acting career.If you've never seen The Road Warrior, make sure and check it out soon.  "}{"Title":"fantastic action movie","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second series of fantastic pictures of Mad Max, which had in the United States called road warrior even more exciting than the first part.Director George Miller brings exceptional impact strength intense rhythm to the audience almost to perfection. His hero, left alone fighter for justice, known as Mad Max, is now fighting with a group of rogue states that terrorize a gasoline company in crisis, chaos and general panic that has gripped the inhabitants from the edge of the world, where there happened a third world war. The experience that was acquired Miller, still in the first film, as well as staging scenes with stunt in an action movie Chain Reaction Ian Barry, brilliantly used in the film Mad Max 2. In addition to the stunning and shocking pace, inventiveness and virtuoso editing, also hit the amazing stunt tricks on fuel trucks. And they are almost no way inferior to the technique of execution of the famous scene from the Indiana Jones, who managed to get through a racing truck in the movie Raiders of the Lost Ark by Steven Spielberg. But accusations that made George Miller regarding the senseless cruelty of his main character, is not entirely justified. The director still keeps the distance between the portrayed and their attitude to what is happening. He is not just telling a compelling story about the adventures of Super Fuzz from the future, but predicts a fantastic like a parable, albeit fairly flavored stunt chase scenes and explosions. Like any dystopia films of George Miller, from the series of Mad Max and prophesying also warned, pointing to a possible danger to the public or even a hypothetical threat to the entire human civilization. "},{"Title":"A show stopping action bonanza that has outdone the original movie.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 is a perfect example on what a sequel should be like. Instead of recycling ideas from the first movie, it expands on the original in a bigger, faster and louder way and the action never lets up for one moment. Mel Gibson is a delight to watch as he returns in the role that introduced him to audiences in a big way.Set several years after the first Mad Max, Australia has been reduced to a post-apocalyptic environment following a global war which has seen the environment now a desert wasteland and supplies of petroleum are scarce following a major energy crisis and a global war which saw the decline of society. A former police officer turned lone drifter, Max Rockatansky(Mel Gibson) roams the deserted highways with his now scarred, black supercharged V-8 Pursuit Special from the first movie along with his dog and a sawn-off shotgun in which ammunition is also very hard to find. Mel Gibson's Max Rockatansky is a world away from the original movie. Here he is a war-weary warrior who has suffered the tragedy of losing his family and is on the brink of losing all humanity in a world in which all hope is lost.The movie starts off with a bang in which Max is being chased by a group of crazed gang members led by the psychopathic Wez (Vernon Wells, also known to many audiences as Bennett from Commando). When Max outwits his pursuers by crashing two of their cars and shooting Wez with an arrow. Wez, though defiant, flees from Max. Max later meets up with a Gyro Pilot (Bruce Spence) in unceremonious circumstances after Max spots a Gyro Copter thinking he could steal the fuel but the Gyro Captain ambushes Max. The Gyro Captain's victory is short lived when Max turns the tables on him and keeps him prisoner. Max and the Gyro Captain come across a small oil refinery kept running by a group of defenders led by Pappagallo (Michael Preston) who have banded together to keep it running. The defenders come under siege when a group of marauders led by the hulking Lord Humungus (Kjell Nilsson), tries to convince the refinery's defenders to surrender the facility in exchange for safe passage out of the area. When a small group of the defenders try to escape they are captured and killed and while Max rescues a mortally wounded defender and brings him back to the compound, with intent to obtain fuel for his car. Max's request for fuel is turned down and at the same time, Humungus terrorises the group and repeats his offer. Max offers to deliver a rig to haul the tanker, the one he found on the road while being chased by Wez, in return for his car and all the fuel he can carry. The deal is accepted. Humungus and Wez plot to kill all the defenders and overrun the compound while Max and the defenders plot to escape with the tanker and their lives which culminates in an exciting, show stopping tanker pursuit.Mad Max 2 joins the ranks of the many sequels that have exceeded the expectations of the original movie, which is often rare. Examples of sequels that have outdone their predecessor include The Godfather Part II (1974), The Empire Strikes Back (1980), Aliens (1986), Evil Dead II (1987), Lethal Weapon 2 (1989), Terminator 2 Judgement Day (1991) and The Dark Knight (2008). There are a lot more sequels that are just as good but these are just several movies that have popped up.Mad Max 2 turned the excitement up to 11 with an engaging story and thrilling action which fits in neatly with the story and done not just as the benefit of action for the sake of action.While the original Mad Max is a classic movie, it's no surprise that Mad Max 2 is more popular with many audiences and in fact a lot of international audiences think of Mad Max 2 whenever Mel Gibson's character Mad Max is mentioned. Mad Max 2 was released to worldwide acclaim and cemented Mad Max as one of the greatest action heroes. Mel Gibson's star also continued to rapidly rise with the success of this movie.Director George Miller should be commended on a fantastic job bringing back Mad Max for a show stopping sequel that has outdone the original 1979 classic.9/10. "},{"Title":"The best installment in the franchise","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sequel is far superior to the original. It fixed my main complaints for the original movie and improved in those areas. I think this is the best movie in the trilogy. That doesn't mean it's perfect but it's still a good improvement nonetheless. It has better action scenes, more memorable enemies, and less slow moments. The outback makes a great and better set then the first one. Many action movies have copied much of what this movie did because it made many great choices. After Max finds a group of people who took refuge, he plans to steal their oil but he finds out that another group of people are after them and he decides to team up with them to fight them. He becomes friends with the Gyro Captain and the Feral Kid and the movie gives some characterization. I also loved the death of the main antagonist. I found myself replaying the scene about 5 times because it was so spectacular. I don't feel that this movie did much revolutionary for its time but its great filming choices made it into a cult classic. "},{"Title":"The Road Warrior has just as much to say about human behaviour and industrialisation as he does about fast cars.","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior is a rousing tale of survival set in a grim and violent future.The Road Warrior is everything a bigger-budgeted Mad Max sequel with should be bigger, faster, louder, but definitely not dumber.The Road Warrior has just as much to say about human behaviour and industrialisation as he does about fast cars.Director Miller keeps the pic moving with cyclonic force, photography by Dean Semler is first class, editing is super-tight, and Brian May's music is stirring.With a much bigger budget, more spectacular stunts than the first movie, this is undoubtedly the best movie in the series.This Mel Gibson starer is a mythic Western for post-apocalyptic times.An extravagant film fantasy that looks like a sadomasochistic comic book come to life.Classic of its genre; Gibson is tops.A true masterpiece.Relying mostly on image and motion to tell its story, it's a classic action film representative of cinema at its purest. "},{"Title":"The best of the Max films!","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior The best of the Max films 4/4 stars One of the best sequels to an original story ever made... Loved the cinematic backdrop to director George Miller's 'post apocalyptic' vision that portrays one thing that might come true in the near future..the fight for gasoline. After losing pretty much his whole world and becoming a 'shell of a man' in 'Mad Max' he now spends his days much like all the other nuclear war survivors and that is searching for food and gas. Now joined by a little dog as a sidekick, he runs into a band of survivors who are in possession of a tanker of gas and drilling cranes. This band constantly are fighting off a band of no do gooders (who resemble a huge punk band of the 80's) lead by the muscular protagonist 'Humungous' (charector looks much like Jason Voorheese on steroids). Anyhow Max decides to help this little band of do gooders move camp to a beach area that they all call paradise.Fantastic chase scenes (some of the best in my book) great costumes, and all around action make this one of my favourite sequels of all time! "},{"Title":"A True Masterpiece","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in 1979 a cult classic was born. Mad Max was a hard hitting low budget Ozploitation flick, unlike anything the average cinema-goer would have seen before. Brutally relentless action, high octane car chases and peppered with interesting yet unsettling characters. A real standout piece of filmaking. Two years later George Miller returned with the sequel, Mad Max 2 The Road warrior. Which not only equalled the original but in many critics eyes, bettered it.Opening with a short narrated montage of clips from Mad Max and footage of a war that brought industry to it's knees, it set's things up perfectly, almost allowing it to stand on it's own as single movie as well as a sequel. Then seconds later we are thrown straight into it. The sweet raw of the Last Of The V8s supercharger and Max behind the wheel as we tear along a freeway. The orange powder of the desert caking the Interceptor's mat black paintwork. In pursuit is another sup-ed up car with a masked driver alongside a leather clad punk on motorcycle, complete with wild red hair, a crossbow attached to his forearm and boyfriend riding pillion. From this opening scene you know that the Director means business. ''You can run, but you can't hide!!''Gibson's max has evolved quite a bit since the first film. There are hints of the good natured family man that we've witnessed before, but the harshness of loss and living off the land like a scavenger has made him ''A shell of a man, a burnt out desolate man''. Literally living from tank to tank of gasoline, only a stones throw from the Vultures around him. His search for fuel has him crossing paths with Bruce spence,an eccentric Giro Captain, who provides us with occasional patches of comic relief. He leads Max to a fuel compound where an unfortunate camp are being terrorised by an army of undesirables, led by a masked militant Lord Humungus. The Road warrior is a very lean movie, that doesn't waste time. It's pacey and relentless, never more than a few minutes away from carnage. The script is direct and minimal. No pithy one liners here and is not played out tongue in cheek like most other 80's actioners. Although you will find yourself smiling at moments of darkly humour, and many lines are memorable and extremely quotable. ''Smegma crazies to the left! The Gate! Gayboy Beserkers to the gate!!''There are no weak performances here, and although many parts are only small, all characters seem layered and interesting. Vernon wells' Wez is particularly memorable. Bulging eyes and dressed in fetish clothing, he is a real predator of the wastelands. A true warrior, a mad dog that has to be kept on a leash, and at one point literally is. The gangs leader, Lord Humungus is quite chilling. Played by Kjell Nilsson, a muscular hockey masked militant, that has a taste for gasoline and will stop at nothing until the fuel is his and the residents of the compound are disposed of. Sitting behind the wheel of a customised jeep, complete with prisoners tied to the front for decoration, he yells his demands through a microphone. Though action packed throughout, it's the last third of the movie that really cranks things up. We are treated to perhaps the greatest chase scene in movie history. Filled with twisted metal, crashes galore and lashings of ultra violence. By the end of it you will literally feel out of breath, and eager for a repeat viewing. Mad Max 2 is another dark gritty piece, similar to the first outing but feels less comic book-like. There isn't quite the gordy colours of the original and there is no hint of a town, just the open dusty desert and the scavengers that feed off it. It's content is at times harsh, yet I do feel is a slightly lighter watch than the first. A true masterpiece is not a phrase that you can attach to many movies, but after seeing this I'm sure you'll agree. George Miller literally set the standard back in 1981, and is a masterclass in how action cinema should be made. "},{"Title":"The perfect post-apocalyptic movie! I loved it!","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since I was 10-years-old when I saw it in VHS those times, I was completely fascinated and obsessed with it. I have always been a die-hard fan movies (especially Action, Adventure & Thriller genres), but the movies that really caught me were those that could mix their music with action sequences, for example movies from George Miller, John McTiernan, and even Alfred Hitchcock.The Road Warrior tells the history of Max Rockatansky survivor of a not-so-well-explained nuclear era, who suddenly finds himself wandering in the outback with a Ford Falcon XB GT (or 'Special Pursuit' but better known as the 'Interceptor') and his dog. The plot of the story is the lack of gasoline to keep moving throughout the Outback properly making Max a nomad, until he found a refinery.The bit complexity of the story starts here where the refinery people and Max begin to analyze their existentialism, and starts to elaborate an escape plan far from the evil Hummungus. The story is very simple and enjoyable for any audience.But what makes this movie a-must-to-watch (and a cult movie) is the perfect elaborated car chase action sequences. It has what an action movie must have car chase sequences, guns, explosions and savageness.The Road Warrior has been a reference in a lot of movies, just to name a few, Waterworld (which I consider a rip-off), The Postman, Doomsday, more recently The Book Of Eli and The Road. EVERY POST-APOCALYPTICAL MOVIE, BEING ACTION OR DRAMA, HAS SOMETHING TO DO WITH THE MAD MAX.I'm so excited that there's an upcoming Mad Max 4 Fury Road, and personally I don't care whoever reprises Max Rockatansky I know it's hard to replace Mel Gibson but not impossible, looking on the positive side this could a complete reboot of the series. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest action movies in the history of cinema!","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a mixture of science fiction, action, and add in a little bit of humor, which is one of the great things of this film. First of all, director George miller worked his tail off making mad max and mad max 2, because the budget was very low, and there are many mind blowing stunts that are all real in those films. The story is wonderful, and very easy to understand as long as you pay attention to the beginning, Mel Gibson, in one of his finest roles, is terrific as the loner, anti hero max, as well as Bruce Spense and everyone else in the film. Add in some wonderful cinematography by Dean Semler, a ton of car chases and action sequences, awesome music by Brian May, and the famous, ultra violent car chase at the end. George Miller did a wonderful job making this film, I give him two thumbs up. The best version of this film is definitely on blu ray, so I challenge everyone to buy this film on blu ray if they own a blu ray player, or ps3. Definitely one of my favorite movies, if anyone has not seen this film, watch it now! "},{"Title":"The Post-Apocalypse - Australian Style","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequels that actually outshine the greatness of their predecessor are rare, but even though the original Mad Max of 1979 was an excellent film that can easily be considered a classic, Mad Max 2 aka. The Road Warrior is an even more brilliant film, in my opinion. While Mad Max had some of the typical ingredients of the gritty and great late 70s (such as the revenge/vigilante theme that was popularized by Michael Winner's 1974 masterpiece Death Wish), The Road Warrior is all 80s, or, more precisely, one of the awesome films to herald the particular style of 80s film-making. Mad Max was basically an action thriller/revenge flick set in the near future that had an atmosphere of the upcoming apocalypse. The Road Warrior is post-apocalyptic, a futuristic Sci-Fi/Fantasy extravaganza that can easily be considered a milestone in several aspects.After civilized society has been doomed by a horrible World War, the surviving people dwell on an earth ruled by those who are strongest and most ruthless. In the menacing wasteland of the Australian outback, vicious gangs of bikers terrorize those who were (un)lucky enough to live through the apocalypse. The most widely feared and unspeakably cruel biker warlord on the subcontinent is called Lord Homungus, a name which spreads terror. In this menacing world, people do not fight for wealth and fortune, but for mere survival. One of the very talented survivors, a tough road warrior, goes by the name Max...Mad Max Rockatanski was mainly an avenger in the original film, and he has become a super-tough anti-hero in the sequel. One and a half decades after The Man With No Name and the coffin-dragging Django shot their way through the (Italian) old West, Mad Max Rockatanski fights his way through the post-apocalyptic Australian future. A near and menacing future that is. I am not a big fan of Mel Gibson in general, but he is brilliant in the role of Mad Max Rockatanski, easily the greatest role he ever played, and I cold not possibly imagine anybody else to play that role. The performances are generally good, and the characters remarkable. Characters such as the 'Gyro Captain' or a boomerang-throwing little boy are ingenious, and Lord Homungus is the most sardonic villain imaginable. Director George Miller truly knows how to create a stunning mood. The general atmosphere is menacing and unique, and the film has a brilliant visual style, be it in its brilliant settings, or the bizarre looks of its characters and their weird vehicles. While generally brutal, gritty, menacing and dark, Mad Max 2 also has heart-warming moments, such as a little kid's delight when he receives a (tiny and hardly noteworthy) present. I could go on to praise this film for a long time, but I will just give the advice to watch it instead. The Road Warrior is one of the absolute classics of the 80s, and a cinematic masterpiece that no lover of film could possibly afford to miss! "},{"Title":"One of the great films of the 1980s.","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the great films of the 1980s.For sheer spectacle and fun nothing made since has come close.It features a strangely innocent performance from Mel Gibson,one of the last before he became Mel Gibson and was ever after obliged to deliver a Mel Gibson performance with all its associated baggage.The story is too well - known to bear recounting yet again,and,frankly,takes a back seat to the quite brilliant action sequences which make the movie a petrol head's delight.It all moves along at a terrific pace,hardly burdened with unnecessary dialogue.With the prophets of gloom predicting that oil will start running out sometime in 2010 maybe it's time to club together and buy a hundred thousand gallons or so and bury it in huge tanks in the Australian desert.Then we should build a commune round it and await events.There's a cloud of dust on the horizon.Is it Mad Max come to save us from the ravening hordes?With my luck it will be Omar Sharif on a bloody camel. "}{"Title":"He lives now only in my memories","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** The very best of the thee apocalyptic and futuristic Mad Max action movies has Max, Mel Gibson, getting hooked up with this group of people stuck in the Australian desert in an oil refinery campsite that's being besieged by a gang of murderous outlaw bikers. Rescuing a member of the refinery group, who later dies, from the bikers Max only want's from the people there to give him enough fuel for is V-8 Interceptor to take him across the vast Australian desert.The refinery people lead by their leader Pappagallo, Michael Preston, make a deal with Max to get them a rig that belongs to the outlaw bikers to attach their tank of thousands of gallons of fuel. That way they can breakout of the campsite and escape from the bikers besieging it before they finally brake in and slaughter all of them. Max comes through with getting the rig but when he tries to ride his way out of the campsite with the full tank of gas he's attacked by the bikers lead by this Mohawk looking psycho Wez, Vernon Wells. Running him off the road Wez leaves him for dead in a gully that his V-8 crashed into and exploded killing two of Wez men but Max miraculously survives. Max's pet and loyal companion Dog wasn't that lucky being shot, with a crossbow, by one of the bikers. Max is later rescued by one of the people in the campsite The Gyro Captain, Bruce Spence, and brought back to camp barley alive with a severely broken leg.It's then when Pappagallo decides that the only way to survive being slaughtered by the bikers is to make a run for it. Pappagallo's plan is to split up the people and break out in two groups with anti-hero Max, now knowing that he needs to cooperated to survive, volunteering to drive the dangerous gasoline ladened rig and tanker through the biker gauntlet. In this way Max will draw most of bikers away from the rest of the people in the campsite. This almost suicidal strategy would in effect make Max, with the precious fuel, the main target of the bikers deadly and furious attacks. Unknown to Max at the time he has a little help from his friends on this dangerous mission with him on the rig ,who at first he rejected, the spunky little Feral Kid ,Emil Minty. It turned out that the Feral Kid in the end not only would make it possible for Max to break through and escape the attacking bikers but also ends up saving Max's life.Non-stop action final as Max, together with the Feral Kid, making a run for it on the fuel rig as he's attacked from all sides by the gang of killer bikers lead by the masked and muscle-bound Humungus, Kiell Nilsson. Running the rig into the ground with a number of the attacking bikers, including Humungus and Wez,along with it the heart-stopping run for daylight drive by Max. The exciting and deadly chase scene also cost the lives of Pappagello, who tried to come to Max's aid on his rocket-car, and the Woman warrior, Vrigina Hey, who among others was on the rig holding off the attacking and crazed for gasoline bikers.Max in a last desperate attempt to hold off and outrun the perusing bikers ,who were slowly closing in on his rig and about to overtake it, makes a sudden and dangerous but skillful sharp breaking U-turn on the highway. In doing that Max turns the tables on his pursuers and drives straight into them with Humungus who was at first bearing down on Max's rig and the madden and injured Wez, desperately hanging on to it, now being the hunted instead of the hunter. As Max's rig, with a desperate Wez hanging on to the front engine, crashes head on into Humungus' souped up motorcycle pulverizing both him and Wez and also overturning his vehicle in the process. Staggering out of the overturned rig which for some strange reason, with all the gasoline in it, didn't explode Max to his surprise finds that the precious fuel that was supposed to be in the tank wasn't there at all! The fuel-tank's gasoline was replace with worthless desert sand! The actual fuel was hidden by Pappagallo in the cars and vans driven by the people that broke out of the campsite together with Max whom the bikers left alone. Thinking that they weren't worth going after since the fuel that they wanted was supposed to be on the rig that Max was driving! "},{"Title":"Madly sad movie","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoiler Shall not be writing three different reviews on the three parts of this movie, but will just post all the three identical ones to each title (a rare thing, but this movie deserves it). To me all the three parts are one solid insane movie Mad Max.It's a downright mad movie. Sad and sick. The landscape makes all the actions look wild and post-apocalyptic (desert, vultures, endless roads, spooky forests, primitive living conditions, vacant beaches, and crazy freaks on wheels). It was one hell of a movie to watch in my earlier years. My reaction to this extravaganza was swift a table game with the plot line taken out of the third part of the movie was created (one was to complete it by throwing the dices).Now, as quite a lot of time has passed, there is an urge to watch it every year.Thankfully, there was a chance for me to watch this insane trilogy back in 1989 or 1990 all the way through from the first installation to the very last at a local videozal. Some girl had a few words to say before pushing the VHS into the player. She said something like During the movie there will be about 3 minutes of silence somewhere in the middle, don't be surprised. The sound will come to normal after that. How do you find it? Great commentary before airing a great movie! If it were a run-of-the-mill action, who would care at all about some minutes in the middle of something? But here we all were missing the sound because we soaked up the insane atmosphere of those sick characters' deeds on the screen.How many films, which have strong follow-ups, can be named? Not many, and Mad Max is definitely among them. It was as revolutionary as The Matrix but had great parts 2 and 3, too. The first movie does have the Australian soundtrack indeed.And one more thing if someone calls this film stupid, don't take these words for granted. Among the entertaining, bizarre, mad, and at the same time clever action movies this one is an absolute hydra-king (with three enjoyable incarnations). Don't you see the warning to our human race, which goes in the form of demented motorheads? Don't you feel the doom hanging over people that have no power to resist the evil forces? Don't you see the emptiness of human existence in a high-tech world that is built upon pain and broken lives? Don't you smell the gas of future, ready to blow up?After all these words it is clear as the blue sky of Australia that the mark is 10 out of 10. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"Love it (especially the prologue)","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most people think that this is the best Mad Max movie, alongside Beyond Thunderdome. And I can say that this is the best one. But it don't win over the first one (Mad Max) with a big markup. Even though most people don't like the first one, they still like this. Which I have hard time figuring out. OK, me myself like this one the most, but after all, I'm an action nerd. Many people I've met are almost as far from action nerd as possible, and still, there are more drama in the first one. So we can call this movie an action movie for people who don't like action movies.This movie has some funny characters who enhance the general impression. And that's just great. And of course, Mel Gibson does his share. This movie also has a great prologue. In fact, the first time I saw it, I decided to love it during the prologue, because it has a strong meaning. The prologue is very powerful. I don't know if I have described why it is so good (probably not), but you just have to take my word for it, it simply rules.The story shows a vision of a possible future, which takes room not too many years from now (or from the time the movie was made) and it also shows that we are killing our own world. Well, I don't know if that is the message with it, but that is exactly what came up in my head after this movie. It shows how inhumane a human being can become.When the supplies are closing the end, when the fuel are rare and in lack of other things, men will start to feed on men and with very inhumane methods. We will kill each other to get thy neighbours supplies and stuff, just to make sure that we survive. Life will become an endless hunt for supplies and fuel to reach the next horizon. Once we've reached the next horizon and declared that nothing is there, we will do everything, humane or inhumane, to reach the next horizon. The race of men will become an endless circle of savages, spread out everywhere in the world. The mans journey wont end until he's dead. That is what we'll become.The movie tells us that story I just retold you. Of course, the history haven't got that far in this movie, but it tells you the end as well. The Road Warrior will be remembered as a classic. It will forever be there as one of the best movies ever produced by a man. Love it. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest action movies ever made. Massively entertaining and influential, but to be honest the first Mad Max movie is still my favourite.","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Mad Max 2' is one of the greatest action movies ever made. As a thrill ride, full of some astonishing car chases and stunts, it's really hard to beat. It's also one of the few sequels as good, or almost as good, as the original. I say almost because to be totally honest I still prefer the original. The character of Max in the second movie isn't really even a character, he's just an idea, though he has more screen time this time around.  Mel Gibson makes a first rate action hero, but if you're looking for any kind of depth or subtext, this isn't the movie for it. The post-apocalyptic background is much more explicitly depicted in the second movie than the first, which I have always regarded as more of a biker movie than science fiction per se. 'Mad Max 2's style proved to be massively influential, not just for SF movies but for the world of rock'n'roll. In the mid 80s you couldn't throw a stick without hitting a rocker who liked like he wasn't auditioning for a role in the Mad Max series! The main reason I prefer the first movie over the second is that it had more interesting (and quotable!) bad guys. The Humungus, Wez and The Toadie (Kjell Nilsson, Vernon Wells, and Max Phipps) are to me nowhere near as cool as Toecutter, Nightrider or Bubba Zanetti (Hugh Keays-Byrne, Vince Gil and Geoff Parry), but that's just me. Whichever one is your favourite there's no denying that 'Mad Max' and 'Mad Max 2' are two of the most entertaining and influential exploitation movies of the late 70s/early 80s, and with them George Miller cemented his place in movie history. Oh, and they didn't do too badly for Mel Gibson either! "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Movie","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those of you who started noticing Mel Gibson after his Lethal Weapon series, you should try seeing The Road Warrior, one of his earliest film roles and the one that catapulted him to fame. Road Warrior (Or Mad Max 2 in some countries) is the continuation of Max Rockatansky's life in what seems to be a post-apocalyptic future. After losing his family to a vicious gang of bikers in the first movie, Max tries to survive in the bleak and lifeless Australian post-nuclear outback. He has become a loner, a sad man with no care for the future and who lives for the moment. Although Mel Gibson's performance is very believable, he hardly talks. There's plenty of action car chases, people being hacked and maimed and ran over by merciless mack trucks, but there's also a good story. Max sort of befriends a colony of civilized people, trying to survive the insane punk-biker gangs that want to steal their fuel. It's funny to see that fuel becomes more important than water, considering all events take place in extremely arid areas. The film editing is top notch, all was done with care. Brian May's music score is thunderous (No, he's not the guy from Queen!) and the action scenes are gut wrenching and believable. I guess that's very important when you're watching a Sci-Fi film; that you actually believe everything you see. It's a tough call deciding whether this one is better than the first Mad Max, but I'd have to admit that Road Warrior moves at a frenetic pace and, despite being an almost 23 year old movie, it still holds up extremely well. Repeated viewing will only enhance the charm of this truly influential Science Fiction Masterpiece. 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"White Line Nightmare","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie at the Old Fort Drive In in Lebanon, Ohio. Perfect setting. Now the Old Fort is long gone, and so are movies like this. Real stunts, fluid crane based camera work, mythic scripts. The best action movie ever made, probably about the best movie overall of the eighties (Blade Runner and Excalibur come close). Lord Humoungus Rules the Wasteland. Mad Max #3 dropped the ball, too much Tina, too little Max. Here's hoping for a #4  to even the score. "},{"Title":"You can run, but you can't hide.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pure post-apocalyptic mayhem, chasing, fighting, action, and violence that is totally enthralling. And they finally did away with Max's terrible voice dubbing. Maybe they should of added some ambience/room tone to the ADR in the first one?Anyway, this movie kicks ass. As I write this, all I can think of is quotes from the movie. The chase is amazing. The only thing that puts a damper on the movie? When they speed up the film to make it look like things go faster (the cars especially). Besides that, its perfect.What other movie has inspired a Motley Crue bassist (Nikki Sixx) to paint black lines under his eyes after watching it? That's what I thought.Now go watch it! "},{"Title":"Great movie, shame about the Region 2 DVD","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max 2 is my favourite action movie. I've watched it at least 30 times. The simple but well-executed plot, the music, the editing, pacing, stunts, vehicles, costume and Mel Gibson's low-key acting make this a prime example on how to make a rousing action movie with a bit more depth than the average actioner. 10 out of 10!That said, I must warn those intending to buy the Region 2 DVD version (Europe, the Middle East, Japan). The running time is 87 minutes, 5 minutes shorter than the UK video version. The result is unwatch- and unbearable. Several scenes are cut or shortened, for instance a classic like Toadie's fingers being cut by the boomerang, as well as just about every scene with violence, nudity or shock effects. AVOID this version - it is stunted, neutered and a travesty of the original movie. Warner Brothers restore the movie and re-release it on DVD - the current version is just a poor shadow of the original. "},{"Title":"Portrait of a Hero","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max set the stage, and The Road Warrior is the fulfillment. The lone man who has lost everything and yet needs nothing... What happens when he meets some deserving souls who have what others want, but no way to defend it? They need his help, but they have nothing to offer him except their need. What is a hero, and what do heroes do?In addition to this thought-provoking question, The Road Warrior defined and retains master title to the genre of Action movies. Pulse-pounding, exhilarating, DANGEROUS stunts performed by some of the craziest people you'll ever see in movies...A sly, dark sense of humor combined with a visceral landscape offer a cinematic creation of unparalleled dimension. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Stylish, campy action and violence","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A truly great B movie.  This original Mad Max is definitely more raw and more violent, but this movie tempers that with more than a little camp.  The good guys not only wear white, but they wear long flowing white clothes, and speak in high-minded paragraphs about principles and goals.  The bad guys, on the other hand, are the motorcycle-gang-from-hell, with great punk hair-do's and outrageous wardrobes, and they do a lot more grunting than speaking.  Their leader, The Humongous, is so bad he has to be chained down as he's driven up to the compound of the good guys.  Even the basic premise of the movie is preposterously silly - after the apocalypse, all people will do is drive around, looking for gas.  There's only about ten minutes of dialogue in the whole movie, most of which are quite silly.  Two days ago, I saw a rig big enough to haul that  tanker.  You wanna get out of here, you talk to me. "}{"Title":"Primitive Brilliance","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was at the South Trail Drive In with Uncle Dave. We went to go see a cheesy Chuck Norris flick called Silent Rage, but before the movie, there was a trailer for something called The Road Warrior. It had car crashes and speed and action and crazies with mohawks and steel masks. I had to see it. For the next week, I pestered Uncle Dave about taking me. I just knew there was something there that was magical. At the time, I wasn't aware that it was a sequel to an obscure Australian B movie called Mad Max.Friday night comes...and of course Uncle Dave takes me. He knows what creeps my parents are. He pays Larry The Theatre Manager and we pull into a spot. The lights flicker on and BAM! The movie starts like the shot of a sniper rifle. You are immediately plunged into a world of insanity and savagery. Your protagonist is Max, and he's not a nice man. He is ruthless. He has to be that way because it's after the apocalypse and that's how you survive. He's already lost a wife and kid. He's seen it all. He's done things to survive that a man shouldn't have to do. The only friend he has is a dingo that watches his back in surprising ways. Then he's forced into a situation where other people's survival depends on him. He has to make a choice.Thematically, it's just a western dressed in post apocalyptic garb...but it's not the story...it's the way it's told. There are scenes of extreme horror and ugliness juxtaposed with scenes of the best of humanity and absolute beauty. It has Mel Gibson's best acting...no wisecracks or smarminess here. He speaks maybe 150 words in the whole film. It's all in his eyes and the sheer physical force he throws into the role. It has two of the greatest villains in film history. There's Wez, a mohawked futuristic version of a berserker who lives only to rape and kill, and Lord Humungus, the leader of the savages. He's a hulking figure who always wears a steel mask and looks like and is the epitome of brutality...and yet also turns out to be shockingly eloquent and educated. It has the best canine actor ever with the dingo, which was actually a real dingo found in an animal shelter. It has one of the best jump out of your seat scenes ever...you know what I'm talking about if you've seen this movie.That's all I'm going to say. If you haven't seen it, watch it immediately. If you have seen it, watch it again...it's like visiting an old friend. For me, it's like going back to that church of the South Trail Drive In again. I've shown the film to various people over the years, and I think my best friend Kyle Eagle said it best when he pronounced the film Primitive Brilliance.You don't need to see the first one, it is summed up adequately in The Road Warrior. Don't watch Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, unless you're into Tina Turner, annoying child actors, and Hollywood swill.Film is like a battleground. Love, hate, action, violence, death...in one word emotion. -Samuel Fuller "},{"Title":"Why isn't this film in IMDb's Top 250? It's embarrassing...","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I mean--just look at some of the piffle that's rated above The Road Warrior Batman Begins, Magnolia, Almost Famous, Being John Malkovich, American Beauty, both Toy Story films and Monsters Inc. etc. Come on. There's no way that computer-generated child fare should be rated above the great accomplishments in film history. (And can anyone believe that every single one of those Lord of the Rings movies are rated above true film classics like the original King Kong, Citizen Kane, Lawrence of Arabia, Sunset Boulevard, Metropolis, Taxi Driver and Gone With the Wind? (Which is only #158 on the list?) And wizard of Oz which is only #86?) Sorry to digress, but my point has been made. There are a lot of good films missing from the list, many that don't belong, etc. So why do I think Road Warrior belongs in the Top 100 (at least)? Well, most great films are judged by several criteria (my own personal biases on display here, in the form of questions), such as 1. Does the film create movie stars? Is there a role that puts a future superstar on the map? (Such as Dazed and Confused, Taxi Driver, and Fast Times at Ridgemont High?) Certainly Mel Gibson is one of the mot important film actors (and producers) in the world. This role and this film in particular (along with Gallipoli) created Mel Gibson's career. 2. Do other people involved in production end up making other great films? Well, let's see... The director made Babe, which almost won the Oscar... And most of the other actors have enjoyed long careers (even though they're from Australia...) 3. Does the film contain an epic/classic sequence or scene? (Think the chariot sequence in Ben-Hur, Luke Skywalker blowing up the Death Star at the end of the first Star Wars, the car chase in The French Connection, the scene between Marlon Brando and Rod Steiger in On the Waterfront.) Certainly the car chase at the end of The Road Warrior/Mad Max 2 fits the bill. This ranks among the list of all-time classic car chases. And there are many other eye-popping sequences. 4. Does it inspire other filmmakers? I'd have to guess that it did, since after Road Warrior, every other futuristic film stole from it--notably Blade Runner. 5. Does the film affect our society in some way? This movie focused a lot of attention on the film industry in Australia. Well, yeah, maybe we have to blame Road Warrior for everything from Outback Jack to Russell Crowe? But on the other hand, the recent use of Australian actors for so many film roles began with this film. 6. Another important aspect to this film is how it inspired punk fashion. The mohawk became more visible and acceptable, Gibson's leather outfit inspired punks to wear leather, and punk rock itself became more mainstream after this film. Influential, popular, important. These are the words given to great films. This is a great film and should be rescued from its reputation as being a good Grade B film. It's much better and much more important than that. Too many voters on IMDb miss the point when they vote for films. They vote for films they enjoy, rather than films that are important, influential AND popular. They are consumers, not film fanatics. Thus, we will soon see a sad phenomenon where Peter Jackson's King Kong is rated way above the original... What an abomination. Without the original, the homage would never exist. And I bet Peter Jackson (and every other filmmaker) would agree that the original should be listed first. The voting criteria on this Website needs to change. IMDb is losing its credibility. Too many mediocre films are pushing great films off the Top 250. Let's work with the great people who run this website. I doubt they like this any better than true fans of film like ourselves. Let's begin by tanking the film ratings for these CGI- generated monstrosities. True film lovers, drive all bad films off the list by giving them a 1 rating. Film lovers, let's take back film history. "},{"Title":"Mad Max 2 is great!!!!","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 may be better then the first Mad Max movie (and that's saying a lot). George Miller says that he was deeply influenced by the book The Hero with a Thousand Faces by Joseph Campbell while writing this wonderful film. And to Mr. Miller's credit it shows &#150; the story is more refined and story-conscious then the first. This sequel was not made just for Box Office dollars as we see so often today but by filmmakers that had the opportunity to expand on their original vision and do it even bigger and better. A film steeped in mythology it holds up to repeated viewings and one can easily see why this franchise helped to put Australian cinema on the map and also how they launched Mel Gibson into the blockbuster star he is today. Although the other two films in the trilogy are just as entertaining, Mad Max 2 (or The Road Warrior) is the heart and soul of the three films. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Superior to the first in many ways as the action and budget are boosted, the vision of the future is more vivid as the world deteriorates into a desert of lone travellers, biker gangs and small colonies all fighting over gasoline- the only useful resource left. Just like today then. The movie moves at a furious pace as Max is led by the Gyro Captain (the only man who can fly, it seems) to a small settlement under attack by the Humungus and his leather clad mates who wants their store of Gasoline. Max decides to help, rejecting notions of heroism, only wanting as much Gas as he can carry. Eventually the entire settlement moves camp, and so begins one of the greatest chase scenes and spectacular set pieces ever. Cars and bikes crash everywhere, bodies jump from train to car to truck to buggy to bike and back again, all without any cutting, and in the end Max moves on by himself. there are other impressive moments- the boomerang antics, the 'smaller chases' and the overall imagery of the film. Max here has almost become a soulless wanderer, with little point in existing except to simply exist, and in helping the camp he becomes a more mysterious, enigmatic anti-hero. Lots of allusions to Homer. Australia's best film? 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Action Movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bombastic, non-stop and stunning, The Road  Warrior encompasses all of the qualities of a  legend. Mel Gibson owes his life to this movie,  and most action directors owe their upbringing  to this film as well. The final chase scene alone makes the movie,  considering only Star Wars Episode I has had  a more intense and dramatic action sequence  which took up as much time. George Miller did  the right thing by making this film more visual  and emotional, relying on the beauty and bleakness  of the Australian outback to capture one's  imagination. A great film that never ceases to fail. "},{"Title":"Genius on every Frame. An unbeatable display of movie directing","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am normally quite analytical about movies. I can usually see everything coming off a mile away. I can tell what angles are going to be used each scene after I see how the director did the first six scenes and blah, blah, blah.Not with this film. It is nothing short of Brilliant. Nothing about it could be better. George Miller directs this film as if no other film in history had ever been made. Every image is magic and the final 1/2hr of this film has to be seen to be believed. Everyone in the film is well cast and all the production design, music, editing (Oh Yes!) and finally the Cinematography from Dean Semler is simply incredible.Mad Max 2 is the best action film ever made. Go see it. Its on at the Cremorne Orpheum now and its great. Hollywood should be ashamed of itself that a film twenty years old is still the benchmark by a long way. "},{"Title":"A True And Timeless Original","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior- a loner of a war torn wasteland- a violent survivor in an extremely violent world where a man has to be tough to survive. This is the film that rocketed Mel Gibson to fame in America. This is the film that hasn't been able to be tied or beaten by imitators. The Road Warrior has got to be the most action packed original sci-fi/ fantasy film I have ever seen. For almost 20 years, I have based some scene or premise off of the film in my own films. Road Warrior (mad max 2) was the film that I based my foundation and a lot of stories on in some way, shape or form as homage for such a well done movie. Thanks to George Miller, the Late Byron Kennedy (RIP) and writer Terry Hayes.This film is a sequel to Mad Max (1979) and takes place in Australia after a World War III. Oil and gasoline aren't around which cause motorists and bikers to knock each other off for few drops of fuel. Max (Gibson) is traveling the wastelands in an unending search for gasoline. Several car chases develop, people get killed, cars get smashed and Max soon finds himself against a group of sadistic nomads decked out in mo-hawks, chains, guns and powerful vehicles. Led there by gunpoint by a sarcastic loner played by Bruce Spence, Max gets shown an oil producing encampment that contains all the nutrients for his vehicle- just about every means of fuel under the sun. There's only two problems. The first problem is that these rogues that Max is against saw the refinery first and are hell bent on killing all of its inhabitants in order to get their fuel sources. The second problem is that once Max gets in the compound, the people don't want him there- they want nothing to do with him. In fact, they kick him (by gun and knife point) off the grounds. That soon changes by extremely violent circumstances as Max strikes a deal with the inhabitants to help them escape. During all of this, Max soon has a admirer which is a wild kid (Emil Minty) who has a bear claw and boomerang that does some interesting damage in the first section of the movie. The Road Warrior has a lot of interesting messages you must see for yourself. For a film that was released in America/ Canada in May of 1982, this film was a true original way ahead of its time and era. The movie is (to say the least) psychedelic in all aspects of writing and directing. The technical is excellent. The music (composed by Brian May) is excellent and matches every scene. The stunts are revolutionary and sets trends and examples for other movies to follow. The costume designs are excellent for breaking beyond the lines of originality with images that stick in your mind. Other action sequences are a solid 10 for purity, rawness and crude realism. The psychological and somewhat spiritual messages in various avenues mark a significant 10 for this picture. Compared to Raiders Of The Lost Ark in action stunts and chase sequences, The Road Warrior beats Raiders because of how it was executed. Both films go neck and neck but RW was just right when came down in original stories- RW was more dark and serious.The Road Warrior made cinematic history (just like Raiders). It was compared to Raiders and other legendary films. In 1982, the violence of the film gave a new introduction to the term extreme violence in movies. In 1982, The Road Warrior also gave a brand new meaning to the term extreme violence throughout- a rugged and original trend setting pattern for hordes of other movies to follow. If there is a Mad Max IV that eventually gets made, my advice to Miller? Pick a good story and go back to the RW style of darkness and haunting themes as well as visceral violence. These are some of the main ingredients that make a Mad Max movie well known. Mad Max is not a hero for the kids- more so for adults. This film is rated R and stays at an R rating over 20 years later because of the extreme and visceral violence that stays potent even today. The Road Warrior is not like a fine and rare wine. Rather, it is like a stiff and rare bottle of hard liquor-- it only ages over time. "},{"Title":"The Road Warrior...Keepin' It Real...","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a day and age where big action movies push the boundaries of realism creating over the top heroes who act out unrealistic feats of bravery, I'm glad to have a film like The Road Warrior which keeps the hero strapped and limited to make the film seem all the more real.In I,Robot, Will Smith performs some over the top action. In The Chronicles of Riddick, Vin Diesel does the same. The Problem? Their actions and stunts aren't believable. They push the boundaries of realism and leave the viewer thinking Wow! That could never happen! The Road Warrior does just the opposite. It keeps Max grounded in the real and portrays him as an anti hero who can be killed just as easily as anyone else in the film. It brings the believability rate of the overall experience of the film to higher levels, therefore allowing the viewer to become more engaged and captivated by the film.A must see for fans of 80's films. The Road Warrior is in a sense a roughly made independent film that comes across as a big budget action adventure with its cool musical score and exciting visuals. Well worth the viewing. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel of a brilliant movie !!!","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well,  Mad Max 2 is one is those rare sequels which are just as good as the originals. This movie has all the good qualities of the first part and brings some more post-nuclear realism to the audience. It further explores a self-destructing way of a modern society, presenting a clear view on what's going to be left of it - a few loners, crazed biker gangs ans some idealists trying to escape this new Stone Age. Movie also has some great characters, first of all, the Humungus, who is as good as the Toecutter in the first movie. Max himself is also well-played and believable character, with no spoiling goodly hero featues. So, to sum up, it's a great no-mainstream movie, with some valuable ideas, lots of adrenaline, great soundtrack, and excellent cast. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"The Illusion of Speed","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max 2 is an interesting blend of elements.  You have a science fiction setting that borders on pure fantasy.  There is the obvious action element.  Then there are themes of mythology and Wild West lore.  Heck, that's all Mad Max 2 is...a Western with gasoline.George Miller has a very profound eye in this movie.  There are many terrific shots that almost seem in line with Michael Bay's work.  Then again, this is George Miller.  He would not stoop to Bay's level, it's just a pity he hasn't done anything similar since.  The editing during the action is incredible, making some of cinema's most exciting moments in the adrenaline-fueled rush of it all.  Unfortunately, the rest of the movie does not have this same lavish attention to it.  Many scenes resemble 2001 A Space Odyssey in their visual literature.  The obvious uses of high-and low-speed filming are distracting and none-too-subtle.  I will give it credit for having the best illusion of speed ever on celluloid.Compared to Mad Max, 2 has an advantage in both story and dialogue.  Both aren't very original, but the idea of 'escape' is less cliche than the age-old 'revenge' plot device.  Also, the lines in 2 are not delivered in the same idiosyncrasy.  Fricasse of Reptile, how can you get any better than that?  The villains, while lacking the colorful names of the first installment, resemble nothing more than a faceless mob of ants trying to infest the compound.  As for the Humungus?  Well, I think we know where Miller drew inspiration for him.  It's interesting how many films since have tried to champion over the vehicular destruction here.  Hollywood never learns.Overall, a short movie with some powerful points to it.  Particularly our dependence on oil products.  3.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"the best movie ever made","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know one person who agrees with me on this, but I understand I am in the severe minority.  Most people I know think this movie is a great action movie, great stunts, etc. I tell them I think it's the best movie ever made and they say, uh...yeah, it's very good for the genre.  I mean that it is the best movie ever made.  I'm not in general a huge action movie fan, and while the stunts are the best I've ever seen (note to young people -- this movie was made back when REAL men crashed REAL cars. there's no god damned CGI in this - you are actually seeing what people are doing). Beyond that though, this is in my opinion the most compelling cinematic version of the old archetypical story of the shell of a man. The atmosphere created by the wasteland, this blighted place, is I think the most vivid of any movie ever made.  It is about mass, about matter, about the physics of objects - not particles but objects that break, bend, shatter.  It is about WILL. A will so strong and noble that not even the actual presence of nothingness can overpower it. The villains are among the most original and fully-realized of any in film, and the hero is hollow but honorable, parasitic but strong beyond compare. I've never seen a movie in which so much is communicated with so few words.  It is truly a visceral and intellectual masterpiece.  It is flawless.  I have seen it over 100 times and still turn it on many nights before I go to bed.  By the way, if anyone out there is familiar with the concept of the robo movie -- accept no substitutes.by the way -- MUST MUST MUST be seen in the original 235-1 format. "},{"Title":"Some of the best car crashes ever caught on film","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the wake of the international success of Mad Max, the Hollywood machine was eager to make dollars out of its director and primary star. While George Miller is not remembered nearly as well as Mel Gibson, he is by a long road the better director. With car chase sequences that are equalled by few and surpassed by none, Mad Max 2 clearly shows why. Beginning with a narrative wrap-up (and explanation) of the events in the original film, Mad Max 2 soon shows that things have not improved since then. Things have become steadily worse. As fuel has become steadily more scarce, roving gangs have searched out any fuel source they can. You can see this difficulty when Max is trying to soak up the fuel from a crashed truck. After fighting off one gang of would-be thieves, he finds himself fighting and enslaving a somewhat eccentric helicopter pilot. The real fun begins when said helicopter pilot leads him out to a compound in the middle of the desert, where one small group has mastered refining fuel to the point where they have attracted the attention of some unsavoury types.Max, never one to pass on exploiting a situation to his benefit, watches as the refiners try sending out scouts to find a truck that will haul their big tank of fuel. When one of the scouts is left for dead, Max brings him back to his friends, hoping to trade his life for some fuel. When this scout dies, Max finds himself without a leg to stand on, in the figurative sense, until their leader finds himself arguing with his people about their worsening situation. When he hears about how they need a truck to pull the tank, a light goes on above his head, and he proposes to them that he take some of their fuel back to the tanker he spotted at the beginning of the film, then drive the truck back to them in exchange for all the fuel he can carry in his old interceptor. When they take him up on the offer, he literally smashes his way through the barricade, collects his car, and drives off into the sunset.It sounds like a pretty boring and straightforward plot so far, but wait, there is a lot more. When the bad guys intercept him and run him off the road, he finds himself badly broken. They kill his dog, but then they make the mistake of trying to rip off his fuel, which triggers the bomb set up in earlier chapters. Without his car and his dog, Max is left in the desert to die, until the eccentric helicopter pilot he has previous been so mean to rescues him and takes him back to the refiners' compound. Having a big change of heart, he volunteers to drive the massive tanker. The refiners are skeptical at first, but they divide their force in half, let the attackers go after their tanker, and send most of their non-combatants in the opposite direction. It still sounds very straightforward and non-layered, and it is, but what this amounts to is setup for around half an hour of the best car chases captured on film. The Blues Brothers and Ronin have scenes that compare well, but nothing compares for sheer cost-to-effect ratio.Once this final scene with the truck and more cares than one can shake a stick at gets underway, mayhem ensues. Grapping hooks, crossbows, spears, and any other weapon you can imagine that does not require gunpowder is used. There are even a few shots with weapons that do require gunpowder. Some of the photography is not entirely stable, but this is soon forgotten as most of the shots are composed in a fashion that gives the eye a million things to do. Every shot is dynamic and brilliantly composed. It is little wonder that among cinematographers, one of the least celebrated professions in film-making, Dean Semler is legend. While Mad Max 2 did not set a record for profit like the original, one will never guess that it was made for a mere four million Australian dollars. That it made more than five times its budget in the USA, as an independent release, is certainly a testament to the film's entertainment value. Yes, there is a lot of exposition in search of a massive chase scene, but there is not a single moment in the film where one can rightly claim to be bored.I gave Mad Max 2 a ten out of ten. It is probably the best thing I can ever recommend to car crash junkies, and stands as an excellent example of how one does not need to spend Africa's yearly food budget to make a good film. Finding the full, uncut version is a feat in itself, but a very rewarding one. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but what a big and loud sequel this!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am sure that there would be many of you out there that would love what this movie has to offer. In my time of watching the &#145;action movie' genre, I have not come across a movie quite like &#145;Mad Max 2'. I am a fan of the &#145;action movie' genre, however this movie was very hard for me to like, because it only had the action element within it. That being so, I will remember MM2 for a long time to come, as a movie that was somewhat out of control from start to finish. Back again is Mad Max, the heroic loner who drives the roads of outback Australia in an unending search for gasoline. Arrayed against him and the other scraggly defenders of a fuel-depot encampment are the bizarre warriors commanded by The &#145;Humungus', notorious for never taking prisoners when they can pulverize them instead. When the battle is joined, the results are savage.I really enjoyed the first Mad Max movie for many reasons. The main one, was because it had a really interesting and fascinating story. With MM2, it is a shame it did not have a strong screenplay, as I personally feel that is what brings the film down. Once again, the story shows the world in a very bleak kind of predicament. Max is trying to help a group of people, protect its limited supply of gasoline from a gang of evil warriors, (which are not unlike the bikie gang from MM1). What is also amazing about this film is the lack of dialogue that it contains. I read that Max's character would have been lucky to have spoken 200 words, which is quite unusual in a current day movie. This is another part of the movie I found to be a little &#145;weak'. MM2s script was written by three men, director George Miller, Terry Hayes and Brian Hannat, and is a script that I can only describe as &#145;one in a million', I just wish, it could have been better.Back again is the road warrior Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson), who is once again a very dark, revengeful type of character. Now with Max, is his trusty Cattle Dog, who will do anything that his master wishes. Max is a very quiet kind of guy, instead letting his actions do the talking. Helping Max get to some fuel supplies is the eccentric Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence) who gets himself in quite a bit of trouble, when he tries to tackle with our hero and his trusty sidekick. Then the group of people Max finds himself helping are a strange and quiet bunch. They plead for Max to stay and fight the warrior gang with them. But being a stubborn person, Max cannot be convinced it is the right move. Out of all that groups weird characters was a very small little fella, known only as the &#145;feral kid' (Emil Minty), who shows that size does not matter when it comes to fighting. His ability with a boomerang is quite amazing, in one of the movie's more tenser moments. The movie is told from this character's point of view. There was one other person I knew from the cast was that of Curmudgeon (the late Syd Heyden). It was hard not to recognise his voice, as he was a part of the very successful Aussie TV drama &#145;A Country Practise'.The evil warrior gang in MM2 are as bad as they get. There leader is Humungus (Kjell Nilsson) who is under a mask that hides his face. The people that he leads will do anything for him. He wants the gasoline supply that Max's group are risking their lives to protect. Humungus will allow killing, rape and torture to get what he wants. He is a most repugnant of characters. Mohawk Bikie (Tony Deary) is another tough and evil looking character, who is not to be reckoned with, when he gets angry and upset. These bad guys are probably not as good as the baddies in the first movie, but were still very effective.        Director George Miller did a good job with this movie. The start of the film was really good, going back over what the first film showed, and why Max is who is. It was a good look down &#145;memory lane'. Miller's visions of action for the movie cannot be faulted, as it is thrilling and suspenseful. I especially like the scary moments in the movie, as they literally &#145;scared the sh*t out me'. I will admit I jumped up many times when they were upon me. Miller also utilised the open countryside, which was the main backdrop for the movie. MM2's cinematographer, Dean Semler, also used some great camera shots and angles to bring out the countryside beautifully.The action sequences were again a big highlight of &#145;MM2'. The car chases and the open desert racing were done in such a spectacular way, that I will not forget them quickly. The last section of the movie shows Max driving a semi-trailer, with one eye, going through anything that is in his way. This section left me just breathless. The stunt co-ordinator for MM2 was Max Aspin, who did a remarkable job with that aspect of the film.Will there ever be a movie like this one made again? I must say &#145;NO', because MM2 is a movie that is very original, and will not be topped or copied for that matter. I cannot remember a film that relied so heavily on its action, and on that level, it succeeds. I must also make mention of this movie's soundtrack, done well again by Brian May. It was one of the louder scores I have heard on movie and created great tension for the movie. What this movie does, it does very well.        CMRS gives &#145;Mad Max 2' 3 (Good Film) "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Road Warrior is an excellent film and is extremely entertaining to watch! The film is action packed with incredible stunts, fast paced chases, great acting, and awesome music! Mel Gibson was is very good in the film! Vernon Wells was terrific in The Road Warrior. He did didn't have a whole lot of dialog but the the things he did say was unique and his actions was really neat. The actor who played Lord Humungus was Kjell Nilsson! He is a huge man and is even bigger than Vernon Wells. He also acted very good! I am so amazed about the speed chases and all of the stunt work that it took to make this film! The music by Brian May is excellent! In My opinion its some of the best ever composed for a movie! This is the sequel to Mad Max and there is another one called Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome. The Road Warrior is arguably the best of the series! If you like Mel Gibson, Vernon Wells, incredible action, and stunts then Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is the movie for you!  "},{"Title":"Actually Better Than Its Predecessor","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having lost everything that was precious to him Mad Max (Mel Gibson) travels the hostile roads of a post-apocalyptic world engaging in bandits whenever he comes across them. After a narrow escape from a particularly nasty bandit named Wez (Vernon Wells) Max proceeds to come across a man who is called the Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence) because of the mini-helicopter in his possession. The Gyro Captain then shows him where a group of people have taken refuge in an oil refinery which just happens to be under siege from the same bandits Wez belongs to. Desperately in need of gasoline Max comes up with a plan. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that I thought this sequel to Mad Max was actually better than its predecessor. For starters, the plot was more cohesive and the characters were better defined. It also didn't hurt to have two attractive young ladies like Virginia Hey (as the Warrior Woman) and Arkie Whiteley as the cute blonde the Gyro Captain yearned for. In any case, all things considered I enjoyed this film and rate it as above average. "},{"Title":"Another classic example of the sequel being much better then the original","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am one of those few people that didn't like the first Mad Max movie. I can see why people liked it but I feel it went too slow to tell some things that were meant to be fast, and told things too fast that were meant to be slow. I decided to watch the sequel because I heard there was a radical shift in tone and there is. While like in this movie it takes about an hour to get the plot fully started of Max trying to lead these people to a place they kind of built a religion around and defend from a gang of bikers trying to get fuel that they have to make the journey and they fight them off. While it does take an hour to get it started, it still has interesting things going on in the meantime to keep that interest up. I'd say on close examination of this movie that it would be more worth you time to watch this one first I would also say as a side-note some of these car chases and stunts are almost breathtaking to watch. So I would say watch this one first - then the first movie to kind of see his back-story set up if you want to. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A capable sequel to the first apocalyptic wasteland film concerning a now vengeful, angry Max (Mel Gibson), who decides to help a small town, rich in gasoline which is sparse in Australia, after they are threatened by a group of thugs who want to overrun it. A simple plot is good enough concerning the staple of these films, notably great car chases, hilarious over-the-top costume design, and Gibson's rock-solid, movie-star like performance. It is just a really entertaining film, not too long to wear out its welcome, but nothing terribly groundbreaking either. It is easy to see why the Mad Max series is a cult classic and beloved by many fans, although it never really truly comes close to achieving greatness, at least in my eyes. "},{"Title":"Another Sizzling Road Saga Set in the Future","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aussie helmer George Miller didn't fool around long after Mad Max (1979) proved to be a surprise world-wide cinematic smash hit. He re-teamed with Mel Gibson to make Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior. This sizzling post-apocalyptic thriller takes place several years after the original film. Max is decked out in black leather from shoulders to boots, and he wears a contraption on one leg to help him walk. He also has a touch of gray at one temple to make him appear considerably more mature than he looked in the first film. This time around Max cruises through the desolate landscape of a dystopian future with a cute mongrel dog, while his chief aim in life is to keep his car fueled up. Naturally, Miller and scenarists Terry Hayes of Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome and Brian Hannant of The Time Guardian have made what is basically a futuristic Shane. Max spots a fuel refining camp in the middle of nowhere that an army of mutant warriors have besieged. They haven't mustered enough luck to break in and liberate all the fuel. The leader of these maniacs is a psycho called The Humungus (Kjell Nilsson of The Pirate Movie) and Max decides to help out the last vestiges of humanity. Along the way,our hero encounters a genuinely eccentric character, (Bruce Spence of Star Wars Episode III - Revenge of the Sith) who floats above in the skies on an autogyro. Initially, these two don't trust each other, but they become friends after Max agrees to help the civilized people escape from the impending depredations of The Humungus. The automotive chases are lightning fast, and the action is grim. At one point, Max crashes his car, but he manages to climb out of it before the brigands tamper with his fuel tanks and get blown to smithereens. Dean Semler's widescreen cinematography is flawless and Miller doesn't malinger with this high-octane saga. Not only would Semler reteam with Miller for Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, but he would also lens the Kevin Costner classic Dances with Wolves. The action is rough, ready, and gripping as the stunts are exhilarating. The Road Warrior is essentially a chase film with Max steering a tanker truck and trying to fend off Humungus' lunatic warriors. The Road Warrior qualifies as a first-rate actioneer with terrific stunts. "},{"Title":"Not As Great As I Remembered","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's funny how your thoughts on things change with age. I remember loving this as a kid, but for some reason even though I owned the DVD I never actually got around to watching it for over ten years. And when I did I found it has not aged well and despite some impressive action scenes, I doubt I'll ever feel the need to watch it again!! Plot In A Paragraph Max A former Australian policeman now living in the post-apocalyptic Australian outback as a drifter strikes a deal to help a community of survivors living in a gasoline refinery to help them in their battle against evil barbarian warriors. Mel Gibson gives his usual reliable performance here, and Vernon Wells is worthy of note too!!Not as great as I remembered but an OK way to spend 90 minutes "},{"Title":"Slightly superior sequel with a well-realized post-apocalyptic setting","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" MAD MAX 2 THE ROAD WARRIOR is about on-par with the first, slightly edging it out due to increased focus on character (even if the plot is about as thin) and bigger, more spectacular stunts.This time, the world (or at least Australia) is in the full-on post-apocalypse and looks like a desolate wasteland, for the most part. Biker gangs still roam the countryside, only now they're more vicious and more outlandish as far as their fashion choices go. It looks they got their clothes from an S&M shop sometimes. They also rape and pillage as they hunt for that precious commodity, gasoline. Max has also changed since we last saw him. He's more grizzled and looks almost war-weary, and instead of policing he's been reduced to scavenging like everyone else. The only difference between him and the others is his code. On his travels he meets a group of survivors guarding a treasure trove of gasoline, only they don't have the means to transport it. So they enlist his help, all while being threatened (and eventually attacked) by a vicious gang led by a freak named Humongous.Story-wise, the movie was about as thin as the last one. However, this time there are more characters and a smattering of humor as well. The characters that stood out the most to me were the Gyro Captain and one of the gang members with a red mohawk. There was also a feral child who provides some of the film's more endearing moments, and forms somewhat of a bond with Max. Generally speaking, I thought that the ensemble nature of this film is what makes it work. Sure, the stunts and special effects are excellent (and improved), but it was nice that the film didn't just rely on those elements to tell the story.Still, I do have a couple minor complaints. First, it looked like some of the action sequences were sped up. This might be too much of a nitpick, but it gave off a silent film vibe that didn't exactly mesh with the overall tone of the film as a whole. Second, it took until about the halfway point for the narrative to really take shape and gain some focus. Not that there wasn't anything to like beforehand, but (and this is where my expectations were a little undercut) I was led to believe that the film would be a little more singular and direct than it actually turned out to be.Still, I thought that the film and world it established were very well-realized. Also worthy of mention is the rousing score by Brian May (not of Queen). Overall, this post-apocalyptic action film isn't quite what I expected (but closer than what the last one turned out to be), but it's a fun ride that doesn't pander to the lowest common denominator of the audience. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"The best in the trilogy until Fury Road","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't know if it's because I thought the first Mad Max was average, but this one slightly blew me away. With it's entertaining dystopian punk rage. While the first Mad Max movie took place in a rural areas this one takes place more in a desolate outback environments. The plot this time around seems to have just killed off Max's past and seems to give him a fresh start as a road warrior. This time the plot is about an apocalyptic group of psychotic punk road gangs that goes around pillaging, killing and raping bystanders trying to take over another group of people that is trying to fend for themselves. Mainly because the bystanders have this resource called fuel. Although this installment may not seem all that consistent when connecting it to it with the first installment I actually like this new direction. It's just cool to see Max on the road which leads to mayhem. This is a entertaining somewhat steam punk like movie with car mayhem that I actually enjoyed. This is a cool B movie that is most definitely worth seeing. Especially for audiences that enjoy cult classics. It has the budget and entertaining ideas incorporated into the direction and vehicle carnage. This is one of Mel Gibson's top movies.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Quick and Fun Hour and a Half,","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 is a good movie with a well developed storyline and a great cast.Similar to the first Mad Max,the film has very little character development,but the main reason why both movies are so fun is because their action packed from start to finish and very violent.Mel Gibson does deliver a great performance as Mad Max,and improves from the original, he clearly matured as an actor within the gap of these two films and it shows as he delivers a more dramatic performance.Fans of the first Mad Max certainly won't be disappointed,I personally think the first one is better but it's still a fresh sequel,and I would also recommend it as a very enjoyable action movie. Mad Max (Mel Gibson) crosses a post apocalyptic wasteland to fight for a small community against gasoline raiders. "},{"Title":"Any fan of action, sci-fi, or post-apocalyptic films will love this movie","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you haven't seen the The Road Warrior by now, what are you waiting for? Any fan of action, sci-fi, or post-apocalyptic films will love this movie. You better get educated now before the upcoming video game and new movie, Mad Max Fury Road, hits theaters and you're left in the dust wondering what all the fuss is about.Max is an ex-police officer that gets caught up in other people's problems in a post-apocalyptic world where gas and other everyday commodities have become extremely scarce. In order to get these people out of trouble, he somehow always ends up in a fast-paced battle between futuristic weaponized cars built out of junkyard scraps. Just watching these vehicular skirmishes will provide therapy for anyone's road rage.The Road Warrior contains some unnecessary scenes of brief nudity. Who can forget those buttless chaps the one guy in wears? Obviously, there's graphic sequences of violence and some bad language as well. "},{"Title":"One Truck Drivers Opinion","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Post nuclear apocalypse survivors try to deal with an outlaw bike gang.I know!I Know! Its a post nuc holocaust flick! But its still a very cool movie!!The story is well told and there are questions about the plot. But that just allows Tina Turner to come in the next movie and solve them. George Miller,Terry Hayes,Brian Hannent,Mel Gibson and the rest of the cast and crew did a good job on it. Well Done!!Mel Gibson drove the Mack big rig tanker.Mel Gibson is a permanent A list actor!!Moria Cloux and Virginia Hey are hot!!Arkie Whitaley was hot!!!erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Mad Mel and Maxi-rad Mayhem!","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I bet you thought a boomerang was a toy, didn't you? Like a yo-yo or a hula hoop? Well let me ask you, have you ever seen someone murder a person with a yo-yo? Have you ever seen a cute little feral boy murder a person with a yo-yo? Mad Max 2 is a veritable hodgepodge of post-apocalyptic tomfoolery where policemen and fetish wear go together like PB & J. It's a movie where a snake-eating, gyro-flying horndog can get a girlfriend straight out of an aerobics video. It's a movie where the cutest little toddler can murder a dude and then backflip back into his hole with ease. In post-apocustralia, no bunny rabbit is safe from the Lord Humungus. True, the kill I'm referring to can be credited to his mohawked maniac henchman but still, Humungous makes Jason Voorhees look like an amateur hockey goalie. Who is Lord Humungous? Imagine Jason had enough respect for himself to visit the gym twice a day, between visits to the local S&M club. Then there's Max. Max is soft-spoken and doesn't seem too emotionally affected by anything that's going on down under. But hey, character development is overrated and Max has no time to be expressive. He's got to haul a tanker and contend with one particular mohawked mayhemer who, since his bitchboy was boomeranged in the head, is about a 9 on the tension scale. Perhaps the most ironic thing about Mad Max is that Max is one of the few things in this movie that isn't mad. In fact, this film was made years and years before Mel Gibson actually went bonkers. But rest assured that you will definitely get your fix of maximum madness and maxi-mayhem when you watch this film. So open up a can of dog chow, put the feral kids to bed and forget about taking the guzaline out of the wasteland. It's a puny plan! Oh and one more thing, don't ever give a crippled mechanic a Molotov cocktail! "},{"Title":"The Road Warrior - The master of post-apocalyptic action films","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Miller co-wrote and directed The Road Warrior (also known by its full title Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior) in 1981. 1979's Mad Max started it all, but The Road Warrior is that rarity in most movies it's a sequel that actually surpasses the original and in the case of this film, it surpasses the original in many, many great ways - big and small.The reason it does this is because it actually continues the story that Miller developed in the first film, while allowing for a deeper emotional and mental exploration - and possible redemption - of loner lawman Mad Max (Mel Gibson, in the role that introduced him to a worldwide audience), and it also ups the ante in terms of delivering fast-paced action sequences, pacing, and break-neck vehicular stunt-work. Although the plot is a little thin, it's redeemed by Gibson's understated performance (including a minimum of dialogue) and its breathtaking action scenes.Set in the post-apocalyptic Australian Outback, former highway cop Mad Max Rockatansky happens upon The Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence), who takes him to a small oil-producing fortress located in the middle of the desert. This same desert outpost is also at the mercy of a gang of marauding, barbarian bikers, led by The Humungus (Kjell Nillson) and his chief henchman Wez (Vernon Wells, who as I understand it was voted as the greatest movie henchman of all time, and I agree). Through Max's contacts with The Gyro Captain and the people of this oil-producing community, he rediscovers his long-forgotten humanity and passion for living.The Road Warrior gets off to a rip-roaring start and just doesn't stop; right off the bat, that is why this movie is far better than its predecessor. Admittedly, I've only liked Mad Max at arm's length, and have always had greater admiration for its first sequel, because I feel that The Road Warrior is where this series really took off and the story really began. And this is the movie that made Mel Gibson an international star and helped bring him to the attention of American audiences.The movie doesn't look back once it gets started. It's fast-paced, action-packed, and unrelentingly brutal and violent in its depiction of a post-apocalyptic wasteland populated by savages. It's the reason why this movie has become as famous as it has in the 30 years since its release.Post-apocalyptic action movies just don't get any better than The Road Warrior.10/10 "},{"Title":"An icon of cinema.","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 A.K.A. The Road Warrior is definitely in my top 20 films of all time, I first viewed it at age 13 and it blew my mind. Everything about this film is memorable; Max's torn leather clothing and leg brace, his battle scared Ford Falcon coupe, and his neckerchief wearing canine companion are truly iconic. Despite taking place in a post apocalyptic Australia it plays out like a kind of western. The film opens with a perfectly done vinyette, narrated by Harold Baigent. This sequence depicts world war 3 and the downfall of society shortly afterwards. We are then reintroduced to (Mad)Max Rockatansky as he is engaged in a thrilling chase with bandits, shortly after evading them he continues his journey into the fading light. The next day he comes across a fellow surviver who after a turning of tables agrees to lead Max to a nearby oil refinery, where Max hopes to collect some gasoline. Upon arriving at the compound Max discoverers that the compound is surrounded by brutal looking raiders who intent on invading the perimeter. The rest of film plays out brilliantly with yet more epic chase/battle sequences. Another notable aspect of this film is the score composed by Brian May, Mel Gibson shines as Max, he conveys so much emotion with his eyes. This story also features one of the most bad-ass villains of all time; The Humungus, whose face is never revealed and wore a hockey mask berfore Jason Voorhees ever did. And who could forget the feral kid and his razor boomerang. To summarise this film is a masterpiece, its a film that has stuck with me ever since I first watched it. My only criticism is that at 96 minutes (un-edited) its just too short. "},{"Title":"Regarding the Blu Ray release...","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This new print looks so fresh and sharp that it feels like it was shot this year. What struck me most about this film is really how well it has stood the test of time. It was in fact even better than I ever remember it being. It is better than I had any right to expect. Somehow, I think they managed to get every element just right. The cinematography is epic with huge panaromas of the outback wastelands of Oz. Some of the shots are so wide you can actually see the curvature of the earth. The characters and costumes are timeless, gritty and disturbing and though it's pretty over the top it manages to avoid feeling camp and stays menacing. I think the gay biker vigilantes in bondage gear have only become more terrifying as I've gotten older and will continue to do so. The road chase action sequences are just the best. All done for real and it pays off, you really appreciate the speed and danger of it all. The orchestral score is also a triumph. There's not much dialogue to worry about and what there is doesn't detract. Some of it is even really funny. And the cars, oh the cars are glorious. The root of this films success though is Max, the quintessential nihilist wandering the wastelands and the fact that Max is so long gone he wants nothing from anyone, he won't let anyone near him. At least Travis Bickle had a plan, an aim. There's a beautiful girl, Max ignores her until she is pierced with a crossbow and lies bleeding on some barbed wire. Max doesn't flinch. The Paradise that they are heading for, Max knows it doesn't exist. He meets people who try and befriend him, he deletes them from his facebook. Max has really had enough. The only flicker of humanity shows in Max's relationship with the so credited feral kid, whom is revealed as narrator right at the last moment. The credits rolled and I had to sit and take a moment. I had to watch it again the next day and enjoyed it even more. I just love everything about Mad Max 2. This film is more than just a kitsch cult item, it's a bonafide classic of the genre. "},{"Title":"An improvement over the first one and one of the best of it's type","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequels are inevitable when a film makes a great impact and take in a lot at the Box Office. Another factor that must be considered is whether or not there's enough story left. Not all films were made with a sequel in mind and can stand on their own just fine. They didn't have to make a sequel to 'Raiders of the Lost Ark,' but it didn't exactly kill any chances of their being one. But some stories just aren't finished yet. 'Mad Max' was only the beginning of the adventures of Mel Gibson's iconic character. It wasn't long before the first of two sequels came, and it turned out to be the rare example of one that's better than it's successful predecessor.Pros Great performances, memorable characters. Exciting action score. Nice production and costume designs. Fast pacing. Stronger story structure this time. Good cinematography. Some good action-packed sequences. Amazing stunt work.Cons Again not much plot. A bit dated.Final thoughts I like the original and was looking forward to seeing the further adventures of Mad Max, hoping it would be even better this time out. That certainly is the case with this sequel, which is a more satisfying and entertaining genre flick than the original. It does what a sequel should do, which is expand on what came before and bring us deeper into that world.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Finally - after 29 years, I watched it.","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've waited a long time to see this film and it's not bad.It makes much more sense now than it would have made 28 years ago - back when everything in America was rosy and the economic crash was still years away.The story is OK, but you can easily tell that this is a remake of the old cowboy movies - only set in the future. However, it still is good.Maybe the people sitting in the Whitehouse should watch this - they may get an understanding of how the future will end up if they keep fighting for oil and gas.It ad some pretty cool cars - even though they were made to be rough looking, underneath the rust and scratches, they were some decent machines. "}{"Title":"The last of the V8 Interceptors and the battle for gasoline!","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's post nuclear war Australia and the precious commodity is gasoline, all the varying degrees of survivors pursue it in anyway they can.Director George Miller is here armed with considerably more cash than was available for the first cult hit offering in the series, and boy does it show as we get more destruction, even more outlandish stunts, and a fully realised apocalyptic vision of the future. It's incredible to note that there is no CGI here, this is pure raw stunt work, the film plays out as a standard good versus evil tale, but it's the realisation of the crash bang wallop sequences that lift it to being one of the most important sci-fi action movies of modern times.The baddies are a seething mass of leather, masks, and mohawks, they scowl as they rape pillage and plunder anything in their path, they will stop at nothing to get the craved gasoline that is so important in this world. The good guys are joined by the road warrior himself, Mad Max Rockatansky, a former police officer who turned to being the angry lone warrior of the road after his wife and child were murdered. Can these honest folk survive the onslaught of the crazed plunderers?Well it's high octane entertainment finding out, and the pace is relentless. The direction is first rate, the scenes are put together brilliantly, and the sound is incredible for those with home cinema. Whilst the film may be guilty of having little to no dialogue for the most part, it really isn't needed as it's all in the action, so strap yourself in and enjoy the ride.Brilliant film that is still a benchmark for the genre. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Maxed out on action!","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently bought the DVD that had the back to back sequels of Mad Max 2 and Mad Max 3, so I rented the first Mad Max and was pleasantly surprised on how it was pretty entertaining. So I just finished Mad Max 2 and it was definitely a lot of fun. But I have to tell you watching this film and with the current popularity of fuel in the US and gas prices, this film scared me on how it just might come true in the future, lol. But back onto the film, Mad Max 2 has just as many thrills and exciting stunts as the first Mad Max and has the perfect amount of action that any movie buff could enjoy. This film put Mel Gibson on the map and made his place permanent on the Hollywood scene, he's handsome, talented, and charismatic as the road warrior.Max is living in the apocalyptic era where he has lost his wife, child, and partner to the evil motorcycle gangs that have taken over his land. He's ready for revenge and to bring some sort of peace to the world. He meets a community of survivors and becomes their leader, together they take on the motorcycle gang once and for all to see who rules the land while trying to get their society back together. But that's going to be hard with the leader of the motorcycle gang who just won't quit and will make sure that Max is dead before he can do anything.Max Max 2 The Road Warrior is packed with action, awesome stunts, and terrific actors. The look, the costumes, the sets, the over all feel of the film just makes it a great classic. Mel Gibson was really amazing and such a cool good guy, especially with the little kid who is almost like his side kick. I loved Virginia Hey, she was an awesome Road Warrior Woman, she was beautiful and kicked butt. I highly recommend Mad Max 2, it's a cool action movie that truly delivers and will leave you satisfied.7/10 "},{"Title":"An enjoyable action caper sequel...","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Shaun Munro's Reviews (ShaunMunro.co.uk)The original Mad Max was both a critical and commercial success in 1979, pulling in over $100,000,000, a fantastic feat considering the $400,000 budget, even managing to maintain the highest cost-to-profit ratio of any motion picture for 20 years (ultimately being ousted by The Blair Witch Project). Given the film's astronomical success, it wasn't long before a sequel came along Mad Max 2 wastes no time whatsoever, introducing us to another ragtag band of murderous psychopaths mere moments into the film. Meanwhile, Max has since abandoned his family dwelling (his family having been mercilessly slaughtered in the first film) and is something of a drifter, living on dog food and always in search of gasoline for his trusty, and now iconic vehicle - the V8 Interceptor. Max eventually stumbles across a small community with a rather copious gasoline supply, the only problem being that the town is under siege by a villainous gang.This sequel takes a little more time to get going than its predecessor - rather than throwing us headlong into the action as the original film did, this takes a more stoic approach to things, with Max observing the carnage from afar before deciding to get involved. It might just be that his personal tragedies have taught him to exhibit an air of tact, in assessing a situation before running in all guns blazing.Viewers will quickly realise that this is as unforgiving and morally devoid as the original film - led by the imposing, monstrous Lord Humungous, the evil gang viciously murder inhabitants of the town in an attempt to pilfer its gasoline supply. The fact that they ultimately give the townspeople 24 hours to peacefully hand over the town (and moreover, its gasoline reserves) would suggest that they are slightly more humane than the antagonists of the first film, but rest assured that this group are as brutal as anything seen in the first film.As you can expect, Max becomes caught in the middle of the squabbling inhabitants, and ultimately acts as a directional force, a leader in their fight, although Max doesn't take this as a charity case - he's getting as much gasoline as he can carry out of it. In this sense, it's great to see that the character of Max never lets up in looking out for his best interests first, and as such, he is something of an anti-hero.The first half of Mad Max 2 may be a little restrained for some - the action is few and far between, but is essentially build-up for the action-packed second half, beginning with Max engaging the gang in a high-speed automobile demolition derby. The smashmouth style of car-chase direction from the first film quickly returns in full, violent force, as well as the rather homoerotic attire of the villains.From this point, the narrative follows a similar structure to the first film - both Max's side and the opposing gang incur losses in a string of violent exchanges, each time regrouping and then returning to fight soon after. Max, the unlucky soul that he is, merely wishes to get out of dodge with his gasoline and his car (frankly he doesn't see this as his battle), yet as it turns out, in another ironic twist, Max may well have been safer in the town, as he is waylaid and left for dead moments after leaving. Furthermore, the enemies crawling around the desert wasteland are now more dangerous than ever, using nitrous oxide to drive even faster (and as such, more dangerously) than before (and you thought The Fast and the Furious used that gimmick first?).Max ostensibly ends up right back where he started, thanks to what is near-enough Max's only foible in the series up to this point. Max, driven only by his own need to escape these heinous monsters, agrees to aid the town in their escape, resulting in a full-throttle, white-knuckle thrill ride, taking place both on the lush desert terrain and even in the sky to a degree. The exciting finale is explosion-laden and every bit as unforgivingly brutal as the original film's, and no matter how many times a body is hurled under a car in this film (and no matter how many times I watch it), it is still shocking.Max Rockatansky, now black and bruised, with enemies literally coming from all angles and directions, is solidified as an action-hero by Gibson's steely performance, portraying a character who never lets up, and will not be stopped with such gusto and enthusiasm that it's near-impossible not to take a shine to both Max as a character and Gibson as a performer.After an exciting and bombastically violent finale, as with the first film, the desert sand has little time to settle before the credits hit. Miller clearly has no interest in providing any padding or gentle decline for the audience, and frankly, this film is all the better for it.As a sequel, Mad Max 2 is seemingly unnecessarily but ultimately well-executed. It takes a little while to get to the meat of the matter, but once it does, it delivers as many adrenaline-fuelled thrills as the original, with as much directorial craftsmanship also. I found Max's personal struggle to be more interesting and relatable in the first film, yet his taking it upon himself to lead a band of otherwise hopeless soldiers to the cusp of destruction with all bells tooting is enjoyable to say the least. "},{"Title":"The basic survival fight at the time of motor vehicles","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second film of the trilogy is getting off the banality of the first one with its rape, infanticide and vengeance. Here we get to a world that is a real war to the death of one tribe against another and there is no law anywhere close. It is war for survival hence for the only thing that has some value in this desertic world where you can only move safely in motor vehicles, hence with gas. A fight for a tanker of gas, that's what the stake is. Mad Max gets on the side that controls the tanker in order to get gas for his car and he manages to serve them in a way and be accepted, though he tries to go away on his own when the service is finished. But he gets wrecked and has to be brought back by some accessory to the action who has some kind of unidentifiable flying object, some kind of ancestor of the chopper. So he will be the hero of the essential part of the film, the chase after the tanker. We will follow it with anxiety especially since a tanker like that is a bomb on wheels. The successive attacks against the tanker will be creative and some people will die on both sides and the driver will be seriously endangered by the attackers, to the point that he will not be able to avoid the final crash. And surprise, surprise, the tanker will not explode. The good old valueless gas had been transferred to the school bus in which the women were traveling. But the wreck of the tanker will incite the attackers, or what's left of them, to go away. Strangely enough they will not verify the content of the tanker and will not be able to think that the gas was somewhere else these attackers are barbarians somewhere, hence they are intellectually retarded. And the final leg of the migration to safety could start and Mad Max could disappear in a mirage in the desert like some sand on a wind. Entertaining but in no way too intellectual you will not get any nightmares nor headaches. Just funny after all. But that kind of chase will be imitated galore in the coming years after 1981. And that's probably one reason why it became cult it was one of the very first films to work on the technique of shooting and editing such a chase.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Simply Badass","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What more could I add about this film that people haven't commended already. If you are reading this post and have seen The Road Warrior, then you should already realize why this movie is great. It is the absolute definition of a pure 80's action film (and any decade as far as I'm concerned). It has a simple story, that acts mostly as a vehicle for showcasing different action sequences fitting tightly with an incredible score by Brian May. It has scenes of excessive, but not disgusting violence, over-the-top stunts and, importantly, little dialogue. The lack of dialogue in this film is fitting for an action film. The action should drive the plot. There is nothing more unnecessary then talkie action films. Nevertheless, the dialogue that is in this movie is fantastic (especially Bruce Spence and all the eccentrics in the compound).I could go on, the film is just a lot of fun.If you haven't seen this, then I'm sorry for wasting your time while you could have been out renting, nay, buying this film.Oh and for the record, a choppy original VHS copy is best for this movie. It's at its grittiest!It is bleak "},{"Title":"One of the Coolest Films Ever!","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior (I know it's not the real title Mad Max 2 is the real title, but I'm American) is one of the coolest films of all times. I never really cared for Mel Gibson. But then realized that whenever I would watch one of his movies, I liked it. This epiphany happened for Maverick. The same with his direction. Apocalypto is one of my favorites also. So lately I've been in a Mel Gibson phase and I watched The Road Warrior for the first time in years. I never liked the movie when I was growing up. I have no idea why. It has everything that a preteen or teenage boy could want. A lot of action; explosions; people getting shot; you know, awesome stuff. But as I watched it again yesterday I was enthralled. I couldn't turn away. There's not a lot of dialogue. But you can understand the story, although it is a simple plot line. In today's world, the bloodshed and society fighting over the control of a gasoline refinery seems pretty foresighted for 1981. Although I guess there was a gas shortage in the late '70s. This is now one my favorites list of those films I can watch over and over. "},{"Title":"A Man Alone","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" To classify this great movie as Science Fiction is putting it into a broad general category that does not do justice to the point being made. Except for the time used (after a nuclear holocaust) this is really a Western, with the hero (Gibson) helping out some homesteaders. SHANE revisited.I have never been a fan of Sci-Fi. But I love this movie beyond most. Gibson is the Man Alone. Taking care of himself, in a savage world, by reliance on his own strength and wits. Even his initial foray into the trapped community was to trade bodies for gas.Every time the price of gas goes up in our world we can wonder if the prediction of this movie work out. Right now, as I write this, the price if $3.00 per gallon has been passed. How much higher? What I never have liked about this series was that the actors play different people in the movies. Bruce Spence was so memorable, as the Gyro Captain, that he never should have been another character.When I first saw this at a theater years ago, I remember the audience being spellbound and mesmerized. Most stayed right through the ending credits, much as a respectful honor. "},{"Title":"Excellent Sequel, That's Almost As Good As The Original, With Some Incredible Stunts And Car Chases!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an excellent sequel that's almost as good as the original, with some incredible stunts and car chases!. It really is a wild ride once again,and all the characters were great, plus Mel Gibson is simply amazing here. It has lots of great action, and like in Mad Max Mel Gibson's dialog is very limited here, however i believe it made his character much more interesting, plus those car chases were something else!. It did take a little while to get going, and i did prefer the original, however i still loved this one, and can't wait to see Mad Max 3!.The character development wasn't bad, and the film had some stunning action sequences, plus it also had some shocking and sadistic villains!. This is an excellent sequel, that's almost as good as the original, with some incredible stunts and car chases/crashes!, it's an absolute must see!. The Direction is great!. George Miller does a great job here, with some awesome camera work, great angles, giving it a bleak feel, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. There is a bit of violence. We get a gory corpse,boomerang in the head,slit throat,bloody arrow hits,and a bloody accident victim. The Acting is fantastic!. Mel Gibson is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he does not have much dialog, however he is extremely likable, still carries that great wit of his, had good chemistry with all the cast, had some cool lines, and was tons of fun to watch!. (Gibson rules!). Bruce Spence is pretty good here, and did what he had to do well. Michael Preston is amusing here i liked him. Vernon Wells does what he has to do well in his screen time. Emil Minty is very good as the kid and i loved his laugh!. Virginia Hey is beautiful i liked her. Rest of the cast are awesome. Overall an absolute must see!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"One of my Gibson favorites","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Max (Mel Gibson) travels the post nuclear war desert world with his dog, eating dog wood and looking for gasoline to keep his car running. One day he meets gang of riders who are surrounding a group of people fortressed around oil well.Max decides to offer his help to those poor oil diggers (all dressed in white) against those evil raiders (all dressed in black) for exchange of gasoline.That sums up the plot. Lots of action in this film, not very bloody, but it's serious type of action, not light Matrix type of action.Action movies tend to suffer from time (Mad Max was made in 1981) but surprisingly MM2 has endured the test of time quite well, mostly thanks to the fact, that all stunts are made with real cars (as far I can tell) so it doesn't have the modern day CGI effects got old in a week problem.I have yet to be seen the first Mad Max, so I can not say how does this compare with it, but it's fun action flick. My thumbs up. "},{"Title":"A fella... a quick fella, might have a weapon under there...","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the greatest of all action movies. Nothing can rival it's chases and excitement. Hands down Mel Gibsons best movie, now and forever. Very few films have been as influential as this one.You have to love the big semi chase. There will never be anything like that put on film again! If you've never seen it, see it tonight!10 out of 10 "}{"Title":"One of the greatest action flick of all time","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Funny how oil would be the single most important source of survival in the movie and in the world today we are at war with foreign countries over the precious natural resource, you guessed it, oil. This movie practically invented action-packed. It's so insane and awesome that it should have its own category titled pure apocalyptic mayhem action. The first movie was just as good and intense at the same time felt peaceful since it was normal before the world went into total melt-down. Now in the aftermath sequel, we've got road rage psychos running amuck in search of the juice, the only means of survival. You've got the hero Max plus a small colony of oil-producing scavengers battling a muscle-bound Jason-look-alike leader and his army of evil nomads with a deranged mow-hawk renegade on the side. This movie easily has one of the best, if not, the most incredible vehicle chase scene ever. The first movie that I know of to ever use a supercharger(though I've heard otherwise it was a prop) and nitrous oxide. The only thing that made me sad was when Max loses control of his car and...you know what happens, a very sad scene indeed. Overall, bloody, violent, explosive, words cannot describe such insanity. Vehicles crashing and smashing, it's totally bonkers!I give it 5/5 "},{"Title":"The best post apocalypse film ever made","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you have watched MM2 you will either love it or hate it.  I am always raving about it to my friends, but when they watched it they said it was rubbish.  You have to look past the dodgy speeded up camera work and the general look of the film as it was made of a budget of £5!  It was and still is a film that will never date, how can it?  In 30 years time this film will still have a place in cult history and who knows maybe oil will have all gone, and we will live like scavengers trying to survive, feeding on the scraps of the society's before us, almost like living under a Labour Government! "},{"Title":"One of the most greatest films ever made","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although a fair number of people see this as weird or underbudget, this film holds a great and powerful but yet so simple story. The music is perfect, the action is perfect and the scenes all fit together in a perfect way.  The story is one of those few great hollywood stories, there is a lone-warrior, who has lost his loved ones somehow, he therefore goes out and fights the evil people. often the ones who killed his loved ones (you can see this story in Batman and RoboCop). The story is set in the future, the world has collapsed and people fight for food, water and gas to travel around the destroyed world, Max is a victim of the war, he comes apon a small community that possess thousands of litres of gas. He agrees to help them get out by getting a tanker for them as they hav to escape from a group of insane bikers wanting the gas. He gets caught up in it all and decides to drive the tanker in order for them to escape (the final chase is the best ever made!!!) Mel gibson did a brilliant job on being Mad Max, i can't imagine anyone else to be Mad Max. I highly recommend this film 10/10, it personally is one of my most favorite films, and anyone who hates it needs to see it again and try to forget things like 'why are they after gas?' and stupid remarks like that. "},{"Title":"A BASIC MYTHIC TALE OF POWERFUL MEANING IN THE MODERN WORLD","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The violence and the thrilling action are masks for the finer and deeper structure that underlies an ancient and basic mythic metaphor of finding meaning in what is perceived to be a Wasteland.  The greatest poem of the 20th Century was titled the Wasteland and all the great heroes of the Bible speed a time in the wilderness, finding themselves and their humanity and their mission.  Max and Dr. Henry Hill of the Musicman are manifestations of the same basic character - the wastelands  have different surface characteristics, but it is only the acceptance and the emerging humanity of the primary character that converts the Wasteland into a place of meaning.Do not be deceived by this film; it is very basic (the sparse dialogue) and very indirect - but listen closely to the prologue - it is beautiful and tells the intent of the tale. "},{"Title":"An action packed, dark poem.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To my astonishment this movie FAR outdid Mad Max, and Mad Max was a classic in itself. This movie, which in my opinion launched Mel Gibson's career, can be looked at in a number of ways. Its a great action movie. Its a somber look at a man so traumatized by heart breaking loss and scarred by the world around him that he has turned into a bitter cold shell. It could be viewed as a scathing political/social commentary. And finaly its merely a darkly poetic film about the struggle of existence.First off the acting was superb. A lot of people at first glance might right this off as another stupid action movie. My friends that would be a travesty. EVERYONE involved, from Max, to the gyro captain, to the kid, to the evil gang, to the Leader of the Oil clan gives a believable wonderful performance. Even the mohawked biker bad guy does a great job despite never really uttering a sensible word. Its all about facial expressions and conveyance of emotion in The Road Warrior. A fine job by everyone envolved. Much better than Mad Max and the eventual Beyond Thunderdome.The music was simply the BEST I've ever heard for an action movie. Period. Moody, fitting, exhilirating. For every situation in the film, the music was like a character in itself.  Especially the opening and final closing seconds of the movie. I got goosebumps. That last image of Max on the road in smoke is in my opinion of the greatest cinematic images ever. Forget Snake Pliskin, Ash, anything by arnold or Stallone...Max is the epitome of the everyman style anti hero. Even my beloved comic book character The Crow has a hard time competing with the sympathetic bad ass Mad Max.The cinematography was top of the line. The Australian locations were frightening in their nothingness. I realize some of the most barren parts of the Outback were used, but jesus you really got the feeling that this vast stretch of desert was what comprised a dead earth. Incredible camera work to boot.The story was simple and to the point. In this case it was a good thing. Forget movies like XXX or The Scorpion King or any other ambiguous action yarn. The simple subtleness of The Road Warrior is what made the action even more heart racing.Well what else can I say? The best of the Mad Max trilogy without doubt, and in my opinion the best action movie ever made. You owe it to yourself to see this movie. Once you have I dont think you'll be able to watch Rambo 3 or any other crappy action fest again with a strait face. "},{"Title":"The best of the trilogy","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the first Aussie movie I ever watched, and it's still the best thing everything I've ever seen from Down Under.  The first Mad Max had it's moments, and the Thunderdome flick was mostly a bore, but this picture cooks from start to fantastic finish.  Every time I'm flippin' channels and come across it, I'm hooked through the end.  I just can't stop watching this movie, which has been (unsuccessfully) ripped off for about 20 years.The little kid is just one of a great ensemble of characters in this movie trying to survive in a world ruled by Humungus.  And Mel Gibson certainly won a ton of fans in his portrayal as Max. The sheepish smile he gives The Gyro Captain at the end of the chase is quite the starmaking moment for Mel, as it seems to melt my wife's heart every time we view it.It's got to be in my all-time top 25!  "},{"Title":"Astonishing stunts","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The distinguishing mark of The Road Warrior is, as everyone should know by now, the astonishing car stunts. Just jaw-dropping in the amount of crunching carnage and kineticism. The gritty, patchy production designs, too, have been influential for a long time in the chaotic subgenre of post-holocaust movies, for example Waterworld or the recent Reign of Fire. The screen presence of Mel Gibson, as the laconic loner not eager to forge new ties, has never been greater, though the uncharitable might say the dearth of dialogue helped. The story is basically a serviceable reworking of Shane. Men fighting and dying for gasoline doesn't lack unpleasant plausibility for those of us who had to wait in line during gas shortages. An exciting action film that put director George Miller and his star into the big time. "},{"Title":"A movie that goes deeper than just the action","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The post-apocalyptic world of Max returns in this action/adventure film.  And who says sequels can't surpass the original?  This one does, if only due to its higher budget.  But the wonderful thing about this film is that George Miller didn't forget that from which it sprang, the original Mad Max.  Filmed in much the same way, but with taughter scripting, this film moves along at a hectic pace, rarely letting up.  The bad guys are tougher than those in the first movie, but not quite as creepy (except for Wez whose punk-rocker styling and limited vocabulary add to his eerie presence).  Still, this movie moves the post-holocaust world a little further toward feudalism.  The world is set in almost clan-style societies where everyone clings to the past as heartily as possible even as the last remnants of that past are fading.  The car, and the gas needed to run them, are merely symbols that drive (pun intended) this film.  Here, Mel Gibson gives one of his best performances as the ex-cop, burned out, washed-his-hands-of-society anti-hero.  He cares not about his fellow man, only for the gas that propels him away from his horrific past and into an ever more horrific future.  But deep inside, Max's humanity is seething, waiting to be released.  The first indication we get of this is upon his first arrival at the refinery encampment, when the dog attacks the mechanic.  Max rushes to its aid before any harm can be done and speaks softly, consolingly to the animal.  It is here that the foreshadowing of what is to come is first displayed.  And here is where Max is pulled into the feudal war between the refinery inhabitants and the followers of Humongous.  This one scene sets up the rest of the movie.  And, as the movie moves along, we see him move slowly from caring for animals to humans (he takes an intermediate step in beginning to care for the Ferral Kid who is half-human, half-animal).  In the end, Max, who has survived, finally understands what life has been all about.  He understands from what he runs, and that he cannot outrun the past, but only live with it.  This telling point is revealed as he leans against the overturned tanker, having discovered it is filled with sand, and smiles.  It is the first time he smiles in the movie, and it is a telling point in the maturation of the man.  On a scale of 1-10, this movie scores a 10. "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Quite possibly the greatest film ever made, Mad Max 2 is a seminal piece of work from the aussie genius, George Miller. It is unique in that it is a sequel which transcends its predecessor. It is also the first film of its kind and therefore a base for all post-apocalyptic film-makers. It is outstanding film-making, a joy to watch.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie, then do yourself a favour and hire it out.Constant kinetic energy in motion from start to finish - with Max in either the supercharged interceptor or road-crushing tanker.In a world without law, in a world without order, comes a man without fear. "}{"Title":"Sequels aren't supposed to be better!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I love Mad Max, and when I heard the sequel was coming to my town, I had to see it at my local drive-in theater on opening night, which was Friday. It was so good, that I saw it again on Saturday night, Monday night, Tuesday night, and Thursday night when it closed. My girlfriend at the time got really bored with it, I couldn't get enough!    This movie has a classic western flavor of the lone hero saving the defenseless small town from the bad guys, with a twist. Instead of a small town, this is a band of people in a refinery in the middle of the desert who are looking for a big rig to hall a tanker trailer full of gas to the promised land, while a ruthless gang of bikers try to take it away from them, and kill the good people, just for kicks! It's up to Max to save the day. As all true western heros, at first he has this 'what's in it for me' attitude, but he is forced to fight it out with bad guys, and relearns a little humanity in the process. I must admit, I almost cried when Max crashed his black interceptor! I love that car! But if you are interested, the car is safe in a museum in England! If you like non-stop action, and Mel Gibson, this movie is for you. Be forewarned however, if you don't like graphic violence, you might not want see this one, but consider Mad MaxBeyond Thunderdome!  "},{"Title":"AN INTERESTING WESTERN...","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, kudos to you that made it this far down to read the reviews, but I think that I have a different viewpoint than most about this one...It is definitely a Science Fiction movie, but more than that, it is a desolate, bleak, loner Western film.  Quite possibly one of the most archetypical Westerns of all time.  Just look at the landscape if you have any queston about it.  If you take all of the cars and mohawks out of it... its a really good Western set in Australia, and follows the rules of standard Dust Bowl Justice.Mad Max is really something out of a Clint Eastwood movie.  The best part? The hero finally gets pissed, stops thinking about himself, and that is when all of the great action happens... oh, and he saves the people.COME... FEEEL THE WESTERN.A broken hero, who used to be a great fighter for justice wanders out of the desert looking for a chance to get a drink and get going when he runs across a town that is in need of help.  They beg the stranger for help. Hell, they even have a mayor that bargains with him. He says no.  Then they force him to help after he sees the threat they are living under.  He agrees, but only in a limited bargain.  He goes on a task where the baddies chase him, beat him, and break him... almost kill him, BUT THEY JUST CAN'T DO IT.  He is alone in the desert, wounded, limping... his best friend is dead.  He goes back to the town, and man, starts loading up the guns (this time literally). As with a lot of Westerns, he finds a way to get the town safe again, and GET HIS REVENGE.  BIG REVENGE.  Kills the whole posse. Then he rides off into the sunset.  The end is told by the one that is the most innocent in the town.Like I said... Western.  Cowboys for guzzoline.  Dune buggy desperados. Heroes and sunsets. "},{"Title":"'Max' unleashes Hell on Wheels","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Emergency room doctor-turned-director George Miller, and a ravaged-looking Mel Gibson, first made significant marks in the US with this wildly inventive, unbelievably high-intensity chase thriller.  The middle segment of a trilogy (between the shambolic but interesting 'Mad Max' and the pretentious, rambling mess 'Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome'), MM2 was hugely influential for its grungy, comic-book style and kinetic feel.  It remains easily the best of its type and one of the finest action films ever made.Note description may contain spoilers--The film opens on a world where civilization has collapsed and the Australian desert is peopled by nomadic scavengers fighting each other for increasingly scarce resources, particularly fuel for the few remaining motor vehicles.  One of these lost souls is the loner Max Rocketansky (Gibson), a former cop who wanders this Wasteland in his battered V-8 Interceptor with only a mongrel dog for company.After a run-in with a twitchy, half-crazed aviator, the Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence), who tries to rob Max of his gear, Max spares the Captain's life when he reveals the existence of a nearby encampment where fuel is abundant. With his reluctant prisoner in tow, Max heads for the compound, where he discovers that it is under siege by a horde of thugs under the direction of a fearsome, merciless warlord known as the Humungus (Kjell Nilsson). Talking his way in between attacks, Max learns that the relatively civilized (and unfortunately, rather colorless) inhabitants have a tankerload of fuel and are planning to use it in a breakout run to the coast.  The problem they have no truck that can haul the tanker.  Max, however, knows where one can be found.  A deal is struck, but first Max must get past the Humungus and his chief enforcer, the mohawk-wearing maniac Wez (Vernon Wells)...As much a re-imagining as a sequel to Miller's low-budget Aussie hit 'Mad Max', the movie displays a bleak, unrelentingly violent vision of the future that will be off-putting to some, but packs a definite wallop.  Highlights include Gibson's subtle, nearly wordless performance as a man who has withdrawn from life but, in aiding the trapped people of the compound, gradually regains his humanity; Wells' counterpoint as the barking mad, gleefully savage Wez; Miller's clever mixing of Western, Samurai, Horror and Sci-Fi story elements; superb widescreen photography and Brian May score; and of course the breathtaking action sequences, climaxing in a 45-minute chase involving dozens of vehicles and done entirely with practical stunts.Although the plot is little more than a way to string the chases and battles together, and a good portion of the dialogue is embarrassingly banal, Miller packs the screen with so many bizarre characters and fascinating details that the movie remains entertaining throughout.  An essential film. "},{"Title":"one of a kind","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is THE movie of the Mad Max series. Many tried to make a movie similar to the Road Warrior but none succeeded, with the worthless Kevin Kostner movie Waterworld as it's most known example. Energetically directed, with an excellent cast and tremendous car chases and stunts, the Road Warrior is the story of a silent typed classic antihero who tries to survive in a desolate world where gangs kill each other for gasoline and where only the most ruthless survive. Don't worry about the thin plot, you simply won't have the time to think about it as the Road Warrior picks you up and takes you through a sizzling adrenaline rush seldomly seen in cinema history.I give the Road Warrior 11 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Take this movie for a spin!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I normally don't care much for aimless action-films; I'm much more inclined towards the romantic genre.  Well, the hell with romance!  Fasten your seatbelt, tighten your chain, jump on the gyrocopter, and take this movie for a spin!  From the opening scene to the closing credits, you're in for a hell of a ride.  I'm dusting off my desert boots right now...gonna start looking for Mad Max...he's out there in the Wasteland somewhere....gonna save me from my dreary besieged existence.  What do you mean, it's only a movie?   "},{"Title":"Apocalyptic, futuristic, desperate, excellent","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second in the Mad Max trilogy, The Road Warrior is an outstanding installment in the series.  It is mainly about a small colony of peaceful residents at a barricaded oil refinery, a power-hungry maniac named The Humungus(Kjell Nilsson), and a lone desert scavenger named Max (Mel Gibson).  The Humungus is attacking the wasteland oil refinery, desperate for the oil, along with his army of apocalyptic warriors.  Max comes into the story by seeing an escaping group of the peaceful dwellers attacked and ravaged by the warriors, and by bringing back the only living survivor of the attack to the peaceful compound.  He agrees (after some reluctance) to drive back a truck he saw in the wasteland to try and haul their oil out along with them, to safety in the northern paradise.  The movie is full of desperate acts and needless murders, but is truly how I picture the post-apocalyptic world to be.  It is an excellent film that seizes your attention and holds it the the whole way through the movie. "},{"Title":"The Classic Hero","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  He wandered into the Wasteland, and it was here, in this blighted place, that he learned to live again... Follow the hero, Max, as he reluctantly brings salvation to the last remnants of society being attacked by anarchy (played by punk/gladiator villians which have been copied by never matched in any other film). See the movie which invented the entire road action genre, and the vehicle chases which have never been (and I expect will never be) topped, no matter how much money the producers throw at it, because this movie was done by people that understood the hero theme, and honestly did those incredible stunts (no CGI back then!). See it and take a journey through Max's crisis... To be or not to be... a hero. "},{"Title":"An action classic.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Road Warrior is, quite simply, one of the most exciting action-adventure movies ever made.  Only Terminator 2 Judgement Day is higher on my list of all-time favorites.The Road Warrior is what post-apocalyptic actioners are supposed to be. Our hero, Max, is a man who lost everything to the breakdown of society.  He travels the wasteland that was once the Australian outback, searching for anything he can salvage from the old world.  Gasoline is the hot commodity in this bleak future.  Men kill for it.You'll like Max.  He's a man of few words and relentless determinataion. But under his coarse exterior is a very human guy.  You'll love his car too. The V-8 Interceptor, A piece of history!  The badguys are complete maniacs, the kind you love to hate.I won't tell you anything else about the plot.  Even if I did it wouldn't matter since what really makes the Road Warrior such a fantastic movie are the chases and the stunts.  All I can tell you is rent it and get ready for one of the most thrilling movies you've ever seen.  It'll be the best couple of bucks you ever spent.My personal rating, 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best and very influential","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	I'll have to say that this is one of my all time favourite Australian films, while on the other hand Mad Max 3 is the worst. This film is to blame for setting up our future as a post-apocalyptic planet full of scavengers and junkyards and a 1000 other films that have totally ripped this classic off. 	Mel Gibson became a star from this film and says he won't be making a 4th in the series. From all the bad films he's been in lately (Ransom, Conspiracy theory, Lethal weapon 4 etc) I'm sure if he got paid enough he'll back as Max Rocktansky. 	As for George Miller, who is a hero of mine, is a big hypocrite for denouncing violence in cinema. I'm sure if he got paid enough he'll back to direct Max Rocktansky after the failure of his new anti-violence themed BABE. 	Watch Mad Max (the 1st one) to see the second best Australian film ever made. "},{"Title":"Much better that the first one!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This installment is much more palatable  and enjoyable that the first movie.   Terriffic acting, stunts and camera work  lend more credence to this one.  One of  the better characters to come down the  line is The Gyro Captain (played by Bruce  Spence).A rating of 8 out of 10 was given. "}{"Title":"A top-notch post-apocalyptic thriller that comes only once in a millennium.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Outrageous, superior, and outstanding sequel to the extremely popular Mad Max franchise. The Road Warrior (aka Mad Max 2) is possibly the best sci-fi/action film ever made, depicting the horrors, and the aftermath of a destructive force known as the nuclear war.  This riveting, awesome follow up to Mad Max has all the action, suspense, and humor that every fan of this particular genre craves for. The special effects and huge budget are no short of unforgettable, the stunts are great, and the spectacular car chase scenes and  demolition  crashes are the most visually appetizing to appear in front of the camera.  The tapestry of imaginative action sequences in The Road Warrior are appealing to the human eye.The Road Warrior is also popular for the fact that it has set a precedent for many other sci-fi/action films to follow. This once in every occasion action masterpiece was perhaps the first thriller to show how civilization tries to rebuild after the nuclear war has scarred most of the planet.The Road Warrior is a treat for all fans of science-fiction and action blockbusters! It's well directed, and the action moves in full swing throughout the entire movie, laced with eye-popping vehicle warfare battle sequences which are a true spectacle. The Road Warrior is accelerated by decent performances, a stronger storyline then most latter post-apocalyptic actioners, and a  clever on-location setting at the outbacks of Australia. Mel Gibson is great as the leather-clad tough guy, Mad Max.The Road Warrior is a vivacious action film that's 100% pure fun!  It's a very compelling and captivating story too as the peaceful settlers must learn to compromise among themselves before they can make any imperative decisions.The Road Warrior became a successful,  highly  profitable action satisfaction, guaranteed to satiate every movie fan with the mouth-watering thrills, stunts, and climactic road racing sequences.  This is a once-in-a-lifetime film that will please almost everybody.  It's edge-of-your-seat entertainment that manages to sustain more substance and deep meaning amid the fast-driving, futuristic vehicles.RATING ***1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"See it and love or hate it!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My absolute cult movie. A base for many movies alike, who never seem to reach the same high level, maybe just by lacking an original spirit like the true original. For example 'Waterwold' owes a lot to the Roadwarrior; it's just a different setting. "},{"Title":"Ultimate in Wasteland-Future Movies","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max 2 - The Road Warrior set the standard for the many post-apocalyptic films that followed.  Most notable amongst these was Waterworld which is virtually a remake on water of The Road Warrior.Mel Gibson portrays a world weary ex-cop wandering the wastelands aimlessly, surviving from day-to-day on whatever he can scrounge from the remnants of civilisation.  He eventually agrees to help a band of survivors fend off the attacks of a blood thirsty gang led by the 'Lord Humungus' - self styled ruler of the wastelands.Some of the most spectacular car chase and stunt scenes ever filmed lead to the climactic all out assault on the last petrol tanker of fuel in existence...Filmed in the Australian desert country near Broken Hill, the red earth and blue sky paint a memorable backdrop to the movie.  Excellent action direction by George Miller, and the vehicle which brought Mel Gibson to international attention, and eventually catapulted him to the superstar status he enjoys today.I gave The Road Warrior 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Surpasses the original in every way","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Finally, mohawks and ass-less chaps! This is the post apocalypse I remember. Though we're given a bit more back story than in 'Mad Max', the exact timeline of events remains unclear. What is clear is that the very tenuous foundation that society rested on in the first film has completely collapsed here. No more government. No more law and order, however shaky. This is total chaos.The introduction of the S&M look aside, the biggest difference between 'Mad Max' and 'The Road Warrior' is production value. The latter is just a better looking, more skillfully shot film. It's also much tighter and more coherent, breezing by at 95 minutes where the original dragged at times in spite of having almost the exact same runtime.Like the first film, there are a host of colorful characters. The Gyro Captain, Wez, Lord Humungous, and the Feral Kid. Anchoring this madness is Gibson, who has a quiet burn similar to Clint Eastwood's Man with No Name.'The Road Warrior' is one of those sequels that easily trumps the original and it holds up exceptionally well. Its reputation is well deserved. "},{"Title":"The sequel surpasses the first movie by miles...","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Compared to the first movie, then Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior was a major improvement, not only in entertainment value, but also in story, execution and atmosphere.The first Mad Max movie was a chaotic stew of what appeared to be random footage put together, but Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is a much more coherent movie experience.There is a lot more action in this sequel and there is a more post apocalyptic feel to it, especially because you see nothing but the wastelands. As to the first movie where you could spot farm houses in the backdrop and such.However, there is a heavy undertone of homo eroticism throughout the movie. Just take a look at Humungus and his gang. Their outfits and their behavior was screaming homo eroticism.Looking past that, then Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is actually an enjoyable movie, and this is how I remembered Mad Max to be from my childhood. So I will just forget all about the abysmal first movie.The acting in the movie was quite good, especially Mel Gibson was doing a great job in developing Max in growing into a legendary action hero. As for the people in Humungus' gang, well... A bit of the acting was just forced and bordering on being comedy.Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is fast paced, lots of action throughout the entire movie, and there is a great red line throughout the course of the movie. The action scenes are well choreographed. But especially hats off for the director and film crew for the driving sequences. They were just spectacular.All in all, then Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is well worth watching. And for an action movie from 1981, then it still holds leverage as being watchable today. "},{"Title":"Rip -roaring road carnage","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rip-roaring road carnage is the second instalment in the Mad Max series that was released in the U.S. as The Road Warror. Mel Gibson returns as the lost soul who wonders the wasteland in search of fuel for his V8 Interceptor. He teams up with a renegade band of oil barons who are desperately trying to hang on to their liquid gold; constantly threatened as they are by a vicious road gang lead by the masked beast Humungus.Biggest thrill, and best moments in the movie, belong to the deadly pursuits played out on the remote desert highways. Sure enough, this is what Mad Max 2 is all about, and most cult fans brand this film the best of the three. The opening scenes, almost void of dialogue (narration aside), are indicative of the pic's style.Director George Miller has handled this episode astutely, delivering exactly what was required. A big improvement on his efforts in the original. The music (Brian May) and cinematography (Dean Semler) have also come a long way. Film also stars Bruce Spence, Vernon Wells, Emil Minty and Kjell Nilsson as Humungus. Nobody does Max like Mel though.Friday, July 24 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"A Rousing adventure","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed the Road Warrior. I enjoyed the setting, the characters, and the story. Mel Gibson made a name for himself with this rousing film, and he would later go on to make the Lethal Weapon movies, but it all started with this movie. I know that the first film was Mad Max, but it was the sequel, The Road Warrior, that really got him noticed. I don't know what the original film was like because I haven't seen it, but I've heard quite a lot of comments, and most people agree that the Road Warrior was the better film. That's why I picked it up on DVD, and I wasn't disappointed.It's post apocalyptic Australia, and there are no governments. Gas is the most precious thing in this apocalyptic world, and people kill for it. Max (Gibson)starts off as a loner with only a dog as a companion. He moves on as a drifter, always looking for gas to keep his car running in order to avoid some bloodthirsty bandits who want his fuel for themselves. He soon discovers a community of people who are protecting vast quantities of gas, and he lends his services to them as a driver in order to help them escape with the fuel and their lives from the same group of bandits that he had been avoiding himself.What follows is entertaining, and this leads to probably one of the best chase sequences in the history of film. I loved the pacing of this movie and the setting. This may be a dark film, but it still contains glimmers of hope. I really loved the way it ended because it probably couldn't have ended any other way and had the same impact.We never got to know much about any of the other characters but Max, and that is probably the movies only weakness. It would've been nice to know a little more about the small community of people who were protecting the fuel, and I wish the bandits hadn't been so one dimensional, but I'm nit picking right now. I'll just say that the Road Warrior is an incredibly good action film, and it is well worth seeing. I must also say that keeping the leader of the bandits masked throughout the movie was a brilliant move on the part of the filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Best sequel ever? Could be","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ROAD WARRIOR (1982) ***1/2 Mel Gibson reprises his role as Mad Max in the second of the trilogy (this being the best) of the Australian outback as a bastion of post Apocalyptic hell on earth with gasoline being the ultimate goal and natural resource for its denizens of crazed, neo punk monsters out for blood and survivalists who rally for Max to save them. Breakneck action sequences and dazzling camerawork by director George Miller once again gives a helter skelter look to its sharp edited, bone crushing sequences of some top notch stuntwork and just plain ole good fashioned ultraviolence cranked up to full velocity. Best line Gibson You want to get out ... come to me. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest road movies EVER!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max returns in this film, searching for gasoline to fuel his V8Interceptor. He stumbles upon an oil refining colony and inexchange for gas, helps them out in escaping the dreadedHumongus, a gang of outlaws and ruthless killers. The Road Warrior, is not so much of a sequel as it is a film of itsown. It picks up from the get go, and has you holding on until theamazing climax. A great story, it's kind of scary though, seeing howthe future is, with people fighting over fuel, like a foreshadow of ourfuture, soon to come with ever higher gas prices. Mel Gibson, is the greatest Bad Assed looking hero in his leatheroutfit, and his souped up Ford Falcon. The Road Warrior is a great film to watch with your buddies. It's High Octane Excitement!Tootles -GMSB "},{"Title":"If your a sci fi and sort of bizarre movie guy this is one to watch","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brilliant story line, great actors and a real good sci-fi and interesting movie. the end chase scene is the best part. after the first one it makes a real good come back (even though it was it the early 1980s) it's realistic as life proberly would be like that if a nuclear war happened.AKS "}{"Title":"Put on your ass-less leather chaps, pop on your best studded shoulder pads, and comb your mohawk&#x97;it's Mad Max time again!!","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Throughout the decades, there have been landmark action films that have been so innovative and influential that they have forever changed the face of the genre in the late 90s, it was The Matrix, with it's incredible CGI enhanced fight scenes and pumping techno/rock soundtrack; in the late 80s, it was Die Hard, which took an average Joe&#x97;in the wrong place at the wrong time, of course&#x97;and pitted him against an evil organisation intent on major mayhem; and in the early 80s, it was Mad Max 2 aka The Road Warrior, which took the post apocalyptic sub-genre and pumped it full of adrenaline, steroids, testosterone and nitrous oxide to give audiences one of the most original, intense, and stunt-packed pieces of action cinema of all time.After the tragic death of his family, and the eventual collapse of society due to oil shortages and global war, Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson), now a hollow shell of a man, has taken to the desolate roads of Australia's outback where he leads a pitiful day-to-day existence searching for food, fuel and ammo whilst fighting for survival against wild gangs of savages.Max is eventually given a chance to regain his humanity by helping a small community of fuel-rich survivors, who are being prevented from leaving their fortified compound by a bloodthirsty gang of road-scum keen to get their hands on the precious gas within. After securing a rig big enough to haul their tanker of fuel, Max leads a desperate attempt to flee for safety, closely pursued by the violent marauders.Working with a budget approximately ten times larger than that of the first Mad Max, director George Miller delivers a sequel more than worthy of the excellent original the scope of the story is epic in comparison; the action is bigger and better, with crazier stunts and wilder chase scenes; the cinematography is far superior, thanks to Dean Semler's amazing use of widescreen photography; the costume design is fantastic, with Norma Moriceau's punk, bondage gear-wearing bikers setting the standard for post-apocalyptic fashion; and the vehicles are nothing short of mind-blowing&#x97;a diverse collection of heavily modified, armour-plated muscle cars, dirt bikes and dune buggies loaded with weaponry.But although Mad Max 2 is obviously most notable for it's unparallelled action set-pieces, Miller also sees fit to include plenty of subtle touches during the movie's quieter moments to add depth to Max's potentially one-dimensional character and further set his film apart from the also-rans. In an early scene, Max picks up a musical toy and turns the handle to play a tune, which suggests that he is reflecting on happier times gone by; later, he throws the toy to a feral child (Emil Minty) for whom he momentarily becomes a father figure. A gradual thaw in Max's cold exterior is also shown in the way he relates to the gyro-copter captain who leads him to the compound at first, he considers himself kind to spare the man's life, but the pair form an unlikely bond during the climactic final battle.The film is also full of delightful visual moments that admittedly do little to further the plot, but certainly serve to make the whole package a much more memorable and wholly satisfying experience, my favourite shot being of panic stricken rabbit heading for its hole as the marauders launch yet another ferocious attack. It's subtleties like this that keep me coming back to this film time and time again.Well, that AND the bone-crunching orgy of twisted metal and burning rubber, of course! "},{"Title":"Excellent, flat out action","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite simply one of the best action movies ever made. Simple, direct, yet compelling, the 2nd in the Mad Max series does not pretend to preach. It simply brings the viewer into a very simple, brutal post-apocolyptic world. The violence is not over the top and most impressively ever scene is well done and necessary for moving the plot along. Although Mel Gibson speaks maybe 30 words in the whole film, he is quite convincing and believable as burned-out mercenary who grudgingly succumbs to noble intent.The driving action scenes are top notch and as added bonuses you get 1) an awesome villain (Humungous) plus 2)a mini-me of David Lee Roth who hurls a bladed boomerang with deadly results. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Cracking Cult Classic","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a film about a wanderer.  Somebody who we looked up to in the same way we did with The Man With No Name.   When I first saw Mad Max I thought it more like a horror film instead of an action film as it has some of the most intense music I have ever heard and it's back drop of a world fighting each other and nothing else is just great as it makes the film more darker.   The first one I saw of the trilogy was Beyond Thunderdome and I loved that too, but It is the one that stands out from the other two, so when I first saw Mad Max and The road Warrior I wasn't to keen as they were nothing like Thunderdome.  I then a few years later watched The Good, The Bad and the Ugly and I was more than amazed with it and my dad says that it Mad Max 2 reminds him of the spaghetti westerns and I was like `Where did he get that from' until I re watched The Road Warrior one night when it was on TV.   Because I was a lot older I watched with an open mind and with the idea of it being compared to Leone' Western and what I saw was a film that was still very frightening in my eyes just as much as the first, but I think Road warrior is the most exciting as so much happens in it even after it finishes because it left me with the idea of what it would be like living amongst such people.   I don't want to go on about this film, so all I can say to people who haven't seen this yet, watch it and then think about what kind of hero Max portrays, because I think he a helper to mankind but doesn't choose to, he just gets himself into these situations where he must fight.   Reminds me of Kung Fu actually but in a bad ass car. "},{"Title":"Though the film doesn't boast an interesting plot or particularly compelling characters, the action scenes are definitely worth watching.","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rating *** out of ****Often seen as a classic of its genre (whether it's action, post-apocalyptic, or neo-western), The Road Warrior has only aged moderately well over the last twenty-plus years. In fact, despite a pretty faithful cult following and a starring role from Mel Gibson, I don't think this movie has or ever will be widely embraced by the mainstream, and time certainly won't be doing it any favors. But this was the 80's, probably the decade I'm most nostalgic towards (either that or the mid-90's), so I can at least view The Road Warrior as an effective time capsule for what passed for escapist film-making back then, basically a lot of blood, rusty cars, double-barreled shotguns, and an armored-up eighteen-wheeler that does a whole lot of smashing. Yeah, I miss the 80's.The Road Warrior is the follow-up to the low-budget revenge piece Mad Max. Set presumably a few years later, civilization around the world has apparently collapsed due to decreasing gasoline production and the resulting world war. Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson), still driving aimlessly in the middle of nowhere, spends his time getting into chases and scavenging whatever gasoline he can get his hands on. With a little information obtained from a gyropilot (don't ask), Max discovers a fuel refinery that's being besieged by a gang of marauders. Using the situation to his advantage, Max offers to provide them with a means of transporting the gasoline in exchange for a few gallons of the fuel. The group accepts his offer, but complications arise that get Max further involved than he'd anticipated.Never a great movie to start with, The Road Warrior is distinguished more by its interminably slow pace than anything else. The worst part is that all the slow moments aren't devoted to the usual details that make an action film great, namely character development, plot, smart dialogue, etc. There are actually a number of long, wordless stretches in the film in which the protagonist does little more than observe a hostile situation or merely just walks around from one arid destination to another. Max might have been the film's most potentially interesting character, but writer/director George Miller is perfectly content with letting Gibson do nothing more than scowl, wield a gun, and occasionally drive his (quite dusty-looking) car. It's fair to say this may have been the simplest approach given the premise, but it's certainly not the most enthralling one. The group Max finds himself defending is considerably less interesting, a slightly disorganized band living in a cleverly constructed compound whose occupants have somehow managed to maintain their sanity amidst the chaos. The group lacks the strong sense of camaraderie that's needed to sustain life in such a primeval setting (though there is sort of an unspoken, mutual understanding among them). A couple of heated arguments between the leaders aside, the tribe doesn't really do much other than serve as fodder for the car chases.The villains are a little more interesting, but they're given the short shrift. Two particular standouts the hockey mask-wearing Humungus, who has a distinctively gravelly voice and a pretty twisted sense of leadership (he literally leashes up one of his men for disobedience). And as Brian Wright of Cavalcade of Schlock already pointed out, there's a you have to see it to believe it scene where he's waving his arms around, looking like he's composing a score while a number of good guys are being tortured. The other standout is Vernon Wells' Wez, and if you're at all familiar with Wells' work in Commando, you know he just makes a great over-the-top villain. Unfortunately, the other villains aren't the slightest bit distinguished except for the manner in which they're dressed.To sum everything I've said up to this point, characters and plot aren't the reasons to watch the film. Rather, it's the film's chase scenes that make The Road Warrior recommendable, and while they seem kind of sparse when considering the really long dead spots in the picture, there's no question that the action hits hard and fast when it comes. By far the best sequence is the climactic fourteen-minute desert chase, with nearly a dozen vehicles vying for the gasoline being transported by an eighteen-wheeler. Even Brian May's bombastic score, which sounds like Bernard Herrmann on steroids, works wonderfully. About the only thing that doesn't work in this scene is the use of sped-up footage, but that's a minor gripe compared to the sheer thrills of the spectacle. Without a doubt, it's easily one of the best and most elaborate chase scenes ever filmed. Interestingly, 1981 proved to be a breakout year for action stars. Kurt Russell took leading man reins in Escape From New York and, more famously, Harrison Ford slung his way to superstardom in Raiders of the Lost Ark, a film which continues to overshadow The Road Warrior, if only because it was far more accessible to mainstream audiences. Well, that and the fact it's a much better movie. The Road Warrior was followed by a sequel, Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, which, however blasphemous and atypical this might be, I actually liked more. "},{"Title":"Clássic of Action","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 is simply one of the best action movies of all time , it's amazing this film because it is 1981 , the first Mad Max has been interesting, more I had a very slow pace , as a result the pace is very good Mel Gibson back in the role of Max , the plot as well as in the first film is meaner, also the film does not care to explain the practical effects are very well placed in this film , the soundtrack of the film is more simple matches with the film , the direction of the film is very competent George Miller Mad Max 2 can be much higher than the first film , has scenes breathtaking , even with a weak plot the movie makes you aware of for TV . Note 9.1 "},{"Title":"A Grim Future","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's mostly a high-powered action flick, set in a grim, desolate future wherein gasoline is as precious as gold. Max (Mel Gibson) along with his scraggy dog is en route to somewhere in Australia and needs fuel for his vehicle. A quirky local guy leads Max to a desert locale with fuel, but the place is lorded over by a gang of cutthroat bikers and other marauding simpletons. The heavy-duty action begins here. I like the story's underlying idea and its apocalyptic vision. The sound of the wind over a barren, lonesome landscape is compelling. And I like the way the story is told from the POV of a surprising character.On the other hand, the villains are stick-figure characters with no depth. They ride around in/on their roaring go-mobiles with the most pubescent of purposes. And the simple plot is highly repetitive; some character attacks another; a second character attacks someone else, and the cycle repeats, endlessly.Also, I could have wished for less gaudy costumes. Those helmets, that leather garb, and that awful mohawk haircut make me yearn for The Sound Of Music ... well, almost. Speaking of music, the background score here is overbearing relative to what little dialogue there is.The concept of The Road Warrior offers an interestingly grim vision of the future. And some of the film's visuals are compelling. But the accent on non-stop, violent action dilutes this underlying futuristic concept, rendering a film that is mostly about angry simpletons riding around the middle of a dusty nowhere in or on their high-octane crash wagons, sans mufflers. "},{"Title":"not as good as the original","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mmmm, for so many geeks this also is a classic but for me this isn't as good as the original but what it do has is a thing you never seen before, scum walking around on the earth, in fact this is a post-apocalyptic flick. There's no more gasoline to find and everybody is searching for some. Max comes in to help and from there on it becomes gang against gang.But were the first one had brutality this one here gives you more about friendship. And this time it stays and it's there were this goes wrong. In the original Mad Max (1979) Max his best friend was burned alive and his girlfriend was killed together with their child. That was the strongest point, it was all about Max going for revenge.Towards the end you will have the typical Mad Max mayhem but this wasn't a low budget, this was made for US distribution, therefor it was called The Road Warrior, so no references were made with Mad Max, sadly it showsGore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"The road is long","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the success of the low budget but high voltage Mad Max comes the sequel subtitled The Road Warrior.Director George Miller has a bigger budget and it shows from the first film. This is widescreen with the bad guys in post punk apocalyptic costumes all after petrol to drive those fuel injected auto-mobiles and they are prepare to slaughter for it.As far as the story goes the film owes more to spaghetti westerns as Mel Gibson is essentially the man with no name and no ties who rides into town or here a camp by a refinery and reluctantly decides to help out a sympathetic bunch of people led by Pappagallo who are trying to hold off a menacing group of marauders led by the psychotic Humungus.The key plot line here is a tanker full of petrol which Max decides to drive leading to an exhilarating climax and plenty of good stunt work. Max is helped out by a feral boy and the strange Gyro captain but hear he is still a loner suffering from the lost of his wife and family.Although regarded as the best of the original Mad Max trilogy to me despite the higher budget, it is not as all out action packed as its reputation suggests. I much prefer the grimy low budget, low fi thrills of the original.However this film has been influential to many other post apocalyptic action films and essentially ripped off many times. It was essentially re-imagined as Waterworld. "},{"Title":"The road warrior MAX","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Starting to see the series of film again and this is the one you would really remember if you have seen them, the first one is more low budget then this, but it sets the premise of the films. This one is where we really get the feeling for this post- apocalyptic universe, the scenery is really out in the outback/desert away from civilization and really a hard place to be and survive in.It is still enjoyable 80th action movie, with quirky characters, deserted wastelands and really really crazy gangs and groups of people. There is something very interesting about this universe, it draws you in and even though it is barbaric and strange it has its places, sceneries and strangeness that really works all the way. It does get to be too much, it has just the right amount of everything and you really feel like everyone is getting what they deserve, more or less.I really like the narration part, it is told like it is an old tale that has been told for generations, a story that is given on to the next, why this civilization is still existing, all because of the road warrior MAX. "},{"Title":"Okay NOW I'm Really Excited To See Fury Road","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a damn good sequel. Just like many action movie sequels, this one upped the stakes so much more than the first, and I think this darker side of Max intrigued me more, trying to be independent ever since the death of his family.The movie opens with an educational film aesthetic, which briefly tells us more about this post-apocalyptic world than we learned from the first. A main problem is a shortage of gasoline, and this becomes an obsession of Max's from the start of the film as he tries to get to wherever he is going.Of course, this wouldn't be a Mad Max film if a rival biker gang didn't show up, so, of course, one does. Max finds himself in the middle of a small war between a community which has a good portion of gas to help themselves out, and a ruthless biker gang set out on resorting to violence if need be for the gas owned by the community which has set up their own base. Max just wants to drop off a near- dead member of the community for a supply of gas, but this community needs help, and Max struggles to decide whether to help them against these dangerous bikers or not.I love how Max is pretty silent in this film, not giving away a lot of what is on his mind, remaining kind of an emotional mystery in a sense. We assume he has trust issues after the recent death of his family, but we do not need to hear it from Max to understand its hold on him.I was not a fan of the visuals in the first film, but I think this one has a slightly better style. There are still fast cuts as in the first, especially in the action sequences, but I think we are able to see things happen more easily than we could in the first. One problem I had with the original was that we never lingered on many visuals, but this film seems to do this more, lingering on extremely wide shots of the landscape for us to take everything in, and the editing style even slows down during conversations to focus on the drama of the rivalry situation within the film.I enjoyed this film, especially since it had a much more epic scale than the first in my opinion. I am looking forward to Fury Road! "}{"Title":"Road Warrior","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a nice introduction on the disc that explains why this wasn't originally called Mad Max 2. You also get a What happened before segment at the beginning of the movie, bringing you up to speed, even if you hadn't seen the first one (which was the case for a lot of people back then). The movie is superior to the first one, which can be explained by a much bigger budget.That budget can be seen towards the end, where you have a very fine planned and executed chase (action) sequence that stood the test of time. The stunts are good to say the least. The story comes off a bit like a western (what with a fort and all). This is the best of the three original movies, with a solid (if obvious) story-line. There is a lot violence which is almost surprising (especially since a kid is involved, just in case you have an issue with seeing young ones in peril or being initiators of violence themselves).Mad Max also gets a funny side kick (something that is really helping the movie and the humor). It looks good, it does not have a bad dub (see the first Mad Max for that - but not with the bad dub please) and it's overall very much recommended "},{"Title":"Great Action Flick","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is a huge improvement over the first Mad Max. It is darker, grittier and seriously action-packed. A lot of things don't make sense in the movie, but that is not why I am not giving this movie 10/10. The reason why it gets only an 8 is that the finale, the great action sequence of the movie, which we are waiting for during the whole movie, was lacking. Too many shots, too many confusing deaths, and the score almost always didn't sync with the images accordingly. If the movie would have gotten that right, it would have been a 10/10 George Miller masterpiece. But overall The Road Warrior is a very good scifi/action flick, which deserves its status as an action classic. "},{"Title":"A fast-paced, smart action film that finally does the universe justice.","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The events of the oddly paced, poorly acted plot of the first Mad Max could have been summarized in an intro sequence to a better film. This is exactly what happened with Road Warrior. The opening narration not only teaches viewers who haven't seen the first Mad Max(I'm jealous of you) what happened in the first one, it actually fleshes out exactly what happened to create the wasteland of Mad Max. And yes, it is a wasteland this time around. In the first one, the world looked like outback Australia, plus some trash in the road. This time, the world is ripe with questions and interesting visuals. A lot of time has clearly passed between the first one and this, Max is now wandering the roads, destroyed over the death of his wife and child. He is given a new purpose when he comes upon an oil plant inhabited by survivors. They are defending it from an evil man known as Lord Humungus, a great villain that, along with the rest of his viking-like crew, looks like models from an S and M website. At first Max is reluctant, but eventually he fights for these downtrodden people. Like the first mad max, the elements of a western are clear, just amped up to 11. The car chases and effects are just as practical and cool, just better looking, cleaner and more exciting. Max is finally what everyone says he is, a hardened warrior. Also unlike the first one, the film introduces a colorful cast of supporting characters, that are all memorable. The aforementioned Humungus was a colorful, interesting villain whose gang of rapists and murderers armed with crazy gadgets were always fun and grotesque at the same time. Mad Max 2 is a good sequel, which means it tries to iron out all of the problems with the original. One still remains, the ridiculous soundtrack. Here, it rather fit the mood for the most part, but the moments where it would randomly cut out for a bit were still jarring. OVERALL Mad Max 2 Road Warrior made me finally understand what Mad Max is. It's high-octane, intense chases with colorful characters and a cool protagonist. It is also a great movie, and the fun sci-fi ride I was hoping the first one would be. SCORE 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A more thoughtful action film that makes good use of its wide variety of talent","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior, more or less, notably improves on its predecessor and this is evident from the first half-hour of the film. Rather than the inconsistently paced narrative we got in the first film, burdened by flash-in-the-pan action sequences and a cycle that ping-ponged between minimalist and blunt-force, director George Miller and the trio of writers (Terry Hayes, Brian Hannant, and Miller himself) have finally found the time and place when to do both and realize the series' potential to feature both styles. What unfolds is a film more carefully balanced and more kinetic in its energy than its predecessor.The film concerns the same dystopian Australia as the first film, only this time, law and order has ceased to exist and gasoline is a nearly nonexistent commodity. Former Australian police officer Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson) still roams the street as a vigilante, taking out the numerous violent gangs that have claimed highways as territory all over the country, with his dog and his sawed-off shotgun clinging to him. Max's latest responsibility is to defend a group of settlers, who are trying to protect a compound which houses dozens of vehicles and a substantial amount of fuel, despite marauders attempting to overrun it, at one point succeeding and killing all but one settler.While Mad Max felt like it was laying the groundwork for the series to operate on, etching in some social commentary in addition to illustrating its vast, barren setting, Mad Max 2 begins to pick up and actually have some fun with its premise. It's by no means reliant on momentarily substantive action, but it finds the charm in your average car chase, where the excitement is usually buried between two tons of clanking metal, fire, and murky camera shots.Miller's groundwork pays off for Mad Max 2, as we now know the setting we're working with and have more time to enjoy our outing with this particular effort. The film is almost entirely focused on Max and his dog, whether they be rescuing the settlers or engaged in a hot pursuit chase. The first film found itself more concerned with creating a dichotomous focus between Max and the motorcycle gang. Here, our focus is made more intimate, personal, and exhilarating thanks to it being limited in such a large world.Furthermore, Miller's action sequences are delivered with more polish than they were in the first outing. They're more entertaining, for one, as the stakes are raised (armored trucks, gasoline trucks, faster cars enter the mix) and the tension is more balanced. Miller and his writing team take time to build a sense of dread on the ground, when Max is ostensibly alone, and when he's on the road, engaged in a high-speed chase, Miller captures it with complete clarity. We are always aware of space during these action sequences (also thanks to the trio of editors, David Stiven, Michael Balson, and Tim Wellburn), never becoming lost in a shuffle of incoherence or absurd camera angles. The action sequences, especially when set against Dean Semler's beautiful cinematography, are absolutely elegant and pristine.Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior had quite a bit of polishing to do following the ho-hum effect Mad Max left. The simplicity and digestible nature of this film makes it all the more watchable, and the action sequences, combined with the sequences exploiting pure dread, work from the get-go. The film adheres mostly to the principles of older, American westerns while admirably playing its own game of dystopian hell, which works quite nicely thanks to the barrage of talent constantly on display.Starring Mel Gibson. Directed by George Miller. "},{"Title":"A movie with action filled to the brim!!!!!!!","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director George Miller's follow-up to his own 1979 hit Mad Max is proof that not all sequels are inferior to their originals. If anything, this brutal sci-fi action film is even more intense and exciting than its predecessor, although the state of its post- apocalyptic world has only become worse. Several years after the deaths of his wife and child, Max (Mel Gibson) has become an alienated nomad, wandering an Australian outback that has fallen into tribal warfare conducted from scattered armed camps. After a road battle with psychotic villain Wez (Vernon Wells), Max meets up with the odd Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence), who takes him to the camp of a sympathetic group led by Pappagallo (Mike Preston). As Pappagallo's people are camped at a refinery, Max plans to take their oil -- more precious than gold in this world -- but eventually joins them to fight a band of marauders led by the evil Humungus (Kjell Nilsson). The stunning climax features a heart- pounding chase scene involving an oil tanker-truck and a frenzied rush for the coast, with Humungus and his forces in hot pursuit. Nilsson is a scary villain, with huge muscles and a sinister pre-Jason hockey mask, but the stunt work is the key here, and it is more flamboyantly dynamic than ever, edited at breakneck pace and staged with manic fury by Miller and stunt coordinator Max Aspin. Savage and kinetic, Mad Max 2 is a must-see for action buffs. "},{"Title":"A Sequel that gives the Action genre something to live up for!","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior continues the story of Max Rockatansky as now, Australia is now official a udder wasteland where anyone can do absolutely anything they want and now Max agrees to help a community get to a safe haven before a band of bandits gets to them first. Road Warrior is everything the first film isn't, it rounds up with even more non-stop, eye- popping & thrilling action that you wouldn't want to end. After the success of the first film, people weren't really sure if the sequel would really live up to it but sure enough it was most certainly a surprise to many and it now stands as one of the greatest sequels. Everything you thought you saw in the first film is put to test with even more extreme sequences with overpowering characters and compelling action. The stunt work that is handled so perfectly poured a lot into this film is more aplenty with its explosive car & motorcycle chases that have you at the edge of your seat. Let's get away from the action aspect right now and focus on the character development that portrayed is just so spot on. Just when Max thought he lost faith in humanity with all its violence and crude people, he then meets these people who actually have the dignity to maintain themselves and be normal human beings and not cause violence for no absolute reason. This is another aspect of the film George Miller got right, he just wanted people that weren't too deranged to help keep the storyline of the film in pace and make this type of film work out. With such a rumbling and uncontrollable score, the action sequences wouldn't of had a extra dose of excitement that it already has, without a score like this, the action sequences wouldn't of nothing to live up too to make them even more gripping and exciting. Conflicting is the right word to describe how unrivaled the costume design was, they really hit the nail on the head with that and you can just tell that this has adjusted a lot from the first film, it made each villainous character more uncomfortable and futile to watch but yet, it was so spot on. With so little supply on Fuel and Water, Max does what he can to risk his life to get those two major implements so he can survive in the environment he lives in now because those are the only artifacts he really needs in his life right now. Overall, The Road Warrior most certainly delivers with the chills, thrills and spills that is most certainly brought more of than in this hell of a sequel and gives the emphasis to action a huge name with so much to handle but is truly a honor to see happen. I found this sequel even more compelling than I did the first one even though the first did set up certain aspects that makes more things understandable and Mel Gibson gives yet again another reasonable performance as Max Rockatansky that will never be forgotten. I couldn't forget about the most saturating camera angles that leaves you in awe and makes you wonder how can just a man as George Miller make such glorious shots?! All in All, this is truly a all time favorite of mine and if I were in your shoes, this is another thrill ride you wouldn't want to miss with the Mad Man himself! "},{"Title":"A little better than the first","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So the criticisms I have for this aren't the same as the original's. The action was really well-done for the most part, and it was able to engage me more, but a film filled with action and nothing more? How it's executed definitely has a hand in how enjoyable I will find it, but it can only do so much. It's pretty good certainly though, and Miller does seem to show a better ability to show the action. I do appreciate the kind of character they turned Max into, the silent type. Clichéd now, maybe, but pretty effective here. I really loved the final scenes. It's overall a little better than the first, although not as much as some people say. "},{"Title":"The Most Influential Of All Things Post-Apocalyptic","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arguably the most influential of all things post-apocalyptic, Mad Max 2 (also known as The Road Warrior) presents a remarkable improvement over Mad Max in all filmmaking aspects for it is bigger, better, more violent & action-packed than its predecessor & is the instalment that made the character of Max a truly immortal figure in the annals of cinema.Set in a dystopian future in the wastelands of Australia, Mad Max 2 continues the journey of Max Rockatansky; a former policeman who's now a drifter scavenging for food, drink & gas in the desolate deserts of the post-apocalyptic world. Things are set in motion when he agrees to help a small gasoline-rich community escape the desert from the vicious gang of marauders.Co-written & directed by George Miller, Mad Max 2 begins with a montage explaining what all has happened between the first two films. Miller's direction here exhibits a much greater confidence, the screenplay adds considerable depth to the character of Max, the vision of the depopulated & desolate wasteland is pretty striking & same goes for how the marauders are depicted in this film.Mel Gibson is brilliant in the role of Max & displays a wider acting range in his performance and although he remains the only character we care about throughout the film, the work by its supporting cast is no slouch & they ably fill in their given roles. Camera-work is energetic & is at its best during the moments of action while Editing provides a vicious pace to the narrative & runs only in top gear.There's a lot to admire about this sequel but the best thing about Mad Max 2 remains its absolutely manic action/chase sequences for the stunts it puts up on the screen are some of the most dangerous to have been ever enacted on the film canvas. The final showdown is a masterpiece in itself, and what makes all those moments even more memorable is the absence of any sort of computer graphics.On an overall scale, Mad Max 2 is an impressive sequel that outdoes the original by a huge margin, is one of the best action-thrillers of the 1980s, is notable for catapulting the careers of both Mel Gibson & George Miller, and is unforgettable for its massive contribution to the post-apocalyptic genre of films. Featuring major upgrades in all aspects, Mad Max 2 is a high-octane, full-throttled & top-gear action extravaganza that comes recommended to all action fanatics out there. "},{"Title":"And the road warrior? That was the last we ever saw of him......","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Burnt out former Australian policeman Max Rockatansky, now known as The Road Warrior, is now roaming the highways of post-apocalyptic Australia, years after he avenged his wife and son and his partner who were murdered by the motorcycle gang led by the evil Toecutter. searching for sources of fuel, stumbles upon a gasoline refinery home to a community of survivors who are struggling for survival and finds the community is being terrorised by a band of brutal motorcyclists led by The Humangus and his finest warrior, Wez, who bid to loot all the gasoline from the refinery for themselves. The community hires Max, as Max agrees to help the community transport the gasoline across the highway and fight for freedom, as they are pursued by the Humangus and his warriors.......Ow this is more like it. After the little misstep that was Mad Max, Miller throws everything he has and can at the screen, and thankfully, it all sticks, and remains probably the greatest Oz-ploitation movie ever made.It's all due to Gibsons wonderful, brooding screen presence, simple premise, and wonderful execution.It's basically Assault on Precinct 13 meets Duel, people trying to protect their fuel from some very overwhelming villains, and they hire the man with no name to help them, and it all ends with one of the greatest action set pieces of the eighties.Many have tried to capture Millers eye for action (most noticeably Marshall with Doomsday), but you cannot recreate the genuine craziness of what is The Road Warrior.And that last image of Gibson standing at the roadside, is a work of art, a really strong closing image.It's groundbreaking stuff, see it, and prepare for your jaw to drop. "},{"Title":"And it was here, in this blighted place, that he learned to live again...","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Excellent sequel to Mad Max is even better than the first film. A small community with a large supply of petrol wants to escape the wasteland. But a band of brutal ravagers led by Lord Humungus surrounds their compound and kills whoever tries to leave. It's up to the road warrior, Max, to help them.Wonderful cast backing up Mel Gibson includes Vernon Wells, Michael Preston, and Bruce Spence. Mel's great, though he has surprisingly few lines. One of the best post-apocalyptic movies ever made. It's been imitated and ripped off many times. When you see a post-apocalyptic movie today, nine times out of ten you see strong similarities to The Road Warrior. It's a highly influential and creative film, with fun characters and great designs. "}{"Title":"Max At His Maxest","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Undeniably iconic, Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is still a couple of tires short of a classic. It's very good, what with the eye-popping stunts and visual flair that suggests Armageddon Goes To Mardi Gras. If it leaves you wanting in terms of characters or story, it's not something you notice until after this high-octane thrill ride is over.Max is a former cop, whose backstory was the subject of the very different 1979 film Mad Max. Now, he wanders the Wasteland of Australia, living off the corpse of the old world, which an opening montage tells us was ruined by a civilization-destroying world war. Max comes across a besieged settlement that seeks his help escaping to a better place. A nasty road gang of leather-clad rapists and gayboy berserkers have other plans.Calling this film Mad Max 2 seems a bit of a misnomer. Other reviewers here rightly point out Max is this film's least mad element. We understand his motives better than either the good guys or the bad guys as this film progresses. Certainly he doesn't wear a leather mask or studded codpiece like his main adversary the Humungus, self-proclaimed Ayatollah of Rock-and-Rolla.Max is selfish, though, and a bit idiotic. Unlike other iconic anti- heroes like Ethan Edwards and the Man With No Name, Max is hard to feel much sympathy for, even with a dog companion to show us he has something of a heart. Whatever investment we get with Max came from the first film. The Road Warrior is too busy with its action set-pieces to deliver more of a human element.You can't gainsay those action set-pieces, though. They are killer stuff, the fruit of Australia's gonzo filmmaker era, delivered with such visceral excess it's a miracle no one died in the process. If there are cuts between actors and stuntmen, I can't see them. Even the little boy playing the Feral Kid seems to be riding on the outside of a speeding trailer, hanging on for dear life. Maybe I'm missing something, but child labor laws in Australia may be due for reform.The Feral Kid plants the seed that director George Miller used in ruining the third Max film, which is Max's bond with children. I can't really buy it here anymore than I could there, but at least it's not as disruptive in Road Warrior. I would have preferred more interaction with the other besieged settlers, but Miller presents Max here as a man of few words, See you around, maybe, is about all he gives you.Finally, Road Warrior is brilliant when it comes to grafting comedy and action. In other films, even great ones, you get comic scenes and action scenes. Here, the comedy occurs while we watch people get killed, even good guys as the film goes on. I can't say I enjoyed these scenes, but I marveled at their inventiveness and surprise factor.If you want an action hero that fills the void left by Steve McQueen, Max is your guy. If you want a movie that gains depth with multiple viewings, The Road Warrior is not that. But it does make your time fly and your knuckles white. "},{"Title":"A perfect ACTION movie","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second installment in the Mad Max series and arguably the best of the three takes us back to dystopian Australia where we meet our Protagonist or Anti-Hero. Max is just a man trying to survive just him and his dog. We get the sense early in the film that he cares little for others and just for himself as his wife died in the first film. The world is out of Gas and ruled by people who kill the young and innocent Max agrees to help some survivors of the world who are at a surrounded gas area as long as he gets gas in return. The plot is the films only weak point as it runs a little thin. The action sequences are brilliantly done set on the beautiful backdrop of the outback. One of my personal favorite scenes is when the little boy uses the boomerang to kill one of the enemies. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Sequel.","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Retitled The Road Warrior for North America, Mad Max II is even better than the first, a rare achievement; every bit as exciting and action packed as the first, and more, with Mel Gibson returning as Max, this time(as some effective narration tells us) he is a nomadic loner searching the wastelands of post-apocalypse Australia for gasoline, only to come to the aid of a colony of survivors besieged by a murderous gang of thugs, who want the fuel for themselves.Compelling story and acting, plus some of the most inspired action ever put on film more than make up for the familiar story, and make this an atmospheric and haunting classic of its kind; memorable ending as well. "},{"Title":"This is the best Mel Gibson movie I have ever seen.","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior is the greatest movie in the Mad Max trilogy and it brings excitement, danger, and whole a lot of fun in this post-apocalyptic epic with one of the legendary actors of all time Mel Gibson as the Heroic lone wanderer of the wasteland, Mad Max. In the near future, all Hell breaks loose as the world turns into a vast wasteland that vehicles is now becoming useless junk as the whole world were on a shortage for gasoline. Now our hero is looking for enough gasoline to fuel up his car as he protects a gasoline filled community while he is fighting bandits(who wants all the gasoline to themselves and kill the innocents of people)for his and all of the people's lives. "},{"Title":"Great action film","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my favourite action films. The post-apocalyptic setting feels authentic, with a bleak, almost alien Australian landscape, which helps to enhance the constant feeling of dread that carries over from the first film. No one is safe, not even Max.The action scenes are still the most awe-inspiring and realistic ever done involving vehicles. The sheer audacity of some of the stunts just adds credibility to the reckless and violent nature of the villains. Some of the characters are also quite memorable, which is amazing considering the lack of a back story and the fact some don't speak or even have names in the film. "},{"Title":"Top notch escapism.","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as pure entertainment goes, one can't do much better than Mad Max 2 a.k.a. The Road Warrior. It may be thinly written, but that thin script does set up some of the finest action scenes committed to celluloid. Co-writer / director George Miller puts the pedal to the metal, as the saying goes, and keeps this movie rocketing along, ensuring that nobody in the audience has the chance to get bored. Mel Gibson, at this point not having yet broken out as a star in America, returns as the troubled former cop Max, now a lone wolf wandering the desolate stretches of post apocalypse Australia. He comes across a tiny fuel producing community that is constantly being menaced by creepy lowlifes, led by a truly imposing character named The Humungus (Kjell Nilsson). Also among the baddies are a twerp named The Toadie (Max Phipps) and a red mohawk sporting thug named Wez (Vernon Wells); among the good guys are level headed leader Pappagallo (Michael Preston), the aptly named Feral Kid (Emil Minty), a sexy and fiery warrior girl (Virginia Hey), and the distinctively featured Bruce Spence, source of much comedy relief as the lively Gyro Captain. Miller and company deserve a lot of credit for keeping the excitement at a high pitch throughout, and production designer Graham Grace Walker and cinematographer Dean Semler give this engaging sequel memorable and iconic visuals. The vehicles all have extremely cool designs and the stunts are just unbelievable. Things just get more and more intense until a pull-out-all-the-stops finale that is breathless and ensures that you won't want to miss a thing. You like the protagonists, cheer them on, and are thoroughly entertained by the love-to-hate-them villains. This is just laden with testosterone, right from start to finish, and is a must for any fan of action films & post-nuke cinema and car lovers everywhere. "},{"Title":"The adrenalin pumping sequel","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was my favorite of the Mad Max movies because it seemed that it was all about the siege of a small community by a bunch of vicious gangs in the wasteland. Basically, as indicated at the beginning of the film, the world had pretty much fallen apart because of the oil shock and the various nations, who all require oil to be able to function, turned on each other to attempt to gain control of the valuable commodity. The result was a nuclear war (as we learn in the third film), and pretty much civilisation has total collapsed to only a bunch of nomadic gangs, small communities, and the occasional road warrior.Well, after the box-office busting effort of the first movie, the producers obviously had a lot more money to play around with, but even then it seems that it wasn't a hugely expensive production (only $2 million to make) but as with all sequels they tend not to go as well as the original film, and this is more so when the original film is effectively a low budget production that effectively becomes a record breaker. However what we see here is being able to do more things with the bigger budget that this film has available to it.Some people (and myself among them) have joked that the reason Christ said that the meek will inherit the Earth is because all of the proud will pretty much kill each other off, however that is not necessarily the case. What we see in these post-apocalyptic films is that society and civilisation collapse to a point where there is no longer any centralised government and no effective law enforcement that pretty much people can do what they want. It is the strong who survive, not because they are killing each other off, but because they are asserting their authority over the weaker.However a further thing is not so much the strong, but the smart. In this film there is a colony of civilisation and they have petrol, but they are constantly at war with the gangs. However we do notice that there is a strong stable society here, but the forces of disorder are constantly trying to crush it. Take for instance the two groups, one where we have a equal number of men and women, as well as children, and another where there is an imbalance of men over women, no children, and an implied culture of homosexuality. While they may be strong now, the longer they go, and the more that are killed, the weaker the gang becomes. The reason for this is that there is no order, no rule of law, and no desire to protect the weak. As the weak are killed off, the strong themselves, while strong for a time, in turn become weak and then in turn die off.Isn't it interesting how homosexuality is portrayed in Hollywood movies. They either form the ranks of the bad guys, or they are killed off. However, we must remember that in this films they are not homosexual in the true sense of the world. In Mad Max (where it is implied) the act is one of rape, which is a crime of violence, and holds true for both men and women. The idea of rape is to dominate somebody and to destroy their sense of self worth. Also, the reason that it is used in movies such as these is more for shock value. But consider the gang, and the main character Wez. Once again it is implied, but it is the homosexuals that are put into the bad group as opposed to the good group. However, the difference between demonising blacks and demonising homosexuals is that homosexuality is a lifestyle choice, though that does not mean that it is okay to demonise them. "},{"Title":"what a future...Mad Max the exceptional portrayal of what a world like hows will be if fuel continues to be our source of survival","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior, is a continuation to the 1979 Australian post-apocalyptic action film Mad Max.This movie packs more of a punch than its predecessor; maybe it could be because the movie didn't add depth to the character as the viewer is expected to see Mad Max 1 to get the idea of who Max is.The movie continued on the idea that the future will be a rough one, but it did so using a plot that is so well crafted that dialogue didn't seem to matter.The climatic chase scene in the end of the movie was both entertaining and engaging; the chase went on for over 10 minutes with stunts and visual effects being use to make you get the idea that as long as the world still depends on oil for survival, one day we will start to kill each other for it (if such killings aren't already happening). The chase though long was interesting and the plot was also fun to see as it unraveled making Max as human as possible.George Miller was pushed into the limelight after the first Mad Max, that a sequel was eminent, so in 1981 Mad Max 2 was made. Mad Max 2 was shot in a 12 weeks period and Miller had to use more than 80 cars in the production. The budget of the movie was $ 4.5 Million compared to the 650,000 of the first movie and it was a box office hit.The movie starts with an intro, showing in clips and imagery what led this former police officer to become a lone wanderer.Then the plot begins with Max traveling through the wastelands of Australia after a nuclear war has torn the world a part, his search has been for now-priceless fuel (petrol/diesel) which seems to be what everyone needs.While traveling he finds himself in the middle of a fight between two groups, the weaker peaceful group seems no match for the other more merciless group. Max now finds himself as the only hope for this small group of honest people running a remote oil refinery which is what the other group wants.Mad Max's view of a junkyard future with vast waste land and violence has been copied in many movies that we have been released in this day and age.Mad Max 2 is a most watch and you will get to enjoy much of the time you spend viewing it, as it is a straight to the point action film with no dull moment.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Hi-octane B-movie excitement!","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're looking for the finest in gritty post-apocalyptic desert movies that feature S&M biker ne'er-do-wells, car chases, things going BOOM!, a gyrocopter and Mel Gibson, look no further than The Road Warrior.Gibson is back as Mad Max, this time wandering the scorched highways of Australia's desert. Foraging for gas (in short-supply in this day and age), Max happens on a small home-grown oil refinery run by a group of nomadic working folk (led by Michael Preston, who bears an uncanny resemblance to a blond Mick Jagger). Said band of laborers also includes a growling boomerang-hurling feral kid, named &#x85; Feral Kid (he's a charmer, that one). Blond Mick Jagger wants to get his people and his precious gasoline across the highway, and blackmails Max to help find them a truck to haul it. Problem is, the good guys are being terrorized by a tribe of nasty bikers, led by the hockey-masked, leather-clad Lord Humungus (Kjell Nillson) and his right-hand man (Vernon Wells, complete with Mohawk, shoulder pads and feathers). Humungus is a large hulking 'roided up beast of a bad guy, who also enjoys dressing up in bondage gear, and shooting his really big gun. I'm still trying to figure out if the director was making a statement here, but &#x85; nope, still can't put my finger on it. Now anyone reading the above description would probably put down the DVD and back away slowly. But this cast of motley characters lends the movie its oddball charm. But this film stands as one of the great action movies of the decade. The Road Warrior bristles with energy and excitement as it moves from one car chase to the next (be it on motorcycles or in Max's badass muscle car), hurtling toward a thrilling balls-to-the-wall freeway chase featuring a careening gasoline tanker. It also helps that Mel Gibson is not a dude you wanna truck with. The Road Warrior works fine as a stand-alone film. But in the context of the trilogy, Max is much more of a lost cause after the events of Mad Max (1979). I haven't seen Beyond Thunderdome, but I'm curious just to see where George Miller takes this character. And seeing this movie on a DVD is just a nagging reminder that it should always be seen on the big screen. It's just a big flippin' movie. I was fortunate enough to see it during a sci-fi marathon about ten years back, and I'd arm-wrestle a black bear to be able to do it again.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Legendary Film!","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second installment in the Mad Max film series, 'Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior' is A Legendary Film in all respects. Its also among the Finest Sequels I've ever seen. A Power-Packed Entertainer! 'Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior' Synopsis In the post-apocalyptic Australian wasteland, a cynical drifter agrees to help a small, gasoline rich, community escape a band of bandits.'Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior' emerges a winner, from start to end. I was engrossed by the film, its such an engaging story. Terry Hayes, George Miller & Brian Hannant's Screenplay is Power-Packed! George Miller's Direction, on the other-hand, is masterful. Cinematography & Editing are sharp. Set-Design is top-notch.Performance-Wise Mel Gibson returns as Mad Max & he's sensational, as always. Gibson is among those gifted actors, who never disappoint. Bruce Spence is excellent. Emil Minty does exceedingly well. Michael Preston is decent. Virginia Hey is impressive. Vernon Wells stands out with a fantastic performance.On the whole, 'Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior' is a cinematic delight. Two Thumbs Up! "}{"Title":"The film that launched a thousand bargain-bin imitations.","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Miller's classic still stands tall after almost three decades.Archetypal lone (anti)hero Max Rockatansky, in (a)typical Western style, ends up aiding a community of straggling survivors against the predations of the leather-clad marauders. Of course, the car chases contribute to the film's appeal; as does the psychologically-emphatic score by Brian May; as do those lean slithers of characterisation, those little touches that hint at bigger things going on behind the eyes of the wasteland's inhabitants. The gritty cinematography and tight, economic direction add up to a movie which is as fine-tuned as many of the vehicles showcased in it. Clocking in at just over an hour-and-a half, this film,like its protagonist, is a lean, mean, efficient machine - and a true classic, to boot! "},{"Title":"Great post apocalyptic fun !. ...","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my all-time favorite films. A pure adrenalin thrill ride from start to finish.I actually saw this movie in a theater when it 1st came out in '82. Great performance by Mel of course as well as by Vernon Wells, Bruce Spence, and Virginia Hey and the rest of the cast. Set in the not too distant future, our hero 'Max' battles the evil fuel stealing minions on the long desert highways of Australia's vast 'wasteland'. Directed by George Miller, this movie really captures the grit and harsh brutality of a world gone mad after the fall of civilization where nomadic tribes of survivors battle to 'live off the corpse of the old world'. Cinematically stunning, and a longtime cult classic. I've seen it dozens of times and can sit and watch this movie again any time. Full of memorable lines and catch phrases. You can run, but you can't hide !.~Randawg. "},{"Title":"The End So Soon!?","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" George Miller's The Road Warrior (a.k.a Mad Max 2), is without a doubt a great action packed thrill ride, with moments that will have you on the edge of your seat, and cheering for Max (Mel Gibson) to kick some @ss.The scenes without dialogue are strong, and prove that sometimes in a film less is more, or as the expression goes actions speak louder than words.The plot implicates Max who attempts to help a large group of people who live in a fortified oil refinery, escape with the remaining oil. This oil is wanted by a vicious gang of motorcyclists, who will stop at nothing to get what they want.What also strengthened the movie was its lack of concern to create any subplots that could have potentially been added, such as a love story, etc. The film avoids complicating itself and stays relatively focused to the main plot.My one complaint is that the film was over too soon, but then again sometimes less is more.****1\2 Stars Out Of ***** "},{"Title":"futuristic primitivism--hunter/gatherers and agricultural tribes reenact the past in a near future","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior (1981), written and directed by George Miller. Like the middle installment of its near contemporary, the Star Wars trilogy, The Empire Strikes Back, The Road Warrior is the middle installment of trilogy and is the strongest of the movies both thematically and artistically. Like its more famous space opera cousin, Mad Max takes on universal themes and makes substantial use of mythic elements. Miller is reputed to have said Movie makers are the modern myth makers. (Also like George Lucas who made additional Star Wars movies, Miller plans to make an additional Mad Max movie, Fury Road.) Before the physiologist and author Jared Diamond became famous for Guns, Germs, and Steel, he authored a provocative piece called The Worst Mistake in the History of the Human Race wherein he argued that the adoption of agriculture was that mistake. Hunters and gatherers, the argument goes, were healthier, longer-lived, and as culturally advanced as the agriculture tribes that eventually crowded them out of all territory except that which the agriculture societies did not want. (One might think of the sweep of Manifest Destiny in 19th century America as an agricultural society crowded hunters and gatherers on to the worst parts of this continent&#x97;think the Badlands and Alcatraz and other reservation areas.) Regardless of the merit of Diamond's argument, his notion of the hunter-gatherer tribe in conflict with the agricultural tribe is fascinating. It is at this crucial juncture in the futuristic primitivism of The Road Warrior that we pick up the story of Mad Max (a play on the notion of angry as well as one who has lost his sanity through grief). The movie functions as a stand-alone thanks in part to the opening expository scene. It is in this scene that the global apocalypticism of the movie is drawn in its starkest terms. The voice-over narrator intones a history of two great warrior tribes that went to war over oil. It is clear that the narrator has no actual memory or knowledge of this event but that it is exists through the oral tradition in a mythic past. The intimated nuclear holocaust (at least one of the hunter-gatherer or scavenger tribe suffers from radiation burns) has left two tribes&#x97;a scavenger tribe (the hunter-gatherers) and a tribe that is continuing to refine oil and raise crops and domestic animals (the agricultural tribe). There is a striking lack of children in either society with only the Feral Boy (he is the narrator grown to an old man) from the agriculture tribe present in the movie. There are suggestions that relationships exist in the agricultural society that will blossom and lead to a repopulation&#x97;as indeed the voice-over indicates has happened at the end. The central character, Max (Mel Gibson), is scarred by grief. A former policeman who stood with the forces of order trying to stem the chaos of the coming world, loses his wife and child in an horrific murder that sets him on the road to a place where vengeance and justice have become blurred. All of this is told in the first movie. At one crucial scene in the first movie, Max handcuffs a man to a burning vehicle and after he has gotten information from him gives him a hacksaw and tells him he can cut the chain in 10 minutes, or cut his limb off in 5 minutes--as he walks away there is time for neither and the man is killed in the ensuing explosion. The Road Warrior's ambition is to take up the apocalyptic theme and then analyze the effect of the apocalypse by watching a small group of people and the effect that this has on them. In a particular way, the world-wide apocalypse is laid over the personal apocalypse of Max&#x97;his world ends in the death of his wife and child. One tribe completely abandons themselves to scavenging, producing nothing (an odd homosexual affair is alluded to in several scenes that may be Miller's way of suggesting that the scavengers are essentially sterile and cannot produce either life or culture), while the other tribe is attempting to hold on to the shreds of an order that failed before. Despite the virtue on the side of the oil producers, they are the weak and they need someone to fight with them. Their virtue is displayed in many ways including the care they take of some elderly people and a profoundly disabled mechanic. It is into this breach that Max steps, but only once he has nearly lost his life by serving only himself. Perhaps his only chance at redemption comes in the rededication of himself to something larger than himself. In the climactic scene, Max drives an oil tanker accompanied by a phalanx of protection in search of freedom. The deaths of the agricultural tribe's leader, Pappagallo, and the Amazon warrior and numerous others including the leaders of the scavenger tribe (Wez and the Humongous), would seem to indicate the end of both tribes. But the oil truck is filled with sand, the oil has been safely moved in a school bus with the non-warriors of the agricultural tribe. Max, in a stark contrast to inability to save his own child, has saved the Feral Boy who pays him homage by telling the story of the movie and the critical role Max played in the rebuilding and survival of civilization. "},{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of viewers may dismiss this film as simply a test or exercise in adrenaline gore. How many characters can we kill on screen in how many unique ways, kind of thing.This totally misses the point of the film. This is a classic good verse evil with a shade of polished silvery-gray acting as a barrier between the two. That barrier is Maxwell Rocketansky, the young man who ventured out into the wasteland is now in his late 20s to mid 30s as he roams the desolated remains of civilization on Australia's outback.This film, believe it or not, is actually somewhat spiritual in presentation. It's more than just a mere psychological study of a man. It examines hard themes of right and wrong.This being so, it becomes even more of an oddity (perhaps insult is more appropriate a term) when the film was marketed to American audiences as The Road Warrior, and the verbal preamble that was delivered at the beginning and end of of the film treated the American going audience as if we were all inbred-hicks with double-digit IQs, by actually defining who and what Max, the main character is; i.e. Max is the good guy, little boys and girls...Huh.Thanks goodness someone at Warner Home Video had the cajones to buck the market trend of treating the movie going public like adult-five-year- olds, and left the original narration in. This gives the film more depth. We're there with Rocketansky as he decides his fate, wrestles with his past, and makes a decision that, unknown to us or him, doesn't make a bit of difference to his final outcome, now how the people he's trying to help see him. He is, after all, a police officer.The acting is fairly solid, particularly from a young Mel Gibson in his prime. The supports are able to keep up with him too, as is the solid tradition of good skillful British/Austrailian/Commonwealth acting. I'm going to go ahead and say it, and I don't care what kind of flak I get, but, based on what I've seen, by and large I think they're better than American actors. I really do. And Mad Max 2 benefits from that strong theatrical tradition.There's a lot of mythical imagery here, referencing many facets from common mythos; American West, Judeo-Christian, Samurai, you name it. The ties that bind are the common themes each of those sets of myths present to us.The stunt work is outstanding in this film. It's rivaled, in my opinion, only by the work done a few years before in Tora Tora Tora. Mad Max 2 has high speed chase scenes with acts of heroism and utter violence, as we see the post apocalyptic future of mankind fight for survival on the highways of the future.WARNING; this is a violent dude-flick, and not meant for the squeamish nor those with weak constitutions (as I channel Bugs Bunny imitating a Carney barker). But, that's part of what the film is about, how violent are we as a species willing to go to survive, and who will survive in the end? We see the reptile pitted against the mammal. The snake and the mongoose.That, and it's a pretty cool film -) Some nudity, lots of car wrecks, some futuristic violence in a word torn asunder. Check it out! "},{"Title":"The Austrailian Highway Massacre...","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film propelled Mel Gibson and director George Miller to Hollywood recognition. Once you see this film you will know why. Put in a great story under an excellent premise, beautiful scenery, one tough guy anti-hero, memorable and colorful characters, and finally some of the most exhilarating and kinetic stunt-filled action sequences ever, and you get The Road Warrior, certainly an action masterpiece that should be deserving of its recognition.Following where the first Mad Max (another great film) picks up, the audience is immediately thrust into a post-apocalyptic world, where petrol is scarce and chaos literally runs the highway. Enter a colony whose desire is to escape this hell and start a new life anew, and a lone hero who reluctantly assists them in their journey.While the story may not sound like original material, it is superbly thought out and written. The less talk and more action approach gives lots of moments of suspense, tension, and, breathlessness. But the script was not just written in a simple manner, there are moments of intelligence that you may miss and may notice when you watch it more than once. This is a carefully thought out story, and I give props to Miller, and fellow writers Terry Hayes and Brian Hannant to creating this more-than-worthy follow up story to Mad Max.Mel Gibson reprises his role as Max. Inspired by the likes of Clint Eastwood's Man With No Name character, Gibson gives a tough-guy performance that gives Max a like-able and root-able characterization that we support. Gibson mad Max into his own character, and not just some imitation, and that makes the film even better. Other characters worth mentioning are the Gyro Captain, Max's like-able sidekick, Pappagallo, the steadfast leader of the colony, the feral kid who never speaks (great acting from the then-youngster), and finally the truly cold-blooded, brutal, and ultimately insanely colorful villains Wez, played by Vernon Let-off-some-steam-Bennett Wells sporting a ridiculously outrageous outfit and hairdo, delivers a deliberately over-the-top performance to positive effects - we hate the bad guy; and Lord Humongous, the big sized, hockey-mask wearing leader of the baddies, who is brutal and ruthless in his quest to get the petrol (did he really inspire Jason Voorhees' inception?). And it's not just them, but all the bad guys, who were born to be wild, and they pull it off.Miller's lively and incredibly frenetic direction is what gives the action scenes the extra factor they need. Seriously, to describe the action sequences in full detail would not do it justice. See it for yourself, and judge. I've heard a lot of people praising the action; masterfully thrilling, startling, original, explosive, spectacular, breathtaking, painful (in a good way), brutal....the list goes on. But the word I would pick for the action...flawless. Absolutely flawless. Especially for the last 20 minutes.... If you want a seemingly straightforward action film this would be your new favorite. Best of all, there is not a single shred of that darned CGI in the whole movie. People the stunts you see on the screen are genuinely filmed FOR REAL. Two stunt-men nearly lost their lives during filming - keep that in mind while watching, because you'll eventually know why - and how. This is how Hollywood should do their action movies, raw and ruthless, not some CGI laden crap-fest. If there ever was a book on how to make great, solid action movies, this should be at best near, if not at the top of the examples list. Other factors contributing to the action on the screen; Dean Semler's beautiful shot of the Australian desert, giving the film a wide scope and an eerily isolated atmosphere; and Brian May's terrifically throbbing music score.Overall, this just may be one of THE very finest action movies I've laid my eyes on, and just might be one of my most personally favorite films of all time. Gorgeous scenery, colorful characters, great premise and ultra-violent killer action, that's how I like it. It's a masterpiece, and it will definitely NOT age, so it will be watched and endured by future movie lovers to come.Now Warner Bros, where's that Special Edition?Overall 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the few sequels that will be more appreciated than the original...","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A superb follow-up to 'Mad Max' pits Max up against a ruthless band of cutthroats know as the 'Humungous'. Meanwhile becoming comrades with a group of people who station themselves out in the middle of the vast 'wasteland' and protect their interests (a gas refinery, which is like solid gold at this time). The Humugous want the gas for their band of losers and the other group (the good guys) will stop at nothing to protect their interests even if it means dying for them. Max joins the good guys and devises a plan to rid of the scum for good and let these people move on with their lives. The chase scene at the end is probably one of the greatest I have ever seen (with the exception of 'Bullitt' with Steve McQueen), the characters are still great in this film and the stunts are unbelievable. Director George Miller went over the top with this installment to the Mad Max series and it payed great dividends, this film was responsible for putting the original Mad Max on the map, not many sequels have ever had the power to do that! 9/10 stars! "},{"Title":"very intense action sequences.","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2,also known as The Road Warrior is a different movie than the original.for one thing,you can watch this movie on its own,without having seen the first one.there is a voice over narration at the beginning telling you all you need to know about the events in the first one.the first movie had sustained action throughout.this one however,has less action,but the the action sequences it does have are very intense,and edge of your seat.here,the country is more desolate.the character of Max(Mel Gibson)is more developed.Max is no hero,more an antihero.he does what he has too to survive in the wasteland.mostly that means finding enough fuel to keep going.wherever it is he is going.he also has a continuing feud with a vicious biker gang that began in the first movie.for me,i didn't like this movie as much as part one,simply because i thought it dragged a bit.it's still a very good movie though.my vote for Mad Max 2The Road Warrior8/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm working my way through the Mad Max series and I just finished The Road Warrior. I still think that Mad Max is a little bit better but that doesn't stop me from giving this one a 10/10 either. It truly is an amazing film and a brilliant sequel that builds its own post-apocalyptic world.Mel Gibson returns as Max and does a great job. I love all the characters in this one as well. The story is great and so are effects and just about everything else. The Road Warrior deserves its status as one of the best sequels ever made because that's exactly what it is. I was blown away by it.See this one if you loved the first one and even if you didn't. It's a great film either way. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Action Film","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has to be one of the best action films of all time. From start to finish, this movie grabs you and doesn't let go. Everything from the opening road fight, to the unbelievably well done tanker chase. One thing I love about this movie is the realism if the whole thing. Close to the road realistic action, for example, when one of the punks goes to shoot one of the tires on the tanker with a crossbow, he gets pulled under and you actually see him get run over (or at least the stunt dummy). Another thing that makes this film so good is the authentic Australian accents that all of the characters in the film have. The last half-hour of this film is the most fun I have ever had watching a movie. Scary villains, cynical main characters, and pulse pounding action that few films have achieved. "}{"Title":"Bigger and better!!! The Road Warrior still delivers!!!","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those sequels turning out to be a bit better than the original. It's cult reputation is even bigger than the first one's. If Mad Max shows you chaos, The Road Warrior presents complete anarchy.Events in this movie play a short time after the first one. A nuclear war has left the world in ruins, and all types of energy have become rare commodities. Commodities to ravage and kill for. After the tragic events in the first film, Max has become a lone drifter trying to survive on his own. With his V8-powered Interceptor he comes across allies and villains even weirder and crazier than in the first one. With nothing to lose, he encounters a community of outcasts threatened with extermination by an even more extravagant band of maniacs than the one in the first film. An evil rag tag army led by the unforgettable villain Lord Humungus, and his first lieutenant Wez.Just like in the first one, the story is rather common, but once again this is not the main drive of these movies. The strength of Mad Max lies within great memorable characters (Bruce Spence as the Gyro Captain, little Emil Minty as the Feral Kid) and really cool motor vehicle chases. Some of the best you've ever seen. The spectacular chase vehicles with raw engine sounds going through the dusty badlands are unforgettable.Max is still the man of the show. His development comes across perfectly. The Road Warrior represents his darkest hour, in which he has lost everything. Can he find hope and purpose in a world where all seems lost?Like Die Hard has become a mold for action movies to this day, The Road Warrior also became a mold for a very specific type of movie. Waterworld essentially took the same story to the sea, and Soldier took it into deep space.The Road Warrior in that sense is the original. An explosive sequel to Mad Max that proves bigger and better really is possible. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm pleased to see so many positive opinions about this movie, because - let's face it - it's a cracker.The original Mad Max was a cheaply-made experimental idea of familiar society close to the threshold of collapse. It was course, brash, and very violent. It was also pretty inept, though good fun even so. And it made a fortune.The sequel, then, was breaking no new ground. It was a proved formula and the money was more readily available.Mad Max 2 wasn't just a sequel it really did continue the theme of moral degeneration. By now, consensual social order has completely caved-in and humanity has reverted pretty-much to its simian type violent hunting gangs. In this respect I think it is an extremely plausible interpretation of what the future holds for us all under broadly-similar circumstances. Check out Somalia, or Zimbabwe or Afghanistan.Max himself has also slipped down the pipe. No longer a copper, he's a maverick and loner, looking-out for number one, irreparably hardened by the loss of his family.The plot is straightforward but entirely plausible. Whoever's got the gas has got power. The vehicles are an imaginative riot scrapyard challenge at its best. I particularly like the feral kid, upsetting negotiations with his boomerang. And there's even a cunning little twist at the end. The acting isn't much to write home about and the script is amateurish. But in a way, they add to its charm and realism, they're ordinary people trying to make do, not thespians quoting Shakespeare. It just slips into hammy once or twice.The third outing - 'Thunderdome' - like 'Aliens 3' was a franchise too far. Even the inclusion of Tina Turner and her endless legs couldn't raise it above ordinary.Kevin Costner took the concept to sea with his 'Waterworld'. Panned by critics, it more-or-less went down the plug hole. That's a pity, because it's just as exciting and inventive. The biggest problem is that Kevin Costner is in it. He should have just stuck with the directing; he did that very well indeed.Mad Max 2 remains one of the best post-apocalyptic movies made. Check it out if you have somehow managed to miss it, just don't look too closely at the acting and script. "},{"Title":"Original and memorable sequel to the classic Mad Max","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 marks a radical departure from the world of the first movie. In this inspired sequel set years after the original, Max is a wandering nomad, accompanied by his trusty Dog.From the genuinely exciting and atmospheric beginning, Mad Max 2 is a realistic apocalyptic nightmare with Gibson's hero acting as mankind's only hope against the bad guys.Bruce Spence is unforgettable as The Gyro Captain, Max's temporary sidekick and comic relief. Special mention must also go to fantasy female Virginia Hey. Hey plays The Warrior Woman and is a screen goddess with cheek bones to die for.The cinematography is wonderful and there's more of George Miller's dark, comic book humour. The soundtrack by Brian May is splendid.This is a film that improves on repeat viewing. It's difficult to rate as I'm so familiar with its content - I've given it an 8 but it probably deserves higher.Great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Max is fixed in the mix","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So here's where Miller shows what he can do with a budget and lessons learned from part one. It's spectacular. On the one hand there's a lot of Star Wars in it, it's like an extended remix of Han Solo's decision not to attack the Death Star, and it's got the same mindlessly pleasurable forward momentum. Interesting too that Mel Gibson's big break gives him about thirty lines of dialogue and is secretly an ensemble piece, full of unforgettable weirdos good and evil, well-deployed players with memorable faces, and a much nicer diversity of women than the hapless victims of volume one. The budget also equals Actual Production Design, of course, and the outback-punk aesthetic is what everyone claims as the movie's masterstroke, but I think the second key element is even more original and brilliant the sound mix. Even when Humungus is declaiming into his megaphone, he's heard at middle distance, with distractions in the foreground; everyone's muttering into ears and barking over each other at nobody. This has an enhancing effect on the movie's mythological overtones; the voices really are far, far away, and I think this is why the movie has such an aura of mystery about it, especially compared to the needle-in-the-red kung fu dubbing on the first one. And like I said, the forward momentum is pleasurable. Big time. "},{"Title":"This is the one I really like!","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the first Mad Max film, The Road Warrior steps up to the plate. Even though Max(Mel Gibson) is no longer a cop, nor have a family, the future looks very, very bleak. Unlike the first movie, Ausrailia looks like a total wasteland. His only companion is his dog, then he runs into a funny looking man in a mini-copter. The fortress Max comes to in very well guarded. The people there have the fuel which the desert berserker's want. The only problem is they have no way of getting it away from them. Prior to the visitation of the people he comes across an R-600 Series Mack truck. When he gets it across, that metal-masked man puts a hole in the radiator with his scoped gun. The only other character in the movie is the wild boy with the metal boomerang. I liked it when he catched it when he did that somersault. The action in the movie was amazing, the getaway scene was good, the part where one of the berserker's maced the windshield of the truck, and the wild kid helps Max get the shell when it fell out. A very fun movie. Mel Gibson at his very best! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Template for a road action movie","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film in its cinematic release at about age 15. I had seen Siskel and Ebert give it positive reviews, and then heard about a sneak preview. I swear there was not a female in the audience, but the theater was sold out. We were not disappointed either. Everyone was totally blown away by not only the action, but by the total horror of the film, of tough human beings just trying to live in a world of sadistic animals.Road Warrior set up a real simple plot with good guy bad guy delineations and then shot them down as I've never seen in any other film. Everyone Max comes into contact with dies, and no one is spared. The criminal gangs are total animals, but are charismatic in their actions and appearance, and there are scenes of real base humor, in which the entire audience would laugh at an injury. I'm not saying this is good for young minds, but it was sure daring at the time, and still is. This film just doesn't take the easy road out, and you love it for that. The vehicles are tricked out in some of the most threatening ways ever staged on film, and the criminal actors are by far some of the scariest to date. You're glad they're on the screen and not next to you.This, the Bounty, and Braveheart are probably the best Mel Gibson roles. Then he seemed to go into some sadistically violent world. This film is so violent, but its shields you from the violence in a way that The Patrioi and The Execution of Jesus Christ do not. This film still says that violence is bad, and its doesn't linger on it like Gibson's directorial monstrosities do. The bad guys kill good people, but then they injure and kill each other accidentally.This film builds up the brutal resume of the bad guys, but then steps back in the good guys camp, who aren't the greatest people either, and we see that Max is no hero, but merely a self-interested witness, who still doesn't get away scot-free. Then at the end, the good guys betray Max like everyone always has. Its definitely the solo heroic archetype on total steroids. This film stands repeated viewings, as there are lots of perfect little details in it.Mad Max I has got some great parts in it, but it wasn't this refined. The third one was a Hollywood disaster, neutered and blow-dried with a teary-eyed plot. This movie was released as the Road Warrior, and stands on it own. The three movies are barely related in style and story.I don't know enough about stunt work to comment, but this film has not been equaled, probably because the liability insurance would be too high. This is the kind of movie that gets made by a hungry low-budget filmmaker, something the modern world apparently can no longer stand, at least in the action genre. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson LONG Before the Passion of The Christ","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" How Well I remember this great man, I saw him as a great man in 1979. I was 15. He was my hero as a teenager. He remains so today 28 years later. The great Rocketansky. The Original Supercop. Maximum Force. Who does he think hes fooling with the Passion of the Christ. NO. Not that he is not a good Catholic Charitian. lol. God Almighty has blessed this wonderful man. But I remember him differently. And so do many more of this wonderful man's wonderful fans. We love you Mel. And we will always love you. Many remember you for many different movies. MY NEPHEW , OK, he will remember Your Passionate Movie, But your older fans will remember SUPER COP and other of your Greatness. THANK YOU Mel for being the wonderful man and entertainer that you are. THANK YOU for the many wonderful memories over the 30 years. "},{"Title":"One out of Three Ain't Bad","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have a golden rule if there's a follow-up film, that means the first one is worth watching. This applies to Die-hard, for instance, as well as Alien and The Terminator.Generally speaking the films in a series like this get worse as one follow-up follows another. Terminator Two is pretty good. Terminator three is dreadful. Mad Max is the exception to this rule. The first Mad Max is so short on budget, script and ideas that it's barely worth watching, though if you're a Mel Gibson fan you can see why people began to notice him. Mad Max 3 is absolutely appalling. But Mad Max 2 is a treat. It looks good, Gibson is great and the supporting cast do a fine job.If you only see one Mad Max in your lifetime, make sure this is the one! "},{"Title":"Max's Dog","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dogs earsDid anyone notice the cotton wool in Max's dogs ears? Apparently the director noticed how well behaved his friends dog was (the blue heeler in the movie), so he wrote the part into the script for Dog. The cotton wool was because heelers get snappy with loud noises. So when there was a car scene or there was a lot of noise on set they shoved the dogs ears full of wool.I'm also quite sure that you can hear the dogs owner giving him a command when Bruce Spence tries to get at the dog food can.Does this happen in any other movies?Did anyone else notice this? "},{"Title":"The greatest film of all time","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My uncle gave me a DVD of this for my birthday and said watch it punk. I ignored him for a year, then one night I popped it in. Other than maybe the end where Max has no real change of character, I think this is the best movie ever. I've seen all three now. And all the imitations. Mel wasn't popular yet, chicks weren't digging him. He was bad ass. With the last of the V8 interceptors. The whole thing is pretty damn simple and if anyone else made it it would have been cheesy, like all the copycats were. I don't know how many stunt guys died doing this but it must have been a lot. I'm going to Austrailia as soon as I get out of jail. "}{"Title":"Is this what we're coming to?","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm watching this movie once again as I type this comment, and what I'm most struck by is the narrator's prologue. As gasoline prices in my area tickle three bucks a gallon for regular, the prologue begins to sound like prophecy a la Jules Verne, who predicted submarines in '20,000 Leagues Under The Sea'. Mocern Western Civilization is powered by fossil fuel, and when the fossil fuel is gone, so will civilization be. I am NOT confident that we will come up with any alternatives. And it'll be worse, because we will also have the problems of a huge population (6 billion+ as I type) and global warming, so it' won't simply be a matter of going back to the technology of 1800.The best science fiction has to do with the plausible, and this movie, seen again in these times, should scare people because conditions like those depicted are very well what may be in store for our kids and grand kids. "},{"Title":"timeless classic","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" again we have a film that escapes being trapped in its time period...though set in the cold war days of Russia and the united states flirtation with Armageddon it avoids the pitfall of many of its contemporaries by remaining fresh over 24 years later! yes its an action film but I feel that is secondary to the very human storyline and characters it has going for it....Virginia hey as the warrior woman and max Spence as the gyro captain are so believable that you really want to know what events got them to the point in which we encounter them in the film. I could go on and on enumerating all the many little details that make this such a good movie which outshines its earlier version 'mad max'....but I won't.suffice it to say that this will be the 'casablanca'of 1982 in some future movie classics list. "},{"Title":"Over the top Aussie nonsense, but good fun nonetheless","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" All Mad Max wanted was some petrol. His wife was dead, his outlook grim. They chased him too far, they pushed him too far. He was forced to kill a great number of his opponents. And the result? He got his precious petrol, but was never to see his new allies again. Mad Max 2 is good humoured trash, with a star turn from a certain Vernon Wells, star of Commando. The film is very camp, with unexplained attire being worn by too many characters. Max agrees to get a truck for an under-siege village, in return for his petrol. Soon he is drawn into the battle itself, Lord Humungus, a ludicrously over-the-top gimp who stalks the people hording the oil. Of course, Max sorts it all out, but not before he's killed plenty of people in highly amusing ways. Vernon Wells dies at least 3 times his final death is very funny. The great man is crushed between two big trucks! What a film! "},{"Title":"In a world where anarchy, violence, and very bad taste in wardrobe reign supreme!","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of the few reviews I've managed to read on The Road Warrior (Roger Eberts, Pauline Kael to name a few) it seems to me that, although the film is found to be spectacularly well-made, it's not very enjoyable. Bull, I say! The film (directed by George Miller) is a extremely intense tale of a post-apocalyptic world that takes place sometime after the collapse of civilization (don't ya hate when that happens?). A world where anarchy, violence, death, and sometimes very bad taste in wardrobe reign as roaming bands of marauders (always roaming, always in bands) kill for what's left of the remaining stores of gasoline. Now that's just the set-up in this second film of what, at least to this day, remains a trilogy that began with the incredibly manic Mad Max (1979) and the third, and slightly lame ( Remember those frigging' stupid kids? How about Tina Turner? What the *bleep*, eh?!!!) entry Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, which is still pretty good even though it turned into more of a 80's Indiana Jones and the Lost Children of Never, never-land type o' adventure.Now, there ain't much in the plot department, but gives a crap when there's so much carnage and bizarre stuff to sit through, drooling as you're witness to some of the most spectacular car crashes put on film (even by todays standards as far as I'm concerned)! I mean WOW! What a *bleeping* movie! It's like an apocalyptic western/samurai car crash hold-no-barred hardcore experience like no other. Except, of course, for the billion knock-offs that followed, some of which, like the ridiculously bad yet somehow awesome Metalstorm (which is, as the makers of that film explain, not a rip-off AT ALL cause, even though it takes place in the future, it's on another planet!!! Oh yeah?!!! Then what's with the lead dude's very strong resemblance to Max?!! Ya dumb bastards!!!).Anyhoo, when you watch The Road Warrior, you're not looking for plot or story (although it's there, and it's good tale of redemption as far as I'm concerned), you're looking for cars that crash and go boom. And this flick's got 'em. It's main set-piece is an astonishing well-sustained chase sequence involving Max, a beat-to-frigging-crap semi and a long damn road . It's like that scene in Clint Eastwood's The Gauntlet, but way faster! It's still the best chase sequence EVER! And screw all you Matrix Reloaded fans if ya disagree!!!The only thing these films RIP you on is the T&A! I found, and still find, this film to exhilarating and I never, never tire of it. I have enjoyed every minute, every second, every frame of this picture. Many times. In Pauline Kael's case, my guess as to why she didn't enjoy it is that she has no wiener. I mean no disrespect, I like her writing. It's just that, as I've been reading through her reviews lately (I manage to find a used copy of one of her review books and decided to check it as I've heard a lot about her) I find that Kael and I do NOT have the same tastes in film. But then again, what do you expect from someone who couldn't appreciate great films such as Raiders of the Lost Ark and Return of the Jedi? I've read that Tarantino is a big fan of her work and I haft to wonder&#133;why? She'd totally hate his movies!!! From what I've read she seems to hate almost anything that's a guy flick. I'm not just a guy flick watching, uh&#133;guy, either (not all the time, anyway). I like the mushier, sensitive, more thought provoking crap, too. I like a good, well-told love story every now and then. But you're not gonna find it watching The Road Warrior. And you're not gonna find much that's thought provoking either and if you were hoping, what the hell were you thinking?!!! As for Ebert, I forgive him, cause he seems to at least get it.The Road Warrior is one of the greatest picture of all time (at least on my list) and some might be snobbish and say it's story is almost non-existent (and I won't disagree with ya there) and that's there's no point to it, really, but not every film HAS TO HAVE a point. It's an experience, pure and (in this case, very) simple. My only hope is that if they indeed make a fourth in the series (and end it) that the filmmakers make Max's end, and this may seem corny, a happy one where he's not left on those bleak blacktops wandering the wastelands forever alone. I'd like to see that. "},{"Title":"Pure for what it is trying to be.","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"    The Road Warrior succeeds at it's mission, to be a total action/chase film that can make the viewer care about the protagonists, and not cheer for them to be caught by the bad guys.  This isn't Shakespeare, and it knows it, but it still has a story and characters we can care about. The film allows a background story to build up to the chase sequence,which is what the film is defined by. Without the build up to the chase, and the bit of character development the build up delivers, the action would seem pretty meaningless and empty.   The movie isn't meant to be over-analyzed and dissected for accuracy, but to accept the premise and be entertained and involved in the situation presented. The movie is over the top and filmed with a lot of visual interest, and is the definitive chase/action movie of this genre! The film is a lot like Jaws, but substituted a crazed post apocalyptic gang for a shark, and the rig Max is driving for Quint's boat. The basic outlines of the film are quite similar throughout, watch both back to back and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Paying attention are we?","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not willing to plow through *all* the comments on this film, but I'm amazed at how oblivious most reviewers are to the gay sadomasochistic elements of the film. I remember seeing this film not long after it came out and thinking that the filmmakers were pretty outrageous, with their nearly naked men (in chaps!!) and the underlying revenge subplot of lost (gay) love. In a lot of ways, the film encapsulizes an entire style of the early 80s. Watching it again after 20 years, it still astonishes me that many viewers see only an action film, and apparently are blind to what is a seriously dangerous film, in the way it disrupts our images of heroes and villains. It's also brilliant work, in a terrific post-apocalyptic science fiction vision; far superior to the third film in the series. And bonus Virginia Hey! "},{"Title":"Mad Mel is Juiced for the Juice","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess there are all sorts of undertones the viewer could envision in this movie, but I just like to sit back and enjoy the show. What sums it up for me is a photograph a crew member took of future Academy Award winning director and dedicated family man Mel Gibson off the set grinning while blood is pouring down his forehead. Whether it is his own or just an effect is unknown, but what it tells me is that this movie is supposed to be FUN! Sure we can appreciate the similarities to High Noon or boo at Kevin Costner's shameless plagiarism in Waterworld, but it's more enjoyable to watch Mel blow away S&M freak bad guys with his sawed off shotgun, or cruise around in the last of the V-8 Interceptors. Of course there are some sad losses for the good guys (is that a spoiler?), but for me, The Road Warrior is an over-the-top action thriller like True Lies that is just meant to be laughed at in some parts, and great for a Friday night gathering with friends over pizza. If you're watching on television, it's even safe enough for the kids to watch! "},{"Title":"Before he became William Wallace, he was Mad Max.","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max 2 tells the story of a loner (Mel Gibson) living in a post apocalyptic world where gasoline apparently is even more important than food. After a number of consequences, he finds himself helping a small village in protecting their precious gasoline from a ruthless gang commanded by a masked warrior known as The Humungus.The movie is a total blast with great action sequences filled with memorable car chases. Mel Gibson gives great charisma to his character, presenting him as a loner who is willing to risk everything so as to obtain what he wants. Having lost his friend and family in the first movie, he doesn't have anyone else to care about in this sequel and tries to live for the sole purpose of surviving in a world of total chaos and mayhem. He acts alone and doesn't want any friends or partners; possibly because he doesn't want to pass from the same trauma of the past. Or possibly because this messed-up world made him the way he is. Either way, Mel is very convincing in his role; back in his glory days when he acted in good movies not like the crappy films he's starring in nowadays (What Women Want, Signs anyone?)Of course, the other thing that stands out from the Mad Max movies are the bad guys. Like in all Sergio Leone spaghetti westerns, the villains have such unique faces it's quite hard to get them out of your mind. And they are all pure evil. There's no character conflict in here; the villains live solely for the hedonistic pleasure of killing, destroying and bringing mayhem to an already decaying world.Highly recommended for all action fans and movie lovers alike. (8.5/10.) "},{"Title":"An action movie that cannot be missed","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Road Warrior is one of those movies that goes on to influence countless movies made afterwards. Almost all films set in the future made after The Road Warrior owes something to it's barren, desolate vision of the future. Mel Gibson still hasn't done any better than the Mad Max movies and I doubt he ever will. This film is not perfect and it doesn't have everything i.e. character development. That doesn't take away from it's charm and presence however. The Road Warrior sets the standard for automotive action and the final chase scene is stunning. Max is the ultimate mysterious loner, seemingly just caring about himself but with the soul of a hero. This whole series is great and you should see Mad Max before you see the following 2 films like I did. It really helps you to see were Max is coming from. Bottom Line Buy this, buy it now. If you are a fan of action movies then you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"A movie that brings a warning and a messege","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What would happen if two great world super powers went to war? Let's say something like a modern western country and a ruthless barbaic oil bearing country? Well watch this movie and find out...This movie staring Mel Gibson as Mad Max and his stupid but useful partner The Gyro captain (Bruce Spence) try to help one of the few cities left, in a world that is ruled by the fittest brutal thugs around.I recomend this movie for anyone who wants to escape into a fantasy or take a look at what things can be in a decade or two....10/10, gotta love that tent loving scene...real classic! "}{"Title":"Mad Action to the Max...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like most films of this genre we cannot expect Shakespeare.  It falls in with such films as Hot Rods From Hell, Death Race 2000, and Psychomania in the sense of lawless attitude and a lot of driving.  So, it can be sold to the viewing public who enjoy such themes.Here we have a post-apocalyptic country (unnamed, but obviously Australia), desolate, anarchic, seemingly uninhabitable.  Bank note currency has now been replaced by petrol as the basic need to get on with life yet it appears from the characters that this is obtained more for doing doughnuts on motorcycles and driving aimlessly (needing petrol to get transport to hunt for more petrol, ad infinitum) when this resource could be better used for running generators for pumps and electricity to restart a better life. We have the good guys (the refinery group) and the bad guys (the nomadic outlaws) and the basic premise is that the latter want what the former have petrol.  Also, the refinery clan are decent and the outlaws barbaric.  Here we have society as we know it, though exaggerated.  It is reminiscent slightly of the film On The Beach, also set partly in Australia.Next we have our eponimous hero Max.  When last we saw him we found him a disillusioned police interceptor, fed up with the bad guys winning.  And later he goes completely over the edge.  Apparently society kicks him again in the groin by getting itself blown up and we have the start of Road Warrior.  The narrative tells us he is now an empty shell of a man amd we are to wonder if he may or may not have some decency left (similar to the film Spawn).  Several scenes later after we are introduced to how barbaric his world is he falls in with the good guys and here begins his reclamation.Yes, it is a violent and gory road movie with few seemingly redeeming qualities besides just action.  But we can sift through it to find the basis of many ancient myths involving the struggle of good and evil, struggle with the self's inner demons, and the ability to pull one's self up even just a little, though this is tenuous.Despite some inconsistencies such as the little feral boy being more barbaric than his civilised kin (though the child played the part well) and, as mentioned above, the lack of propriety with the best use of fuel, this film is more entertaining than edifying and my comments above will be mostly lost in the action sequences.  Nonetheless, an enjoyable film which can viewed more than once.  Look out for Virginia Hey from Farscape playing the tough woman from the refinery. "},{"Title":"Some of the wildest stunts ever performed, and a good story to go with it make The road Warrior a good sequal.","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected lesser than the first Mad Max when i popped this into my DVD player. I was in for a surprise as this movie took me for a wild ride that was as good (dare me say it) if not better than it's predecssor. We are given the now loner Max, driving along high-ways finding destructive enemies along his way. He meets a Gyro Copter piolot who speeks of a plant that pumps nearly an endless supply of gasoline and oil. Max travels to this plant, seeing that there are people battling a gang let by Humungus over control of the precious fuels. Max joins the fight in hopes to grab some gas of his own. the movie goes from here, giving us wild rides and action along the way. POSSIBLE SPOILERS HEREIN.. Max's appearance has changed, his hair is longer, his cop uniform is ragged and ravaged a bit and he now harnasses a leg brace (obviously from when he got that blast from one of the Toe Cutter's men). He now has a canine companion although, and still drives his V8 Interceptor. But although he is the loner still with battle left in him, Mel Gibson reprises his career setting character well. He has a bit less to work with here, but still stands out as a good actor in the action movies. overalll pretty good, stunts are the highlight here, but everything else is ok. out of ten 8.9. Mad Max 1 scores 8.9. witness these movies for yourself, and you can agree. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't suppose for a moment that the critics would consider this the best movie ever made, but I care not for their opinions anyway! This film consists of 90 minutes of non-stop action with only one instance of the American swear-word - a film I would not be embarrassed watching in company with my 80-year-old mother or my 30-year-old son! Much better than Mad Max - why did everyone have Yankee accents in Australia? - and much better than Beyond Thunderdome, where the American swear-word was in common usage. "},{"Title":"Simply Fantastic","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second installment of the Mad Max series is a more epic film with the typical post apocalyptic setting.  Full of spectacular stuns, great chase footage, quirky characters, neat looking vehicles, and some pretty good cinematography.  A definate must for action, Mad Max, and Gibson fans. "},{"Title":"Post Apocolyptic Popcorn Clasic","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This post apocolyptic classic has spawn many immitations. The effects still remain breathtaking.  Mel Gibson's 'Max' progesses from the first film. However, Bruce Spence and Vernon Well's characters made the movie.  Spence added humour, whilst Well's cartoonish bad guy biker still remaims unforgettable.  Get the popcorn, let yourself go and enjoy. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Superior action movie.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  though parodied and poorly imitated since its release in 1981, the visceral impact of mad max 2 remains undiminished over 20 years later. without the benefits of an obnoxious budget or cgi gimmickry, the film makers choreographed and executed some of the most memorable action sequences committed to film. as with the last movie, dialogue, characterisation and plot are secondary to atmosphere, style and spectacle. no bad thing, as the world depicted in this film is one in which life is cheap and brutality a neccessary device in order to survive. "},{"Title":"A Darkly Entertaining Film","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An Australian based film about the end of life as we know it.  No law and no higher ethics in a world after a major nuclear global confrontation.  A tale of survival in the wastes.  A young Mel Gibson gives the viewer the sense of a protracted malaise of despair in a dark world where the players are holding on to shreds of humanity while the rest are plunged into an abyss of human savagery.  A world in the not to far off future.  Very applicable to today building situation in the early 21st century.  A very good film.  An excellent sequel to MAD MAX. "},{"Title":"A Darkly Entertaining Film","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An Australian based film about the end of life as we know it subject.  No law and no higher ethics in a world after a major nuclear global confrontation.  A tale of survival in the wastes.  A young Mel Gibson gives the viewer the sense of a protracted malaise of despair in a dark world where the players are holding on to shreds of humanity while the rest are plunged into an abyss of human savagery.  A world in the not to far off future.  Very applicable to today building situation in the early 21st century.  A very good film.  An excellent sequel to MAD MAX. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Apocalyptic","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"        The Road Warrior just does it so well. The characters and plot elements are so basic. They are basic because they are so true. The bottom line IS that sometimes you have to butcher the bad guys, or they will rape your woman and post your severed trophy head on a spike on the front of their horse/screaming machine.         Mad Max had it's moments, Thunderdome a big snore.    The Road Warrior is the best of the three. If you are a warrior, you will get it. If you are not a warrior, there's always Mary Poppins. "},{"Title":"It's my snake i trained it and im gonna eat it!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Road warrior is the greatest movie of all time and those of you who do not understand its power will be crushed by the snakes of the earth! Max(mel gibson) is a shell of a man, a burnt out desolate man. Searching for the precious black fuel he comes along the gyro captian, a crazy aussie DONT HURT THE SNAKE! put it down, whoo whoo! ohhh he is great that kooky gyro captian(by the way he remembers lingerie). Then we meet the lord humongus, greetings from the Humongus, the lord Humongus, the warrior of the wasteland, the ayatola of rock and rolla! and let me tell you that Humongus is greatly disappointed that you are hording all of your gasoline so he offers you safe passage through the wasteland in exchange for that fat tank of gas. But Papogalle says the first step . . DEFEND THE FUEL! and creepy girl replies WORDS! JUST WORDS! your dying of pipe dreams! thats where Max comes in you see You wanna get out of here, talk to me! ohhhhhh sweet sassy molassy thats got some vanilla thunder! so Max gets the gas people a rig big enough to haul that fat tank of gas and all hell breaks lose!THE GATE, THE GATE! so crash bang boom Max throws down and a little kid throws a wicked mean boomerang and the defenders of the fuel narrowly escape with only a few deaths, while Humongus is blasted to smitherenies. THE END.SO YES YOU MUST BUY THIS MOVIE AND WATCH IT MANY MILLION TIMES! i have not eaten in days. And who says you will! "}{"Title":"People who take heart medication, do not watch!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The chase scenes in this movie are the best seen on screen. A super-charged action drama set in the mean and harsh days after WW3. I think the makers did a great job with such a small budget and I found the stunts and energy awesome 4 out of 5 for me. "},{"Title":"Max is still travelling the post-apocalyptic outback.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Former police-officer, Mad Max is now the lone wanderer, travelling through a vast wasteland that is Australia after a nuclear war, where petrol is the most valuable commodity. His life is only for survival. He is forced to help a small group of honest people running a remote oil refinery from a marauding gang of biker thugs and save the fuel supply too. A film classic II. "},{"Title":"'You want to get out of here? Talk to me.'","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the best post-apocolyptic movie ever made. This movie kicked ass! Real cars, real stunts, and real entertainment! Mel Gibson is completely authentic in Mad Max and The Road Warrior. He didn't talk much, he only had one memorable quote (above), but he didn't need to talk. This is Mel's second best action movie, the first being Lethal Weapon, but this comes close. The badguys are weird, really weird, the goodguys are weird, really weird, and the setting is bleak and unsettling. Mel carries around his two most important items, his dog and a sawed of double barrel shotgun. Everything else was taken from him. His wife, his child, everything. So now he goes across the barren Australian Outback in search of the worlds most valuable thing, gasoline. He then gets tangled up in a war between a group of rebels who are in a base filled with gasoline, and brutal savages who will go to any cost to try to drive them out. This is a fast moving action thriller with mesmerizing stunts, intense chase sequences (especially the final chase with the run away tanker), and great explosions. The main villain is sinister and evil, with a face covered by a hockey mask (made BEFORE Friday the 13th), and the hero, mask, is no hero at all. Watch this if you enjoy post apocolyptic waste land movies with lots of car chases. 9/10      "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Road Warrior is without doubt one of the best action movies of all time. Mel Gibson stars as the main hero, Max. (we know Max from the first movie Mad Max.) Well since then stuff happend! First of all the world has become a wasteland. A third world war had evolved and pushed civilization back on its knees. Gas is gold. And you don't find it as often as you do today. Well, Max finds this pumping station in the middle of nowhere where they produce gas. Well, The people that live there don't thrust Max. But when some surviving Gansters/Terrorists threaten to kill everyone that lives at the pumping station if they don't surrender the station to them Max offers a deal. And here it begins. That is it the beginning to the most action packed car chase ever caught on scene! Forget Gone in 60 Seconds, Forget The Fast and the Furious (Although they are good) This car chase will totally blow you off scale! It's a must see! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out, and again just recently. It still hadn't lost any of its entertainment value, and I'll probably watch/enjoy it again in a few yearsFor those interested in a bit of trivia, I understand it was largely shot near a place called The Pinnacles near the town of Broken Hill (gateway to the outback).  Having been there a few years ago, I recall the tremendous view of nothingness you get looking west (away from Broken Hill), whereby you could believe you are the last person on earth.  No wonder they chose this place for a film about the end of civilisation! "},{"Title":"An amazing cinematic experience","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those movies that comes around only once, that many try to reproduce...unfortunately, most have failed at recreating what this movie did so well.  It tells the story of the unlikely hero, Max.  It is strange and fantastic all at the same time.  A must-see!       "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not the greatest movie ever made, but a classic none the less.  Mel Gibson plays, in my opinion, the ultimate action hero in this film.  He's rough and smart at the same time and manages to find a heart somewhere along the way.The action sequence at the end is really exciting, with some amazing stunts. If only this movie lasted longer.  It had a simple plot, and was over before it began.  Mad Max is a great character, and should have been explored more. Still, a good movie with a memorable cast of (unnamed) characters and great action.  Now, where's the video game?  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must've seen this movie a million times and love every bit of it. So for those who haven't seen it yet, where have you been? In a cave?! This movie has it all brutally psychotic villains, extreme violence, weapons, insane chase scenes, an unforgettable finale and yours truly mad max. Prepare for a super intense adrenaline rush when watching this movie, it rules! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Still Mad!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie again tonight after not having seen it since it was new.  I was 10  when it came out, and it was one of the first non G rated films I was allowed to watch. I liked it then and I still do.  The car chase at the end is still better than anything they schlep out today.  This film holds up after almost 20 years.  Gosh, that would make me almost -- never mind.  I bought the DVD and it's a clear transfer with a great audio track.  It'll be fun enjoying this film again and again. "},{"Title":"The Ayatollah of Rock and Rolla!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE HUMUNGOUS!!! And the crowd goes wild! There's just something about a warlord so in love with the sound of his own voice that he brings loudspeakers with him wherever he goes. I half-expected him to break into song at any point, (Why do birds suddenly appear...). The Humungous is just one of many odd and violent characters wandering post apocalyptic Australia in what must be the ultimate trilogy of action films from down under, the Mad Max films. The Road Warrior kicks much booty to be sure. I'm sure the manic action and ultra violence were probably unlike anything mainstream America had seen at that time, and the audiences loved it (many of them having never seen the original masterpiece, hence the removal of any reference to it being a sequel in the title, as explained in the special edition video). Mel Gibson is great, aside from the fact that he is almost a mute through most of  the film. Almost twenty years ago... ah, memories. Well, it certainly has stood the test of time, by golly. Makes a lot of the summer action flicks now look down right stupid in comparison. Computer effects. BAH! Who needs &#145;em? Why, in Max's day stunt men drove bikes off bridges and broke every bone in their body and they liked it! WHOO-HOO! Look at me, I'm a cripple for life! By God, they knew how to make a movie in those days. Crazy Aussies, you gotta love &#145;em.Still, the first Max is the best of the lot. I was kinda hoping Max would kick a little more mutant butt throughout, but hey, who am I to complain? The action sequences are still pretty intense, with a spectacular chase scene at the end. Murder, carnage, and bloodshed, oh my! I think George Miller does well in sticking with the winning formula of the first film, which is placing Max amongst a whole lot of mutant road-rages with the need for speed and watching him out-gun, out-think, and just plain out-rage them. They don't call him Mad for nothing, he's the craziest mother f***** on the highway. They just don't do stunts like these anymore (unless you're certifiable, or Jackie Chan). God bless their little hearts. If you haven't already, I really recommend you see this movie and watch in awe The Lord Humungous unleash his Dogs of War on Max and company. You won't be disappointed. 8/10 stars, a carnage lovers delight! G'night! "}{"Title":"You can run, but you can't hide!!!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No ifs or buts here; MM2 is the best post-apocalypse movie anywhere, and I'm including the rather CGI dependent Escape From New York here too.For even though the story is trimmed down to its barest roots with star Mel Gibson having no more than about 60 words to say throughout the entire movie, MM2 gives us a frightening insight into a future where only water, guns, petrol & the instinct to survive really count.Continuing where the original MM left off, Max is left scavenging the Australian desert in need of fuel. He comes across a small fortress protected by a besieged commune who don't have anywhere to go even though they're sitting on the only oil refinery for miles around.The source of their worries is a tribe of bike & car riding bandits who's appetite for death & murder is only eclipsed by their need to get their hands on all that gas.Max manages to convince the sceptical leaders of the commune that he can help them with their dreams to escape this conflict. And after one or two near-disasters we are left with one of the mostly highly original & intricately choreographed car chases anywhere.Everything is kept to a reasonable minimum, be it the script, the budget, even the wonderful music by Queen member, Brian May. Miller knows what the audience wants and doesn't disappoint. The action & mayhem is quantified by some intriguing set pieces. The movie doesn't go off the rails with indepth sub-plots either; we don't really want to know the whys & wherefores of their predicament and how it all started. Instead we are instantly immersed into this vicious sanctum of violence & survival.The movie does have its lighter moments but conversely some of the more graphic scenes between the tribes are really disturbing, especially a rather brutal rape scene, which is truly shocking and only underpins how worthless human life has become.Although Mel doesn't have a great deal to do or prove, his presence drives the movie forwards at a breakneck pace. Even though he is our hero it doesn't mean he has an easy time of things and shows off his human frailties by making crucial mistakes.MM2 is by far the best of the MM trio. And in spite of its many many Hollywood & Italian rip-offs it still retains its crown if only for the real action car stunts there isn't a CGI sfx here at all which only adds to the realism & drama.****/***** "},{"Title":"Another one of the great Australian films.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're just seeing Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior for the first time, it may seem familiar to you.  That's because other movies have been taking ideas from it since its release.  But only here will you find all the parts put together into one hell of a movie.  Easily the best of the Mad Max movies, you can find texture, depth, and interesting thoughts if that's your fancy, or enjoy some of the coolest characters ever put together in one film, or you can just ignore that stuff and simply get your rocks off with some of the best action ever filmed.  And although it is entirely unlike Walkabout and Picnic at Hanging Rock it contains the same ethereal quality of unexplained things happening just beyond the range of perception.  I've found that even people who don't like action flicks often get swept up in the Mad Max movies, so if you're dubious it's worth taking the chance.    "},{"Title":"entertaining mayhem","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An ex-cop roams the Australian desert looking for gasoline in a post-apocalyptic future. Non stop action film succeeds, like its hero, against all odds- sparse dialog, limited acting, simple plot and starvation-level budget. Doses of humor help to balance the carnage.  (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"Well filmed action yarn has a artisitic flair. SPOILERS....don't complain","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like how this film starts out with the montage of world events leading up to WW3 and the Voice-Over narration talking about the man named Max. This was a good hook for the rest of the film. The original MAD MAX was a classic in it's own right, however the sequel was better. George Miller's directing style was almost of a art house quality. Sure, he depicted a violent, bombastic future, however his style of directing and attention to detail led to the suspension of disbelief. Despite it's plot, MAD MAX 2 THE ROAD WARRIOR is very believable. The music by BRIAN MAY (from QUEEN) was very good and the producers were able to deliver a stylish looking sci-fi adventure yarn that would set a trend for years to come. With the exception of ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK, this was the only apocalypse style yarn that carried any weight. Sure there were many imitators (most made in italy) but none of them could match this film's inventiveness or the genius of George Miller. Despite, the film's plot, it had a tendency not to take itself too seriously and has a sly wit to it. Let's also face it....those chase sequences were incredibly well filmed....well filmed to the point they became examples low budget auteur genius. "},{"Title":"The Best Action Movie Ever","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No seriously, good tight script, interesting characters, great action, excellent cinematography, and art design that still holds up. This is one of those rare action flicks that works on many levels. Characters grow and change over the course of this movie and a real sense of change is achieved. Plus, the Feral Kid rules. Why am I typing when I could be watching this movie right now? Of all Apocalyptic movies, this scenario makes the most sense. "},{"Title":"Epic Beauty.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  George Miller manages to accomplish something very rare here; something that normally, only a man like John Woo would be able to create.  In The Road Warrior, (as I, as an American, know it) Miller perfectly captures the Triumph of the Will, so to speak; the perseverance of human nature and it's desire to to good and aspire to rise above the bleak and desolate wasteland that is not only the filming location, but also mankind in general.  He also paints a lovely picture of redemption against that same bleak landscape; of the fact that no matter what, one man can rise above his conditioning and surroundings, and accomplish what he knows to be right. All this Miller achieves with poetic, almost Woo-like, choreographed car chases and violence, although it should be noted that, oddly, for an action movie, there are only two guns ever seen in the film.  While most see this as strictly an action film, as evident by the unfortunate packaging WB has assigned it, others will be able to see beyond this, seeing the deeper meaning that Miller has infused into this work, as well as the original Mad Max. "},{"Title":"One of the best cyberpunk movies ever","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I first saw this movie when I was like 7, didn't like it, 'cause I thought it was boring (same deal with Blade Runner). Next time I saw it I was older and I was absolutely astonished. I had never seen a better Sci-Fi movie (I had not seen Blade Runner - Director's Cut at that time). I have a friend that says The Road Warrior sucks. That's because he doesn't understand the movie. It's not an action movie, it's a view of the future. It could be as well a black and white movie with no sounds, only music. And I think that The Road Warrior is the best of the Mad Max movies, 'cause the third one is an action film that was made with a big budjet and had a Hollywoodish touch. And the Mad Max (1) didn't had that wasteland, there were grass and water almost everywhere, and Max wasn't as tough as in this one.And I would give 10 from 10 to this excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the best action flicks ever made. And easily the best of the Futuristic Wasteland films ever made (although A Boy and His Dog is very close. One of the five best car chases ever committed to film, and the best performance ever given by Mel Gibson. If you haven't seen it, I only have one question why the hell not?A+ "},{"Title":"The Last of the V8........","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't have to comment long on this one. All that nonsense I read in most comments about bad scripts and not enough depth in the characters....just taste the athmospere this movie provides and enjoy the show... "},{"Title":"stunning","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember catching this film as a teenager in the mid 1980's.  It was directly responsible for sparking my interest in classic cars; the effect was profound.This movie always felt a little light on plot but more than made up for it with sheer kinetic energy.  The stunts are mind-boggling and (in their area) still to this day I think unparalleled in execution.  It holds what must be the record for biggest non-nuclear explosion ever caught on film (I'm trying to be vague here).The whole production has a unique feel to it - from the costumes to the blue sky and red earth - that reeks of desolation.  I'm not even sure it would be possible to reproduce it here, nearly 20 years later (the waning punk influence of the late '70s feels true to life rather than costumed).And of course Mel Gibson is in his prime as the leather-clad anti-hero.If you get the chance *definitely* catch it in 235 to 1 (widescreen) as the pan-and-scan version is, as always, a total sham.  "}{"Title":"Best Australian Movie ever!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Without doubt this has to be one of the best road/action movies ever made. I think it still holds the record for being the most profitable film made in terms of budget-gross taking proportions. If you can, watch the proper version (Australian) rather than the unfortunate re-dubbed 'American' version.This was Mel's finest hour. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A truly worthy sequel to the Mad Max series, this showed a violent spectacular version of the future set upon the back drop of the Australian outback.There were some great moments in the film including scenes involving 'the Toadie' and the final chaotic battle.Definitely a great view of a post-apocolyptic world, run by insane bike riding maniacs "},{"Title":"Pure Excitement","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brilliantly conceived and directed with not much of a budget, THE ROAD WARRIOR is as exciting a film as any made in the 1980s. An absolutely classic, with a solid performance by Gibson and a brilliant supporting job by Bruce Spence as the pilot. "},{"Title":"   Give me your pump,the oil,gas,compound and maybe I spare your lives.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The road warrior is a classic. Max roams the desert in search of meaning. He soon finds it. He wages his own war with the scumbag biker gang. The war between Max,Wez,and Humgonus is awesome. The hatred between them is a very deep plot. Wez seems to want to eat Max's heart.Wez loses his gay pal and goes insane. The action is powerful. The film is kinda gory and violent at times.I give it a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"The Oilygarchy falls...","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The trailer(s) for THE ROAD WARRIOR looked promising; the film itself far exceeded expectations. I saw THE ROAD WARRIOR long before I saw the first film in the trilogy, MAD MAX, and I'm glad I did while MAD MAX isn't a bad film (I've only seen the dubbed American version), it just doesn't hold a candle to THE ROAD WARRIOR (which just happens to be one of the greatest action movies ever made). Like John Carpenter's ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK and ESCAPE FROM L.A., THE ROAD WARRIOR movies can lay claim to having an exceptional Actor in the lead Mel Gibson may not have as many memorable lines as Kurt Russell in the Carpenter movies, but he's charismatic enough to sell you on the idea that he's a post-apocalyptic survivor scrounging for fuel. One of the more interesting characters is The Feral Kid (who is the Narrator, we discover, at film's end) in fact, I was so impressed with him that I did a black and white comic book story- FERAL- about a pack of starving, homeless children who hunt down, kill, and EAT people who stray too close to their subterranean home. The stunts in THE ROAD WARRIOR are justifiably the stuff of Legend, but anyone who hasn't bothered to check it out by now should be advised that it's much, much more than just another throwaway action movie. "},{"Title":"A Little Better Than the First One","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching Mad Max 2, I really wasn't sure if it was better than the first movie, which I liked. I'd say Mad Max 2 has better pacing and better action. But I didn't sympathize with Max as much. I mean, in this movie the villains kill his dog, which is pretty sad, but in the first movie they kill his best friend and then his wife and son. Mad Max is more tragic and I think I felt a wider range of emotions while watching it than when I watched Mad Max 2. I was sad when the deaths happened but I was definitely happy when Max gets his revenge, particularly at the part when he handcuffs Johnny the Boy to a car that has a leaking tank by the ankle and tells him he can try either to saw through his ankle or the handcuffs before the car explodes. But I liked Mad Max 2 a little bit more because of the awesome climax. Some might say it lasts too long and I actually hate it when battle scenes last too long. It's kind of one of the reasons why I dislike the The Lord of the Rings movies. But the climax of Mad Max 2 doesn't go on for any longer than it needs to. And the Humungus is a more intimidating villain than Toecutter. But I didn't think it was perfect. The climax, as cool as it is, is kind of hard to follow because I couldn't really tell whose cars were whose. And I wish Max got more development as a character. He's basically the same at the end as he is in the beginning. (And he's never really mad either.) I guess he was supposed to be like The Man with No Name from Sergio Leone's Dollars Trilogy. George Miller did say he was influenced by Akira Kurosawa's films, which were a huge influence on the Dollars Trilogy. But I thought that kind of character worked better in those movies than here. And none of the characters get much development, other than the Gyro Captain. I thought they'd at least give either of the two most prominent women, the Captain's Girl or the Warrior Woman, more development but they don't.I thought Mad Max 2 was definitely worth watching, though. "},{"Title":"I'm just here for the gasoline","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oil depletion and climate change will create an entirely new context in which political struggles will be played out. Within that context, it is not just freedom, democracy, and equality that are at stake, but the survival of billions of humans and of whole ecosystems. - Richard Heinberg Mad Max 2 is a post-apocalyptic action movie by director George Miller. It stars Mel Gibson as Max, a tight-lipped loner who navigates a hellish landscape rife with marauding gangs and armed scoundrels. The film remains noteworthy for its stylised low-tech future, in which crossbow wielding mercenaries, souped up vehicles, armour-plated trucks and junkyard forts dot Australia's barren deserts.Other films had envisioned used or wasteland futures (Solaris, Star Wars, Planet of the Apes, Clockwork Orange, Soylent Green, A Boy and His Dog, Omega Man etc), but none were as playful as Mad Max 2. Miller's production designers create giant fortresses cordoned off by stacks of tyres and rolling fleets of customised war-vehicles. Fittingly, his villainous tribes are all kitted out in homo-erotic biker leather and S and M bondage gear, like a dying race of impotent, gas guzzlers, literally unable to reproduce and so unsustainable. Miller's good tribes, meanwhile, are family loving dirt nurturers, dressed in earth tones and cool whites. Max bounces between these two warring factions, a shotgun strapped to his hip, a loyal dog at his side. Mad Max 2 is mercifully free of dialogue and unnecessary plot. Essentially a silent film, it is comprised almost entirely of car chases and action sequences. Miller's direction is kinetic and muscular throughout, all image, power, speed and motion. Elsewhere his compositions alternate between John Fordian landscape shots and clever comic book panels. The film was released the same year as Raiders of the Lost Ark, a film which today feels dull in comparison.Mad Max 2's plot is thin, but nevertheless works well on an archetypal level. Miller's created his own wandering hero myth, akin to the samurai flicks of Kurosawa and the westerns of Leone. Like the heroes of those films, Max travels from place to place, helping good guys dispatch bad guys before drifting heroically off into the sunset.Today, Max's mad future almost seems prophetic. Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, global capitalism has expanded its use of energy at a rate of about 2.9 percent a year. Such an exponential increase is a systemic requirement capitalism pretends infinite growth is possible, because it collapses if it admits that no amount of production/consumption can outpace aggregate debts. Exponential growth thus become, not only a systemic necessity, but ecologically suicidal. If continued, such energy rates not only boil the planet within a few hundred years, but would require us to produce as much energy as the sun within about 1400 years. 8.5/10 - Some kind of wacky masterpiece. "},{"Title":" If for nothing else, we can offer you a future ","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Far out in the outback of Austrilia the finality of the Earth and it's people is being decided. The old world has died and so too it's dreams, yet from every disaster, there always seems to be a survivor. In this case it's a burned-out cop who feels he has lost everything and decides to help out the remnants of the main population against the lawless. The Film is called  The Road Warrior.  Mel Gibson, plays Max in this sequel to the first movie, Mad Max. The players are the compound people led by Pappagallo, (Mike Preston) who have stored a great deal of fuel and plan to travel across the country to start a new civilization. Arrayed against them are the fuel-hungry Bikers led by The Humungus and 'Wez' who very much want the compound and it's capacity to produce fuel. The battle continues when Max enters seeking fuel for his police car and really does not want anything but gas. Unfortunately, the Bikers add him to the enemies list when he leaves the compound. With his trusted companion  Dog  Max is also enjoined by The Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence) and The Feral Kid. What follows is perhaps the best speeding chase scenes ever collected for the screen. What with all the accidents, crashes and direct collisions, this film is packed with excitement and explosive entertainment, which easily fills a visit to the theater. Excellent movie and recommended to any seeking thrills. **** "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Mad Max 2/The Road Warrior over my winter break and got hooked. I am so desensitized by action flicks today with over-the-top and impossible stunts and overuse of computer graphics, this was a refreshing look at what cinema used to be like. The action is dirty, gritty, realistic and keeps you at the edge of your seat without having to resort to ridiculous maneuvers to impress the audience.The plot is simple enough without being dull. Mel Gibson as the jaded Max gives an incredibly minimalist performance that works well. The scope of the apocalyptic setting is kept within the viewpoint of the characters (kind of like the movie Signs attempted to treat an alien invasion through the eyes of one farm family). The concern in Mad Max's world is always oil the survivors are scavenging what is left of their ruined civilization. Beneath all of the action, we are also given a psychological thriller where humanity is torn between maintaining its dignity or falling back into savagery. Max has not fallen down the path of savagery yet, unlike the aggressive villains (who still remain very human) but he has lost his sense of kinship with the rest of humanity. His situation and personality is wonderfully contrasted by Bruce Spence's bombastic portrayal of the Gyro Captain, another antihero trying to survive, who will ultimately follow the road Max is unwilling to take.Good performances by all of the cast and a wonderful score by Brian May. Excellent example of a sequel that improves upon the original (though the first Mad Max was great in its own right). Sadly, Thunderdome was a letdown after this film, though it is still a decent flick. 9/10. "},{"Title":"I saw Mad Max 2 before Mad Max 1 and both are great!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of my favorite movies growing up in Chicago. It really defined a strong lead character Max (Mel Gibson) who was living in a world beyond his control, where he was forced to try and choose the best path that he could. He really encapsulated a real world hero because the motivation for his actions are based as much in survival as in altruism. I thought the film really showed a lot of complexity in relationships between Max and the variety of other characters.A few years after seeing The Road Warrior as it was named in the US, I was able to see Mad Max (1) and really enjoyed that too. Have to admit that the third attempt was a real flop in my mind, and I have not gone back to take another look recently. Of the three I have to admit that this one is my favorite because of the action and the complexity of the interaction of characters. "}{"Title":"Action Genre Classic","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the classic films of the action genre. When the great Joe Bob Briggs used to show this film on TNT's Monstervision (bring that show back!) I learned many things about this film from Joe Bob.He stated that for the climactic chase scene at the end that the director George Miller mounted cameras on all the vehicles (how clever) for better shots. He also stated that director hired derby car drivers to perform all the driving stunts.If you really watch the chase sequence it does appear everybody is driving way too fast and that numerous people were almost injured or killed making this movie. I do know that one scene where the bad guy flies through the air where he is spinning really happened! You have to love movie makers who risk life and limb, just so you can get your money's worth at the theater! "},{"Title":"Post - Apocalyptic version of The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Few movies out there have inspired so many variations on the same theme as Mad Max 2 (or as us Americans know it, The Road Warrior>), and after watching it you will see why. It is a stylistic film that outstretches it's original goals, and is a much better realized film than the original Mad Max. To compare this to Sergio Leone's western epic The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly is a grand compliment to George Miller and his work. Like the fore-mentioned film, Miller creates a visual treatment of the subject matter that is compelling and engrossing all the while it decays before your eyes. The world of Mad Max is a brutal one, filled with characters trying to survive at the edge of the world's dystopian future, with varying results of success. Like Leone, Miller's play consists of various characters whose moral inclination are much more gray than they are stark black & white. For example, Max's involvement in the plot originates from self-preservation (much like the film's wasteland villains), and towards the end his actions speak more of a noble (albeit tortured) soul trying to help others. Likewise, the Gyro-Captain's (played by the always excellent Bruce Spence) first appearance in the story is akin to highway robbery; yet in the end we see him for the kind (although goofy) creature he is. It could be said that the environment of the wasteland is the biggest supporting character in both films, as it is the reason for the story and the character's behavior. In the Leone film, the desolation comes from the Civil War, and is presented as the embodiment of death and decay. In Miller's film, civilizations end is cause, and it is chillingly familiar in tone set in Leone's depiction of the war. All has been lost thanks to the arrogance of men. Also like Leone's film, the story itself is a simple one. The story of The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly deals with the main character's drive to find a fortune in gold. In Mad Max 2, the main character's main drive is to gain a fortune in fuel (so to speak) and escape the wasteland desolation. While this film is indeed truly an action flick of the highest caliber, it is an amazingly strong character film as well ... and Miller manages to get across the character's drives and personalities with little to no dialog.In general, i would recommend you see Mad Max before watching this movie (naturally), but this is not an absolute requirement. The very first time i saw this film i was 15, and happened upon it on HBO, and had no prior knowledge of the first film ... and it took the length of the quick summary at the beginning of the film to really get me up to speed enough to enjoy Mad Max 2. In fact, when i first saw Mad Max i was mildly disappointed. Despite the action, it is NOT the same type of film at all ... sort of like how Alien and Aliens are not the same. Later, when i got a chance to get the Mad Max DVD with the original Aussie vocal tracks, i realized what it was that i had been missing.Do not let the subject matter fool you; this is a tremendous movie of the highest caliber. "},{"Title":"Mad max know what Hyman want! ! !","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some person told me to see this movie. It's from the 80s. They told me, Miranda, you've gotta see this movie, it's called Mad Max 2 and it's about these kids that love to smoke pot, but one of them dies somehow and gets cremated. Then, when the other kids are smoking pot, they smoke their friends ashes by accident and their friend pops up as a ghost and gives them all the answers to the SATs so they get into Harvard University! It's the best! So of course, I rented Mad Max 2, and I found out that yaw, it's from the 80s, but no, there are no black people smoking pot in it, that happens in the 3rd one I hear. But this one, the second one, was pretty good, it was about these half-man, half-kangaroo people in the Australian desert after the world had been hit by a giant comet and civilization ended. The army turned into cannibals and everyone got laid/raped/gay. Yes! I gave this movie 10 stars cos it had more than 10 movie stars in it. "},{"Title":"It's payback time for Mad Max","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great sequel. In fact, this one is almost as good as the first Mad Max. In a lawless land, one man stands alone he's Mad Max. And he wants revenge. I like how George Miller sets the table for this great action movie the quest for the black fuel that has all but disappear after years of war between nations. Again, this one is full of adrenaline and keeps you on the edge of your seat. The final chase scene is memorable and the music is well chosen. And I like the Gyro-guy character. The kid is a little too freaky for me though! Out of 100, I gave it 80. That's good for *** out of ****. Seen at home, in Toronto, on December 10th, 2004. "},{"Title":"The true classic of the series...","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To me, the appeal of Mad Max number one has never been clear, so why make a second one? I'm glad they did, though...The world is truly apocalyptic now, and the search for oil is the center of this movie. A group of about 30 people found themselves an oil rig, but they are under attack by a group of criminals...Max is supposed to lead them away from the small rig into the big world with their oil, but that's easier said than done...So much more compelling than the first one (let alone the third MM), such a better story... Now this is film-making! A true classic and a must-see for everybody. Leave the first movie where it is, stay away from the third film, but make sure to watch this!8/10. "},{"Title":"Mad Max and his souped up muscle car return for part two!","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max 2 (1981) takes place a few years after the first film. Society has fallen to the point that a third world war has destroyed civilization. Nomads and other forms of low lives rule the wasteland. Murdering and killing for anything and everything. Then there's Mad Max and his trusting sidekick dog. Like all other nomads he's searching for petrol. After offing several nomads he meets a survivor who tells him of a petrol oasis. When he get's to the site however, it's surrounded by Lord Humongus and his crew. What will Mad Max do?An action packed sequel to the Mad Max. In the U.S. it's called the Road Warrior. This movie was a huge success worldwide. Thanks in large part for a bigger budget, the action scenes are even grander and more high octaned and death defying. Mad Max never looked cooler in his leather jacket and double barreled shotgun. Like the first part it inspired scores of movies and even a video game. A must see.Highly recommended.A+Factoid When The Road Warrior was released on U.S. television the dialogue was dubbed by American voice actors and loopers. But after a few showings this print has rarely been used. Once in awhile it'll appear on local television broadcasts.  "},{"Title":"'Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior'","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 'Mad Max', audiences were introduced to Max, the cop that lost his family to a ruthless motorcycle gang. In this sequel to 'Mad Max', Max (Mel Gibson) now a wanderer, finds himself in a post-apocalyptic region of Australia, where gasoline is the most coveted commodity. Max helps a gasoline-possessing community escape a tribe of bandits and thieves.Director George Miller, who also directed the first 'Mad Max' movie, creates a dark and intense movie filled with chase scenes that will pin you to your seat. The climatic highway chase scene is one of the most memorable action sequences to ever grace cinema. Rating (8/10) "},{"Title":"One of the Best Action Movies Ever Made","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Road Warrior is one of the best Action movies ever made, and one of Mel Gibson's best performances.  This movie came out when I was 16, and I don't remember where I saw it first, but by 1984 every punk-rocker in L.A.'s pre-mainstream punk scene had scene it several times, including yours truly.  I notice that it's been retitled Mad Max 2  The Road Warrior, but I don't remember it having that title when it came out.  My friends and I were aware there was a movie that preceded Road Warrior called Mad Max, but no one I knew had seen Mad Max.  Let's face it, The Road Warrior is a complete stand-alone film.  It made Mel Gibson into a star in the US (Lethal Weapon made him into a celebrity).  Even now, the movie is incredibly fun to watch and action-packed.  You can't help root for the characters.  This is a film where it's good vs. evil with no shades of gray, and it doesn't matter.  Truly a classic, truly a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rare better-than-original sequel","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most sequels aren't as good as the original. This one is a rare bird - a sequel that actually surpasses the original in almost every respect. Mel Gibson reprises his role as a lone drifter in post-war Australia. This time, his quest is for juice as gasoline is called. His travels take him to a remote town producing some gasoline. Unfortunately, a savage gang has designs on the juice themselves. Max is the town's only hope and he ends up trying to defend the town from the gang. This film is much better than the (good!) original. "},{"Title":"Easily the best to the Mad Max trilogy.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In fact it isn't even close in my opinion.  This one is set in an apocalyptic wasteland where the hero drives the roads simply searching for gas and avoiding others who are doing the same.  He runs into some sort of pilot guy who tells him of a city where he can get all the gas he can get.  He goes there and what he finds is a city with gas and a problem.  Bunches of crazed warriors who want to break into the city and take everything and probably kill everyone in it.  Max gets in to the city and makes a deal to get a truck so these people can get to the coast where they hope they will find a more civilized world waiting for them.  Suffice to say this movie ends with one of the best vehicle action scenes ever filmed.  Don't expect Gibson to talk much in this one as he plays a loner type, but at least he isn't dubbed like he was in the first Mad Max.  There are some pretty good performances in this flick besides Gibson's as the bad guys all do a rather good job.  Especially the really insane one who has to be chained up by the leader of the bad guys.  One thing that really bothers me though is that we never get to see the face of the leader who wears a kind of hockey mask. "}{"Title":"MORBID","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Absolute rubbish, the apartheid would be disgruntled with this ludicrous film, with Smell Gibson.  I must say that a post I read, I believe the title said it =great film, was an outright lie. This was a heap of mahogany wood, topped with a smich of buddha.  Stupendous, absolutely stupendous, a crime to humanity topped with extra cheese.      "},{"Title":"I still think it is classic...","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, I understand that young generations could not figure out why this movie should be a classic. But, when this movie was made I was a young boy and it was cult movie. Gibson (Max) was my hero. When, making opinion about some movie there is on more important thing beside quality. It is about when it was made. I'm calling that as art/time ratio for example R = (quality/year). The higher R is, the movie is better. Today, it is not a problem to make the same movie to be better.It is similar with Rambo-First blood. Now, this movie is poor when you compare it with today's action movies. But, question is, did modern movies would be like they are today if movies like Rambo and Mad Max was never made. So, maybe they are boring today, but their significance for movie's history is colossal. That's why Mad Max is classic.  "},{"Title":"Pure action + Brutality + Creative Premise= A Great Movie Experience","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Road Warrior (Mad Max 2) is one of the most unforgetable movies of all time and certainly one of the greatest action films ever. The beauty of this film is that it focuses very little on story telling and almost entirely on action. The concept is incredibly simplistic. The world is in a major state of chaos and gasoline has become the world's new form of currency. A small community of people have barricaded themselves within a refinery and a group of evil and scary looking scavengers want to steal it for their own survival. That's just about it. Normally, films with such weak storylines aren't remembered at all. Yet director George Miller has tapped into something that goes beyond simple dialogue to tell a story. This film and the world that these characters inhabit is explained through the use of its wild and brutal action scenes. With a simple introduction and a gritty chase between Mad Max and some fuel-hungry pursuers, the audience gets a very informative glimpse of what this future holds for mankind. It wastes no time in explaining what is clearly obvious and the post-apocalyptic setting is really just an interesting backdrop to this bizarre film.This film is about action. Plain and simple. Words cannot even describe the incredible car stunts and crashes that we witness in this movie. The soundtrack is a pounding and ear splitting one that, no matter how hard you try, will not leave your head for weeks. Because this film is so unique and has not been matched since (Waterworld was the closest clone seen thus far), I would recommend that nearly everyone should at least watch it once. Whether you like it or not, you will not forget it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"you can run but you can't hide!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far the greatest movie of the 80s. A sheer classic of a road wilderness movie. Utter action from beginning to the end. The last 45 mins of this movie has got to be the best car chase ever. If you have never seen this movie you should rent it or borrow it from somebody because it is fantastic. You will not be disappointed I tell you!!! "},{"Title":"THE RARE SEQUEL THAT ACTUALLY TOPS ITS' PREDECESSOR","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  George Miller's Mad Max 2 is a better title than the idiotic title tacked on by Warner Bros. here in the U.S. The Road Warrior. Do you know how many people are stupified that The Road Warrior is the sequel to Mad Max? They thought it was the first!While that first film had a rich character study to complement the action, Mad Max 2 is almost wall to wall action. And what action! Armed with a bigger budget, Miller manages to do the impossible make a sequel even more exciting than the first. Hollywood would be too timid to make such strong action sequences, but Miller is a maverick from Australia who defies Hollywood conventions. No love interests, no sex scenes, no standard happy ending. The only happy ending this could have is that it is over.In this sequel, we begin to see the Mel Gibson persona develop, the lean mean action machine that would become so popular with Lethal Weapon and Payback. Notice, now Mel is trying to go back to his pre-Max image with such offbeat projects as Braveheart, The Patriot and What Women Want. I think such a diversity proves that Mel is one of the best actors working today.The Special Widescreen Edition released by Warners in 1999 features a helpful documentary short detailing the creation of the action sequences. I think it is helpful to see this before screening Mad Max 2. This way, you can further appreciate the hard work put into creating these dazzling sequences. Also, the film is best viewed in the widescreen format, which shows them the way they were meant to be seen. Also, the pan-and-scan version destroys the pace of the film, making it slow and choppy rather than fast and smooth. Pay the extra 5 bucks for the letterboxed edition. It's worth it.**** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the few American films with the main point of it is explosions which actually is good (many good ones from HK though). I was simply captured by it and while others passed by and talked s*** about it I gave em the finger.The cinematography was beautiful and Miller's directing was (I never thought I  would say this on a US huge budget action flick) good. And Mel Gibson didn't make me sick like he used to either! This flick has some really classic scenes too. The kid with the steel-boomerang for instance..Although I hated Beyond Thunderdome this kicked ass (actually the term was invented for it!) and should be in every serious movie collection with respect for itself (i.e *NOT* Cameron and that sort of s***). Buy it. "},{"Title":"A one-liner joke stretched over the length of a feature film","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Surely the villains wasted a lot more gasoline on that whole siege than they could ever hope to loot out of that doomed refinery-turned-citadel. And surely the gasoline couldn't be all the good guys had going for them in that desolate, barren wasteland. Where were the crops, the water and such?The whole premise of the plot for Mad Max II, which I found impressive when I was eleven, is - what if there was a nuclear war? What would the people be left fighting over? The answer the oil. What? Sorry, but ha-ha. What about the spare parts? Where do they come from? What about the bad weather and the dirt of the abandoned roads? They would spell doom on all machinery in no time, oil or no oil. The way I see it, the oil would be the last thing on anybody's mind. But the screenwriter would have you believe the society would evolve and be maintained based around what is based around currently, albeit in rawer ways.I could've found this film working well as a futuristic science fiction or a sequel to the original Mad Max - if the screenwriters took the screenplay more seriously. As it happens all that was on George Miller's mind was to create a grandiose spectacle on wheels. As soon as he got his hands on a serious budget, he forgot all he could about the story and character development. Indeed it's a grandiose spectacle. You'll never forget the chase in the final act. You'll also never forget bad 80's hairdos, lots of S&M and homo-erotic imagery and lots and lots of interestingly designed wheels and nifty weaponry, the latter based on the idea that gunpowder is scarce in the future but the iron somehow isn't.What Mad Max the Road Warrior is not is a carefully thought-out story of a possible future world. It would fit steam-punk or alternative history genres better. It may best serve as some kind of allegory on today's society, but I don't think the authors cared to develop it even that deeply. The only reason to set the whole thing in the future is because it makes no sense to create this extravagant, wild, high-octane road war in the now. Also, it sparks more curiosity with the audience to market this as what we'll look like in 50 years time than as what's going on on some dusty planet where they have roads, freaks and lots and lots of cars.I can't think of a reason to make it a Mad Max film, either. Some loose connections are there, but the whole motivation of the title character is warped into something completely different than it was in the first film. There is almost no continuity in that aspect and they could have better named it just The Road Warrior. Then imagine the sequels The Road Warrior Beyond Thunderdome and The Road Warrior Fury Road. It would fit the bill nicely. It would've been a story about a nobody in a nothing-world, doing all kinds of nasty stuff, mostly on wheels, in order to survive. For me the story of Mad Max, a man of a deep moral schism, ended with the first film, on that stormy road driving into uncertain future. He serves little purpose here other than the bait for the villains as well as the box-office bait. "},{"Title":"Gritty tale with lots of characters","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those rare examples of a sequel being better than the original. Unlike most movies, which start with a bang and then have super poor Part Two editions, this one had a choppy poor first Mad Max movie and followed up with a well edited and exciting adventure yarn. Like most Mel Gibson movies, he is an unlikable and unsympathetic character through and through, but is surrounded by much more charismatic characters the audience actually pulls for. And since the ones we pull for aren't leads, we're not sure they'll come through the movie alive. Gibson teams up with the movie's two most charismatic character, a chopper pilot who probably never took lessons in the military, and the leader of a band of citizens trying to hold onto civilized society in a world gone wild. There are a lot of other interesting characters, some good, some not so good, and some just down right rotten, but they make for an exciting, if not overly believable story line. The end sequence is much like a final shootout, and well done considering it involved motor vehicles. But unlike other movies which feature boring motor vehicles chasing each other (an idea of the 60's that lasted too long-by now its been proved that car chases will never replace the excitement of horse posses), this movie pitted somewhat strange and awkward vehicle, most of them open top, which gave the movie a bit more excitement. The characters are in a shootout, and the moving vehicles don't really get in the way of the photography. It would have been better if Max was at least partly likable, but he isn't. He crosses the line of anti hero into a sort of Eastwood like character hard to care about. But the other characters make this move a bit fun to watch. "},{"Title":"It's A Mad Mad Mad Max World.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" My life fades. The vision dims. All that remains are memories. I remember a time of chaos... ruined dreams... this wasted land. But most of all, I remember The Road Warrior. The man we called Max. To understand who he was, you have to go back to another time... when the world was powered by the black fuel... and the desert sprouted great cities of pipe and steel. Gone now... swept away. For reasons long forgotten, two mighty warrior tribes went to war, and touched off a blaze which engulfed them all. Without fuel they were nothing.Possibly my favourite quote from the series lies in the opening narration of Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior. Mel Gibson has little to no dialogue throughout the film, and the whole movie has the feel of the circus. Made on a budget of 400,000 Australian dollars, Director George Miller was somewhat unhappy with his time making the first Mad Max (1979). The budget was very small for the many hefty stunts, and after failing to make a rock and roll movie titled Roxanne, he decided to return to Max knowing he could do a better job. The result is The Road Warrior, complete with a 4.5 million Australian dollar budget, influenced by the works of Akira Kurosawa and making Apocalyptic Punk popular in many other forms of media (One fan in Australia has an entire museum dedicated to it).Max (Mel Gibson), is now driving aimlessly across the wasteland in his V8 Interceptor with an Australian Cattle Dog as his only companion (Whom production actually saved from being put down). Fuel is now very, very scarce and ammo for his weapon of choice (A sawn-off shotgun) is practically gone. After successfully chasing off certain marauders (Among them is 1985's Commando villain Vernon Wells), Max stumbles across the chance to hopefully gain fuel from a group at an oil refinery. Unfortunately all are under threat from a pursuing biker gang led by the villainous muscle-bound 'Lord Humungus' (Kjell Nilsson).That could easily be a plot to a Kurosawa movie (It even includes a few classic screen wipes). The beauty of Mad Max 2 is that the plot is so simple, yet the style is so unique. Australian composer Brain May returns from the first movie to score this one, definitely incorporating much more of a faster pacing into the many spectacular chase scenes. Costumes range hilariously from hockey gear to assless chaps, and characters and personalities are established swiftly even with no real development. Lastly the stunt work becomes even more daring and intricate as the action continues to progressively one up itself.Final Verdict I know this is easily the most boring review you have ever read, and I've struggled hard to find something negative but I just can't. The Road Warrior is a masterpiece in simplicity and I can simply watch it again and again without hesitation. I'm sure someone rational could easily sit me down and tell me what's wrong with it, but every time I watch it I am simply glad every minute exists just the way it is. 10/10. Mad Max 2 is certainly somewhere in my top 100 all time movies. "},{"Title":"In this maelstrom of decay, ordinary men were battered and smashed... men like Max... the warrior Max.","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In another time, Max Rockatansky was a cop who watched his wife and son brutally run down by violent bikers in a world that kept getting madder and madder. After crossing the threshold of sanity and becoming Mad Max, the world has now become a desolate wasteland, taken over by motor gangs who pillage and plunder the innocent, forever searching for gasoline to keep them going. Once again, Max is forced to match their brutality with his own.The Road Warrior is best remembered for painting a vivid and hard-edged vision of the future, where bandits are leather-bound psychopaths who drive around in inventively-scrappy buggies and bikes. These are just a few of the details that ordains the film; the picture is filled with an incredible amount of detail that makes the post-apocalyptic wasteland look real and threatening. In this setting, the film tracks the reluctant hero Max as he confronts bandits, struggles to gain trust, and ultimately commits to a frantic escape plan. The film builds up to a memorable and well-crafted chase scene, in which a whole group of crazy vehicles run after a fortified rig. There are explosive crashes, brutal lashes of violence, and plenty of imagination to behold in this adventurous film.The film presents its story as a kind of myth, romanticizing Max as a heroic drifter who breezes through and does what he has to. Like so many other heroes of this type, he is a reluctant one, who starts off with selfish intentions, but circumstances cause him to risk everything for the greater good. Thus, Max transforms from an antihero to a more classic form of hero, and his journey makes the film most endearing. The story advances smoothly from beginning to end with minimal drag, culminating in a satisfying climax.This film boasts decent photography and good editing. Mel Gibson exhibits decent machismo as Max, and everybody else provides decent performances. Writing is good. This production uses very detailed and very real-looking sets, props, costumes, and locales. Music is good too.Although the first Mad Max film has its share of action and style, The Road Warrior is the film that paints the most definitive picture of a post-apocalyptic world - complete with fantastic chase scenes - and it defines Max as a hero we can root for.4/5 (Entertainment Very Good | Story Good | Film Good) "}{"Title":"A Glorious Cheesefest","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In preparation for Mad Max Fury Road which just hit theaters, I've been watching the original Mel Gibson Mad Max trilogy from the 1980's. After having viewed the original a week or so ago, tonight I made it on to Road Warrior, the second installment of the franchise. What to say about this film? I'll start with the positives. One thing that quickly stands out is that this movie is a much better made film in terms of the budget that went into making the movie, the quality of the clarity of the film itself, and the story was in some ways better put together than its predecessor. In the first movie we were made to figure out the entire gist of the strange world of Mad Max all on your own without much back story at all. In Road Warrior, we get a tiny bit of back story in the opening moments of the film that sets the stage for an even more obviously apocalyptic future than the depraved landscape of the prequel. The film is chock full of action--much more so than its predecessor, which wasn't hurting in the action department itself. The car chase scenes are now more or less ubiquitous throughout the film, and there is certainly some creative use of cinematography going on in this movie. That said, while Road Warrior is not an abject failure in the storytelling department, the fact is that the story it had to tell is far less compelling than the first film in the series. Characters do have some development, and there is a fairly good narrative at play here (or at least good enough to fit the theme of the script). Still, there's not as much depth to the story as Mad Max had, and this almost ruined the film for me. However, what made up for the lack of a compelling narrative was how gloriously cheesy this movie is. I described the first movie as half car chases, half Clint Eastwood movie. If that was at all accurate, then I'd say Road Warrior is half car chases, half Indiana Jones. You really can't imagine a better example of a thoroughly cheesy 80's movie than what you'll find in this film. Even its attempt at gore is cheesy. The antagonists look like they've stepped out of 80's night at the local bondage club. The violence is gratuitous, but so overdone that it's hard not to laugh. And throughout the whole thing there's a Jonathan Williams inspired score playing that does away with the horror music of the first film and instead makes Mad Max into a hero the likes of a Luke Skywalker or perhaps Dar from The Beastmaster.That being the case, I found it strangely hard not to like this movie. I have no problem admitting, in my humble opinion, that it's a devolution from the first film, at least in terms of the overall story being told. But despite that, I'd give it the same rating I gave the first Mad Max (7/10 stars) since it's such a well made attempt at a serious movie whose actual viewing belies a far less than serious vibe by 2015 standards. It's a great movie if you're in the mood to just watch a cheesy 80's action film--just don't go into it hoping for something too terribly intellectually stimulating, as you won't find that in the Road Warrior at all. "},{"Title":"A sequel that actually builds and improves on its predecessor.","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember a time of chaos, ruined dreams, this wasted land. But most of all, I remember The Road Warrior. The man we called Max.After having enjoyed Mad Max, I wasn't expecting to fall in love with its sequel, but The Road Warrior actually blew me away and I found it to be a much better film than its predecessor. I had thought that Mad Max had already established the post- apocalyptic world in the Australian wastelands, but in Mad Max 2 the world has become much more chaotic and there is no room for civilization whatsoever. It's still a low budget film, but director George Miller had more room to work with here and establish his vision of this crazy world. There is also more character development and despite not being entirely convinced by Mel Gibson's performance in the first film, I found him much more charismatic here and I can now understand why he became such a bankable actor during the following decades. There is actually a better story in The Road Warrior which plays out like a Western. Mel Gibson plays the loner Max who doesn't say much and seems to only care for himself. He arrives at an encampment where the few surviving members are trying their best to keep things civilized despite being surrounded by a group of violent bikers led by Lord Humungus (Kjell Nilsson) who are in need of their fuel refinery. Max makes a deal with the leader of the camp, Pappagallo (Michael Preston) to bring a truck back to the camp that will allow them to haul the tanker in exchange for all the gas he can take with him. Max is their only hope and he exits the compound while trying to escape Humungus and his men. That is how in a way the film follows the basic Western genre conventions with this mysterious man showing up as the only hope for the somewhat defenseless campers against a threatening enemy. However, Miller changes the horses for fast paced vehicles and guns for crossbows and sharp boomerangs. There aren't any cowboys or indians here, but rather all sort of wacky and crazy characters using whatever objects they've found in the wasteland as their wardrobe in this post-apocalyptic world.Mel Gibson has very few lines in this film and he appears to be interested in himself, but his charm easily wins us over. He is in a way an anti-hero, but since he shares the same enemy in common with the campers he ends up finding people he can relate to. Max has suffered a lot and lost many loved ones so he prefers to be a loner and not make new friends. In this sequel he faces a much more menacing enemy with Humungus and his gang. One particular stand out in the villain role is Wez (Vernon Wells) who is probably the craziest character in the film. Max finds two misfit allies in the Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence), who at first tried to steal from him and then became Max's prisoner, and in a young brave boy known as the Feral Kid (Emil Minty) whose weapon of choice is a star boomerang. The performances in this film are all solid and the action scenes are incredibly exciting and intense. The final twenty minutes of the film had me at the edge of my seat and the car chases were extremely well shot. The score of the film does feel a bit heavy handed and manipulative, but considering this was filmed in 1981 I have to give it a lot of credit. I had an incredible time with this film and am even more excited for the upcoming Mad Max sequel. It will be hard to top this, but I won't complain if it's at least half as good as Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior.This is one of those rare sequels that builds and improves on their predecesor. The vision of this post-apocalyptic world is much better realized here and despite all the crazy characters the film still takes itself seriously. It is violent and there is actually a lot at stake, which is uncommon in action films these days. It is over the top in many ways, but it works extremely well in this world and I can't think of better chase sequences than there are here. The film has non-stop crazy action and it's a very entertaining experience. I absolutely recommend this! http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"campy fun","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the post-apocalyptic world, fuel is scarse. Max roams the desolate Australian outback with his dog fighting off bandits. He encounters the Gyro Captain (Bruce Spence) who tries to rob him. He knows a community of survivors refining their own fuel. The group is under attack from The Humungus and his gang of bandits. One car tries to escape but they are caught by the bandits. Max is able to rescue the man and take him back to the community. He promised him gas but he dies before the deal can be done.This one takes the violent indie into camp territories. It's unrelentingly violent with cool outlander looks. It is filled with fun. The stunts are better than ever. There is something viceral about real action. It is a great explosive live-action cartoon on wheels. "},{"Title":"Fill 'er up and check the oil","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The one line review Best action movie ever.The multiple line review Real people on real cars and motorcycles and tanker trucks and gyrocopters battling for their lives and the last drops of gasoline. I wonder how many people lost body parts in the making of this film.Weird how closely this film matches events of today. Even though we haven't had a nuclear war, we're fighting in the desert over the last of the gasoline. When they remake this movie, I hope they cast Dick Cheney as Lord Humongous.Quentin Tarantino once said the best car movies are made by Australians, and he's totally right. "},{"Title":"We all have lost someone we love.","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bigger, better? Well it's bigger, but for me no way is it better then the original. They're equal, but it easily could have been a standalone. This entry was the one to spawn a lot of those post-apocalyptic wasteland imitators, but it was rarely matched. Mad Max 2; The Road Warrior definitely had a little more money behind it and where it showed was in its expansiveness. The daring stunt work along with the high octane action set-pieces was simply spectacular in its arranged ravaged destruction. Helping it out was the sped-up visuals and sleekly well-placed camera-work, which followed the action up-close and sky-high. What can you say, an all out assault on the senses. From the very beginning you could tell it was all going to be about the scorching car chases, savagely violent encounters and its simplistically slight, if progressive story structure went on to prove it. You could see it as one big chase get-up. Set-piece, after set-piece together like a well lit fuse but there was nothing wrong with that as director George Millar grabs hold catapulting the viewer in to a mythological tale within a vast post-nuclear wasteland of speed and carnage. The performances are reasonably fine. Mel Gibson perfectly set-ups up his edgy, if solitude character of a man fuelled by tragedy as this road warrior tries to survive, but stealing the show is the likes of an oddball Bruce Spence and the over-the-top comic-strip-like villains performed with striking energy by Kjell Nilsson and Vernon Wells as the instinctively rebellious henchman. While it doesn't quite have the emotional weight and atmospheric shocks as the previous film, but the material manages to draw upon its spirit of people fighting for a believe; each other and of course gasoline. Composer Brian May's accomplished music score simply thunders along.You can run, but you can't hide. "},{"Title":"Great action, stunts and a lot of humour...","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this film on VHS video at a friend's house almost 30 years ago. At the time I was most impressed with the action sequences and with the futuristic setting of the story. Since then I have seen it a few times, but for the first time I watched it today with a different perspective. Here's a bit about the plot and then I'll tell you what I mean.The story follows on from the 1979 film Mad Max, also directed by George Miller. I won't go through the events that happened there, but I will tell you that former cop, Max, is now wandering the wastelands, a lawless desert. Here, after a run-in with some scavengers, he comes across The Gyro Captain, the pilot of a gyro-copter. He tells Max of a compound in the middle of the desert where the people there are pumping oil and refining it. With fuel being the most valuable commodity in the wastelands, Max is very interested in this place. They go there to find it under siege by the same scavengers that Max had a run-in with earlier. They are led by a character known as The Humungus. Max makes his way into the compound where he discovers they have a tanker but no truck to drive it. He has seen one out on the road and makes a deal for as much fuel he can carry, if he can retrieve it. I won't say any more, I think that's enough to whet your appetite.Although it does look a little dated, this is still a very well made film. It's not perfect by any means, but the stunt work, the acting and the humour all stand up today. It is not heavy on dialogue, but I could not fault any of the performances, so honourable mentions go to; Mel Gibson as Mad Max Rockatansky, Bruce Spence as The Gyro Captain, Michael Preston as Pappagallo, Max Phipps as The Toadie, Vernon Wells as Wez, Kjell Nilsson as The Humungus and Emil Minty as The Feral Kid.I talked about perspective at the beginning and I think I should explain what I mean. Since I have been putting my thoughts online, for just over a year now, I have found that I watch films with a more critical eye. What I mean is I pay more attention to how they make me feel, to how they are made and to whether I find them entertaining.So, I found Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior to have a lot more humour in it than I remember, although some of the stunts didn't quite work and you can see where the action has been sped up to cover for this. Having said that, the story is great and it is told in a very clever way with just the right balance of humour and drama in and amongst the action. Entertaining throughout, and, given the limitations the filmmakers had at the time, a very well made and ambitious film. Over all, I loved it when I first saw it, and love it just as much today! Recommended.My score 7.8/10 "},{"Title":"Get your ass in front of TV and watch THE ROAD WARRIOR !","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wow! What can i say ? Perhaps this is the best car action movie i've seen in my whole life ! Mel Gibson is extremely powerful in taking this kind of role. He is serious, and mean ! Hahaha... this movie really kick ass! It has a lot of action, and strong performances from all of the actors although the cast were not that great. Mad Max 2 definitely moves over Mad Max and Beyond Thunderdome (Mad Max 3). If you are a fan of Gibson, then you must really watch this movie twice. I can guarantee that you won't feel regret after watching this movie ! I'll tell you people, Mel Gibson was at the top of his performances in this movie ! Make sure you watch this movie ! Highly recommended A+ (10/10***) -mid- "},{"Title":"A great action film","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There will be car chases, there will be violence, there will be social and political commentary, there will be cross-bows and most of all, there will be Mel Gibson.Mad Max 2 the Road Warrior takes places a few years after Mad Max. The world had gone to war over oil and the apocalypse has happened. In the Australian outback the world has been a dog-eat-dog world where gangs and individuals have to be hard and have to steal patrol to survive. Max (Mel Gibson) has become a loner after the death of his wife and son who were killed in the first film and has no real reason to life. He just steals petrol and avoids the gangs that rule the roads. However Max meets a gyro captain (Bruce Spence) who tells him of a oil rich community. Both men go to the community and after original thoughts of stealing the petrol Max agrees to help the community who are besieged by Lord Humungus (Kjell Nilsson) and his gang. The community want to escape the waste lands and settle in a decent climate.There is an obvious commentary about the world's over reliance on oil and the oil-shortages of the 70s. There is a modern context to it because oil prices are raising and lets face it oil will run out at some point in the 21th Century. The film also likes Max's lack of humanity and how he gets it back, and how different people handle the post-apocalyptic world, some forming decent minded communities whilst others because more rogue and violence in their approach. It reminds me of elements of the Living Dead series, the graphic novel V for Vendetta and the excellent Stephen King novel the Stand. As well, the world of Mad Max reminded me of the Dark Ages because of the lack of resources, the primitive weapons (there are few guns in this world) and because Lord Humungus was just a like a Dark Age lord because it was the man with the most men behind him that took over an area. Lord Humungus is also an interesting villain because he is violence, but he is an intelligent, charismatic leader, giving him some depth of character.Gibson is good in this like he was in Mad Max. Other actors in the film do a fine job, I personally like Kjell Nilsson in the film. The script was solid and interesting and there was a good story and plot behind it. But the best aspect was the direction of George Miller, who handled the personal, political and social aspects and the action brilliantly. The action scenes were top notch, especially the final chase scene. Miller made you care about what happened, and it was an visual treat, especially because there would have been no CGI. As well, the film did not dub over the voices of characters to make them sound American like in Mad Max; the characters kept their Australian accents. The music was also fitting for this film.If you are an action fan and post-apocalyptic scenarios like the first two Terminator films, then Mad Max 2 is a must have in your DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Best true action movie ever made thank god for such a great movie!!!!","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whats there to say that has never been said before it is truly the greatest action movie ever made. But beware the 3rd one isn't nearly as good. his is the best one of the series i have enjoyed this movie from start to finish. I have heard people say it sucks because the cars didn't explode like a missile shot em up well all i said those people was screw you because this movie wasn't made with that CG crap that ruins true talent of the stunt men in this movie. if you like action movies that have the greatest chase sences ever made then get this one. It is truly sad how kids and people in general never have heard about this movie. this movie started them all. People also have said this movie doesn't have enough dialog will screw them also because this movie strait up proves that movies don't have to have people talking your head off after every 2 seconds. thank god for this movie it seems to me like all these new movies suck ass. and they have better technology bigger budgets and wimpy actors. heh this movie is a classic whether you agree or not this is a timeless movie. "},{"Title":"The long and winding Road....Warrior","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite post-apocalypse movie ever made. This portrays a world so bleak that people wander the deserts looking for gasoline to power their vehicles to wander the deserts to look for gasoline to power their vehicles....you get the idea.Symbolic of this world plight is the life of our main character Max. Following the events of the first film his life consists of wandering the deserts with no destination ahead of him. How can a world be so aimless and bleak? That is what The Road Warrior is about.Despite the hopelessness, there are still people who live for more than wandering. Max has an attack of conscience as to whether to defend those who wish to live for more or fend for himself. This is a real dilemma of life.Sadly, this movie is known mostly for Mel Gibson and it's highly realistic action scenes. There is more to this film, as any good science fiction film is. It's about ideas. Thank goodness someone had the idea to make The Road Warrior. "}{"Title":"The Australian movie which blew Hollywood out of the water","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It was with a great deal of reluctance that I went to see this movie. I was on holiday to see my relatives in another city. My older cousin suggested we see this movie. Despite my protestations, I had to see this. Even then, Australian films seemed to fill me with this degree of confidence! Anyway, despite my reservations, this turned out to be one of the most exhilarating movie experiences of my very young life-an excitement/adrenaline rush. The plot has become hackneyed in recent times-it's an end of the world scenario-civilisation has crashed and it's the law of the jungle for what remains of humanity. An ex-cop, Max Rockatansky (Mel Gibson-in the role that made him internationally famous) is a lone wolf in his battered police-car, forever foraging for the life-blood of this wasteland...petrol (or guzzle-ine-a play on the American word for petrol).He stumbles across perhaps the last bastion of humanity-conveniently for Max, an oil refinery! There is one small problem...the maniacal hordes of petrol-heads/hoons who daily try to break into this refinery and pillage it for themselves. The villains of this piece are very memorable and these scenes have been utilised recently in the brilliant US cartoon series South Park. Seeing this movie years later, I was highly amused to see how gay Wez (a villain) really was-his partner had a back-flap on his pants for when Wez wanted a quickie, presubably! Anyway, Max is called on to help the refinery enclave and he must battle with the likes of Wez and The Humungus (er, just Humungus!).Don't be put off by this being a sequel. I don't consider the original (a blatant Western homage-though, gosh, this sequel has many classical Western motifs too, which I've read others say and now agree with) to be essential viewing and the sequel is a stand-alone effort, creating the myth of Mad Max (a.k.a. The road warrior in the U.S. release of this 'sequel').This is the movie that outdid (still outdoes) Hollywood for car thrills and spills and which Hollywood still rips off for ideas and inspiration. Many scenes are classic-eg shotgun shell on a moving truck's bonnet. "},{"Title":"the best film ever!!","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  mel gibson gives a sterling performance as max. its brilliantly directed,scored and acted. bruce spence is also v. good roll on mad max 4 fury road!!!! "},{"Title":"Mel the Actor","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whenever people ask me why I consider Mel Gibson one of the most under-rated actors of our time, I don't point them towards his Hamlet. (Too old, too Shatner-esque)I show them the scene in Road Warrior where he finds the mechanical guts of a music box. He turns the handle and it plays 'Happy Birthday'. In the span of just seconds, and without any dialog, we see that Mad Max  Enjoys the tune. Can't recognize the tune. Realizes he SHOULD recognize the tune. Realizes what it says about him and his tragic life that he can't recognize it. That's acting, baby. "},{"Title":"Fist of North Star","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is like a remake of the Japanese anime Fist of North Star. I couldn't help it to find it almost identical to the anime. The costumes, the setting, the violence, the characters, almost everything is the same. George Miller must have been a big fan of the anime. However, the Max in this movie is not as tough as Ken in the anime. I guess they wanted to make the movie more believable, so they cant have Max being invincible. This isn't a bad film, but having seen the original anime, this all seems a bit soft. The anime is much better in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Ultimate cynicism","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It takes a few viewings but the Road Warrior is hardly a mindless actioner. It's in fact one of the most cynical movies I've ever seen.  Think about it the next time watching  Are the oil colonists really much better than Humongus and his guys?  They renege on the promise of giving Max gas, they basically use him as a decoy, and of course they refused to share the gas with anyone to begin with, thus driving things to the point of violence.The ending is also interesting...Max basically does all the dirty work only to find that he has been carrying dirt all along while the real gas was in everyone's car.  So basically Max gets screwed over royally  he loses his car, doesn't get any gas, and at the end is left in the middle of the desert while the people he helped go to the beach paradise.  That's one of the more cynical endings I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Independent Film","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having recently attended the Sundance Film Festival, the Mecca of Independent Film, it's worth noting that Mad Max and its sequel were little indies as well. Today, judging by the entries at Sundance, independent film means basically one thing movies filmed on shoestrings about relationships among dysfunctional individuals/families. To say this gets a little underwhelming after a while is like saying Michael Jackson is only a little bit strange. This year, only one film caught my eye. More on that in a moment.I've read the reviews on this site that consider this film boring, and frankly I'm concerned that some of these people may have become so desensitized to the action genre -- on a steady diet of TV-style hackjobs like the Lethal Weapon and Rambo sequels -- that they will probably never be able to tell the difference between a film with highly accomplished directorial craft and one without any. Who cares? Not enough people to make it matter at the box office, obviously.For my money, there's probably only one other mainstream director today who can match George Miller's talent Danny Boyle (Trainspotting). I just saw his 28 Days Later at Sundance, and it's the best horror film ever made. It actually transcends its genre. Like The Road Warrior. If you liked this film, you must see 28 Days Later. "},{"Title":"Best of the Trilogy","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this film; but instead of repeating all of the good things about the movie that have already been expounded upon, I wanted to point out the one weakness of the movie (that I noticed anyway).  The oil refinery compound depicted in the movie is too movie propish and 2 dimensional. Several aerial and other shots show that the rear and sides of the compound are almost non-existent; they would have been a more logical choice for attack than the heavily fortified front entrance.  Not sure why it was filmed that way, it would have been easy to restrict the shots to hide this, but it doesn't detract from the film. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cars,guns,petrol,desert,mohicans and max.One of the,if not the best sequel ever,far superior to the first one with out a cgi effect in sight.It's the final whirlwind of combat that stamps the movie so indenibly on the collective memory.Nothing but raw stuntwork,few films today can match the turbelent edits and sheer non stop crashes,so cool you can almost forgive the truly terrible Beyond Thunderdome. "},{"Title":"Visceral, pedal-to-the-metal action movies don't come much better...","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as post-apocalyptic nightmare scenarios go, there are few better (or worse, depending on whether you're watching a movie or living in it) than the desolate wasteland of outback Australia created by George Miller in the Mad Max movies (the first two, at least).And as far as exciting, visceral, pedal-to-the-metal actioners go, there are few better than The Road Warrior.The main reason for this is the central character of Max (played with relentless lack of humour by a pre-stardom Mel Gibson) who, having seen his wife and child slaughtered by the lawless mobs who rule the roads, is caught in between becoming like them and retaining his humanity in a world where human kindness is a weakness.For this reason, we understand why, when he comes across the community in peril, he might not want to help them, but why he feels a selfish compulsion to do so, because it would, in part redeem his own existence.All of that would be just so much pointless guff if the action sequences were found wanting. But from the start, Miller shows that he can provide road chase sequences that compare to the best ever committed to film. From then on, the tension and the action gradually crank up until the arrival of the grand finale that will leave you on the edge of your seat.Not to mention the twist which, while not of Shyamalanesque proportions, is enough to make you smile with gratitude even if you saw it coming from the far end of the outback highway.In short, a movie all action nerds should watch and all action directors should aim to emulate. "},{"Title":"Post Apocalyptic Thriller","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The quintessential post apocalyptic thriller... Road Warrior leaves off where Mad Max began,  driving into the vast expanse of  wasteland with nothing more to offer than a tank of juice. Although some of the charm of the original is lost in this less campy rendition, the obvious increase in budget and expanded storyline create a landscape unparalleled in originality. Miller choosing a mundane location in Australia allowed him to show an untangible world rather than a tight knit city or urban wasteland which sometime fallshort as a host to post apocalyptic worlds. Instead, we get to see for miles and miles into the endless plain of despair which Max becomes accustomed to through his day to day travels. Like Raimi's Evil Dead 2, Road Warrior is essentially a remake of the first, which offers a new twist or perspective on what the latter could have been.  "}{"Title":"Brilliant and unique post-apocalyptic world...","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A dark, violent, sometimes humorous look into a post apocalyptic world without fuel, The Road Warrior stands as one of the greatest action films of all time. In a cutthroat world, you either cut throats, or bleed to death.Sometime in the near future, the pumps ran dry. The fuel had run out, and the machine of civilization came to a screeching halt. We had a glimpse of this is the original cult classic, Mad Max. Roaving gangs, terrified civilians, and cops that werent much better than the scum they chased down. Now its every man woman and child for themselves. The battle between good and evil in this dark future is symbolized by a band of still civilized men and women operating a lone refinery, and a marauding gang of bikers. The refinery workers hold one of the last supplies of precious fuel, and humanity, and the murderous bikers will do anything to get it.The Road Warrior is a wonderfully effective movie, the skillful direction, outlandish stunts, and the grim view of man without societies moral constraints makes it one of the most unique, brilliant films of its genre.  "},{"Title":"great sequel","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Road Warrior might be better than Mad Max but they are two different films. This time around Max finds the Gyro pilot guy and they go to a gas compound. Biker gangs mess with them and a small community and Max steps in. The biker's are good villains and the action scenes are the cream of the crop. Mad Max 2 is a milestone in the action genre. **** "},{"Title":"Max is back, and he's got a dog!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max 2 The Road WarriorRating **** (4 out of 5 stars)Is this the most influential sci-fi/action movie ever made? Probably not, but George Miller's sequel to the original Mad Max is definitely one of the best. It's a film of post-apocalyptic warrior clans, loners, high speed chases, and seemingly impossible stunts. Mad Max 2 isn't as original as the first; its story is about a man, Max, who helps save a village from bad-ass punks, remember Shane, anyone? However, this film overdosed on adrenaline to produce some of the best car chases ever put on screen, created a new genre, and made Mel Gibson a star. Who cares if it's a Western set in the post-apocalypse? It's one of the best pure action movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Cool !","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is better than other movies from this series. This movie impressed me very much. The script is so original. This idea that after the 3rd World War the people will start the life from her begining is so cool and original. See this movie! That's all I can say! See it!!! "},{"Title":"Gibson's best","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Besides Steve Buscemi, Mel Gibson is the coolest actor, especially with a gun. Road Warrior, I believe, is Gibson's best movie. It's more creative than Lethal Weapon, more fierce than Braveheart, and more energetic than The Patriot. It has the whole revenge against the bikers while at maximum speed feeling of Mad Max, with the I'll help out these people first and then I'll be on my way feeling of Thunderdome. This movie inspired many rip-offs that tried to claim their originality by using different geographical atmospheres (Waterworld on water, Titan A.E. in space). I think Mel Gibson made the right choice of not making a fourth movie for many reasons it would be re-hashing the previous ones, it would be baggering what made Gibson a star, and a trilogy always loses it's good reputation with a fourth installment. The vehicles of the gangsters were very cool, but not as cool as Max's car. My only disappointment is that there weren't any more chases with the intensity of the opening chase.  WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD  But did they have to destroy some of the best parts of the movie, namely Max's dog and his car. The Mad Max trilogy has not only inspired many post-apocalyptic movies, but certain elements of other later movies, like Double Dragon(futuristic cops vs gangs), Three Kings (helping out a small banded army against a larger evil enemy) and Gladiator (fighting to the death in a dome, being exiled to the desert). Road Warrior will always remain the best.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Feel like renting a movie that is great in a variety of ways?  This movie is the one you want.  Mel Gibson portrays a great wasted shell of a man who cares about no one but himself.  His one man against both sides makes him the anti hero of the 1980's.  Its too bad the next sequel left so much to be desired because this movie will always be one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"contains the best car stunts ever put on film","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this was FINALLY rereleased in a widescreen collector's edition a few months back, and it was an eye opening experience getting to see this fantastic sci-fi/action flick in it's original 235 to 1 ratio. the plot is somewhat thin and doesn't hold up under close scrutiny, but this is not a movie you watch for the plot. the action sequences and car stunts still remain in my opinion the best ever filmed, and Mel Gibson shows why he made the jump to worldwide star after this film became a hit. like leonard maltin stated, this is a textbook example of how to make an action movie. it's always moving forward and doesn't let up for an instant. along with Raiders of the Lost Ark, this is a textbook example of how action filmaking should be approached and executed.rating9  "},{"Title":"can see this one over and over again","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If society broke down I believe this film would be extremely close to what one would have to live in.  See the original first before you see the road warrior.  The films characters Wes, Max, the kid etc each play their role so well it makes a believable sci fi.  Will Max get out of this jam?  Will the good people find a new home.  Will the rethed road scavengers go to even new lows?  With out ruining this film these questions make for a great story. Watch for a very nast Mel Gibson (aka pay back) in this one.  Can not say any more or I will ruin this one. "},{"Title":"Gonzo futuristic drama/sci-fi","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No-holds-barred look at post-apocalyptic Australia.  Loner Gibson, a former cop/driver armed with an awesome muscle car, links up with kindly folks desperately hanging onto an oil refinery.  The bad guys holding the refinery under siege are as bad as they get in the movies, and I mean REALLY bad (led by the infamous Great Humongous).  A little too unpleasant at times, but the finale is a barn-burner.  The best of the Mad Max bunch. "},{"Title":"The greatest film of all time!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen many classic action movies, dramas,  horror, and comedies, but this film tops the list.  Filled with action packed sequences, and fantastic stunts overlapped with a thick plot.  If you only see one movie in your LIFE, see this. "}{"Title":"Mad Max is the best movie trilogy ever made!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like high speed pursuits, fast hand-made cars, good stunt-scenes and a lot of crashes and shooting - this is a film for you! The script is only a bit worse than in the first part. But the special effects are the best... better than in some new productions!  "},{"Title":"All the juice I can carry... Top notch Post Apocalyptic action.","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 is set in a post apocalyptic Australia after World War III has left the landscape a barren wasteland ruled by thieves, murderers, scavengers & general scum. Max (Mel Gibson) drives along in his V-8 Interceptor with his dog trying to keep out of trouble & simply survive, gasoline has become the new currency & is in short supply so when Max stumbles upon a small community who refine gasoline & have loads of it he tries to do a deal with them to fill his car up & get as much juice as he can carry. However a gang of thugs & killers lead by Lord Humungus (Kjell Nilsson) want the refinery for themselves & will kill to get it, Max becomes involved & agrees to help the community out...This Autralian production was co-written & directed by George Miller & was the second in the Mad Max trilogy of films & in my humble yet worthwhile opinion is easily the best of the three. The script by Miller, Terry Hayes & Brian Hannant is a fantastic action flick from start to finish, it's a 'pure' & 'raw' action film in the sense there's a simple yet effective story in which the makers have crafted some truly exhilarating stunts & actions scenes around. The character's are surprisingly well developed & fleshed out considering there is actually very little dialogue with Max himself a man of few words, this works well though. The film moves along like a rocket at 95 odd minutes there's barely time to catch your breath before the next explosion or car chase. I loved it from start to finish, the explosions, the car chases, the wanton destruction, the vehicular mayhem, the violence & there's even a very good story here as well. I watched this last night on cable TV & the announcer said 'Now it's Mad Max 2 which contains strong language & violence' then he paused for a few seconds & then in a very self assured voice said 'It's like Waterwolrd but better'! He was right on all counts & this is just an absolute top action film without any one-liners, silly romances or stupid sub plots that get in the way & slow things down.Director Miller obviously used the experience he gained on the original Mad Max (1979) on this sequel & improved everything along with making the explosions bigger & the stunt work better, the stunt work is amazing without any CGI computer effects in sight. Everything was done as a physical stunt on set & it looks brilliant, the final chase with the truck & the gang has to be maybe my favourite vehicle chase ever. There's lots of individual scenes which are just works of art in the action film genre in Mad Max 2, there is also one of the biggest explosions your ever likely to see on film at the end as the compound is blown to (very little) pieces. I don't know how I can praise it more to be honest. Then there's the wonderfully realised post apocalyptic setting, obviously a lot of Australia is a barren wasteland so in that regard it was shot in the right place but the costumes, guns, crossbows & vehicles just look right & haven't dated at all, if Mad Max 2 came out this week it would still look good & futuristic. I'm not sure about the homosexual tone some of the gang members have though. There isn't much graphic violence but there's enough here & the amazing stunt work more than compensates. There is one queasy scene though when Max eats a can of dog food & seems to be enjoying it a little too much...This was apparently the most expensive Australian film made up to that point & it shows with terrific production values. It's very well made with impressive sets & the already mentioned fantastic stunt work. The acting is as what it needs to be, Mel Gibson who wasn't a big star at the time does a decent job.Mad Max 2 is a fantastic old school action flick where stunt men & women actually put their lives on the line to produce some spectacular action scenes unlike these days of course where it's all computer effects so in that regard I doubt we'll see another film like it. Absolutely brilliant & it's one of my all time favourite action films. "},{"Title":"truly threatening anarchic villains and action that doesn't feel like it'll stop","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior (called just the second title on the copy I saw it, just as well as I've yet to see the first Mad Max film yet) is more often than not tremendous movie-making in a kind of exploitation style of post-apocalyptic-punk-science-fiction-action, et all, that strikes where the iron is usually hot. At the core of the film is a message, sort of, at the real cost and drive, no pun intended, for oil. It's all about that, to be sure, today, and in 1982 the case made for it makes it probably even more prevalent sci-fi than Blade Runner, also released that year. Going into it, I heard about the over-the-top antagonists (Humungus, ho-ho) and startling action, and I thought in expectation that I might get a really nifty biker movie. It wasn't that, but it was the first two parts. It's also got Mel Gibson in his early years in truly one of his very best parts. He doesn't have to say much, like a no-name Eastwood or other, and when he does the camera often tracks up fast to him, as what he has to say- one sentence and all- make up crucial turning points for the plot.And what plot is minimal, to be sure. Gibson's Max happens upon a petrol factory, where a group of people holding up with the refinery are hassled and told to give up their stash of oil by a group of road warriors led by Jason-like-masked Humungus (Kjell Nilsson, boy can he shoot and attack and act really creepy when he talks), and headed up by the mohawked madman Wez (Vernon Wells, who ridiculous and all is one of the best and most terrifying villains of any action film). Max, however, will help them out on certain conditions, i.e. getting his car back from them and enough fuel, by getting another truck to haul the oil away. Sometimes the acting isn't very top notch, but then why bother to carp? Miller's strong suits are getting the right atmosphere of the film, a unique Australian wasteland in the desert populated by all outsiders- even the 'good guys'- and creating enough sustained chaos through it all.It's suffice to say that even if you liked the first one more, it's still a worthwhile experience for the completely and unfathomably engrossing last twenty minutes as the battle wages on. At times this comes off more like a war movie (well, road WARRIOR in the title), and as such Miller and his actors make it very exciting and scary in equal measures. What helps though is that a sense of absolute absurdism is underneath the very tough exterior of it all- I'm sure Miller knows how silly Humungus looks and sounds, and it's refreshing to be able to laugh at the villainous characters- at times- and even at a couple of extremely random moments. It's got Mel Gibson giving off just the right 'star' presence, and he goes along very well as the real outsider in this struggle of the story. Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior a truly dynamic film that I want to watch again with friends. "},{"Title":"I had high expectations for this second installment in the Mad Max franchise, but ended up disappointed","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every film in the Mad Max trilogy which made the now very controversial Mel Gibson a superstar was released before I was born, and it wasn't until last week when I finally saw the first one, which came to the big screen in 1979. I certainly didn't like it as much as many others do, but thought it was pretty good low-budget action movie, so I intended to watch the sequels soon after seeing their predecessor. Released in 1981, Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is the first of the two sequels which the 1979 blockbuster spawned. Due to its reputation, I was expecting it to be better than the original, even if that isn't usually the case with sequels. At first, it looked like it WAS going to be better than the first installment, but for me, that unfortunately didn't last.In this future society, an energy crisis and nuclear war have made the world a bleak and dangerous place! In Australia, Max Rockatansky once worked for the Main Force Patrol in this post-apocalyptic society and had a wife and son. However, his wife and son are now dead after being run over by motorcycle gangsters, and Max no longer works for the MFP. He is now a loner, wandering through the Outback with his pet dog and doing what he can to survive. Searching for fuel, he finds an oil refinery in the desert, which is being terrorized by a gang led by a big, brawny masked man known as Lord Humungus, who are determined to get the refinery's settlers to surrender their fuel and home! Max makes a deal with this oil refinery community. He will retrieve a semi-truck which could help the people transport their fuel away from the gang, and in return they will give him fuel for himself. So, he sets out on a dangerous mission, assisted by the Gyro Captain, the man who led him to the remote refinery! This first Mad Max sequel begins with a montage, featuring a good narration by Harold Baigent. This sequence can certainly be gripping, and with this, the film is off to a good start. After this, there's lots of suspense, with another road chase and then Max's search for fuel, leading to his encounter with the Gyro Captain, and then we soon see the two of them spying on the oil refinery. There are flaws at this point in the film, but it still looks like it's going to be superior to the original. However, this ends around the time Max comes down to the refinery and is taken captive. I did not find myself entertained by Lord Humungus, played by Kjell Nilsson (he kind of seemed like a ridiculous villain to me), and the Feral Kid, played by Emil Minty, was also a character I didn't like. There's still a lot of suspense in the movie, plus some good desert scenery, but I often found myself struggling to try and stay into it. Mel Gibson still does a good job in the title role, and Bruce Spence, who plays the Gyro Captain, provides reasonable comic relief, but most of the performances aren't really that impressive, and none are excellent. I found that there was something missing from the original, and towards the end, Mad Max 2 outstays its welcome, as the action and chaos gets a little tedious.This second installment in the successful Mad Max trilogy is certainly a popular one, which was why I was expecting to like it so much, but I have to be honest. After watching it, I have to admit that I disagree with the majority. For better or worse, Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is certainly bleaker than its predecessor, and I personally thought this was a bad thing, as much as that's clearly not the case with many other viewers. I was expecting this to be at least an 8/10 in my book, and it looked like it was going to be that around the beginning, but eventually, it was clear that I would not be able give this particular action film that rating. While this movie certainly can be intense, and from the film I learned what a certain part of the South Park episode, Proper Condom Use is a parody of, I still found a lot of this sequel to be a little too underwhelming, unlike so many other people, who have been blown away by it at some point in the past 29 years! I also wasn't exactly in a good mood by the end. "},{"Title":"If You Want to Run Cool, You Got to Run &#133; on Heavy, Heavy Fuel.","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's be fairly blunt but nevertheless reasonable here anyone with a minimum level of testosterone and/or adrenalin pumping through his/her body (male or female, I'm not discriminating anyone here) simply must concur with the statement that Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior is one of the coolest and most spectacular cult movies ever made. This film perfectly epitomizes the image of a prototypic and ideal action and adventure movie and contains all the necessary ingredients to indulge all target audiences between the age categories of 7 and 77 years old. When I was younger, I mostly loved MM2 because of the copious amount of outrageous car chase sequences and the flamboyant vehicle designs. Now that I'm a little older, I particularly came to appreciate the uniquely eccentric character drawings and suppressed humor&#133; And of course the copious amount of outrageous car chase sequences and the flamboyant vehicle designs still as well. The original Mad Max &#150; released in 1979 &#150; already was a groundbreaking classic and I rated it a perfect 10 out of 10, but if it were possible, I would reward the sequel with a rating of 11 out of 10 just to point out it's even more superior. The Road Warrior is presumably set a couple of months (or years) after the original and starts with a gloomy voice-over informing us about both what overcame the character of Max Rockatansky, and also what happened to the world in order for it to look like such a post-apocalyptic wasteland. The original events clearly took place in after a devastating event already, but the screenplay never gave any specific info regarding what it was. The entire world now looks like the Australian outback, where motorized gangs of thugs continuously scour around looking for fuel; which has become more than ever the rarest and most valuable liquid on the planet. Max joins, albeit reluctantly, a fortress community owning a large tank of gasoline in their battle against the vicious Lord Humongous and his deranged dogs of war. As hinted at before, the characters drawings in this film are truly outstanding, especially the villainous ones. Lord Humongous looks like a masked S/M freak with a body full of scars, but he's not even half as insane as his warlord. This guy &#150; referred to as Dog of War &#150; literally has to be kept on a leash and behaves like the embodiment of aggression. He's always accompanied by a silent (and homosexual?) toy boy and gets completely out of control when a boomerang kills him. The atmosphere of the film feels just as disturbing as in the original, but the special effects and used scenery have vastly improved due to the increase of budget. The stunt work thankfully still is old school, meaning that courageous stunt players actually risked their lives in order to deliver realistic looking action scenes. George Miller's direction skills have clearly become more surefooted and even Mel Gibson feels more secure in his part. I could carry on listing praiseworthy elements, but it all comes down to the fact that Mad Max The Road Warrior is a bona fide classic and a true must-see. "},{"Title":"Rare Sequel That Is Better Than the Original","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad Max 2 (1981) *** 1/2 (out of 4) A post-apocalyptic wasteland in Australia is the setting for this riveting sequel that finds Max (Mel Gibson) being a drifter who is constantly on the look out for rare gasoline. Gas has become a battling ground for a vicious gang but Max finds out about a location where a group of survivors have been able to produce it. The only problem is transporting it, which Max agrees to help with in exchange for enough to get him to his next location.MAD MAX 2 is a very rare sequel that actually manages to be better than the original film. This here really doesn't happen too often but director George Miller takes everything that made the original so good and adds a ton of adrenaline to the action and makes for quite a memorable movie. Fans of the original film are going to be happy that the rawness also gets carried over here but with even more wicked stunts and more action, it's impossible not to fall for this film.What makes it so memorable are the incredible action scenes. As with the first film, you can't help but watch them with your jaw on the floor as you wonder how no one was killed during the production. These action scenes aren't made through editing but instead they're just downright dirty and dangerous stunts that are incredible to watch in full speed. I'm not going to ruin the most memorable stunts but the finale is just one miraculous scene after another as Max goes speeding down a road in a semi followed by countless bad guys. The amount of destruction on display is enough to please any action fan. It's these scenes here that make this movie a classic and one of the best action films of its era.We're also given a great supporting cast with everyone fitting their roles quite nicely. Of course, the main star is Gibson who manages to be even better here than he was in the first film. He isn't given too much dialogue but he manages to really come across in a believable fashion as this drifter who once again finds himself with nothing and a reason to fight. Everything else from the wonderful score to the terrific cinematography just takes the material and raises it to new levels. MAD MAX 2 is a pure adrenaline rush from start to finish and with the borrowed elements of YOJIMBO, one can't help but be entertained. "},{"Title":"No Need to Watch the Others","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior is the only Mad Max you need to see. It might just be the best film to ever come out of Australia as well as the best action movie of its day.This time around, the stunts are better choreographed, the characters are memorable and well-worth cheering or hating, and the acting performances don't hinder the movie in the slightest. The build-up to the ending is well-worth the wait. All of the kinky leather outfits help to rekindle the cult feel of the original, but the grand set pieces and practical effects help refine it and make it more accessible to foreign audiences.If you're itching for a feel of the Mad Max of old before or after watching Fury Road, do not look any further than The Road Warrior. "},{"Title":"you're a warrior if you sit through this whole thing","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why, why, why guys??  How could you enjoy this?  Even the pro movie critics stunned me, everyone one of them gave this 3 and half stars.  How the hell could you enjoy this?  I mean, 50 minutes go by without any action!  A bunch of endless dialogue and ranting by the bad guys that Mel watches from over a hill.  Then they're approached, some deals try to get made, but everyone gets p.o.'ed and FINALLY some chases start, but despite a bigger budget, they totally pale from the terrific excitement of the first film.  Director Miller, who showed us he can be a master of action, has done away with the point of view shots of the white lines racing past the screen at a 100 mph.  Instead we get jarring, jostled camera movements that make you dizzy, plus Mel is driving a gasoline truck most of the time!  The damn thing cant get higher than 50 mph, making the chase sooo underwhelming.  Everybody maintains the same speed, exchanging innumerable glances at each other, before someone finally is squished, shot, or thrown from their vehicle.  Miller manages a couple of nice angles, like the land rush type one where we see a shot of the action from high above, but for whatever reason, elected to UTTERLY bog this down with dialogue.  That's what disappointed me about the first film, but because of the countless car chases, it made it an ok movie.  This thing is awful, and I will be forever stunned that it has such a legion of fans behind it.  Even one of my favorite things in the world, a gryocopter (a small aircraft with an open cockpit that seats one), is only glimpsed a handful of times.  And the fact that this battle is over gas provides the film with a silly undercurrent.  All these people live in this lifeless wasteland; why do they care about gas?  Where do they have to go?  What is so important about gas?  If it was over food, ok, but gas?  I did enjoy the pounding music, but that's it.  I can only hope for better from Thunderdome, which I've yet to see. "},{"Title":"Couldn't keep up with its good start","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Finished the original Mad Max without hope that the second could be any better than its predecessor. But I still tried anyway. The movie starts with a narration about the legendary road warrior (Max) and what the world had become after the war. Following, we have a car chase scene in which Max is escaping from a few guys that seem to belong to some kind of evolved gang from the first movie. After watching this scene I thought Now we are talking!. I loved the concept presented in this scene and a spark of hope was turned on. The insane pink Mohawk guy (Wez) was awesome, the customized cars were awesome and the action packed in it too. This time the movie was produced by Warner Bros. They had a big budget to execute it. They had new screenwriters. The tables had turned since the first movie. I mean, what could go wrong? I was expecting some kind of deep plot and well made action scenes. But unfortunately, it went downhill from there.The movie has a very basic plot the settlers who own an oil refinery versus the lunatic legion who rules the wasteland and wants to take over their property. They clash and then comes Max to save the day. Simple as that. I understand that the director wanted to keep the story clean and simple, but it did not feel well made. What really bothered me was the stupid decisions made throughout the movie. Once again, as shown in the first film, why isn't Max mad? He is the calm and reasonable guy all over again. I know he jumps into action, but he never goes full badass. What is Max really? A road warrior? A hero? A madmen? Only a survivor? I don't know if I am being too critical or what, but I simply did not connect with the guy. He barely talks in this movie.It was never explained how the settlers established their oil refinery in the middle of nowhere with such limited resources. How about producing an advanced and specific kind of fuel (high-octane gasoline)? Yes, they can. They can do all kinds of stuff, but not take down a few marauders bothering them. For that, they need the help of ONE man. The one and only, Mad Max. It doesn't seem that ridiculous while watching the movie, but after a few minutes of thought you come to this realization.I was also irritated by the scene in which Humungus dies. It is exactly the same as the Toecutter's death in the first movie. Both of them are rolled over by a huge truck. I mean, come on! What happened to the creativity of the director (I am talking about you, George Miller!) who came up with this crazy post-apocalyptic world? Wasn't the budget enough to finish the movie with a nice death scene? He could've at least made him die from a different cause.The acting? It is not that bad, though it gets really cheesy sometimes. For example when Max is conducting the truck and asks the savage kid to get the shotgun bullet lying on the hood of the vehicle so he can shoot the marauders. The bullet is one feet away from the kid's hand and he acts like he is suffering a horrible torture trying to reach that bullet. The noises that Wez makes when going crazy doesn't sound crazy at all. It looks like someone with stomach issues. He doesn't convince you that he is insane.And the last flaw that made me doubt the credibility of this movie was discovering that the eloquent narrator that introduced and ended the film, was the savage kid. How did that weird screaming monkey who didn't even know how to talk went from that to a silver-tongued storyteller? This one made me laugh so hard.Well. As stated before, the movie starts with so much potential for being good. Sadly, it goes the opposite direction after a few minutes. Despite all its mistakes, Mad Max Road Warrior is gold compared to the first one. As a standalone movie? It is just bad. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Petrolhead Movie","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The official title of this film seems to be The Road Warrior- that is the title we see in the opening credits- but it has become known as Mad Max 2. It is supposedly a sequel to the first Mad Max film, but the basic premise seems to have changed. In the opening voice-over we are informed that the world has been devastated by atomic war, something never mentioned in the first film. It might seem rather forgetful to omit to mention something as major as a nuclear holocaust, but the real reason was probably that the second film was made on a larger budget, enabling the film-makers to shoot on location in the Australian desert, which has more of a post-nuclear feel to it than does the countryside around Melbourne where the first film was shot. If Mad Max was a poor man's Clockwork Orange, Mad Max 2 more closely resembles something like The Omega Man.The character of Max has also undergone something of a change. In the first film he was a sort of Dirty Harry of the future, a tough cop battling violent motorbike gangs. In the second he has left the police and become a wanderer through the post-holocaust Outback. The film is essentially a disguised Western, using that well-worn Western plot (used in, for example, High Plains Drifter and satirised in Blazing Saddles) about the stranger who helps a community fight off a gang of bandits. The community in this case is a tribe who live around an old oil refinery. As petrol is the most valuable of all commodities in this world, this makes them immensely rich, but they have to battle to defend their wealth against a biker gang similar to those seen in the first film. Max becomes the outsider who is drawn into this struggle on the side of the essentially peaceful refinery people against the violent bikers. The refinery people's great ambition is to escape from the desert and resettle in a part of northern Australia which they have heard is still fertile and untouched by the nuclear war. The film therefore has echoes of the Old Testament story of the Israelites and their exodus through the desert into the Promised Land. (The Omega Man, in which Charlton Heston's character is explicitly portrayed as a Christ-figure, also has Biblical overtones).This must surely be the ultimate petrolhead movie The first film gave us a seemingly endless series of stunts involving car crashes and motorbike crashes, and the second offers more of the same, although the stunts tend to be bigger and better and perhaps rather more inventive- there is one particularly exciting sequence where the bandits chase after a petrol tanker with Max at the wheel. There is a more coherent plot than in Mad Max and more attempt at characterisation, even character development; Max progresses gradually from a cynical loner to a hero, the saviour of the refinery people from their enemies. There are one or two other well-drawn characters, such as Lord Humungus, the leader of the bandits, and Max's unlikely allies the Feral Kid and the Gyro Captain. Macho action-hero films, even with a science-fiction setting, are not really my favourite genre, but at least Mad Max 2 is an improvement on its predecessor. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Not as good as original but still entertaining","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Road Warrior was built up to be one of the best sequels of all time for me. I had heard from multiple people who know movies that this was easily in the top 10 sequels in movie history. Unfortunately it doesn't come close. In my opinion the original was special because not only did it have a great lead, it gave us characters to care about. The Road Warrior didn't have many good supporting characters in my opinion. The kid, and most of the other citizens didn't seem to have any depth, to where when some of them died, I just shook it off like it was nothing. Even with it's flaws it still can be fun to watch this post apocalyptic world unfold and unravel.I almost wish this movie would have taken the death of Max's girlfriend and kid and turned it into the major storyline as to why he is so ticked off. I generally like this post apocalyptic world but at times it can get a little kooky. The villains in the first movie were over the top, but I think it worked for the movie. The villains in the Road Warrior are much worse. You get absolutely no back story and are so far fetched. I also didn't understand why Max decided to drive right through where their camp was when he leaves for the first time. I did like Max and his subtle relationship with his dog. I mean it really is his only relationship left.I thought some of the stunts were incredible for being made in 1981. But there were some that you can easily tell were sped up to look more impressive. It bothered me a bit to be honest, and nearly took me out of the film. I can definitely see Tom Hardy in the title role in next years reboot/sequel/requel. I think the franchise has a lot to offer but perhaps this wasn't there best showing.+incredible stunts +Max is in shambles -sometimes lazy filming of stunts -Didn't care about the characters as much as the original 6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Mad Max goes to Hollywood","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very Hollywoodish film, though there were some unHollywoodish violence and unHollywoodish twists (actually only one twist which appeared unHollywoodish to me), but it's made in a very Hollywoodish style. Not only the bad guys wasn't taken so serious this time, there was a comical character too. But actually that is what's good about this film. It begins and ends with an explosion. There were many colorful characters which were more barbarous this time, even Mad Max was more barbarous in this film. The car chase scenes were very exciting, though in some moments they used fast motion and it was very obvious but all those crashes, blood and explosions made it look very impressive. There also was a one very funny scene, when one of the bad guys was trying to catch a boomerang. So it's a very enjoyable film and probably one of the best action films ever made. "},{"Title":"Imaginative, unique action film but with a massive lack of development","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Brutal, savage and animalistic, George Miller's The Road Warrior is a much more fully developed imagining of a post-apocalyptic Australia where gasoline equals power than its predecessor, Mad Max a much sloppier science-fiction experiment. Seeing how it takes a big step ahead of that film, it's no surprise the studios preferred a new title and placed Mad Max 2 more in the shadow.At the same time, however, the Mad Max series is not a fully-realized science-fiction concept. I don't think that any film that paints a picture of a bleak future for humankind can possibly do that with great meaning and understanding for the viewer in under 100 minutes, which both films are. I'm not surprised these were made 2 years apart because they rely on each other yet neither is strong enough to stand on its own (Road Warrior provides prologue even).Instead, The Road Warrior is more a stylized, gritty, vehicular action film centered around a science-fiction idea. It's an artistic imagining that shies away instead of aggressively taking on the ideas its concept suggests about mankind.The prologue summarizes that Mel Gibson is Mad Max, a former cop in a world dependent on gasoline who loses his only loved ones due to gangs involved with excessive road violence. He takes his revenge and lives a lonesome scavenger of fuel until he finds and offers help to a colony of people who are antagonized by similar gangs. Max is a mysterious character, but his coolness and complete lack of character depth is more annoying than it does to show how he's not the man he once was.I simply can't be anything more than slightly entertained by a film whose characters are hollow shells and uses minimal dialogue that does nothing but move the plot. The rest of the cast is forgettable and not worthy of mention. If Miller was trying to make a point with any of this, it doesn't work. Road Warrior only wins some of my approval because Miller gives it a very unique flavor. His vision is one of recycled materials and modified cars, bikes and the like that turn into demolition machines with costumes made of football pads and hockey masks (let's not forget ass-less chaps and other creepy uses of leather in the film). No film could ever really borrow any of those ideas without it being an homage to this series.I wouldn't call the action the best, but it is highly engaging and definitely unlike any car chase and explosions movie you've ever seen. The violence is much, much better than Mad Max and this really helps the film be serious. When people get shot a lot and die and there's no blood to show for it, nothing really sinks in. Gladly, Road Warrior doesn't do that. The last scene is really well shot and definitely memorable. Miller puts modern explosion master Michael Bay to shame in terms of inventive ways of exploding stuff and exaggeration of such stunts.Road Warrior will be likable for those that can take their science-fiction dishes served cold, with unique and imaginative action. For those who need substance, Road Warrior does not indulge enough despite the possibilities. "},{"Title":"I liked much more Mad Max 1.","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't understand how The Road Warrior can have a much better grade than the original Mad Max, Mad Max 2 looks good but I find how the story was developed a little naive.If it wasn't by the great chasing scenes in the highway I would have rated it with 5 stars.I found the performance of Mel Gibson better in here than in the first film, he looks cooler in here too, even though the performance of the supporting cast was much better in MM1. I think MM1 is a great movie made to be watched by all people, on the other hand MM2 is a film that has like its main segment big children and teenagers because of its lighter plot and more action scenes (even though of lesser quality than MM1)Max is back, with no family anymore, he has left the police, he is always wandering on the highway in his car looking for gasoline in a post apocalypse world, he finds people who have fuel but they are surrounded and often attacked by a gang of bandits who wants their gasoline. Max is the only hope for this people to escape and be free.If you like action movies I recommend you to watch it for its car's chasing scenes and because it's only 90 minutes long. "},{"Title":"Mad max 2 towers (rental)","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If the first movie was awful but funny and had a bit of story and dialogs, this one is just a stinker or maybe a stanker if you want to make a pun. Like Jackson's Two towers, it's about a siege so really nothing happened here! We are stuck in this destroyed faraway refinery and that's it. The only good thing i can find here is that this vision of the future is close to mine when we won't have oil and energy anymore, world will come back to the dark ages but with this time the knowledge of technology! In all cases, don't count on me to review MM3 as i had already written this movie off my list and before i watched those two first craps! "},{"Title":"Even More Ridiculous and Crazy Than the Original","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Mad Max was a weird film, but Mad Max 2 is really bizarre.  Mel Gibson returns as the title character and is now a sort of Robin Hood figure in the post-apocalyptic future.  To say the least the screenplay is all over the map and the direction lacks any, well direction.  Once again this is a cult-film that is unimpressive to say the least.  2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"In the roar of an engine he lost everything","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In September 2000 Britain was in the grip of a fuel crisis which saw blockades, a collapse in food supplies and some scenes of isolated violence. What an apt time, then, to finally get round to seeing the Mad Max series. And now that I have seen it, am I the only person who thinks the original is the best?Mad Max (1979) contains some nice homages to Frankenstein and The Birds, and it also set a precedent for big booted, leather clad machismo that would be adopted so witlessly by Schwarzenegger, Stallone, et al. The Schwarz element arises again for this sequel, The Road Warrior. In it, we see Max smashing aside the broken front window of his lorry, and avoiding the stabs of sharp implements through it's roof. Not bad for a film that was made a decade before Terminator 2.An opening prequel courts pretension with it's overwrought voicing, and gives us a backstory we didn't really need or previously have. Here is a sequel with all the Hollywood values forced upon it Gibson is (before he goes half-blind, at any rate) much better looking, with designer stubble and better make-up. There's lame comedy characters, particularly Bruce Spence, and a requisite cute kid. Elements of bad language creep in, as do moments of nudity. The budget is also blown up to ten times the original at $4 million, and the soundtrack is now by Bryan May. Dialogue, what little there is, relies more on cliché. It gives us the oft misquoted you can run, but you can't hide, but also gives us the rather silly title quote of this review.Most importantly, I never read a single review of this one, as I was aware it had a much touted twist ending. So as not to spoil this element for myself, I carefully avoided any mention of the film in the media. The fact that this killer twist turns out to be something so mundane in a rather childish, cartoon-like movie was the biggest anti-cliMax of them all. The phrase is that IT? has never been uttered so loudly in my living room.The ultimate distillation of this developing camp was Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome. A $12 million monstrosity, it had nothing to say and too much money to say it. Perhaps the only commendable thing is that it introduces the first non-white character to the franchise. Less commendably is that this character is Tina Turner, who also knocks off a couple of songs in a nod to unadulterated commercialism. One of the silliest films ever made, it rounds off the bitter, visceral Mad Max films by being a whimsical fancy full of brattish kids and more S & M fetishists than you'd get in an advert for Pirelli tyres. How the lo-fi delights of a 1979 independent movie could become this bizarre tale about the quest for pig excrement is beyond me. The addition of a co-director, George Ogilvie, is also an unnecessary addition.By contrast, the original Mad Max contains some awful sound dubbing, poor acting (one of the actresses made a living from Prisoner Cell Block H, for goodness' sake) and lousy dialogue (I'm a Doctor not a fortune teller is something even DeForrest Kelley wouldn't have uttered). For an exploitative cheapie, it's a film that shouldn't work, but, bizarrely, does.With its minimalist, desolate settings and commendable direction, it rises above its origins of an Aussie SF Death Wish and into something else entirely. Of course, desolation is something the Antipodeans are best at. (Probably the only other decent Down Under film being New Zealand's two-men-and-a-woman The Quiet Earth) I suspect this is because desolation is something that can be done on an extremely cheap budget, as this is. I should point out that the version I watched was the American edit, so what I've heard are harrowing rape scenes were absent from the material I got to view.A chubby Gibson's transformation into the Mad Max character only occurs in the last fifteen minutes of the film, so it perhaps works less well as a stand-alone project. Knowing the story was to continue makes what is a padded-out series of car chases and light violence seem more worthwhile. Remember some road signs literally point to Anarchy, and look out for rubber hands attached to the back of your boot.By their very nature, Mad Max films are plotless, yet this freestyling element of stuntwork seemed to be expounded in the final two films. Mad Max 2 hadn't yet degraded itself into the celluloid vomit that was Thunderdome, but the tell-tale signs were already there... "},{"Title":"Could have been great. Bad acting made it worse.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The post apocalyptic world of the Mad Max-trilogy has inspired many a movie. And it is not hard to see why. But the acting in the second movie is so bad that it is hard to ignore, and this destroys the overall joy of watching the movie. Gibson is quite good; the silent (anti)hero is not his best performance, but still. But the other actors seem to have been casted by an amateur. Maybe the overall plan of the makers was to create stereotypes to blend into the world of the movie to enhance the feel of post apocalypse, but the one-, two-, and many-liners are so lame that even good actors would have failed their tasks! Furthermore the interaction between the characters seems unmotivated and misplaced. Still, if you are able to ignore the bad acting/dialogue, this is an action movie which does not fail to deliver what it promises a road war. Great chases make it a must see movie, which enhances the paradox of this film. This is not suppose to be a comment thrashing low-budget movies and their acting; it is, however, meant to emphasize that every aspect should be considered in an overall context when writing/producing/directing a movie. This could have been a great movie. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is this movie about? I have no idea. Well, whatever it is, the plot is probably there just to explain why there are about twenty car chases in a single film. The Road Warrior is mildly entertaining and it certainly has a dark edge, but I cannot see why it is considered an action 'classic'. Most of the time it was pretty boring, although I found the final car chase to be rather exciting. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Dull first half, great second","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Mad Max film (which is practically 90 minutes of nothing but car chases, car chases, car chases, and you guessed it, car chases) is a classic in movie history and something that should be passed down for years to come. Unfortunately, Mad Max 2 does not live up to that standard and the first half is a rather dull oil-baron business bit circa 1979-1983. Things however dramatically improve in the second half of the film resulting in a 5/10 from me. So if you want a classic non-stop action packed car chase movie, go for Mad Max 1. If you're more of an oil baron, go for Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior. If you REALLY like Mad Max 1, go on to the Road Warrior. As of writing this review, I have not yet seen Mad Max 3 so I cannot say anything on that. "}{"Title":"an Australian movie that requires you to think about as much as XxX...","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pretty much a rehash of the first one, only now there's an explanation of how this post-apocalyptic world came to be what it is (the original never explained it). In the role that made him famous in the US, Mel Gibson continues to go around fighting bad guys in the Australian desert. Overall, I don't think that Mad Max 2 (called The Road Warrior in North America) was anything special; it was mostly nice brainless fun (that one really big chase towards the end was fun, I'll admit that). Just how many kick-ass movies set in a post-apocalyptic world can there be? To tell you the truth, Mel Gibson has never been one of my favorite actors; I actually view him with some scorn. "},{"Title":"I did not like it, not my type of film","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Mad Max 2' is a spin-off of the original 'Mad Max', and it's got the similar feel involving gangs of violent motorcyclists in the Australian outback. This time, Max is protecting a gang of people and fuel from the motorcyclists after the end of the world. A similar plot endures involving Mad Max with motorcycles hunting down the gang. Partly a matter of personal taste, a bunch of men riding around on motorcycles, killing each other, and generally being violent just does not make a good movie for me. Give me something with a little more substance and less pointless action. It's a guy's film, through and through, I think. Not my type of film 1/10. "},{"Title":"slightly entertaining - if you don't consider it to be a real sequel","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you consider this movie as a movie on its own, it's an average flick. Not great, but still entertaining. If you watch it together with Mad Max I and II, it becomes an annoying movie full of plot holes.Some examples 1. What happened with the gyro captain? In Mad Max 2 the road warrior, the gyro captain with his helicopter eventually teamed up with Max and ended up leading the small colony of the compound toward a new civilization. In Mad Max 3 he still has a flying machine, but this time he has a son, he lives in some kind of house-hole in the desert, and robs Mad Max from all his belongings. He and Max don't seem to have met before neither. Is this a different character than the gyro captain? Is this the same character? He's certainly played by the same actor and he still has a flying machine. This doesn't make any sense at all.2. In the Road Warrior, Mad Max's car (the last V8-interceptor) was completely blown to pieces. In Mad Max 3, this car miraclously reincarnates, and even contains exactly the same boobytrap. Or maybe he bought a new one??? How many 'last of the V8 interceptors' can there be? Too bad his dog, who died in the Road Warrior, didn't reincarnate as well. 3. What happened to civilization? In Mad Max I, Max even watched television at one point. Civilization was in decay and anarchy was rising, but infrastructure was still okay. There were hospitals, restaurants, night clubs, ambulances, newsreporters, etc&#133; Okay, at the end of the first movie Max wanders into the waste land, leaving this civilization behind. But what happened to it? Has everything turned into wasteland? Are there some pieces of traditional society left, thousands of miles away from where the action in the story takes place (as suggested in the Road Warrior)? It is okay not to explain everything, and you can leave a lot to the imagination of the viewer, but some logic,some suggestions and clues might be in its place. 4. In this movie it is suggested that Max was a cop before some kind of apocalypse took place. The first mad max movie however, where Max was a cop, was already set after the decay has begun and after some kind of war. Or maybe a second nuclear war (this movie refers to water contaminated by radio-activity) or another world war took place after the events in the first Mad Max movie? Or not? How do the children from the planecrash fit in this story?Sometimes it tends to be a sequel (at one point the movie refers clearly to the history of Max and the personal drama that struck him in Mad Max I) sometimes it tends to be some kind of remake of Mad Max II the Road Warrior (recapturing some of the same dialogue, a kind of gyro captain, a settlement in the middle of nowhere), sometimes it tends to be another movie with new characters played by the same actors (a bit like Sergio Leone's spaghetti-westerns with Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef), with the exception of Mad Max who's still Mad Max. It seems to be a bit of everything, so in the end it doesn't make any sense at all. Moreover, this movie seems to be directed by two different directors. The first half of the movie still contains the raw, dark, nihilistic atmosphere of the Road Warrior (with a great action sequence in the Thunderdome), the second half seems to be directed by somebody who had a new Peter Pan movie in mind. It is okay to give the story an optimistic twist after the first two movies (there is still a light at the end of the tunnel), but ending the trilogy with an hour long children from Neverland against captain hook and his pirates ... that's just stupid.Not for fans of Mad Max I and II. "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot believe a movie like this has actually been done and that the average vote for this here is so high!It was too easy, too simple and nothing really happened. And the ground idea for the whole movie was bad and stupid. Waste of time and money. "}]