[{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very touching about a kid who is hearing impaired and the prejudice he encounters. He and his best friends fight to keep him on the football team despite the Doctors orders, and his Father and Grandpa want him to quit football and remain in orchestra. Truly riveting! "},{"Title":"Low budget but not bad","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Choices is a little heard of film that plays like an After School Special. It's about a teenager who feels alienated from his peers due to a hearing handicap he suffers and his attempts to fit in through high school athletics. It's officially Demi Moore's first film but she only has a small part as the girlfriend of the main character. There's no way to have guessed from watching this that she was on her way to superstardom. The performances are pretty good and there is a great high school/teenage ambiance about the film. It takes itself a bit too seriously at times but the scenes on the football field are engaging and there is a great closing theme song. "},{"Title":"Top billing?","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How odd that Demi Moore received top billing for this movie when it was Paul Carafotes, not Demi, who was in almost every scene. And what an excellent actor he is, too! As a viewer who is also hearing impaired, I found this story to be quite inspiring and true-to-life. The hardest thing we such challenged people have to deal with is not our disabilities but, rather, prejudice. It takes super-special people to break through that barrier and succeed -- and woe to those small-minded people who try to keep that from happening. Carafotes did a fine job, as did Val Avery (coach), Victor French (father), and Pat Buttram (Pops). John's father and coach fought for his rights. Pops, even though the proprietor of an establishment where rough teens hang out, provided good, solid advice. John is very fortunate to have such caring people in his life. "},{"Title":"Demi Moore's first film","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've been doing research on Demi Moore and was glad to discover her first feature film appearance in the film CHOICES. While it has An Afterschool Special feel to it, one must remember that the ABC Afetrschool Specials were beautifully made that stressed positive family values. I was both surprised and delighted by the film, and while Demi's role as the hero's (Carafortes) girlfriend is small, she managed to already show her stuff as an excellent actress, though in this film which she made when she was just 18, it would have been hard to guess that she would rise to such Hollywood glitter and stardom. All the performances, football and musical scenes were very good, especially considering the $350,000 budget of the film. Demi and Carafotes had great chemistry between them, which enhanced the overall excellent quality of the film, which made it a very pleasing watching experience for me and my teen children. Writer Rami Alon (aka Jon Stevens) and his Academy Award nominated Georgy Girl co-director Silvio Narizzano did a glowing job with the little resources they had on hand making the film look much bigger than the money it was produced for. I highly recommend it as an inspirational, never give up in face of obstacles type film for all families, and in particular high school students. "},{"Title":"A Teen Drama About A Hearing Impaired Athlete","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was watching Tom Cruise's early career film,All The Right Moves. I got curious of the supporting actor Paul Carafotes,who played Salavucci and decided to look for movies that he appeared in.I found Choices wherein he played the starring role together with Demi Moore,who appeared supporting role in her first film.This tells a story about John Carluccio,a hearing impaired athlete who happens to be a popular high school football player.Then he was barred from the football team by the school doctor due to his hearing disability.This led him to become have a pessimistic outlook in life as he decided to join a gang that wrought havoc in high schools and it affected his relationships with his parents,teammates,classmates,coach and new found girlfriend,Corri.In the end,he must make major decision regarding his life and the choices he has to make.While the story could be somewhat overbearing especially with the many scenes concerning disappointment and negative emotions exhibited by John as well as its weaking ending,I think that Paul Carafotes did a wonderful job.He managed to portray an interesting character that the viewer would empathize with.Also,it was nice to see Demi Moore do a credible performance as Corri.She and Carafotes had great chemistry.This is a wonderful film that would truly inspire the viewers never to give up and never let the prejudice that they encounter from others bring down their spirit. "},{"Title":"Touching teen drama","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Popular high school student John Carluccio (a fine and likable performance by Paul Carafortes) is forced to be cut from the football team after the new school doctor discovers that he's partially deaf. Distraught by this, John alienates himself from friends and family alike by falling in with a bad crowd. Director Silvio Narizzano, working from a thoughtful script by Jon Stevens, relates the engrossing story at a steady pace, presents an accurate depiction of adolescent life, adds a few nice touches of humor here and there, keeps the drama on an even keel (things fortunately never get too sappy), maintains an earnest tone throughout, and handles the central theme of prejudice against the handicapped in a tactful and tasteful manner. Moreover, the conclusion manages to be moving and realistic, with John finally accepting that he's got a disability and taking the necessary steps to adapt to it. The sterling acting by Carafortes holds the picture together; he receives excellent support from Victor French as John's supportive father Gary, Val Avery as the gruff Coach Rizzo, a pre-fame Demi Moore as the sweet Corri, Lelia Goldoni as caring mother Jean, Dennis Patrick as the pragmatic Dr. Bowers, Billy Moses as loyal and concerned best buddy Pat, Stephen Nichols as sleazy and swaggering greaser Chris, and Pat Buttram as amiable old-timer bartender Pops. A worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Horrible, Horrible, Horrible","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Choices is a horrible movie.  I say this because it is extremely boring. Not at any point was my attention held.  It seems that probably the only reason it's still available is the fact that Demi Moore is in it. Sometimes it might be fun to watch a bad film, but in this case, it's worth skipping altogether. "}]