[{"Title":"Great 80's cheese","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lily Tomlin has so many comedic talents.  And they are all here in this film.  Dry wit, dual roles (she's good at that), Ernestine the operator, Edith Ann, the little brat (in a deleted scene).  Pure enjoyment.  I remember seeing this as a kid.  Now as an adult, I enjoy it again, being able to catch little pieces of the humor I never understood as a child. An adorable comedy is all this is.  I read so many of these user comments and find too many people looking for some sort of message or spiritual enlightenment or an answer to the meaning of life.  Get real.  It's cute. Just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Granted, when I last watched this movie, I was probably no more than 10 years old, but it has stuck with me and I would love to see it again! Though others may think the graphics and effects were lame, I look at it this way it was the 80's...all movies that have effects and such look lame now that we've gone digital and become more technologically advanced. To me, the premise and the antics are what carries this movie in a way that it's a must have in any comedy fan's video library. The physical comedy that stems from Lily Tomlin's vertically challenging situation is pure fun. C'mon, how could the antics from shrinking at a rapid pace NOT be funny?!?!? Now, just have to find it so my daughters can share in the experience... "},{"Title":"Great 80's Movie","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Captured that turn towords the 80's average subburban family, as captured in so many movies like Close encounters, E.T., Poltergeist, Goonies, Mr.Mom and so many other great films of that era. When an ordinary busy family meets troubles of great proportions. I recommend this one as a fun family movie. Looking for this one on DVD. "},{"Title":"Down memory lane!","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is pure family fun. I remember watching it when I was very little and look forward to watching it again with my daughter. Very cute and would suggest it to anyone who enjoys a good old 80's flick. I can personally say that these days we need more films like this. Nothing is too inappropriate for children, and it's guaranteed to make you laugh! This is one you will never forget! Lily Tomlin is great in this movie. I personally think she is one of the masters of comedy, and own several of movies she is in. One of my favorite parts in the movie is when she is in the doll house. I can remember when I used to play with dolls and wanting to live inside of their home. This was too funny and cute! I just know my daughter will love it and if you have kids..I am sure they will love it too! "},{"Title":"Absolutely wild and wacky fantasy that you will surely enjoy","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING WOMAN, in my opinion, is an absolutely wild and wacky fantasy that you will surely enjoy. If you ask me, the disposal was the scariest obstacle that Pat (Lily Tomlin) encountered. Don't get me wrong, but I thought that it was funny when she shrunk. Some of the obstacles she encountered were funny, too. Only some of them were a little gross. There is just one things that puzzles me. That one thing is how household chemicals could shrink someone. In conclusion, if you like Lily Tomlin or hilarious fantasies, I highly recommend this absolutely wild and wacky fantasy that you will surely enjoy. You're in for a wild ride if you haven't seen it, so hold on tight! "},{"Title":"WARNING-May have spoilers within!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You have to pity Lily Tomlin.  In 9 to 5, she was underappreciated and underpaid at work, in All of Me, she dies and gets trapped in Steve Martin's body, and as if life couldn't get any harder, she shrinks to new heights in The Incredible Shrinking Woman.This film was merely an exploitation of product commercialism, and promotes fictionous and strange products, such as Sexpot Perfume, Galaxy glue, and other fascinating products that Judith Beasley hocks to housewife Pat Kramer.Tomlin plays both Pat Kramer, the incredible shrinking woman, and Judith Beasley, the consumer-minded neighbor with the cool accent and the funky glasses, who knows a good deal when she sees one.  Pat is simply a normal woman who comes into contact with various chemicals in her daily life, and suddenly begins to shrink.  At first, its a mere two inches, but eventually, its a few inches a day (SORRY ABOUT THIS ONE).Charles Grodin plays her sex-starved husband Vance, who is scared for his wife.  If you've seen 9 to 5 (the greatest workplace film of the 80s), then you remember Violet Newstead calling that lady Roz General Patton. Well, Roz pays Dr. ruth Ruth, and is exactly the same character in both films, mean and sneaky.If you plan to see this film, you may have to hit the 5 nite rental shelf at the video store with all the other old films, because it is a rare TV find. I was lucky enough to catch it edited on TNT, but I didn't notice much editing, which I can usually detect.  Expect a cameo by another great Tomlin character (I won't spoil this one!).This film may not suit everybody, but if you're a Lily Tomlin fan, you may enjoy it!  My word choice is suddenly shrinking, so this is where the review ends. "},{"Title":"An incredibly funny movie","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of Lily Tomlin's best movies. It's kind of corny, but it's supposed to be. Did anyone notice the bright colors, that satire the 70's, like the lime green? It's charming and amusing, and as a kid, I guess when Pat disappeared it was a little scary, but I knew she would be OK, because she was the star of the movie. It was not that scary, I've seen a lot worse. Most of all, it's very entertaining, and not the least bit tedious if you have a sense of humor and a good imagination. When you watch a movie like this, you have to suspend your disbelief and let your inner child out. This is one of my favorite comedies. Lily is great! "},{"Title":"I thought it was good","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe its because I remember seeing this movie on TV so often when I was younger that I still think its hilarious. Its not the best comedy, but some scenes are really funny in a cheesy, early '80s sort of way. Lily Tomlins smile could brighten up any film, and this was directed by Joel Schumacher. I never could figure out why the cinematography in some scenes is so soft, and he actually employs some of the same visuals he would use in later movies. I like how her entire neighborhood seems to be living in a commercial (Pat, its BoatSheen!) and I think her narration is particularly funny. Give it a chance, don't expect much, and enjoy it for the character actors in bit parts. "},{"Title":"Incredible Stinking Movie","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  12 and under cinema.I saw this in the theater when I was 11, liked it, and filed the memory of it under good movie in my mental cache.  All of it's socio-political subtext --endless stabs at Madison Avenue, mass marketing and gross consumerism Pat is a pimped-out product whore in the merciless clutches of her scAmway-pushing neighbor, and it eventually begins eating away at her, quite literally--  these bits of 'wink-wink' adult humor sailed right over my Bazooka gum-chomping, 11 year-old head.The fun in Incredible Shrinking Woman was the ignorance to the script's so-called message.  What tickled us kiddies in the audience was the sight of a pocket-sized Lily Tomlin sporting plastic Barbie sneakers, bedding down at night on a cot in the Barbie Dream House, and cruising down the hallway carpet in an out-of-control Barbie Dream Car. And when the 10-inch version of Pat attempts to perform her daily chores, such as washing the dishes...hee hee... fun stuff if you're a kid.This flick resurfaced on cable recently, I was reminded that most of what we liked as 11 year olds is pretty cringe-worthy to us as adults.  But I went ahead and watched it anyway because it has 3 things working for it-Lily Tomlin-the nostalgia factor-& that irritatingly catchy What would we do without Galaxy Glue? tune "},{"Title":"Loved this Lily Tomlin movie from the 80's when I was a kid.","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I were still a child I would perhaps give it a higher score, but from what I remember it did get a bit lame at times and the effects while good for a kid would not stand up as well now. Still, it was a funny movie about a woman whose husband is like with an ad office or with a company that makes a lot of different products. Whatever he was, his job made it so his wife came into contact with a lot of different products which in turn causes her to start to become smaller and smaller. At first there are just a few subtle signs like her appearance at a window, but soon it becomes very apparent. While she gets shorter and shorter she gains the attention of a rather dangerous person and ends up imprisoned. The film for the most part is funny, kind of strange turns here and there such as the monkey, but hey it was never meant to be a serious film. It does though get a bit to dark in the end for the type of movie it was up until that point. Still, Lily Tomlin is great in the lead role as the shrinking woman and Charles Grodin does an admirable job as the father, though it is a role he can do in his sleep. "}{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Woman","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun fact, this was Joel Schumacher's directorial debut. Yep that's right, way before we got ultra campy, neon lit Batman movies we got this, a campy, excessively colourful romp based (of course) on the Richard Matheson novel 'The Shrinking Man'. Yeah I know exactly what you're thinking, I'd never heard of this movie either, well judging by the films poster it doesn't look like anybody gave it much hope frankly, holy cheeseballs!So I think we know what's gonna happen here don't we. An everyday woman leading an everyday life falls afoul of a bizarre accident that causes her to slowly shrink down to a microscopic size. In this case its not a nuclear/atomic bomb scenario, its not a mad experiment and its got nothing to do with potions and magic. In this movie the protagonist suffers from a serve reaction to an experimental perfume her husband is working on, along with various other household things. So yes...OK, it is about a weird experiment, but its not military based. Unfortunately despite the fact they have clearly tried to move away from the old formulaic notions that have surrounded previous movies like this, this new concept is really quite daft. Sure the entire notion of shrinking to the size of an ant is daft but...as a result of a perfume?? couldn't think of anything a bit better? What's even more ludicrous is the fact that despite it being a perfume/household products related accident and perfume/household products being a relatively innocent and unexciting plot device, they still manage to cram in a few nasty whitecoat scientist types because of course the perfume company gets taken over in part by dubious sources wanting to work out the shrinking mystery for their own dubious plans. Everything is entirely predictable of course, you know once Kramer starts to shrink their will be the media hype to content with, the humiliation, the rubbernecking etc...Along with that you know at some point evil people will try to kidnap her for their evil ways (obviously shrinking people around the world or their own armies), and there will be some kind of adventurous escape from a nasty old lab etc...Didn't really expect anything too mind blowing in all honesty, naturally this will take on many elements of the original source material, they have tried to go in a new direction, but I'm just not sure if this was the right way.I'm still not really sure what the colour scheme/palette was about here either. All the sets, costumes, cars, props, everything, is an array of soft, outlandish, pastel colours that range from anything and everything. Think 'Dick Tracy', 'Miami Vice' or the 50's suburban housing estate in 'Edward Scissorhands' but in really really extreme camp colours. The weird thing were the outfits everybody wears, its was like some kind of retro 50's, 70's, 80's mishmash with suits in emerald green with bright pink ties etc...I'm guessing Schumacher wanted to create some kind of timeless hybrid that has never existed, a fantasy America where everything is kinda perfect, but scratch beneath the surface and its actually just like reality. Another odd thing was the usage of Lily Tomlin as multiple characters. Now I'm assuming this was down to her comedic background as others have done the same thing, the problem is others have done it way better. The silly thing was you can clearly tell its Tomlin, there is no real effort to not make her look any different, so in that sense its not really funny or clever (an Eddie Murphy challenge this is not). I might add her various characters aren't exactly very different from each other...and did I mention she isn't funny?Effects wise the movie does hold its own well and this is mainly down to the old old use of large scale props and sets. Tomlin looks great within the oversized sets and the forced perspective illusion, it just never fails to win that old trick. Naturally there are some hokey bluescreen moments but that can't really be helped. The best thing about the movie effects wise is easily Rick Baker and his gorilla suit. Now if you know your movies and special effects wizards then you know Baker has a gorilla fetish, a fetish he explores deeply here. Not only is his suit excellent in detail and movement, but Baker actually plays the gentle giant too. Think the gorilla from 'Trading Places' only better. The only stupid thing about that (along with all the other stupid stuff), is at the end the Kramer family decide to keep the gorilla as a pet, because that won't cause any problems will it (do I see a gorilla based sequel with hilarious gorilla shrinking antics??..no).Yeah so this was a pretty mixed bag really. The visuals are undoubtedly lovely to look at in places, very colourful and cheerful, good designs and creativity, but it doesn't really make much sense why its like that. The comedy is so so, the action and adventure is so so, the acting is unsurprisingly so so despite having a darn good line-up of old stars, and the finale is too sickly. Everything gets wrapped up in a nice harmless bow with literately every character there to witness it because...I dunno. Why does she shrink so rapidly right at the end? and why or how does the chemical spillage bring her back to normal size?? Meh, its a family movie heavy on light-hearted tomfoolery and nothing more, don't question it.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not really funny","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not-so-funny satire of American compulsive consumerism society, based partially on Jack Arnold classic 1957. movie, with several scenes knowingly re-acted completely close to original.Instead of Grant Williams, here we have Lily Tomlin as everyday housewife slaving for her family and shrinking away, to the delight of media hungry for sensations. Besides being more or less ignored by her family, used that Tomlin simply have to take care of them, she has other serious threats that don't involve cats and spiders but something far more dangerous - humans. Along with quite inane plot, everything is exaggerated this is not a kind, loving family but a bunch of spoiled brats throwing tantrums, husband and his colleagues are more concerned with profit, Mexican maid is non stop dancing and even neighbors are more concerned about giving interviews than actually giving Tomlin support. Any normal person would pack her bags long ago and run away, but Tomlin - being good wife and self-sacrificing mother - totters on, even as her steps became smaller and smaller. It sounded as a good idea on the paper but is not really funny, perhaps because main character is simply not likable enough - Tomlin is great comedian when given chance to be wicked but as a perpetually serving housewife she is simply annoying (only once, she appears as rude telephone operator Ernestine and that minute lightens up the screen). Perhaps great fun for teenagers who delight in obvious jokes but not particularly involving as movie experience and sadly, very far from thrill of 1957. original. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lily Tomlin is known for her acerbic wit, her sharp tone, and her sense of style for all these years. Ever since Rowan and Martin's Laugh In, most of her characters come to life in this movie. In The Incredible Shrinking Woman, she plays Pat Kramer, a housewife who started to shrink, at a alarming rate. I don't mean about her weight, I mean about herself. She has been commonly exposed to all the chemicals around her house. Even small, she can make it all around her surroundings. When she got caught and put inside a lab, she meets a new friend, a big gorilla1 The minute she escapes the lab, the bad guys go after her and the ape. It was funny when the gorilla gives the bad guys the finger after they say, FREEZE!! The more she shrank, the news get grim. When she shrank away, it was sad. However, when she came back, they indeed got a new pet, and it's not a dog nor a cat. Then a new problem occurs, I don't think she's worried. A fun movie, lots of gags, and it was a great start for Honey, I Shrunk the Kids later in the years. 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Loud, dated feminist swipe at consumerism.","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just go ahead and watch 9 to 5 again if you want to see Lily Tomlin in something funny depicting more realistic struggles of women. Here, she has to carry the entire load, and the results just aren't as satisfying. Tomlin plays a suburban housewife who suddenly begins to shrink, presumably from a combination of household chemicals and products that her husband's firm has marketed. The whole thing is symbolic for how women are somehow diminished by the world around them. Excessive commercialism, suburban sameness, housekeepers taking over duties of parents, etc... etc... etc. The whole concept ends up taking a backseat to sight gags involving Tomlin climbing around on expanded sets depicting household rooms and appliances. Some of these are quite interesting.The film tries, but the message just isn't as sharp as we'd hope. Many characters also spend the majority of their screen time shouting and acting zany, and this doesn't help. Satire sometimes slips into madcap comedy when the director (this time Joel Schumacher) doesn't keep a tight enough hold on things. And I don't think I can buy this premise on an idealistic level. How does an increased variety of consumer goods diminish the role of a housewife? I think it might do just the opposite. She may now be empowered to find just the right things her family needs. Now I do certainly get the part about the Hispanic housekeeper taking over the role of mother. You look at this house, and it clearly doesn't seem big enough to need a housekeeper if the wife has no job. Was this a swipe at Californians who think having a maid/housekeeper is some sort of status symbol especially if they don't need one? Perhaps. Anyway, the film is loud and the production VERY much a sign of the early 1980s. Charles Grodin and Ned Beatty provide their usual solid support, and Tomlin does her best in multiple roles. The film just doesn't get its point across, and maybe it doesn't have a very good point to make in the first place. 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Galaxy Glue, Galaxy Glue...What would we do without Galaxy Glue?","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is one of the best comedies ever made and it features Lily Tomlin at her comedic best. Here, Miss Tomlin not only portrays Pat Cramer, the title character but she also gets the opportunity to showcase her comedic genius by portraying several of the characters that helped make her performances on Saturday Night Live and Laugh-In the stuff of legend. She plays her own chemically conscious neighbor Judith, as well as 2 of her most beloved characters Earnestine the telephone operator and Little Edith Anne! This is a movie I have loved since childhood and grow to love even more with every subsequent viewing. It is rather difficult to locate a copy but is worth the search. Inexplicablly, some copies and some airings on networks such as Encore cut out the Edith Anne skit, which really annoys me personally but I have seen so many different versions of this film that I practically have the scene memorized anyhow (who can forget Tomlin's hysterically funny line as Edith Anne to herself as Pat Kramer...Is that you, Hamster lady?). The cause of Pat Kramer's shrinking dilemma is a chemical reaction caused by the use of too many commercial products which really sends a powerful political message as relates to American consumerism that still holds true today. Do yourself a favor and enjoy an evening with Pat Kramer and her kin...you'll be glad you did! "},{"Title":"The incredible shrinking comedy...","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stunning in its dullness considering the talents behind it. Joel Schumacher directed this empty headed and far too late goof on 50s sci-fi films. Lily Tomlin, very funny in the film's first half, is left out to dry in the film's second half. Once she's shrunk, the film itself folds in on itself...it's lifeless, tiresome and very badly photographed (everything has a haze around it). Tomlin is not well served by Charles Grodin as her husband...he's wasted. Henry Gibson plays a scientist, but there's nothing remotely funny about him or his character...it's a real waste. A real misfire written by Tomlin collaborator Jane Wagner (who clearly improved her talents with THE SEARCH FOR SIGNS OF INTELLIGENT LIFE...) "},{"Title":"A first-rate satire.","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before I go any further, I'd just like to say I can't understand the people who complain this film doesn't stick to the spirit of the original. Though it contains a few humorous tributes (the central character's kids trying to frighten their mother with a rubber spider on a string, etc), it is a completely different story.Pat Kramer is an ordinary housewife who suddenly finds she is shrinking. The cause is a mix of various products, and before long she is living in a doll's house, being menaced by wind-up toys and being trapped in a sink before finding herself in a laboratory at the mercy of a secret organization who intend to shrink the people of the world. This film is entertaining and has a good cast (I'd never have realized Lily Tomlin was playing those two characters but for the credits list at the end of the film), is also a social satire about the way tacky products and advertising are taking over society. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Woman","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lily Tomlin is Fantastic in this Role. You might as well Re name this The Incredible Sexy Shrinking Woman, the Smaller Pat gets the Sexier she is....Look how Beautiful Lily is in this movie....Really look at her. Remember this is a Pre 1990's sadly out of the closet Lily Tomlin. But I think of the Past Laugh in and her Specials. Lily is Great looking in this. Come on. Look at this and her. Beautiful SEXY and Barbie Doll size. I wish I was cast as her husband. The Incredible Shrinking Woman is Awesome and Sexy. This Movie is a Classic for fans of Lily Tomlin. Lily is Featured on the now Rare Mike Douglas show looking Sexy in a dress (Barbie Doll Sized)and everyone of us loves her.Overall a great Lily Tomlin movie. (I think her Best) many different roles. I Love Lily Tomlin in this role....I would love to be cast in the role as Vance. "},{"Title":"Weak Spoof","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Incredible Shrinking Woman, The (1981) ** (out of 4) Semi-spoof of The Incredible Shrinking Man has Lily Tomlin playing a housewife who tests several of her husband's (Charles Grodin) household products and soon finds herself shrinking. This was Joel Schumacher's directorial debut and he handles the material fairly well but the problem is that the material isn't that great to start with. The film tries to be very smart and hip when it comes to commercialism but it forgets to add very many laughs. There are several cute scenes that earn a smile but nothing beyond that. Grodin is wasted in his role as the father and Ned Beatty doesn't add too much either. The highlight is certainly Tomlin in her three roles. "},{"Title":"This is a comedy, not a remake","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen the Incredible Shrinking Man and now the Incredible Shrinking Woman.  Whoever says this is a bad film is entitled to say so, but has it occurred to them that Ms. Tomlin is a comedian?  The ESW is a comedy, the old movie was not.  The funniest parts of the more recent version are that Lily Tomlin plays characters she used to play in her acts.  Edith Ann, Telephone switchboard operator, a psychologist, etc.  For comparison to this movie, I would look at Innerspace with Dennis Quaid (a film listed on the IMDB) .  Innerspace was tedious in my opinion, this was funny.  If you loved the Incredible Shrinking Man, then you might miss the point of the Incredible Shrinking Woman. "}{"Title":"LILY TOMLIN IS AWESOME!!!","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion, Lily Tomlin was great in this film! It was a laughable comedy, her smiles were awesome!!! This is one of my top 10 comedy films of all time, and so was Nine to Five (a year earlier)!!! I give the show a 10!!! "},{"Title":"Good family movie. Good actors, Good plot, Happy ending","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has good actors. Charles Grodin is always playing the husband. He does it here too and just as good as in Beethoven. That film has the same feeling as this. Lily Tomlin is playing wife. I think she does that in other films too and she does it good. The plot in the film is very good and has plenty of room for drama and comedy. it leads the film forward in unexpected and expected ways. The ending is happy. The caricature Nazi villains are beaten. "},{"Title":"Lily Tomlin is much more appealing playing funny modern women than kooky characters in disguise...","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A good idea that doesn't work a sassy, sweetly-zonked wife and mother discovers to her surprise that all the household and sundry chemicals her advertising-executive husband brings home are making her shrink. Actually, this gloppy-looking comedy does manage to get off on the right foot, with playful and funny glimpses into Tomlin's home-life, but once she shrinks and crosses paths with ready-set villains (not to mention talk show host Mike Douglas...who sings!!), the movie frays and falls apart. It's badly photographed (one of the worst-looking movies of the 1980s--what were they thinking when they watched the dailies?) and allows star Tomlin too much room to stretch her comedic chops (playing kooky characters incognito, Lily is much friendlier and funnier just playing a quirky modern woman). A disappointment for Tomlin's fans, especially since the biggest laugh in the picture is delivered by a gorilla flipping the bird. ** from **** "},{"Title":"WARNING-May have spoilers within!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You have to pity Lily Tomlin.  In 9 to 5, she was under appreciated and underpaid at work, in All of Me, she dies and gets trapped in Steve Martin's body, and as if life couldn't get any harder, she shrinks to new heights in The Icredible Shrinking Woman.This film was merely an exploitation of product commercialism, and promotes fictionous and strange products, such as Sexpot Perfume, Galaxy glue, and other fascinating products that Judith Beasley hocks to housewife Pat Kramer.Tomlin plays both Pat Kramer, the incredible shrinking woman, and Judith Beasley, the consumer-minded neighbor with the cool accent and the funky glasses, who knows a good deal when she sees one.  Pat is simply a normal woman who comes into contact with various chemicals in her daily life, and suddenly begins to shrink.  At first, its a mere two inches, but eventually, its a few inches a day (SORRY ABOUT THIS ONE).Charles Grodin plays her sex-starved husband Vance, who is scared for his wife.  If you've seen 9 to 5 (the greatest workplace film of the 80s), then you remember Violet Newstead calling that lady Roz General Patton. Well, Roz pays Dr. ruth Ruth, and is exactly the same character in both films, mean and sneaky.If you plan to see this film, you may have to hit the 5 nite rental shelf at the video store with all the other old films, because it is a rare TV find. I was lucky enough to catch it edited on TNT, but I didn't notice much editing, which I can usually detect.  Expect a cameo by another great Tomlin character (I won't spoil this one!).This film may not suit everybody, but if you're a Lily Tomlin fan, you may enjoy it!  My word choice is suddenly shrinking, so this is where the review ends. "},{"Title":"The horror, the horror!","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, my students laughed at me when I admitted this, but this film scared the living hell out of me! Granted, I was only five when I saw it, but that scene where Tomlin falls down the garbage disposal and the housekeeper can't hear her screams because she's listening to loud music...I ran out of the theater when that happened! Looking back, the plot was rather hokey and they relied too much on Tomlin's star power. Still, the special effects were okay for the time. The commentary of our consumerist society didn't work as well. It may be worth a watch on cable, but to this day I can't even watch 9 to 5 without whimpering. 'Galaxy Glue, Galaxy Glue, what would we do without Galaxy Glue?' "},{"Title":"Pretty freakin lame","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently had to watch this film for a mass media/culture class in college, and I have to say it was pretty bad. While Schumacher is not one of my favorite directors, I did not expect the trite, preachy piece of crap which this movie turned out to be. Tomlin, Grodin, and Beatty do their best to follow a god-awful script, which beats you over the head with insanely liberal thinking (AND I'M A LIBERAL!). Basically, the film says CONSUMERISM=BAD while pandering to a consumer market. Any film with such a simplistic plot (SHRINK THE WORLD'S POPULATION?!) and dumb comedy has no right to be preachy. C'mon people, a monkey? While the first half hour or so was amusing and pretty right-on satire for the early 80s consumer mindset, the film got too bogged down in its own pretentiousness and quickly fell apart.What really bugged me, and many others in the class (including the professor) was the horrifically stereotyped maid, Concepcion. With her slutty Latina ways, ignorance of English, and simpering Mexican friends, I was surprised Hispanic rights groups were not up in arms. I thought it was akin to the loyal, watermelon-eating, Yessuh yessuh black servants of movies through the 1950s. It was truly as offensive as those horrific depictions and even more out of place in a movie with such liberal, high-minded subject matter.All I can say is the actors try, they really really do. And for about half an hour, the film succeeds. Then tanks miserably. Do yourself a favor and watch something intelligent and funny with a similar theme instead of this garbage. I would suggest Terry Gilliam's Brazil. "},{"Title":"Has to be seen to be believed!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember the great shrinking black and white films - the horror of the giant spider, and the shock of finding out that our pint-sized hero has shrunk even more! So I was really looking forward to the obvious feminist answer to this familiar story - but I didn't realise how feminist it was going to be!Firstly, I must stress that this movie is awful! The acting is atrocious, and it has about as much continuity as a day in an Alzheimers ward! But why, oh why, did they not rest with it being about a woman that shrinks??? Why do we have to suffer the influence of women in everyday life? Who cares how much Pat Kramer becomes a role-model to the 'modern woman'? This all seemed to go out the window when, as the size of a lettuce leaf, she was watched by the whole family as she struggled with carrying the salad bowl to the kitchen table. If the message was that the diminution of a woman would have a grave effect on family life, this is not what came across! Rather the assumption that life would just be a little slower, and it would take the woman more time to do chores - not a very feminist attitude! "},{"Title":"Tedious, disastrous low-budget sci-fi comedy.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's films like this that make you wonder if directors actually look at at the movie when it's finished. This spoof of the 50's sci-fi genre is just plain awful. With talent like Oscar nominees Lily Tomlin and Ned Beatty in front of the camera, you gotta wonder why they signed on in the first place. The movie starts out fairly bad but then nose-dives faster than you can say tedious. Give this pathetic attempt at film a miss. My IMDb rating 3.1/10. "},{"Title":"The Incredible Shrinking Woman","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dead comedy that wastes the talents of Tomlin and Grodin. Director Schumacher gives us nothing here.   "}]