[{"Title":"Words Can't Do Justice","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"90 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It seems almost pointless for me to add any comments here, since everyone else who's posted has done such a great job of summarizing this film's merits, but I can't resist. How do you rate a movie like this? On the one hand, it's one of the worst movies I've ever seen completely lacking in coherence, shameful acting, writing so bad it seems to be making fun of itself. In fact, I'm still not convinced this movie isn't supposed to be a parody of Christina Crawford's book rather than a serious attempt to adapt it to the screen. On the other hand, it's such a rip-roarin' good time of a show that I'm tempted to give it 10 stars on the strength of its sheer entertainment value alone.Faye Dunaway gives the most jaw-droppingly mesmerizing freak out ever captured on screen, whose bizarreness cannot even be topped by Halle Berry's Oscar acceptance speech. Dunaway must have realized early on that she was a rat in a sinking ship, but instead of deserting, she decides instead to devour the crew. I don't know if her performance comes anywhere close to capturing the real Joan Crawford, but if Crawford was even a tenth of a percent as loony as Dunaway portrays her here, I would have been high-tailing it to Canada if I were either of her children. The fabulous lines, many of which are quoted on this site, can't really be done justice when removed from the context in which they appear, and you really have to see the faces of the actors as they're delivering them to get the full effect. The wire hanger scene is of course a classic, but it's really the floor scrubbing scene immediately following, with Dunaway in kabuki makeup squatting on the floor like a Sumo wrestler, that remains more memorable. Watching Joanie jog is a sight to behold, especially when she starts talking to herself and scrunching her face up as if she's imitating Alvin or one of his chipmunks. There's the I can handle the socks moment, one of the most seductive moments (hee, hee) in film history, and of course the coup de grace comes when Joanie tackles Christina across the coffee table and begins banging her head into the floor like she's in a women's prison movie.The editing in this film is atrocious. There's no sense of time; events follow each other in a loosely chronological fashion, but they don't make dramatic or narrative sense. Frank Perry, the director, must have been dozing off through much of this production; either that or his film crew carried out a mutiny, tied him up, threw him in a shed, and went ahead without him. But it seems churlish to criticize a film like this for its poor film making. It's like kicking a dead horse.All I can say is, if you watch this movie with the right people in the right frame of mind (i.e. with alcohol), you will be howling. I watched this with a group in college, and we had to periodically pause the movie in order to allow everyone to recover before continuing. Thank you, Ms. Dunaway, for giving us Mommie Dearest. The world will never be able to repay you for your kindness.Grade F or A+ (depending on your perspective and level of sobriety) "},{"Title":"Woman on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"79 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt that Christina Crawford's scathing 1978 memoirs did much initial harm to her late mother's reputation. The subsequent 1981 film has eclipsed even the bestselling book to become the standard by which the real-life Joan is judged. However, I'm inclined to believe that those who dismiss Joan today as a psychotic harpy and nothing more never even saw the film version of Mommie Dearest, and only heard secondhand reports of the most infamous scene (No...wire...hangers!).Most tellingly, Christina Crawford reportedly hated the film version of her book, and wailed upon seeing it, They turned it into a Joan Crawford movie! She's right. With the exception of the two most graphic scenes (No wire hangers and the choking scene), Joan's abuse of Christina is not all that much different from what passed as discipline in those days--just ask your parents or grandparents--and despite Faye Dunaway's full-throttle acting, Joan always somehow comes off in a strangely sympathetic light.What we see is an insecure woman fighting for survival in an age-obsessed, male-dominated industry. Such scenes as Joan's heartless dismissal from MGM invite sympathy; while her snarling, veritable takeover of Pepsi Co. elicts cheers for her ballsiness and strength. Christina, on the other hand, is invariably depicted as either gratingly whiny or cardboard stiff. It's difficult to empathize with such an annoying character.Mommie Dearest's grandest artistic achievement is through the impeccable art direction, which truly makes the audience believe they are watching a film unfold in the 1940's and 1950's. Its lasting legacy, however, is Faye Dunaway's career-ending performance, which, depending on your point of view, is either jaw-droppingly awful or unbelievably brilliant.Dunaway's acting choices are nothing if not idiosyncratic clutching her bosom frantically as she cries, You...deliberately...embarass me in front of a REPORTER!; copying the real-life Crawford's facial expressions from the horror flick Strait-Jacket in the axe-wielding scene; and, most famously, her odd, cross-eyed pose that she strikes not once, or twice, but three times holding baby Christina on the staircase, rubbing moisturizer on her elbows after hiding Christina's dolls, and following her wire hanger/cleansing powder attack.It is Dunaway's nostril-flaring, hair-pulling, bosom-clutching style that really sends this film into the camp stratosphere. On paper, such scenes as Joan swatting Christina on the butt for defying her orders, or Joan insisting that Christina finish her rare steak, would seem bland.  In Dunaway's hands, they become something else altogether!Actually, Christina Crawford should thank Faye Dunaway; if not for her crazed, unforgettable portrayal, Mommie Dearest would have been just another trashy Hollywood memoir that eventually would've been forgotten (does anyone really care about B.D. Hyman's book about Bette Davis anymore?). And a film version without Dunaway would've been rightfully panned, forgotten, and relegated to cut-out bins at your local video emporium. Instead, Faye Dunaway has ensured its place in film immortality. It still stands alone among camp classics, but perhaps some re-evaluation of it (and of Joan Crawford herself) is due. "},{"Title":"Mommie Deadly An Alternate Reality In A Galaxy Far, Far Away","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Given the film's current cult movie status one is tempted to believe the 1981 MOMMIE DEAREST was a critical debacle and a box office fiasco. That is not really the case. It is true that critics generally considered the film a failure, but many of them admired certain elements of it; it is also true that box office fell below expectations, but it was not a box office disaster in the same sense as the 1980 HEAVEN'S GATE or the 1981 INCHON.It is also true, however, that audiences howled with laughter at the film when it debuted, and although leading lady Faye Dunaway received a number of critical accolades for her performance as Joan Crawford, she also received an equal number of devastating reviews--and it was these that caught the spotlight. It was a humiliating experience for an actress particularly noted for her perfectionism, and rumor has it that Dunaway feels the film ended her career as a major film star. Whatever the case, Dunaway quickly developed a strategic silence about the film that she has maintained for some two decades.Seen today, it is easy to identify the core problems of the film. The most obvious is the script, which is extremely inconsistent in quality and yet perversely consistent in a style that can only be described as soap opera hot-house to the nth degree. This is particularly true of the dialogue assigned to Dunaway. Infamous lines such as No More Wire Hangers Ever, Tina! Bring Me The Axe, and I'm Not Mad At You, I'm Mad At The Dirt have become a staple of every drag queen from Maine to California.But the ultimate disaster here is director Frank Perry. Joan Crawford was a larger-than-life personality; the role is written to reflect this; Dunaway plays the role as it was written. But it would seem Perry sought to heighten the effect the rest of the cast is extremely, extremely restrained. This must have seemed like a good idea in theory, but it proves a terrible mistake in actual fact. No matter what Dunaway does with it, she can NEVER seem less than wildly overwrought in comparison to the rest of the cast, and the effect is very peculiar indeed.The designs and the cinematography also clash in an incredibly bizarre way. There is absolutely no doubt that everything about the film is exactingly accurate that is indeed the look of the period, right down to the very last detail. But the photography is extremely flat, and you are constantly aware that the sets are indeed movie sets, the costumes are movie costumes, and so on. Yes, it is all beautifully rendered, but you can't buy into it as anything real.The Hollywood Royalty Edition DVD edition offers a good but by no means flawless print of the film and several bonuses. It is unfortunate that they are not particularly illuminating. While director John Water's commentary is enjoyable, he approaches the film only as a fan. Even so, Water does make several telling points many of the things that Crawford does which seem so odd (bathing the face in ice, for example) are actually commonplace cosmetic necessities for movie stars; many of the things the film treats as abuse were, although carried to wild extremes in the story, typical of child-rearing practices of the 1940s and 1950s.There are also three short documentaries featuring a number of cast members, most notably Diana Scarwid; these are actually entertaining for the fact that those who appear still seem to regard the film as a good movie. The only really significant interview is with Lypsinka, an artist who has driven Crawford impersonations to the level of wicked satire and high art, and who offers a number of interesting personal insights into the iconography involved.Like the film itself, the bonus package has two great failures. The first is that Faye Dunaway does not appear in interview or commentary; it would be very interesting to have her own take on the film, its failures, and its afterlife. Given her sentiment, it is an understandable non-involvement; less understandable, however, that there is not so much as a potted biography of the actress--or indeed of any member of the cast, for there are no written notes of any kind.The second great failure of the bonus package is that it contains no factual information on either Joan or Christina Crawford. There is no indication here that those who knew both women are sharply divided over the accuracy of the portraits both here and in the book by Christina Crawford from which the film is drawn. A number of people, including actresses Betty Hutton and June Allyson, supported Christina Crawford's accounts, but an equal number, including actress Myrna Loy and Christina's younger siblings, flatly stated that Christina's accusations were largely fictitious.When all is said and done, and in spite of performances and moments that are actually extremely good in isolation, MOMMIE DEAREST is a film that falls under the so bad it's good category of cult films. While I am taken aback by the bizarre nature of the movie, I personally find the amusement involved almost as dark as the movie's plot; it is not among my cult film favorites. Even so, I can understand the appeal it has for others, and I give it five stars on that basis.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Awarrrarragh!!","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Indisputable classic of the highest order, 'Mommie Dearest' just SCREAMS cult hit every chance it gets, and just about ruined Faye Dunaway's reputation in the process. Mind you, there's nothing WRONG with Dunaway's performance, as a matter of fact, it's really good, but what's so good about it is how she plays every scene with fearless abandon, whether it's the wirehanger scene, the departure from MGM or chokeslamming Christina through a glass table, Dunaway gives 100% percent! And you should too! The first half is MUCH more frenetic then the 2nd half (aka young Christina vs Old) and the first part has all the best bits, but not to say the 2nd part is good too, it really starts to mellow out and (gasp) you start to feel SOME compassion to the old broad. Diana Scarwid is good too, although her playing what looks to be a 13 year old girl looks a bit too much.This wasn't my first time at this rodeo (I'd seen this before) and I enjoyed it as much as I had the first time!  "},{"Title":"Searching - entertainingly but in vain - for Joan Crawford in Mommie Dearest","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"48 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In Mommie Dearest, we watch Faye Dunaway portray Joan Crawford as portrayed in Crawford's adopted and later disinherited daughter Christina's (necessarily?) one-sided and tendentious memoir.  That was less a story than a payback about growing up in a Hollywood hothouse with a headstrong and possibly unhinged star as mother.  Where the precise balance lies between truth (obviously, some) and spite owing to being read out of the will is not, or no longer, the point.  The point is what justice the movie does to the legendary Crawford - how accurately it reproduces her public façade and private dysfunction (where it's open to skepticism), and how well it evokes the way stars lived and were expected to live under the mid-20th-century studio system (where it fares well).The movie opens at 4 a.m., the wake-up call for a star operating under the punishing regimen that was then the norm when shooting was underway. Dunaway/Crawford scrubs and steams herself, then closes her pores by plunging her face into rubbing alcohol on the rocks.  Then she steps into a limo idling in the dark, where she learns her lines and signs glossies for doting fans.  Noblesse oblige, Southern California style.Crawford had been in movies since the last days of the silents (her first roles, uncredited or as Lucille LeSueur, were in 1925), and had since achieved a blue-and-ivory showplace in Brentwood, two ex-husbands, and entrée to the privileged circle of `Hollywood royalty'.  All she wants to round out her life is a baby (or two); Steve Forrest plays an attorney and current paramour who helps her to acquire them, like a pair of occasional tables.The rest of the movie depicts the ambivalent - almost bipolar - relationship between Joan and Christina (the actual Crawford adopted four children, whom the script cuts to two - just one, really, for son Christopher is seen only a few times tethered to his bed and once again, at the fateful reading of the will).  So the plot's main thrust is Christina vs. Joan, and the semi-psychotic episodes that made the movie a cult/camp classic focus on this David and Goliath tug-of-war (`Tina, bring me the axe!' and `What's wire hangers doing in this closet?').Several episodes, however, weren't witnessed by the skulking, passive-aggressive young Tina (Mara Hobel) or by the wilful and defiant teen-ager and woman she would become (Diana Scarwid, with a growling contralto that brings to mind Joan's adversary Mercedes McCambridge in Johnny Guitar).  No little pitcher with big ears was nearby when Joan, in gingham apron and high-heeled white work shoes, scrubs the floor and bellows to the maid `I'm not mad at you, I'm mad at the dirt' or when, in one of Dunaway's rip-the-envelope-open scenes, emasculates the entire board of directors of Pepsico.Dunaway's impersonation of Crawford is in many ways unforgettably overripe (and her performance been received as both extraordinary and execrable; she herself is on record as regretting that she did the movie at all).  Yet despite an at times almost uncanny resemblance provided by makeup and costume, we seldom forget it's Dunaway on camera.  The specific Crawford qualities that gave her unparalleled longevity in Hollywood elude Dunaway - they aren't quite there.  (Under all the honeyed diction there's little of the tough broad from east Texas.)  Maybe Dunaway was right in doing Crawford her own way, rather than resorting to mimicry.  But she - and the script - lose too much of her prototype.The script hews to known chronology in only the most slapdash way. There's a signpost at the beginning - Ice Follies of 1939 (why not the better known and just plain better The Women of the same year?) - and another at the time of her Academy-Award performance in Mildred Pierce (1945).  But Crawford's subsequent vehicles, many of them hits, are ignored - and much of Mommie Dearest suggests she was a washed-up has-been.   So it's never clear what juncture of her career she's reached - the late '40s and early '50s when she was still going strong, the Grand-Guignol '60s or, near the end, the '70s (Trog and TV)?  It's a crucial lapse of basic narrative skills.But Mommie Dearest eschews many of those skills, seemingly by choice.  No longer, as in the movies Crawford made famous, does scene unfold into scene, does motivation shape the story line.  True, real life seldom observes the dramatic unities, but events here come so haphazardly that they're baffling. A triumph like winning the Oscar or the humiliation of being fired from MGM by Louis B. Mayer (Howard Da Silva in a memorable cameo) both lead straight into full-tilt rampages.  Do they occur the same day, or weeks or months later?  The time-line's too shaky to tell.  Nor do the drastic mood-swings ever get explained (maybe they can't be explained), though Crawford's ever-present flask of vodka threads through the movie more as a colorful eccentricity than a central fact of her life.And in expressing this instability, Dunaway plucks not from Crawford's roles but from Gloria Swanson in the last, loony half of Sunset Blvd.  Her eyes turn inward while fleeting emotions flicker across her face, hinting at something dreadful dredged up from her psyche.  Yet Crawford held on to her star power in a ruthless industry for close to four decades, then snagged Pepsi-Cola CEO Alfred Steele and proved to be a savvy businesswoman. Nothing in Mommie Dearest accounts for those facts, which makes its accounting practices a little bit suspect.  It's not a very good movie, but, thanks to Dunaway and her subject, mesmerizing nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Why can't you treat me like I would be treated by any stranger on the street?","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Because I am NOT one of your FANS! Simply said, this is superb trash. Enjoyable b.s. Faye Dunaway lobbied hard for the role of Joan Crawford (Christina Crawford wanted Anne Bancroft) and she admirably sinks into the part with relish. I loved the opening montage of Joan preparing for her day early in the morning scrubbing her hands and nails, numbing her face in ice cubes, leafing through a script in her car, getting made-up, and then whirling around in her chair and letting loose with a breathy, Let's go!... Sadly, Frank Perry's direction is awkward and unsure, cutting off some sequences before they're allowed to build and letting other scenes ramble on. The movie doesn't do justice to the riveting book by Joan's adopted daughter Christina, committing to film the book's highlights, the talked-about bits where Crawford freaked out, but skimping on the details. We learn absolutely nothing about Christina's many tormented years in an L.A. Catholic Boarding School (we see her check in and we see her check out). Joan's marriage to Pepsi czar Alfred Steele and her three other adopted kids are also given the short shrift. What we do get with Mommie Dearest is pure, unadulterated Faye. She acts up a storm and revels in these primal opportunities. It's one of the highlights of her spotty career. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Drama?  Maybe... The world's funniest comedy?  Yep!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"43 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Oh Lord, Here it comes..... This is the big one. Never before has there been (and probably never will there be again) a camp monstrosity as huge as this. An over-the-top true story about Christina Crawford being adopted, raised and tormented by the legendary film star Joan Crawford, the film is an amazing exercise in excess. Virtually every line in the film is a quotable hoot (and legions of people can almost recite the script!) It is an overabundance of comedic riches. It's almost impossible to pick a favorite scene. First, though it is likely that certain aspects of this film have a seed of truth, there is no way that this is an authentic film biography.......NO WAY. So, while a few incidents are loosely derived from fact, most of it is guilt-free hilarity. Christina's book was striking, but contained nothing as wild and vicious as this film presents. And it's entirely probable that some of Christina's memories were exaggerated by childhood perspective (although there's no denying that her mother was an obsessive, neurotic, steamroller of a woman.) Even Tina explained, in her book, certain aspects of the bad behavior which shed some light on Joan's actions. None of that is presented here. For example, the infamous rare meat scene...the film doesn't disclose that Joan paid high black market prices for the beef (during wartime rationing) and was appalled that Tina turned her nose up at it and wasted it. Also, the violent night raid scene is actually a compilation of two different occasions, etc.... The film tries to maximize and sensationalize everything and over-do everything to the point where it turns comic. Dunaway (who has, herself, described her mesmerizing and ferocious performance as Kabuki) is beyond fascinating to watch. She imbues the role with an intense, stunning magnetism which blows everyone else off the screen. It's amazing that the sets were left intact! Despite an explosive, unforgettable performance, Faye actually looks almost nothing like the real Joan Crawford. Her eyes are not nearly large enough and nothing is done to make them appear so, her eyebrows are ridiculous, her chest is not as pronounced as Joan made hers and her hair is almost never the way the real Joan wore it! And both women have HIGHLY unique voices, but which are not alike at all. Still, she radiates all the necessary star quality for the role. Anne Bancroft would have LOOKED the part more, but who knows what the film would have been like? Better? Duller? It certainly could not have been wilder! Highlights of the Faye Dunaway circus act include the legendary cold cream-faced night raid with the iconic screech, No Wire Hangers!, her tirade with the scissors when she catches Tina mocking her, her showdown with the boarding school principal, the resultant wrestling match with Tina back home and the magnificent face-off with the Pepsi Board of Directors. It would be impossible to list the many quotes which make this film required viewing (only the surface has been scratched in the Memorable Quotes section.) I fought worse monsters than you for years in Hollywood. I know how to win the hard way immediately followed by Don't F*CK with me fellas!! This ain't my first time at the rodeo, isn't a bad start. Too hilarious! Young Hobel really holds her own as Tina and though Scarwid is less successful as grown Tina, she still gets in a few good licks. In any case, the film has provided untold hours of enjoyment and allowed for some instant bonding whenever people start spouting off the hilarious lines. WHEN is someone going to adapt this into a stage show?! "},{"Title":"The Mother to End All Mothers.","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"32 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Every so often there comes a movie that is so over-the-top it actually saves itself from total oblivion by the sheer force of the laughably bad performances. This one was one of the first movies to sweep the Razzies, not that Faye Dunaway was thrilled to do so, having just won an Oscar in 1977 for her brutal performance in NETWORK, but the same way that little gold guy can be a blessing, it can be a curse. If not, look at Halle Berry's career choices after her win for MONSTER'S BALL. She may still re-bound; her career is still not at a point of no return and her acceptance speech at the Razzies may be the cold water splashing on her face that will take her back to the roles she's supposed to be doing, not the ones which will garner her the first black woman to... status.But not to digress. MOMMIE DEAREST was and is a camp classic de rigeur, right up there with VALLEY OF THE DOLLS. It is the CITIZEN KANE of camp. Producers must have decided that Christina Crawford's tell-all book about her mother -- in case you didn't already know it's Joan Crawford, movie star, Oscar winner, glamor girl, alleged child beater -- would make a brilliant film, and why? Well, for once, biopics featuring stars at their absolute worst weren't that common at the time this film was released, and certainly a book as sordid as this might make for a dark look into a respected actress, recently defunct. And so the casting of an actress who would embody those excesses to the hilt -- and wouldn't you know, the actress who stated years before she admired Crawford stepped into the task of turning herself to Joan from head to toe not only physical, but in mannerisms, gowns, diction. Faye literally became Joan Crawford in image and style. The problem is, the script was so unabashedly exploitative and poorly written, her Crawford became a caricature, a cliché of poses that Crawford herself had created in many of her film credits. There is no real Joan Crawford here only a repetition of lines that seem to be lifted almost directly from other movies. This Joan as a matter of fact seems to also live in her own time capsule. No mention of her 1920s or 1930s career, no mention of her marriage to Philip Barry, no mention of her later return to MGM to film TORCH SONG or her horror movie period, not even any back story of what happened behind sets in Mildred Pierce or the fact that she had to audition several times before getting that particular part (which won her her only Best Actress Oscar. No mention of her rivalry of Bette Davis (who? not in this film), either, and their one movie together, WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE? This is all fantasy, seen even more clearly with the inclusion of a completely fictional lover (played awfully by Steve Forrest) and housekeeper Carol Anne (an equally bad Rutanya Alda) and not to mention the horrific performance of Diana Scarwid as Christina Crawford who has some sublimely bad scenes filled with beyond terrible lines. (It made me wonder, was the actual Christina there as a consultant, and if she was, how does one explain how moronic she becomes as the movie progresses to the point that we actually side with Joan?) Then again, this not being an autobiography nor a book of accounts of actors who knew and worked with Crawford but an amateur attempt at writing, huge inaccuracies were bound to happen. And to portray interminable, disjointed scenes of Crawford gone mad, brutalizing Christina for no other reason than being wigged out -- well, I'm not sure what the director is trying to say here.So if there's no real Crawford (older and younger), then this is all a mindless exercise in glossy excess. It's the TV biopic of the month that never was; its existence predates future biopics of similar awfulness (if not, check recent tell-all bio-pics that ABC, Lifetime, and other channels have been churning out lately on TV stars clawing each other's eyes out). It's also the precursor of trash TV if anyone recalls DYNASTY or MELROSE PLACE or even Jerry Springer, all they have to do is rent this baby and enjoy the sublime scene when Dunaway tries to body slam and strangle Diana Scarwid (Christina as an adult) as a reporter watches in horror. Now that's entertainment! "},{"Title":"How Bizarre","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Some of the behavior of the real Joan Crawford (Lucille LeSueur) was symptomatic of what we nowadays refer to as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), a mindset that fixates on ultra-cleanliness and perfection. Such bizarre behavior as needlessly scrubbing clean floors and clean hands helps reduce one's fears and anxieties. Over-reaction to minor problems is one result. There's a tendency to expect oneself and others to be perfect. If what is being judged is not perfect, then the OCD mindset perceives it to be the opposite of perfection; that is, ruin. There's no in-between.Character behavior that is weird to begin with, combined with poor film direction, and an exaggerated, over-the-top performance by Faye Dunaway results in plot sequences that are campy and outlandish, thus robbing the story of subtle truths that may be buried under all that bombast.Excise the rose garden sequence, the wire-hangers/bathroom cleaning sequence, and several other embarrassing parts, and we might have a film that could be taken seriously. But, of course, then we couldn't laugh at it. And I do think the film, as is, is good for some laughs.Having a film protagonist who is such a blatant villain with no character arc is unusual, and helps make this film so bizarre. At least Godzilla, and the great white shark in Jaws, could be forgiven their cruelty, given their inability to be human.Apart from the bizarre main character in Mommie Dearest, the film's plot does not flow well. The dialogue also is bizarre and lacks subtext. Helga, I'm not mad at you, I'm mad at the dirt, says Joan as she spots dirt hiding under a potted plant. And as an out-of-control, angry Joan proceeds to punish a tree in her rose garden, in frustration with Louis B. Mayer, she yells to Christina Bring me the ax. How can the viewer not laugh?Lucille LeSueur undoubtedly was an ambitious woman, a hard worker, and had both genuine talent and a healthy ego. But her human relations with others, especially her adopted daughter, were disasters. We may never know the extent to which Mommie Dearest mirrors the real Joan Crawford, or is merely a gross exaggeration by a vengeful heirless heir.Regardless, Joan Crawford left us some terrific films. She had a memorable, unique personality, and will remain a stunning Hollywood legend for as long as Hollywood exists. "},{"Title":"Unapologetic Praise","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest is such a fantastic anomaly that it almost feels blasphemous to critique it. Many people are confident in saying that it is a bad movie, or even that it's one of the worst ever made. I prefer to think of it as divine. It cannot be fully understood, only subjectively experienced. I do, however, agree with its critics that, no, it doesn't prioritize a coherent narrative structure. And no, it doesn't proffer class in its dialog, performances, or even its cinematography. I would like to label it as camp, but I can't. Mommie Dearest transcends camp. Faye Dunaway's priceless performance is truly mesmerizing. Somehow she conveys a character that is a perfect amalgamation of insanity, heroism, tragedy, tackiness, audacity, comedy, and utter strangeness. When I first saw this film I screamed when Dunaway's Crawford seduced her lover in the shower. Nothing has ever been so creepy and wrong. I shuddered when she eerily ascended her dramatic Hollywood staircase carrying her newly adopted baby. I cheered when she refused to be marginalized out of her rightful engagement as CEO of Pepsi Cola. And when she chopped up her garden in the middle of the night, wearing an evening gown. And when she mercilessly out-swam her six year old daughter in the pool race. I cheered a lot during this movie actually. And I have found, upon repeat viewings, that Mommie Dearest never fails to provoke such a clamorous succession of reactions. It may be low art. But it is brilliant just the same. I guess my review can be summed up as follows there are people who get it and people who don't. Those who don't tend to say it's unsophisticated, trashy, and wasteful of money, talent, and time. Sadly, those who do get it must frequently disclaim their enthusiasm by saying things like, I know it's a really bad movie, but&#133; Even Faye Dunaway, so I've heard, takes little pride in the critically panned, allegedly career ruinous, Razzie-winning work. Which is too bad since there really is so much to appreciate about it. Like the fact that it was based on Christina Crawford's slanderous tell-all, but ends up making Joan look kind of sympathetic and Tina look like a petulant jerk (ha). And after all, there are too few movies that have provided so much fun to so many people. "}{"Title":"Oh, God.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This one actually goes half and half with me so its good and bad (or should I say it's so bad that it's good). I am a living witness (Hallelujah!) that whenever you are feeling down or depressed, watch Mommie Dearest. But, word to the wise, don't watch it expecting good acting and wonderful relevance to the book, because you surely will not get it. The thing that makes the movie float above the rest of camp classics is the fact that it is based on an informative book by Joan's daughter, Christina. Therefore, it is to be dramatic and realistic like say Guyana Tragedy or The Josephine Baker Story. But this movie is so unrealistic, it is funny. And if you really want to roll over on the floor and have the mortician come to your house because you died laughing, I would recommend that you watch the whole thing on DVD and with French language (especially the wire hanger sequence). Hell, it doesn't matter if you don't speak the language, Mommie Dearest is like the opera, the emotions and movement will tell all you need to know, without understanding of the language. If I were giving an Oscar to Mommie Dearest, It would be for the beautiful silver dress Faye Dunaway has on... to take Christina's rancid, awful meat to the freezer, just so she can make the little snot eat it the next day. But as for the acting, no way! Faye goes over the top in her hammy performance as Joan, the poster-child for goggle eyed takes, shoulder pads, ankle-strapped shoes, and hypochondriac cleanliness. Diana Scarwid is so bland and uninteresting as Christina. and the rest of the cast... well, they are OK considering the parts they were given. But the only factors that could have made or broke Mommie Dearest were the two main characters therein, Joan and Christina Crawford. Scarwid broke the movie by vice of her apathy to the role she played (I would have thought in all accounts that if a child was abused, they would come out of it with a newfound understanding of their own inner strength and fight like hell to survive, which is what the real Christina did, according to the book. But, Scarwid is so unmotivated. She reminds me of my junior year Biology teacher, inane and in it for the paycheck. I think this performance is what caused Scarwid's Tinseltown demise. On the other hand, Dunaway hams it up and made the picture pass that thin line between drama and camp. Watch the movie. You will not think it Oscar Material but you will not be bored either. "},{"Title":"You Will Never See Mildred Pierce The Same","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadStudios manage their stars public images like gardeners do gardens. After watching this movie, based on Christine Crawford's scathing book, the plot of Mildred Pierce will unfold to you. I gave that classic a ten because I hold that a film should be judged on its merits alone. Here the movie opens with Joan's preparation for going to the studio with vanity the level that would be commensurate with an audience with the Deity. It has to be seen to be believed. The movie starts as her career is at zenith and follows the downslope with the exception being her Oscar for Mildred Pierce. Louis Mayer, while calling her 'Hollywood royalty' is gently handing her hat to her and opening the door out of MGM. Her infamous clean obsession is a wonderful depiction of the anal retentive personality. Watch what is was to be her maid or housekeeper, those of you not familiar with Freud, suffice to say it is not the floor that is dirty here. Joan is constantly trying to remove dirt from her surroundings never grasping it is an existential metaphor for her soul. The adopting of the children is delineated as a calculated public relations stunt. When she first proffers it, walking on the beach with Forrest, even he grasps its real purpose. As her career begins to decline, her cruelty to both children increases proportionately. I found this part completely logical and believable.Dunaway was mocked for overacting mainly for the 'no wire hangers' with her face covered with an inch of cold cream looking like an undead fashion model. True, there are scenes where she goes over the top. Yet, remember she is all alone here. Forrest is more of a cameo role; Dunaway has to carry the entire movie upon her shoulders. With the exception of her bush clipping from Hell, Wire Hangers and the tackle and strangle Christina scene in front of Barbara the magazine writer, Dunaway does well. A few bad scenes do not equal a bad performance. The movie follows her later life, the TV career, the slasher pictures of the 50s and her marriage to the Pepsi president. This is my favorite scene where the Pepsi board, after her husband's death, tries to gently but firmly push her out. Watch Dunaway's best scene in film,Wait until I come out publicly against your product, see how much you sell; don't F with me boys!! That was Joan Crawford, she nails her, this scene is her best I have ever seen.As a philosopher, trying to discern true from false here, I tend to believe Christina's version. I do think some of Christina's misbehavior that resulted in expulsion is downplayed and whitewashed over. Yet, think of the plot of Mildred Pierce a saintly mother who slaves and toils for the most evil daughter in the history of cinema, Veda. I find this consanguinity a trifle too coincidental for my taste. It is clear the studio is trying to dispel the plethora of rumors surrounding their star and rehabilitate her by the role. Isn't it fascinating how Mildred's character is an otherworldly saintly paragon of nobility suffering for her Satanic daughter? Think of Christina's version of Joan Crawford when you watch it over. It is clear somebody is doing some damage control with Crawford's ruined image. Mildred Pierce will always be a legendary classic but, trust me, watch this movie and you will watch it with brand new eyes. Dunaway is a gifted actress; she was maligned for a few bad scenes here but on the whole she does an excellent job with an unsympathetic role. I admired her bravery in taking the role. "},{"Title":"Why would Faye deny this movie so? She's great.","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Alright, this might not be too obscure of a movie but when it came out it wasn't well received and pretty much ignored causing it to have a huge cult following. The acting by Dunaway as Joan Crawford is so exaggerated that it seems unbelievable that it's a biographical tale. More than Crawford's story as an actress, this movie deals with the painful, abusive, and traumatic upbringing of her daughter Christina (she wrote the book that prompted the making of this movie). Some say Christina made a lot of it up to destroy her mother's reputation but others say it might be quite accurate. Either way, Dunaway's performance as the Screen Queen is uncanny. She embodies every quality of Crawford and watching the movie you forget that it's not really Joan but Faye in the role. Sure, this movie won Razzie Awards and the producers even tried to capitalize with its failure by billing it The worst mother of them all. Dunaway even goes as far as telling interviewers beforehand that she will not talk about this movie. One can understand her seeing that she was campaigning for an Oscar nod and instead won the Razzie for worst actress but none of that matters because this movie is now seen as a great tragedy and you'll definitely get lost in the story wondering if everything is true. Oh, and the scenes with Faye Dunaway and Mara Hobel, who plays young Christina Crawford, are amazing. It's no wonder she won the Young Artist Award. Seriously, watch it. The No more wire hangers scene alone is enough to watch this great film. "},{"Title":"Aw, C'mon, Now...","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As said all over here - this is just plain gay fun. Only one thing maybe requires more emphasis than it's been given on these pages, and that's the extraordinary fact that director Perry and the screenwriter have both since sworn up and down that they were trying for something real, and not an explosion of camp. You have GOT to be kidding. Did they see nothing through those lenses as they were filming? Virtually every moment of this film is outrageous drag, with no link whatsoever to actual, film story-telling. To even think you can remotely get away with claiming that you tried to tell the tale in a realistic manner is, maybe, the biggest joke of all. But, really, who cares? Who cares that the set-up finally revealing 'Joan' looks nothing like Crawford? The tree, the red meat, the hangers, the pool, the hair, the uncles - it's all part of a fabulous and quite insane dream. My absolute favorite thing of all Greg tying a towel around his bare waist, to walk three steps into Joan's shower, where she's gloriously waiting for him. (Runner-up every bit of the soap opera filming). "},{"Title":"It got a bad rap, and Dunaway was robbed","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie the first night it opened in Las Vegas in 1981. The large theater was packed, SRO. What may come as a surprise today, the film was received seriously by the audience, who sat transfixed throughout. I don't recall inappropriate laughter (well, maybe a muted laugh or two when little Christina said Jesus Christ at the end of the wire hanger scene), and I remember hearing favorable comments from people around me, although many were horrified by the depictions of child abuse.Unfortunately, the movie did not live up to the high expectations at the box office. After all, it was based on a best-selling book that sold 4 million copies in hard cover alone. A few weeks later, Mommie Dearest was re-released and was being advertised as a campy movie in the vein of Rocky Horror, and patrons were urged to bring wire hangers to the theater. The studio turned against its own movie in order to milk more money out of it. That's a shame, because Faye Dunaway gave the performance of her life and deserved an Academy Award nomination, if not the award. "},{"Title":"Dunaway Is Superb In A Powerful And Troubling Role","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Here we have the story of the complex relationship between Hollywood star Joan Crawford and her children, as related in the book by daughter Christine Crawford, played in the movie by Mara Hobel (as a child) and Diana Scarwid (as an adult.) This is a very troubling movie, dealing with issues of child abuse and out of control ego bordering on megalomania. Faye Dunaway was superb as Joan Crawford, portraying her as a domineering, abusive and neglectful mother of her two adopted children (at one point admitting to Christine that she adopted them mainly for the publicity.) Apparently not one to let her parental responsibilities get in the way of her movie career, Crawford is shown as obsessed with trying to remain on top, demanding perfection and total obedience from all around her. And there is nothing more powerful than the ending of the movie, when we discover just how much she actually thought of her children. We also, of course, struggle with Christine as she tries to sort out her confused feelings about her mother; why she loved her even after years of neglect and abuse.One thing confused me. For a good part of the movie, Christopher Crawford (Joan's son) simply disappears, and only pops up in the last scene at the lawyer's office. I was wondering what happened to him, and found his absence a bit distracting. That aside, though, there was nothing about this movie that I disliked, although I suspect fans of Joan Crawford might be less sympathetically inclined.Personally, I give this a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Who is the real villain here?","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I agree with many of the other commentaries on this page that this is a very hard film to rate. If you are curious who the most freakish character ever put on film is, (Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford puts Hannibal Lecter to shame without even killing one person or eating human flesh) you will certainly find this movie morbidly fascinating.I haven't read the book upon which this horrible movie is supposedly based, but I have seen the real Christina Crawford on a documentary depicting Joan Crawfords career, and I can imagine her being every bit as vindictive as this movie makes her out to be. It's not all her fault of course, as it must have been a living hell to be Crawford's daughter if a tenth of what's happening in the movie is true. The problem is every character in it are unsympathetic in one way or another. So what does it have on it's mind? Does it wanna trash Crawford and make Christina out to be the hero? If so, it does a poor job. See the closing scene and you will know what I'm talking about. Is it simply that movie stars are unfit parents because they are too wrapped up in themselves? It is impossible to find a culprit based on what is depicted here.There are too many awful moments to describe here but I do think that Faye Dunaway was very brave to take on this part and make it such a caricature. She must have known that there was no other way to play it since this was doomed to be a turkey.So if you are interested in seeing this do so without expecting to get any inside information about the life of these people or if you are interested in seeing behind the scenes backstabbing there is the soap opera scene (it is unintentionally hilarious but the one thing that is actually close to the truth). We never really learn anything about the career of Joan Crawford as the subject matter is handled so flimsy. Most of the facts are either left out or tampered with.My vote is that this movie is awful. It is much too depressing to work as camp and much too unintelligent as to work as art. "},{"Title":"Always nice to see rich famous people are as crazy as we common folk P","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Well so I had always wanted to see this, but didn't know much about it. I could care less about Joan Crawford or her freaky deaky family, but I watched WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE and was reminded again that I should see Mommie Dearest.I watched it and was AMAZED by how much Faye looked like Joan. Crazy people on the message board said they looked nothing alike - They look just alike to me. That was an automatic hook.I've heard the chronological aspect of the film was off, but I can't judge it for that because I don't know much about that, I can only comment on what I know.First let me say that I loved Faye Dunaway and many of the other actors. The little girl, although might've been OK as an actress, she was a bratty person who I didn't like. The direction wasn't impressive but the use of color was absolutely wonderful, some of the shots were great simply because of the color matches, especially the scene where Joan first gets the baby and walks to the top of the stairs.The story was just the right amount of pity, love, hate, insanity, respect and madness. You could'nt help but feel sorry yet relate to both the mother and the daughter.It was a nice movie and I think it blended Drama, horror and a touch of comedy all together. Comedy wasn't intended, but hey who didn't laugh at the NO MORE WIRE HANGERS part.Watch it and you'll like it, it's a tad long but you won't be bored for long, its entertaining.6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Oy Faye!","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This may very well be one of the most loathsome and sloppy screen treatments to ever have been derived from a literary memoir. I only noticed four distinct areas in which Mommie Dearest is a complete disaster the screenplay, the acting, the direction and the editing. Other than that, this is a fine film. Director Frank Perry delivers what could be one of the sloppiest directing jobs ever released by a major studio. He simply sits back and lets Dunaway rip. He was either supremely untalented or he purposefully intended to sabotage her. The narrative is chopped up worse than a Thanksgiving turkey, with a bizarre and fragmented collection of scenes showcasing little but mass hysteria. Dunaway does not chew scenery. Dunaway starts neatly at each corner of the set in every scene and swallows it whole, costars and all. Oy Faye! "},{"Title":"Hollywood Royalty Edition DVD Resuscitates Crawford Camp Classic Embodied by an Overcommitted Dunaway","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Even though she was the first runner-up for the New York Film Critics Award, Faye Dunaway disavows her performance as screen icon Joan Crawford because the camp following this 1981 potboiler has developed over the years has probably been overwhelming. To put it mildly, she is certainly watchable. However, every line she utters seems to have an exclamation point, and every gesture feels so grandiose that it's hard to figure out just what empathetic qualities Crawford had to engender her long-standing popularity. The glibly titled 2006 Hollywood Royalty Edition DVD package makes no bones that this is a movie that now caters to its huge gay following. Dunaway's snub in participating (as well as director Frank Perry's death) means having flamboyant director John Waters pinch-hit on the commentary track, and he manages to be both funny and insightful as he shares lots of apocryphal gossip and zingy one-liners to bring a whole new flavor to the execrable film.Among his many errors in judgment, Perry decided to film the story of Crawford's mid-to-late years (or more appropriately, her adopted daughter Christina's version of it) as if the movie was one of Crawford's own overripe films. The problem with his serious-minded approach is that it veers so unpredictably back and forth between soap opera and pure camp that the only consistency is its artifice. The story begins as the movie star's career is in free fall at MGM in 1939 (when she was forced to film a true atrocity called Ice Follies of 1939). Aware of her professional dilemma, Crawford decides to adopt a baby regardless of being a twice-divorced single career woman. With the help of her studio lackey lover Greg Savitt, she adopts a daughter and later a son. Forever the publicity hound, Crawford presents her happy family in the most pretentious manner in front of the Hollywood press, yet hides a streak of cruelty that manifests itself into military-like parenting and savagely violent episodes. Not living up to her mother's exacting standards, Christina is shuttled off to boarding school and then convent school. She grows up to become a struggling young TV actress, as her mother becomes a corporate wife-turned widow slipping deeper into alcoholism.Perry makes a fundamental mistake in switching the film's narrative perspective from Joan to Christina midway through the film. The consequence is that neither of their stories is fully told with any objectivity, especially what could have happened in Crawford's earlier years that would have led to such excessive behavior. Instead, we are given an endless parade of over-the-top moments &#150; the tree chopping, the tile scrubbing, the wire hangers, the out-of-control strangulation - that the movie is simply too exhausting to keep up with the episodic storyline. With her reasonable resemblance to the movie star in full make-up, Dunaway carries herself confidently within the Crawford public persona and even achieves some remote moments of poignancy in between the shouting matches. Her strenuous efforts at verisimilitude, however, push her into an unsavory, demonic level of commitment to the larger-than-life role. It's too bad that almost everyone else is quite awful by comparison &#150; Diana Scarwid frustratingly wooden as the adult Christina, Rutanya Alda irritatingly earnest in her blind devotion as Crawford's confidante Carol Ann, Steve Forrest looking like aged beef as Savitt and Howard Da Silva merely smarmy as MGM studio chief Louis B. Mayer. The one exception is little Mara Hobel, who brings genuine cunning to the younger Christina.The Hollywood Royalty Edition includes three dishy featurettes. The 14-minute The Revival of Joan Crawford shows the genesis of the movie from Christina's red-hot best seller with contributions from Scarwid, Alda and producer Frank Yablans, who speaks candidly about Dunaway's tempestuous perfectionism. The 14-minute Life With Joan focuses on Dunaway's total absorption in the part during the stormy production and includes an extended opening sequence that was deleted before release. The 16-minute Joan Lives On speaks specifically to the film's cult status with Waters and Crawford impersonator Lypsinka providing particularly comic insight to its gay following. There is also a photo gallery and the original trailer. It's truly for lovers of cinema camp. "}{"Title":"A controversial review of controversy.","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The first point to make about this film pertains to its title; Mommie Dearest'. It suggests that this is an anecdote about a 'mother'. Indeed, it is the role of a mother and lone parent of a daughter and their relationship that this film appears to be the focus of and therefore NOT a scrutiny or perspective of the Hollywood actor and legend Joan Crawford. In other words the legendary film star is here mutually exclusive to that of the mother status,which should be judged accordingly. Beneath this exterior layer of the film's topical title the reviewed focus of it is that of memory,here contextualised within the framework of daughter Christina's retrospective view of her Mother. In this respect the film quite correctly illustrates and to that end highlights the cognitive functions of the human brain's capacity to be selective with memory. Selective memory distorts and corrupts perspective. The film's editor seems adept at graping this, and is therefore able to illustrate adopted daughter, Christina's memory as a distorted montage of fragmented images. From a philosophical perspective image as in that conjured up by memory is exclusive to that of tangible reality. This culminates in an appropriately loosely edited, one-dimensional view of a mother who just happens to be an actress and film star.The film star status of women actors during Hollywood's golden-era was a result of a hard fought and won career pitted against a then chauvinistic Hollywood film industry where the likes of Ms. Crawford were in fact second-class citizens.As such they were treat accordingly of Victorian male values ingrained in business film moguls such as Louis.B. Mayer who would not take the financial risk of challenging largely,culturally conservative audiences' perspectives of women.For a career woman in a chauvinistic industry this has the potential to bring out the negative side of frustration of any film actor, the traits of which are then portrayed and interpreted as that of abusive behaviour from Joan Crawford in Mommie Dearest. This interpretation of abuse was in fact Victorian discipline which in being administered by a woman is perceived as being unfeminine.Thus Victorian discipline administered by a woman is judged more harshly than if it had been carried out by a man. Indeed, how many images of men administering brutal-style punishment towards children are justified as a result of insubordinate behaviour? Of course this is not to justify Victorian methods of discipline administered towards children which indeed was brutal and cruel by today's standards,which this film's director manages to illustrate very skillfully.However the aspect of the film which works in its favour is that of the said loose-style editing, and its equally accomplished illustration of selective and distorted memory. Kudos also go to the brilliant performance of Faye Dunaway whose acting abilities in the role of 'Mommie dearest' would be the pride of the legendary Joan Crawford as a tribute to her acting skills. "},{"Title":"Is this a drama or a comedy?","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was about 19 or so and thought to myself, OKAY, mother has MAJOR issues, a dash of OCD and was a real b**ch. During the movie, I got confused... I mean, who in their right mind goes through a person's closet, then screams at the top of their lungs at sleeping children NO WIRE HANGERS ???! Am I missing something? At first, I thought it was funny and then after watching the movie further, saw it was a bit more serious and although certain scenes had some drama it was mixed with tongue-in-cheek humor.Waking children up in the middle of the night to help her fired mother chop roses and trees was a bit on the funny, oddball side.I do remember hearing that this movie is not fact based. Christina tells how she was treated, but the other kids that Joan adopted tell a totally opposite tale.What I don't understand is at the end during the will reading, the lawyer said that there were no provisions made for Christina or Christopher. Now, Christina, I understand and as will you if you watch the film; but why penalize Christopher? He didn't do anything in the movie to suggest that he was a bad boy. In closing, some scenes were very funny, some satirically funny and some were plain old-fashioned drama. I'd rate this a cult classic comedy/drama.Only thing that was just a wee bit off was Mr. Mayer's portrayal in the movie, his accent was wrong (Look at L.B. Mayer's real place of birth) and you will understand my remark. "},{"Title":"Love it for what it isn't","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are spoilers in this review.It sounded like a good idea at the time  Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford, in a movie based on Christina Crawford's book `Mommie Dearest'.  I can imagine Miss Dunaway cruising down PCH circa 1979, her ear glued to a pre-cellular car phone saying `tell them I'm on board for the part.'  Since the film's release, she has publicly stated that this part nearly ruined her career.First off, with the help of a little makeup and shoulder pads, Dunaway is a dead ringer for Crawford, including the exceptionally scary eyes, probably left over from `Eyes of Laura Mars'.  Brave little Mara Hobel does a wonderful job as little Christine, while Diana Scarwid's wandering eyes and strange inflections impart the sense of lifelong damage that comes from an adoptive mother who beats her.  The sets, the cars, the costumes, the makeup, and the clothes all work successfully to impart the sense of a particular time, especially Crawford's nightmarishly spotless house with its offset navy blue and bone-white. Enough talk, on to the bloodbath.  It takes a particularly refined touch to produce a campy film.  John Waters does it beautifully in `Hairspray', and he did it intentionally.  Not so for director Frank Perry, who probably thought he was creating an enduring work of art.  Watching Dunaway's overacting, one can imagine him behind the scenes  `play it broader, Miss Dunaway.  Broader!'.  Take two.  And then each successive take mounts upon the bones of the last one until we have Dunaway, with oatmeal on her face, on her hands and knees in the middle of the night, in the bathroom beating her daughter with a package of scouring powder.  `Broader!' yells Perry, and then Dunaway stands up, says `you figure it out', crosses her eyes, and turns away slowly.  Now the camera cuts to Christina, who looks like a chastised poodle with a spot of powder on the tip of her button nose.  `Jesus Christ,' she says.  My God what a brilliantly awful film. For fans of this beautiful dud of a film, I would like to make a recommendation  if you happen to be in San Francisco and `Mommie Dearest' is showing at the Castro Theater, please go see it.  Trust me on this one, the film takes on a whole new meaning, and you'll realize how such a bad film can be so good.  Let's just say the audience interacts with the film. "},{"Title":"The film that epitomizes the notion of 'guilty pleasure'...","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It's interesting to note that the performance of Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford -Cristina's titular Mommie Dearest- earned her the 41st place in the American Film Institute's Top 50 list of movie villains. And the infamous No wire hangers, ever! is the 72nd in the Top 100 list of classic movie quotes. This is not bad for the Razzie Picture winner of 1981, and not every masterpiece in the world reached this level of recognition. The point of this introduction is not to serve as an alibi for Mommie Dearest which is not, by any means, a 'great film', but just to comprehend that it's hard to judge it with a reasonable objectivity when you know how the film became one of these cult-classics so bad they are enjoyable. In a certain way, the opposite treatment can be used for movies that were so good they became boring, the very reason why Mommie Dearest might be more popular than an objectively superior film like say, Reds, Beatty's epic from the same year or The English Patient. You see, I'm still puzzled with the case of Mommie Dearest, a movie that impacted me when I was a kid, before I started noticing its obvious flaws in the first viewing as an adult. I can understand why the film garnered so many Razzie nominations (except for the little girl and the maid, who did a decent job in my opinion), but it would be a lie to say that I don't enjoy watching Mommie Dearest. Or am I simply describing the symptoms of what is commonly known as a guilty pleasure? Mommie Dearest is the adaptation of Christina Crawford's controversial yet best-selling confession of the abuse she was victim of, as the adoptive daughter of Joan Crawford, during the years where the legendary icon faced sentimental troubles, struggles with major studios and alcoholism. If the book caused significant damages on Joan Crawford's legacy, it also inspired one of the most memorable movie villains on a pure dramatization's level. Joan Crawford, played by Faye Dunaway, belongs to the kind of over-the-top characterizations that elevate a film to cult-popularity in such efficiency that it's impossible to imagine the role played otherwise. It did ruin Faye Dunaway's career- the star doesn't even want to be reminded of this role- yet, it's probably one of those she would be most remembered of. But saying it's a good performance would be a stretch, the role works because Mommie Dearest has the appeal of a horror B-movie (or a Thursday afternoon's TV film at best) with a one- dimensional villain and an extraordinary claustrophobic confinement in a mansion that gets more and more maddening as the rivalry between 'Mommie Dearest' and 'Cristina Darling' progresses. The only problem is that the director, whatever his name is, didn't intend to make a B-movie and I suspect he probably imagined his film consecrated in the Oscar's ceremony.The main handicap of Mommie Dearest is not Faye Dunaway's performance, she does a good job and so does the actress who plays the little daughter (inexplicable Razzie nomination), the problem relies on the script and the narrative structure. The film does a great job showing how a maniac and sociopath's germ-freak Joan Crawford was (I mean, the character) but there's such insistence on this aspect that there's no room left for the 'why', the 'how' that can provide more insights about the reasons of such misery, of such horrific and tormenting behavior. All we do through the film is to witness shocking and disturbing displays of child abuse, in a series of totally disjointed episodes. At one scene, Joan is glad for having won the Oscar for his role in Mildred Pierce, the next scene she has her mental breakdown with the infamous wire hanger moment. Why is Joan harassing Cristina? Is there a wound she's trying to conceal? Does she have any redeeming quality for God's sake, that can justify for instance why the good-hearted Carol Ann (the maid) is so loyal? So many interrogations kept answer-less while we're left with a series of confrontations where either Joan or Cristina has the last word. Whether it starts with dolls, a swimming race, a rare steak to finish, wire hangers, it just goes worse and worse until the last showdown where it turns into a grotesque cat fight.The film flirts with ridiculousness when it tries to shock precisely because of this lack of psychological or rational substance, highlighting its failure as a character study or biopic drama. At the end, it's just the nightmarish journey that can't lead to a conclusion other than a symbolical spit on the grave of a real-life bitch. Maybe the trauma was still so present in Cristina's heart that she couldn't put things into perspective and then vented a terrible anger and frustration on her book.Indeed, this is Cristina's version, probably foreshadowed by the film's closing line where you could grasp a desire of revenge in her look. But again, the bitterness was still present, and the portrayal of Crawford too one-dimensional. And maybe that's what prevented the film from being a 'bad movie' the hyperbolic portrayal of the mentally disturbed actress. Mommie Dearest is good despite itself when it tries to be a 'serious' film but can't fool a serious movie buff. Still, it doesn't prevent it from a certain quality that makes many average movies with a certain level of entertainment. The film features many memorable scenes, an unforgettable performance by Faye Dunaway, and overall, the result is so 'impacting' that one thing is certain (to paraphrase the film's lamentable tag-line) it won't leave you indifferent. So I might feel guilty for having enjoyed the film but strangely, I feel even guiltier for giving it only a 6. "},{"Title":"Underrated and wrongfully panned","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest is one of the best movies I've ever seen! It has been wrongfully panned by critics due to its perception of Joan Crawford, a truly great actress. To watch this movie, you must set aside all your past views on Joan Crawford so that you may take into account the story of her daughter, Christina.Christina Crawford, adopted by Hollywood royalty Joan Crawford, has her story told in this disturbing and saddening film. If your looking for an enlightening movie that will make you jump up and down with happiness, don't rent Mommie Dearest. I will admit his movie has little to no happy moments, but life is not always happy and doesn't always end happy.Mommie Dearest is realistic in way that you would not expect coming from the home of a Hollywood legend.It features Faye Dunaway in, what I consider, one of her best roles. She is absolutely stunning as Joan Crawford.Although the way Joan Crawford is viewed in this film is controversial, you have to admit that it was a good movie whether you believe she was abusive or not. Give it a chance and you'll see that its a great movie with great performances and very memorable scenes. "},{"Title":"Scary Mama","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Faye Dunaway reportedly disowns this film. She doesn't want to talk about it. If I were Faye, I'd be basking in the glory of giving the most over-the-top, shrillest, bitchiest, most manical performance in screen history. This film is based on the tell-all memoir by Joan's adopted daughter, Christina. However, if you have read the book, the film version of MOMMIE DEAREST stands alone as one of the worst (and most enjoyable) movies that scream out, What was anybody thinking??? This is basically the plot Joan feels that her movie career is in a donward spiral. She decides to adopt a baby, naming her Christina. The rest of the film is just knee-slapping fun. Christina mouths off at Joan. Joan spanks her and locks her in a closet. Joan then attempts to make Christina eat raw meat; Christina refuses, so Joan leaves it on her plate and announces, You will have dinner in your room alone and you will eat everything on that plate! More fun begins when Joan finds a wire hanger in Christina's closet. NO WIRE HANGERS...EVER! Joan screams. This scene is memorable for many reasons...especially Dunaway in a flowing black cape with her face smeared with cold cream and a bandana holding her hair back, complete with VERY red lipstick. When Christina grows up, Joan hates her even more, grabbing her and throwing her on the floor while Christina screams, MOMMIE!MOMMIE!MOMMIE! Oh, and I forgot to mention the scene where Joan chops off Christina's hair with scissors, wailing I'd rather you go BALD to school than looking like a TRAMP! Then there is the heartwarming scene where a drunken Joan chops down all of the flowers in her garden, and when she decides to chop down an orange tree, she screams Tina! Bring Me The Axe! Another famous line Don't f**k with me, fellas! This ain't my first time at the rodeo! I could go on and on, but I must say that MOMMIE DEAREST is the best bad movie ever. Edward D. Wood, Jr. would have loved to get his hands on this. "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest is a film with absolutely no energy. It has scenes of raging tempers and even disturbing scenes of Faye Dunaway's Joan Crawford abusing her daughter in despicably psychotic ways, but the film is completely devoid of any recognizable pace, and if a pace is not recognizable, then what good is it? It's not a story. It's an anthology of scenes, but in chronological order, I guess. I speculated that it was perhaps directed with Raging Bull's brooding style in mind, but the fundamental element of a troubled portrait like Raging Bull is the consistency of the gradual psychological self-destruction of its portrayed character. Mommie Dearest tells the story of a woman who adopts a girl, loves her, abuses her, treats her well, abuses her again, treats her well, has an affair, treats her well, hates her, loves her, etc. There is nothing shown to be driving Joan Crawford to be this way. It's a psychological drama without the psychology.The story is given no background. Only scenes of face value that don't elude to anything underneath. This backfires so badly upon the story that we're given the very incorrect feeling that Crawford led a very insulated life with her daughter, son, nanny, and occasional husband. If Christina Crawford's book is written anything like this, the ambiguity of it that has been commented on to no end---is it fact or fiction---is very clear It's fiction. The least the story could do would be to show Joan Crawford doing what she did Having lavish balls at her mansion constantly, scores of affairs, making several movies and having several arguments. These additions would not be gratuitous because having them would fill in her character's blanks perhaps. It would give us more to go on. Are we to believe her character only acts like this because she grew up poor? That could easily be part of it if she did in fact torture her daughter, but there is no possible way that could be the punctuation of her doings.The film's lack of vibe doesn't only come from the story's incomplete condition. It also comes from what I could easily consider to be literally the most stilted and unnatural acting I've ever seen. Faye Dunaway is passionate, temperamental, overdriven wild animal by the numbers. She is not terrible like nearly every male member of the cast, but a truly effective performance, once again like in Raging Bull, or any other docudrama, would be one that does not simply rely on enacting the documented losses of temper or any other external facet of the character but understands the internal intentions, whether they be intellectualized or simply felt. Aside from her, the cast is full of actors who seem scripted with every nuance of their performances. They are bad. Bad. For instance, one scene involves a fight between Crawford and the first of her lovers that the film cites, and as Dunaway recalls her lines and juxtaposes them with almost rhythmic gesticulation with no feeling, her lover delivers lines with the worst, most clearly scripted and transparently directed inflection. You see, when I write a review here, and I'm talking about the actors, I shouldn't even have to say words like inflection, gesticulation, recalling her lines, etc. A good performance from an actor uses those things the way a writer uses the. The film's high point is the infamous wire-hanger scene. It truly is scary. But as the film continues, it seem to forget about this scene, just as it forgets about every scene that precedes another. When the film reaches its dramatic closing line, fades out, and rolls the credits with quietly dramatic music, we're wondering what hit us. "},{"Title":"Mommie Dearest in the Eyes of Christina Crawford","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The film Mommie Dearest is one of the highlights to hit the motion picture screen in 1981. Faye Dunaway performs brilliantly in this spine tingling thriller about the life between Joan Crawford and her adopted daughter, Christina a.k.a. Christina Darling or Tina Darling. Not too many references are made to Crawford's former marriages nor mention of her adopted twin daughters. The film basically concentrates on Christina and a little on Christopher (her adopted brother) who struggle with the incessant need for a cleanly house, stringent rules, and the constant baritone harangues of their mother, Mommie Dearest. As a child growing up, Christina seems to have the need to compete, only this competition is forceful stubbornness and pride. Tina will not allow herself to be broken by her mother. Instead, she puts up a numb front, which carries into her teenage and adult years. Eventually, the girl becomes numb to her mother's abuse until the very end when she feels the need to be loved by her mother. Nevertheless, Christina Crawford was a dutiful daughter who loved her mother and acknowledged to her constantly of her undying love for her, yet she never really knew if her mother loved her or just used her as a form of Hollywood publicity. The film itself is an excellent portrayal of the life of a Hollywood star's child, the glamor that follows with that life, and the consequences of being totally wrapped up in that lifestyle. The film print color, direction, plot, sets, and music are marvelous and worth any movie watcher's time. The music was performed and conducted by Mr. Henry Mancini and is most indicative of the star, Ms. Joan Crawford. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Portrait of a Movie Legend","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Upon reading the 'awards and nominations' list for Mommie Dearest I was disappointed to see that it received several 'Raspberry' nominations. Having seen the film I throughly believe that tbe nominations were unjustified. Both Faye Dunaway (as Crawford) and Mara Hobel (as Christina) unarguably deserved Oscars for their stunning portrayals of a mother who was constantly teetering on the edge of insanity and a daughter forced to bear the brunt of her mothers violent and often disturbing outbursts.Despite the film losing momentum in the years of Christiana's adulthood (Diana Scarwid gives a lacklusture performance) it is in the early years that we see the full, horrifying power of this disturbing mother/daughter relationship. The worst moment for me was Crawford savagely cutting Christiana's hair to shreds for simply imitating the preening Crawford in the mirror.Perhaps the film received the nominations and the ridicule simply for revealing the truth about this 'beloved' screen star, a woman who did not have the mindset or the capabilites to raise children. "},{"Title":"Watch It Again, Please . . .","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw Mommie Dearest opening day at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles and thought it stacked up with Myra Breckenridge as one of the worst films I've ever seen.So why, 25 years later is it still compelling? Two words Faye Dunaway.I know of no other film ever made in which ONE individual (Miss Dunaway, here) so utterly controlled what ended up on the screen. Including Joan Crawford.Frank Perry (Director) was clearly intimidated by Miss Dunaway. Let's not name the rest of the staff and crew. The writers (seven or more of them) delivered some of the campiest lines ever written. Performed, incidentally, by Miss Dunaway with all the melodramatic profundity of Shakespeare.Irene Scharaff (costumes) claimed you had to throw a piece of raw steak into Miss Dunaway's dressing room to distract her, before entering for a consultation.Let's stick instead with what's on the screen.Watching it again over 25 years later, I'm stunned by what IS actually on the screen. It's not nearly the travesty I recall.What's on the screen is an actress giving her all, without any support from script or director or editor. Were it not for Dunaway's shocking, controversial portrayal, Mommie Dearest would have sunk into oblivion years ago. Laugh though you may at some sequences, the film remains highly disturbing, even moving, for Dunaway's performance. It matters not whether this is the real Joan Crawford. This is a real sociopathic mother, to anyone who's ever had one.Mommie Dearest is no more real about its star than Baby Jane was real about Bette Davis or Joan Crawford.What's truly tragic about Mommie Dearest is that no one else connected with the picture had the strength of commitment of Faye Dunaway. Not the supporting cast, nor writers, nor director, nor producers nor studio.Miss Dunaway's performance in Mommie Dearest is what actors DO. They give their everything. If they give too much, they expect professional directors and editors to help shade their performances.Stars also expect support from the supporting cast, who here are far better than I remember on first viewing.Mara Hobel (young Christina) is superb.Diana Scarwid is a good actor, but was unable to shed the traces of her birth accent (Savannah, GA) -- which is jarring for the character of a young woman supposedly raised from infancy in Southern California. Ridding oneself of regional accents is ALSO what actors are supposed to do. (Joan Crawford, for instance, was from Texas and Oklahoma.) Scarwid either didn't or couldn't.Rutanya Alda is excellent and even heartbreaking as she convincingly ages in the fictional role of Crawford's lifelong secretary / assistant.If the script and director had lived up to Miss Dunaway's commitment to this project, Mommie Dearest could have been a masterpiece. Queen Lear. They didn't.It's not Miss Dunaway's fault. Though eternally unfinished, underwritten, underdirected and underproduced, Mommie Dearest forever remains a testimony of what acting and cinema are all about -- when the process fails.But it doesn't fail, thankfully, for Dunaway's raw performance, which is still and always will be one of the most astonishing ever captured on film. "}{"Title":"I'm NOT mad at YOU, I'm MAD at the DIRT","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As if someone else needs to, I must profess my undying love for, simply put, one of the best worst movies ever made.  The movie is so horrible, so utterly out-of-line and lacking in narrative, that I feel near nausea when I put it in the VCR approximately once a week.   God help any friend of mine who says they have not seen Mommie Dearest. I converted two people this weekend, and both are now happily reciting the lines incessantly (but not as incessantly as me). Getting to the point, the film's flaws make it truly brilliant. The movie takes itself so seriously and has absolutely no scenes of intentional comedy that it is a damned gold-mine of laughs.  Listen as Faye stumbles on her words when she's dragging Tina to the pool closet.  Laugh in horror as Carol Ann ages.  Shriek with giddy delight when Tina tells Christopher to strap yourself in.  I could go on.  And on. And on.  The acting ranges from the severely sedated (Rutanya Alda, Diana Scarwid) to the sublimely mediocre (Mara Hobel) to, well, the heights of Faye Dunaway.   With the advent of DVD and all that it can do for films, I see no reason not to put Mommie Dearest in a double disc DVD streaming with extras.  The trailer alone would be a euphoric delight.   So I now hand over the torch to the next person awaiting his or her turn to state why YOU love Mommie Dearest.  And remember, IF YOU CAN'T DO SOMETHING RIGHT, DON'T DO IT AT ALL...I'M NOT MAD AT YOU, I'M MAD AT THE DIRT...IS THAT THE ONE YOU LIKE THE BEST?  THEN THAT'S THE ONE YOU CAN KEEP!...I'M BIGGER, AND I'M FASTER, AND I WILL ALWAYS BEAT YOU...THERE'S NOT A SINGLE COVER UP IN THIS CITY THAT I DON'T KNOW ABOUT AND YOUR HAND IS IN EVERY ONE OF THEM YOU WREAK OF IT!...TAKE OUT THAT BITCH OF A BEARING WALL AND PUT A WINDOW WHERE IT OUGHT TO BE!...DON'T F*** WITH ME FELLAS, THIS AIN'T MY FIRST TIME AT THE RODEO! "},{"Title":"Tombstone","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I resisted to see Mommie Dearest for years but last night I lost a bet and I was forced to sit through it. Surprise. It didn't provoke what I thought it was going to provoke. Nothing personal really. A bad TV movie, cheap in every department, the production design, the hair and make up, the script, oh my God, the script. I never read Christina Crawford's book, maybe it was this amateurishly bad. Anne Bancroft was first going to play Crawford but fortunately she came to her senses. Dunaway has been paying the price ever since. You don't mess around with Crawford, didn't she know that? Other than the outrageous performance by Faye Dunaway, Diana Scarwid gives her Christina a certain amount of dignity, perhaps more dignity than Christina deserved. The supporting cast seems like a round up of the last resort. Atrocious. So much so that it's not even funny. I bet Joan Crawford is turning in her grave unsure whether to cry or to laugh. "},{"Title":"A camp classic?  An unforgettable laugh riot?  You can have it.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As a child, my parents took me and my sister to the movies (this was the early 1950s) every week when the double-bill changed.  Occasionally, the second feature (Torch Song, Female on the Beach, The Story of Esther Costello) featured an actress named Joan Crawford, whose gargoyle face was scarier to me than any horror film  we saw. Years later, when the studios released their old film libraries to television, I discovered that, when she was younger, that same Joan Crawford was not only a first-rate actress (Mildred Pierce) but when she was VERY young, naturally beautiful and vulnerable (Grand Hotel). When I became a member of the movie business (journalist, publicist), I loved hearing stories from the old-timers on film crews who had worked with the screen legends way back when.  One of their favorites was Joan Crawford, whom all agreed was the best, most loyal and caring  friend one could ever wish for. In the late 1970s (a few years after Miss Crawford's death), New York Magazine ran excerpts from a forthcoming book called Mommie Dearest, written by Ms. Crawford's adopted daughter, portraying her mother as the ultimate witch-from-hell.  It--and the book (which I had no interest in reading, the excerpts were more than enough)--caused a sensation.  Most of the film people I knew who had known Miss Crawford were outraged, claiming Christina had made the whole thing up to cash in on her departed mother.  A few others simply shook their heads, sadly. When Mommie Dearest was made into a movie, I was invited to a press screening but skipped it when a friend of mine at Paramount told me it was utter garbage (I was never a Faye Dunaway fan anyway, finding her as cold and off-putting as the middle-aged Joan Crawford).  The reviews of the film were terrible, but within weeks, journalist friends informed me that a phenomenon had taken place--the movie had become an instant camp classic, with audience-participation unrivalled since The Rocky Horror Picture Show.  Moviergoers flocked to the theaters showing Mommie Dearest, armed with wire hangers and cans of Ajax.  I was amused, but not enough to check it out. A year later the film hit HBO and I finally watched the damned thing.  I wasn't bored, but saddened.  The tale of an an aging movie actress, over 40, put out to pasture by the major studios, and driven by loneliness to alcoholism and then to child abuse didn't strike me in the least bit amusing.  (Nor do I enjoy scenery-chomping performances like the nauseating freakshow given by Miss Dunaway--whom many of my friends had worked with and, for the most part, disliked intensely.) I'm glad the majority of the comments on the IMDB website find immense enjoyment in this admittedly one-of-a-kind movie. I find it clammy, clumsy and depressing.  As over-the-top and shrill as it is, I'm afraid Christina Crawford's account of Life With Mama is, for the most part, basically true.  And alcoholism and child-abuse are not, for me, sources of entertainment. In her later years, Joan Crawford was obviously a very disturbed and unforgivably cruel parent to her two children. Perhaps the most telling remark about the uproar caused by Mommie Dearest (the book, not the movie) came from the always gracious and intelligent Eve Arden (a friend of Miss Crawford's with whom she appeared in Mildred Pierce). Asked by a reporter if she thought the allegations brought against Miss Crawford by her daughter were true, Miss Arden paused and then said  Joan tried to be all things to all people.  But the one thing she never should have tried to be was a mother.  "},{"Title":"Awful but Fascinating","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One tip-off to the badness of this picture is the eyebrows. They dominate every scene in which they appear. You can't take your eyes off them - they're frickin' weird, idiotic, laughable.The eyebrows provide insight into the thinking of the director and writers of this picture. They apparently saw this project an exercise in camp, with total focus on Joan's off-the-charts weirdness. J.C. was obviously weird, but the creators could have made a much more interesting picture by offering a nuanced portrayal.For the record, Joan Crawford's eyebrows were not invariaby laughable, and she was not always wacky. She was extraordinary. She was alive. She was more alive than 99 percent of the women of her generation. She was a handful, to use an outmoded phrase - much too interesting and vital for the hacks who wrote and directed this film.The creators could have paid more attention to Joan's courage in defying the pigs who ran Hollywood and tried to tell her what to do. They could have played up the failure of mainstream doctors to help her through hormonal craziness. (She had big-time hormones, no doubt about it.) They chose not to do those things, opting instead for wacky eyebrows and weirdness. They made laughability the heart of the film and made a joke of Joan Crawford. (The impulse to make a joke of things was common in the '70s. See, for instance, what happened to the James Bond franchise via the oh-so-funny Roger Moore.)All of that said, Mommie Dearest is fascinating if you're obsessed with show biz and can't get enough of the backstory, no matter how wackily it's presented. (I'm right there with ya.) I like the glimpses of 1930s Hollywood homes. I like many of the performances.Someone should write a decent book about how the entertainment business is portrayed in movies and on TV, examining this film, Entourage, Sunset Boulevard, Tootsie, Coal Miner's Daughter, A Star Is Born, Gods and Monsters, In a Lonely Place, Barton Fink, etc. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable how misunderstood this film seems to have been.","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. This film is in no way a comedy, nor cult, nor overacted, nor deserving of any Razzies or any other such nonsense. Okay, I did think the young Christina Crawford was a little over the top, but I can completely believe that any daughter of a glamorous and pampered movie star would behave in much the same way. Faye Dunaway's performance is fearless, brutal, complex, even vulnerable, and absolutely unforgettable. I found her character's behaviors incredibly disturbing to watch, and incredibly cathartic, because I was raised a mother who Dunaway's character reminds me of often in this film. Even though most people apparently though the wire hanger scene was ridiculous, to me it rang absolutely true. I honestly had no idea the film was so poorly received when it came out; I was shocked. I love this movie, and it's one of those films I can watch again every few months. I would ask the critics who poke fun at the film to go back and watch Sunset Boulevard again, a brilliant movie I've never heard a bad word about, go and revisit Norma Desmond and all of her vanity and psychosis, so haunting and unforgettable, and tell me again if Faye Dunaway's performance is over-acted. "},{"Title":"Be glad she's not YOUR mother","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" On paper, I'm sure it sounded like a great idea build a movie around Christina's Crawford's bestselling and scathing memoir about growing up with her psycho movie star mother and get Faye Dunaway, a highly respected actress basking in the afterglow of her first Oscar win, to star.They couldn't have been more wrong. Mommie Dearest is highly entertaining, but clearly not in the way they intended.First of all, this truly is Faye's movie. She steals the whole show from start to finish, leaving a path of death and destruction in her wake. Almost every line of hers is delivered over-the-top and with excessive emphasis. She speaks about removing socks, cleaning floors, remodeling apartments, and wire hangers as though lives hang in the balance and as a result, most of the dialogue is hilarious and highly memorable. Whether or not you love or hate her performance, this movie would not have been the same without her. Anne Bancroft, the original choice, might have acted more realistically but would this movie have been as much fun? Absolutely not! While Faye rants and raves and devours entire set pieces whole, the rest of the cast barely seems to register a pulse. All of Faye's co-stars act as though they were carved out of wood, speaking in a subdued manner, sometimes almost whispering. The possible exceptions are Mara Hobel, who plays young Christina, and Diana Scarwid, the adult/teenage Christina, who has one big scene where she comes out of her coma. Of course, their acting when emoting is so awful that it only adds to the hilarity. Diana Scarwid's stilted and hesitant delivery will especially make you cringe. The co-stars all tend to blend together after a while as they are clearly just there for Joan to annihilate.A key to a good film is that it tells a story the audience can follow and progresses naturally. This movie has no sense of time or flow. The audience is hardly ever told what year it is or how old Christina is supposed to be in a given scene. Events just happen without explanation Joan wins an Oscar then celebrates by beating her daughter with wire hangers. Joan raves about getting a part in some unknown movie; a few scenes later, she gets fired by MGM. Joan gets married, argues with the husband about money for two minutes, then he dies. Christina checks in and out of a strict Catholic boarding school seemingly overnight.Speaking of story, the film can't decide whose story it wants to tell. For a book that is about Christina's struggles the movie is predominantly about Joan. Seeing as how Christina wasn't born yet, I seriously doubt she was there to see her mother give a Lifetime-Movie-Of-The-Week diatribe to an adoption agency or yell at the maid for not cleaning under the potted plants or have sex in the shower. One wonders if the movie would have been taken more seriously if they had just dropped the pretense of strained mother-daughter relations and flat-out made it a Joan Crawford biopic.When the movie does decide to tell Joan Crawford's story, it can't seem to get it right. It depicts MGM as firing her (she left), she interacts with an assistant and a boyfriend who never existed, her third husband and two youngest daughters are retconned out (Christopher, the only other child seen, barely gets maybe five minutes of screen time), and for a film whose main character is a movie star, she's hardly ever seen working. This is especially jarring if you look her up on this site and see that she made movies practically nonstop from 1925 to 1970. There's not even a mention of her arch-nemesis, Bette Davis.Bad reviews and a camp following have scarred Fune Dunaway for life after making this movie. I can't say I blame her. She probably thought this movie would bring her a second Oscar. Instead, it brought her a Razzie. If she had pulled back a little, had better editors, a coherent script, and competent co-stars she might have cleaned up on Oscar night.But alas, all we can do is laugh and cry with Faye as she gives a career-defining... and career-ending performance. Regardless of how you look at it, one thing's for sure you won't be able to take your eyes off of her. "},{"Title":"I can handle the socks- Can you handle the laughs?","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest- those two words send me (and countless others) into a fit of giggles. When I initially saw this movie as a high school junior, it really disturbed me. I was genuinely troubled by the abusive scenes in the earlier part of the film. However, even as a 17 year-old, I found a lot of unintentional humor in the movie- so much so that I was compelled to reenact several scenes for my friends (who thought the movie sounded hilarious). By the time college rolled around, I was introducing my friends to this movie whenever they came to my house. With a couple of years of drama school under my belt, I knew the necessary ingredients for good acting and good storytelling. The more I saw MD, the more I realized that this movie contains very few- if any- of those ingredients. What it does contain is a plethora of priceless one-liners and glares delivered in moments of high melodrama. And thank heaven those moments never stop! How can you seriously be frightened by a woman who willingly screams Tear down that BITCH of a bearing wall, and put a window where it OUGHT to be!? And wouldn't you think twice about the mental condition of a 60-something woman who tries to play a 28 year-old bride-to-be in a soap opera(Mom loves every minute of it!)? And you gotta love a woman who can effectively emasculate every man in an executive boardroom with such fiery quips as You drove Al Steele to his grave, and now you're trying to stab ME in the back- well FORGET IT! and the rightfully famous Dont' f*** with me fellas! This ain't my first time at the rodeo!. The movie never leaves me empathizing with Christina. Instead, I end up wishing that I could travel back in time to see the real behind-the-scenes Joan Crawford in action! Unfortunately for the real Christina, the movie failed at successfully exploring her anguish and frustrations in her relationship with her mother that were presented in the book. And while some of the scenes are effectively and truthfully played, the majority of the movie relies on over-the-top acting for its entertainment value due to a script and director that were shoddy at best. Fortunately for us, we were left with delightfully entertaining results. "},{"Title":"Judging the Movie Only","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I think it is important to remember that we are only supposed to be reviewing the merit of the movie.  Joan Crawford, the actual person lived most of her life before my time. I have seen her movies and saw what a brilliant actress she was. I also saw her biography and got a chance to see how many of her friends strongly refute the veracity of Christina Crawford's story on which this movie is based. With that being said, I will now proceed to comment on Mommie Dearest as a movie.  It is a very powerful movie mainly because of the performances of Faye Dunaway and Diana Scarwid. I think the two of them deserved more credit for their performance because there are at least two scenes still etched in people's minds even after seeing the movie many years ago. The wire hanger scene and the I'm not one of your fans scene.  Why do you remember?.., because of the acting and probably the directing. Dunaway could easily make Crawford just a monster. I think she allows you to see the complexity behind the character as well.  Much credit should also be given to the makeup artists who turned Dunaway into Crawford. The likeness is amazing.  I rate this movie very highly for those above stated reasons.  "},{"Title":"You figure it out!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The comments read on this movie have been remarkably consistent. Aside from the unintentionally hilarious one-liners, there are many other horrid parts I wanted to comment on to include the horrible dubbing of Joan's voice when she's butchering her flowerbed, the bug-eyed look on her face when she turns to leave the bathroom after torturing Christina with a can of scouring powder, Christina's brother going from infancy to an 8 year old and her remaining a 8-9 year old that time, the age makeup on Joan's housekeeper in the latter half, the teenage and adult Christina speaking with a southern drawl, etc. This is based only partially on the book. Joan's marriage to the Pepsi CEO was kept low-key, and for some strange reason even though he was not a terribly interesting person, it seemed to be a success. Also, no mention was made of her other children she adopted and the lawyer boyfriend and housekeeper were fictional. Joan's extremely humble beginings had apparently started right here in the city I reside, although there are no vital statistics to her ever having been born here. Production was pretty limited; except for Joan's 10,000 square foot home (it even looked air conditioned despite being set in the 1940's, which I don't think homes had back then), the whole movie had a claustrophobic feel. See it if you love badly rehearsed stage plays.  "},{"Title":"Camp at it's Best!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ok, Ok, I know this isn't The Red Shoes or Citizen Kane, but I must admit, over time this thing gets better!  You can't take it seriously or you won't enjoy it.  I've had friends over and put in the DVD and it's 2 hours of Roaring Laughter!  This is the definition of what camp is.  Give it a try if you haven't seen it, but don't expect drama.  If you want to laugh, you will.  Faye Dunnaway to me has one of the best comedic performances you've seen on screen. I heard even Bette Davis was watching this on her death bed so she'd go out laughing! "}{"Title":"Don't let the bad reviews fool you...","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Mommie Dearest has undeservedly been hailed as a camp/cult classic!Too many viewers have dwelled on the famous wire hangers scene and the wild overacting of Faye Dunaway!I think they are missing the whole point!Mommie Dearest was written solely from the view of the child Christina!It is a story of how a famous and abusive celebrity utterly failed at devoloping real relationships!Of course,nobody wanted to make(or view!) a movie about THAT because it would have to run a full course of a lifetime!This is impossible for any film to achieve!So, the best the filmakers can do is present a condensed,sensationalized and watered-down version of little Christina's life with Joan Crawford! And the only way to do this is to present a convincing Joan that viewers can both relate to and be enamored of! Faye Dunaway manages to do this quite well! Aided by a makeup job and the correct costumes Faye Dunaway achieves the LOOK and ESSENCE of Joan Crawford but she blends something else into the concoctionVULNERABILITY! In her opening scenes we witness Joan's early morning rituals of face scrubbing and skin cleansing-all efforts to fight aging and obscurity!Later we see her jogging and rubbing lotion on her elbows-again fighting the inevitable! Joan's failed attempts at a meaningful lovelife and battles to keep her movie career from dying all add credibility to her growing dependence on alcohol and fan adulation!By the movie's end we realize that Joan Crawford destroyed more hearts than just little Christina's-but thanks to the performance of Faye Dunaway we understand (maybe a little better) how and why! "},{"Title":"One of the best (so bad it is good)films!!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a GREAT film to have a laugh with, or at!! Everything is soooo bad, it is good. It seems like some of the historical facts are discarded or messed up altogether, and that is about the only bad part of it. One never knows what year, which scene is in. But there is one scene that I don't understand--near the end, when Christina is accepting an award for her mother--what award was that and what year was that in?? And another thing, is Steve Forrest supposed to be portraying Greg Bautzer? Just wondering. I do like the costumes and make-up for Ms. Dunaway--and in one scene, the one when Christina is taken out of Mrs. Chatsworth's school, and Joan says...Christina, look at me--she actually looks like Joan Crawford with the wild eyed look!! This film has so many memorable lines, and I guess we all have our favorites. But, if you really like Joan Crawford, then you will take this film with a grain of salt and if you don't like Crawford, then nothing is going to change your mind about her. A fun film that is not to be missed.....and I never do!! LOL.  "},{"Title":"A Plea for Interactive Fun....","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  umm what can I say...as an expose of mental/emotional cruelty , the movie is eye-opening.....but at the same time the Crawford family sure knows how to put the FUN is dysfunctional!!!!!!!!!!  This movie, to me, is right up there with Rocky Horror Picture Show, its so over-the-top and outrageously campy, its ripe for parody and will endure for generations!!!!!..I thoroughly look forward to the time when on Friday nights you will see loads of people amble into small theaters dressed up in full crawford/40's regalia.....crowds of people who know every scene, every nuance, who will quote along with the movie and add witty snippets of their own, increasing the mirth. Frankly, this is an idea I feel who's time is due..all those in favor of midnight viewings of Mommie Dearest say AYE!!!!!!!!!!!!!But...if that idea doesnt fly, the movie as AT THE LEAST, RIPE to be on MST 3K!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Too large for ordinary video.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's been two decades since the release of Mommie Dearest, the film.  Much has since been made of whether or not Christina Crawford's scandalous expose' novel was entirely factual.  The real story is lost in time, just like, for example, the so-called twins that Joan Crawford also adopted.  They weren't twins at all, but it suited Joan to say they were.  Strangely enough, it was the twins who benefited from La Joan's will, not Cristina and Christopher, whose ordeal this story chronicles.  A message?  Who can say?This movie can be summed up in two words.  If you're thinking high camp you're missing the point.  The two words are Faye Dunaway.  She's breathtaking.  Dunaway, already an Oscar when she did this film, was totally, and unjustly, snubbed.  But then, check out the winners. It was a time of tedious seriousness in films, so this masterpiece was off their radar.  Christina is 60 now, she's had a stroke and is living on a farm in Idaho.  But even today, Dunaway's legendary performance is recited from memory by legions of fans, and more people remember her portrayal of Joan Crawford than remember the real thing.  In fact, many of the campy scenes we all know and love may have been drawn from Joan's films, not Christina's experience, and again, it is Dunaway we remember, not Joan.I am delighted that a new DVD edition will be released this summer.  Dunaway's performance was always too large for ordinary video. "},{"Title":"Mum's the Word!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mother's Day is this Sunday, and one of my favorite traditions is to curl up in front of the set and watch Faye go on a rampage! Her above-and-beyond-the-call-of-duty performance as Joan is sight to behold. The costumes are a spectacle as well.Everyone has their memorable moments & favorite lines--mine is the part later in the film where Joan stands-in for Christina on the soap opera (The Cue Cards! Hold 'em up where I can see 'em! and It will be GRAAAAAND!).After seeing this film, you'll never look at a Joan Crawford film the same way. In fact, whenever I see a celeb doing a 'heartwarming' family promo, I always wonder what goes on after the cameras are turned off.An uncanny thing about Joan & Faye is that their careers have taken similar paths--both made film-bombs in their later years. So one has to ask, where does Joan Crawford start and Faye Dunaway end...? YOU FIGURE IT OUT! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Great movie. I read the book, and I was a bit disappointed that the movie did not spend more time on Christina's childhood. The spankings that Christina received were not done justice in the movie compared to the book. I agree, though, Joan is one scary lady, in real life or in a film portrayal. "},{"Title":"Dunaway at her best!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Based on Christina Crawford's best-selling memoir of her mother, '40s movie queen Joan Crawford, this film has become a classic for all the wrong reasons - a camp classic so to speak. Oh yes, the film lapses into some rather odd and unintentionally funny moments(the wire hanger scene comes to mind), but as the indomitable Joan Crawford, Faye Dunaway isn't laughing. She plays it so straight that pretty soon you start to believe you really are watching Joan Crawford, not in her private life, of course, but acting in one of her movies. When Dunaway grandly descends down  the staircase in her lavish Hollywood home, one has flashbacks of Crawford as the ruthless Southern matriarch making her grand entrance down the staircase in her flashy evening wear in QUEEN BEE. And when Dunaway is hacking at the tree in the garden in one of her midnight tirades, one immediately recalls Crawford as the axe-wielding mother in STRAIGHT-JACKET. We can only guess that these moments we're not really intended to conjure up memories of Crawford in her movies, but one sequence was, and that's the scene where Dunaway is rehearsing for MILDRED PIERCE, Crawford's 1945 starring vehicle which won her the Academy Award for Best Actress. Dunaway's reading of the famous lineI'm sorry I did that. I would have rather cut off my hand is, in some ways, actually better than Crawford's, and Dunaway should have won an Oscar herself for this film. If the film is amusing, and as I said before, sometimes it is, it isn't because of Dunaway. She is sensational. She is on-screen for most of the film's two hours and she is totally believable every minute of it. Several other major actresses, including Anne Bancroft, were approached for the role, but after seeing Dunaway's triumphant performance, it's tough to imagine anybody else playing the part and giving the movie as much intensity and stature as she did. This is truly one of her best performances. Because of it's camp-cult status, the movie is often referred to as THE MOMMIE HORROR PICTURE SHOW. "},{"Title":"Yikes!!!!!","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  What a dreadful adaptation of Christina Crawford's riveting, well-written book. It's just awful from start to finish - the actress who plays Christina - well, she plays her from around age 14 to almost age 40 - a ridiculous thing that Hollywood often does that I just can't understand - and I don't know if it was that she was an awful actress, or if it's the way the part was written, or a lot of both - but it's just embarrassing. Of course, Faye Dunaway is absolutely terrific - she does the most with what she's got - an awful screenplay - but she runs away with the movie, without a doubt. (By the way, I never doubted Christina's story. I don't believe she ever imagined the huge bestseller that her book would be, and she had many, many witnesses who confirmed most of her stories. Her mother was known as the wicked witch of Hollywood - why would she be different at home - in fact, wouldn't she have been much worse at home? "},{"Title":"EVERY LINE, EVERY SCENE","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Simply put, no other movie exists solely for its one-liners. No need to go into the high camp value or the uncanny/brilliant performance by Faye as Joan, this movie is strung together as a series of nothing but one-scene episodes; there are no actual sequences linking anything together. The bonus is, each of these episodes has classic, unforgettable one-liners; there are simply NO wasted moments in this movie!A couple of years ago, with the re-release author's cut of the book Mommie Dearest by Christina, Town Hall here in NYC held an event to help promote the book (an event which I believe toured the country, hitting SF). It was a MD fan's dream come true. Christina herself showed up to be interviewed by Rex Reed (naturally) and to shamelessly promote her book which only a few select bookstores in NYC sold but for the most part, could be purchased via the internet (classy). If that wasn't enough, drag artist Lypsinka appeared dressed in Joan Crawford drag circa 1970 to recreate Joan's appearance at Town Hall, on the very same stage in the '70s, by lip-synching the entire interview! Surreal, jaw-dropping, heaven!! The most bizarre moment had to have been when Christina presented Lypsinka (who is still dressed up as her MOTHER) with a WIRE HANGER and said, quoting from the movie, Well, something good had to rub off! How do you even comment on something like that? Following all of that hoopla was a screening of the flick, where the ENTIRE audience uttered EVERY SINGLE line of dialogue. Simply fabulous. Appearances were also made by Mara Hobel who played Tina up to age 8 or so and the actress who played Carol Ann who actually kept a diary during the filming of MD! Get this woman to Random House immediately!!!For interesting commentary by Faye, pick up a copy of her autobiography, Looking for Gatsby. She practically sides with Joan Crawford making references to the real Christina as a chilly, removed, spoiled blond girl. Frightening. Or, check out the Oct. 5, 1981 issue of People Magazine with Faye's cover story about being possessed/haunted by Joan during and after the filming.    "},{"Title":"It's So Bad It's Gone Past Good and Back to Bad Again","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I turned it off after an hour of torture. I got halfway through the famous no more wire hangers! scene, and turned it off at the point when Joan Crawford, played by Faye Dunaway, starts beating her daughter with a can of scouring powder; the most over-the-top portrayal of child abuse I've ever seen. And, trust me, I've seen my share of Lifetime Movies.I'm aware that this a so bad it's good movie, and that's the reason why I actually was interested in seeing it. I wanted to check my brain at the door, have some fun, and not feel guilty about it, like I did with Silent Night, Deadly Night 2. I thought that I would actually enjoy it, unlike all of the critics who completely took a dump on it when it first came out (it won six Razzies). But even as unintentional comedy, this movie doesn't work. It's not so bad it's good. It's so bad it goes past good and back to bad again.I did get a chuckle out of the scene where Crawford cuts off her eight-year-old daughter's hair and tells her I'd rather you go bald to school than looking like a tramp!. Even the my babies! Someone stole both my babies! line made me snicker a little. However, the camp-factor loses it novelty very quickly once you realize that the movie is nothing more than Joan Crawford yelling at people and going crazy.About 90% of the dialogue was delivered by screaming people. Crawford screams at her boyfriend, an adoption agency official, movie producers, her maids, her daughter, even the flowers (Tina! Bring me the axe!). There are only two people in the film 1. Joan Crawford, 2. People for Joan Crawford to yell at.Melodrama at its most absurd, but not in a funny way. In an annoying way. "}{"Title":"She's A Bad Mama Jama","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Mommie Dearest will most definitely go down in history as the only movie about child abuse that provokes laughter and giggles from the audience. Faye Dunaway stars as movie queen Joan Crawford in this head-scratching film that leaves the viewer bewildered. This movie is based on the book by Christina Crawford, Joan's adopted daughter. After Joan died, Christina came out with this best-selling book that showed Joan Crawford to be an abusive, obnoxious, sociopathic, alcoholic wreck of a woman. Wow, that sounds like a grand idea for a movie. This has to be seen to be believed. Besides Faye Dunaway acting bonkers, what has made this film such a campy cult classic is the dialogue. Just a few zingers from the movie JOAN (shouting to a clearly scared maid) I'm not mad at you...I'm mad at the DIRT! ; JOAN (about to chop off Christina's hair because Joan thinks that Christina is mocking her) This'll teach you! Why are you always going through my things...rummaging through my drawers..yo're trying to make people look at you? WHY! WHY are you always doing that! (Joan begins to cut Christina's hair) CHRISTINA Mommie, I can't go to school looking like this! JOAN I'd rather you go to school bald than looking like a TRAMP!) The amusement continues when Joan hides all of Christina's dolls after Joan hears Christina lecturing to her dolls the same lectures Joan gives Christina. Need I go on? There is an excruciating sequence where Joan attempts to force Christina to eat raw meat; the famous scene where Joan goes absoulutely nuts when she finds one of Christina's dresses hanging on a wire coat hanger (JOAN NO WIRE HANGERS....EVER! I BUY YOU BEAUTIFUL DRESSES AND YOU TREAT THEM LIKE THEY WERE SOME DISH RAG! 300 DOLLAR DRESS ON A WIRE HANGER!YOU CARE AS MUCH ABOUT THEM AS YOU DO ABOUT ME! I WORK AND WORK UNTIL I'M HALF DEAD AND I HERE PEOPLE SAY SHE'S GETTING OLD!)  "},{"Title":"Camp classic!","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The (allegedly) true story of Joan Crawford (Faye Dunaway) as a very ill woman and a child beater. It's based on the best-selling book by Christina Crawford in loving tribute to her mother.I saw it opening night back in 1981--right from the start no one was taking this film seriously. The infamous wire hangers scene had everyone laughing and it came to the point where people were yelling back at the screen! I had a great time.Seeing it on cable almost 20 years later, it's not as fun. I think you need an audience for this film to work. Some of the lines are still funny (No more wire hangers EVER or Because I'm NOT one of your FANS!!!) but it seemed funnier back in 1981. That aside, the film is well-done, Dunaway is INCREDIBLE as Crawford--she sounds like her, looks like her, hell even WALKS like her! A great performance. The child-beating scenes are not as explicit as they could have been (the movie has a PG rating after all!) but they are disturbing. The final problem with this is--what's the point? We know Crawford beat her children---but WHY? It would have been interesting to get into the psychology of Crawford or at least provide some reason her actions. But as it is, it comes across as a big budget exploitation movie. Funny with an audience, not so funny alone. "},{"Title":"Never able to watch the whole film...Dunaway is strictly a caricature...","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm not even one of JOAN CRAWFORD's biggest fans, but I think what they've done with the novel MOMMIE DEAREST is totally stupid and unworthy of any sort of detailed film comment. Not that I had any hopes that the screen version would be on a quality level with Masterpiece Theatre. Hardly that. But it certainly trashes the movie star with incidents that seem exaggerated to hold the attention.FAYE DUNAWAY's Joan Crawford is the sort of caricature that would be more appropriate on the Carol Burnett Show, where famous screen heroines were often ribbed in their award-winning roles. She indulges in a series of poses guaranteed to draw derisive laughter. There are limits to anyone's patience and even for the sake of a few laughs (or chuckles, to be more exact), this is such a poor imitation of the book that it's no wonder Dunaway had any professional reputation after making it. Not that the novel had any real literary merit, but at least it did provide some insight into Crawford's psyche and the reader was free to decide when creative license was taken.It's all one big clichéd treatment, as glossy and artificial as any Joan Crawford film ever was. Any resemblance between the creature pictured here and reality is purely coincidental...at least that's what the foreword to this film should have warned the audience for the sake of warning the gullible not to believe everything depicted here.This is schlock of the worst kind, an insult to plain intelligence and too scmaltzy to convince me that it rings of the truth. There is no balance to the treatment. All of it is painted in broad strokes that verge on caricature, more and more so as the film goes on.Summing up Worth skipping. Trivial and artificial. "},{"Title":"Fact or Fancy? Still not bad, entertainment wise.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Is this account of the life of Christina Crawford and her mother true? Who knows now since so much has come out about it being more fiction than fact. This film is entertaining if nothing else and Faye Dunaway does do a decent job even if it is camp. If you've never seen it then it's worth viewing. Some of the scenes and the dialog have taken on a cult status which makes this film memorable. "},{"Title":"Christina, Christopher, DAMMIT!!!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I once read a review of this movie that stated Never have the sublime and the ridiculous been so inextricably linked, and this is the perfect way to describe Mommie Dearest. If it strikes a chord with you, you may just find it to be one of the most engrossing movies ever made, although not for any conventional reason. I have watched this film numerous times, both in whole and in part, and I know I'm not the only one.As Joan Crawford, Faye Dunaway is frightening almost from the beginning of the film, where she yells at a maid because the spotless floor isn't clean enough. Dunaway has been in films where her beauty has been allowed to shine, but in this film she almost never appears to be anything other than a facade, as many people felt about the real Joan Crawford. On this level and a few others, her performance is one-of-a-kind. It may not generally be considered brilliant, but anyone who gave more than a passing glance to Joan in the movies will recognize Faye's performance as genius. No wonder this film has inspired legions of drag queens ever since its inception; at the very core of it is an individual for whom everything was a costume and an illusion, including her face. Dunaway gets right to the heart of this. Only a few times does she appear in the film as somewhat vulnerable and even beautiful.What keeps the film from being even remotely serious, however, is that the content of Mommie Dearest is very melodramatic, and the centerpieces of the film are a handful of scenes where Joan blows sky high because one of her bizarre and unexplainable pet peeves has been tweaked. As does the book, the movie contends that Joan Crawford was deeply neurotic. At times, the script requires Faye to be utterly berserk, and yet you can't take your eyes off her no matter how much you may want to look away. Several images in this film are simply unforgettable, like the sight of Joan coming through the doorway of Christina's bedroom on the night of the wire hanger rampage--she looks like a Kabuki nightmare. Could Joan Crawford ever have looked like this in real life? Part of the lunacy of the film is trying to figure out where she was coming from with all of these neuroses. Like, what's the big deal about wire hangers anyway? Where was all of this invisible dirt coming from? Why hack down the rose garden? The movie doesn't even try and explain any of it--thank God, because then it might seem real.I think many people have fought with their mothers, and this film's Joan Crawford is the perfect woman to make you walk on eggshells. Scenes such as Joan screaming at the children for waking her up are both hilarious and terrifying. It's easy to laugh at these episodes (even a harrowing scene where Joan cruelly hacks off Christina's hair) because of the way the script sets them up on screen. I've read the book, which actually makes you understand the anguish of Joan's rampages, but the film makes her look like nothing more than a cross between the Tazmanian Devil and Cruella DeVille. Even in the most violent of her attacks (when she tackles and savagely throttles a teenaged Christina), the movie elicits only shocked laughter.Even to this day, Mommie Dearest remains a unique experience a major-studio film with no real narrative or direction, praised by some critics and panned by most, which features a stunning performance by an Oscar-winning actress, and which also has maintained a steady cult following over the span of several decades. Truly bad films are forgettable. Mommie Dearest is not. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably underrated classic!","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Due to all the negativity surrounding this film, I did not know what to expect, but wow this was really good! Faye Dunaway is extremely over-the-top and absolutely explosive to the point that you never notice anyone else but her on screen, and so is unbelievably entertaining. The film was entertaining to watch, it gave us this idea of what can go in inside the houses of even the richest of people. However, this is certainly not an accurate depiction of the events, and is extremely exaggerated, but nevertheless, I loved it! It was hilarious, without intending to be so. Crawford was a very complicated woman, and a great disciplinarian, but there was something else going on with her that caused her to crack. The NO WIRE HANGERS sequence was hilarious and creepy, and I can see why this film and this scene became camp, with Joan screaming like a madwoman over and over again and spanking her daughter with the hanger. The ending was sad; Joan watching her daughter honor her on television. This film definitely has to be one of the most quotable films ever, because several of the lines have been memorized and cherished (still not in the way intended, because the film can never be taken seriously). All in all, a deliciously entertaining (even if historically inaccurate and unevenly directed) underrated classic! "},{"Title":"When You Polish The Floor, You Have To Move The TREE!","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm not going to try to out-clever what's already been said about Mommie Dearest. I'm going to simply state the reasons why it's such a great film. At the top of the attributes is the name Faye Dunaway. As Andy Warhol said after watching this film, if that's not acting what is?! She IS Joan. They are officially one-in-the-same. The soul of Joan entered Faye's body on the day that the makeup was first applied to Faye's face. All the acting, in fact, is spot-on. Then we have the script. There are so many quotable moments to this film that one might as well just read the entire script - it's a non-stop quotable feast. The sets are gorgeous and I still claim that the most beautiful house in Brentwood set is one the greatest ever. Who can forget those crushed blue velvet sofas and that white bar? The STAIRCASE! The tree in the living room, accomplice in covering up so much dirt! How about the costumes? The gowns are spectacular. I could go on and on and on. In the DVD commentary Frank Yablans indicates that the director Frank Perry could have pulled Joan back a bit during the bring me the axe scene. I ask the simple question WHY PULL HER BACK?! At the end of the day film is meant to entertain. That means many different things to many different people. In my case, this film entertains in spades and that is enough to merit a high rating in my book. You don't like Mommie Dearest? You're most likely a very sour person! "},{"Title":"Good movie about Child Abuse","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommy Dearest is a movie about Child abuse. It brakes down the wall that only poor ghetto people abuse their kids. Faye's performance of Joan Crawford is so real, right on and she nails it. People who are child abuse victims should see this movie. Christina's goal was to reach out to other child abuse victims and to confront child abuse head on as a victim.I have read the book Mommy Dearest . The film seems right on. Christina lives to tell her story. Some child abuse victims never make it out of their childhood alive. Ms Dunaway depiction of Joan Crawford is very believable . Child abusers are psychopaths,, cruel, evil monsters. Child abusers are in every economic class; even among the wealthy. Some Movie stars have publicly admitted to being an abusive alcoholic parent. And other stars have come out as child abuse victims. Christina was an anti child abuse advocate in LA CA . And now works with Native Americans. To read and see Christiana's story about her child abuse, has empowered many and will continue to empower child abuse victims to get help and get healing and to tell their story too. See this movie alone on DVD. I think you will be horrified. And see this movie in a totally different light. "},{"Title":"A Treasure Trove of High Camp","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" When Christina Crawford began tapping out her little poison pen biography, little did she know that the book and film adaptation would become cult and camp classics. Faye Dunaway doesn't ACT as Joan Crawford, she BECOMES Joan. The movie doesn't stray far from the book but what Christina Crawford wrote is acted by Oscar winner Dunaway like she was never going to act again. She might argue that after this movie, she didn't act much, and it is often suggested that she blames this film for her acting demise. Poor Faye forgets her role as Evita Peron in First Lady of Argentina and the soporific Disappearance of Aimee. These were the beginnings of her downward spiral, and I would consider Mommie Dearest a high point in that slow descent. She should embrace the film and the love of gay men all around the world that it has engendered. She delivers her lines and what lines they are...Christina Crawford's word bounce off Faye's razor tongue and then slice through her children. The lines are knives, making little cuts into the psyche of her two adopted children (Crawford adopted four but the other two are never mentioned). Many of the lines are now considered classics and commonly recited by gay men around the world, but more than that, they have reduced the multi decade career of Joan Crawford, to a series of pat clichés recited by drag queens the world over...the most famous being No wire coat hangers EVER However my favorite line is I'm not angry at you Helga, I'm angry at the dirt. Joan had issues with dirt and cleanliness.Faye Dunaway gives a compelling performance, and it also proves that when she was considered one of the greatest actresses of her generation, this was not hyperbole. She is terrifying in this film and goes from controlled charm to unhinged rage in seconds. She has captured all of Joan Crawford in her grandeur and her ugliness. This film was considered, in the year it was released, the worst film and was panned and mocked. The fact is, it was ahead of it's time, and one thing we can say about Faye Dunaway, was that she took her biopic characters seriously. She didn't play dress up, she inhabited the characters. The only thing that could make this a better film is if it were a musical. "},{"Title":"Drama or Comedy?","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest, best selling memoir, turned motion picture, depicts the abusive and traumatic adoptive upbringing of Christina Crawford at the hands of her mother... screen queen Joan Crawford.There seems to be a divide between this film's intentions and what actually ended up being on screen. This was supposed to be a drama, and apparently Faye Dunaway thought she was bound for an Oscar (and has since refused to speak about it). But... um... maybe she was not paying attention to the fact she was acting over-the-top and wearing the makeup of a circus clown? Seen as a campy comedy, this is something of a cult classic. Not great, but still enjoyable in that way that unintentional humor often is. "}{"Title":"What the heck?","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I was upset by how overrated it is given that there were lines included in other movies since this movie came out saying Mommy dearest. A woman beats up a young cherubic child, tells her to clean the bathroom floor, hits her with a wire hanger, and chokes her as an adult. Then, it is said that she died at the end, which is the most sympathetic as this movie can get.This has got to be the worst movie I've ever seen. It's based on a biography by Christina Crawford, Joan's daughter, depicting the life of her evil mother. I did not laugh at the bathroom scene, it scared me!The importance of what makes Mommie Dearest the worst movie ever is its acting and directing, the overacting from six-year-old Christina and she only generates little sympathy from her crying scenes. She looks like a doll. And her mother's awkward acting. The actors have got to be the most awful actors I've ever seen in movie history.I stopped this movie, give me a break. "},{"Title":"A campy guilty pleasure","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Faye Dunaway's breathtaking and endlessly fascinating performance is the primary reason to check out Mommie Dearest, the 1981 camp classic, based on the book by Joan Crawford's eldest adopted daughter, Christina, concentrating on the allegedly dysfunctional relationship between film icon Joan Crawford and Christina. As outrageous and off-the-wall as this film appears, it is still a guilty pleasure of mine with great re-watch appeal.I guess this film could be classified as a biopic, but it's hard for me to come at it from that direction, partially because the film is not really about Joan Crawford, it is a look at Crawford through the eye of her adopted daughter, a somewhat jaundiced and bigoted eye, if the truth be told. It's hard to know exactly if what is presented in this film is fact or fiction, because there are large portions of the book that aren't even addressed in this film. In real life, Crawford adopted two other children who don't even exist in the film, so it's hard to take this film seriously as a biography of the great actress, but more as a one-sided, larger-than-life view of the actress through the eyes of her daughter, who definitely had serious issues with the woman, primarily the fact that, in Christina's eyes, Crawford seemed to care more about her career than her children. It is implied early in the film that Crawford's adoption of Christina was more of a publicity stunt to aid a flailing career than out of a genuine desire to be a mother, but I don't think anyone has a way of knowing if that's really true and I was bothered by the implication, but I digress.The film is completely watchable thanks to an electrifying performance by Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford. Dunaway is mesmerizing and clearly did her homework, obviously watching a lot of Crawford's work before she began filming...there is a scene where Crawford has just been let go from MGM and she gets up and walks slowly out of Louis B Mayer's office and I swear I got chills...the walk was amazing, just one of the many layers that Dunaway brought to the physicality of the character. There are some over-the-top moments, like the infamous wire hanger scene, the cleaning the bathroom scene and the chopping of the rose bushes where Dunaway makes Crawford appear slightly insane, but I don't blame Dunaway for that completely, partial blame has to go to director Frank Perry for not properly reigning in his actress.Two actresses were utilized to play Christina Crawford as a child and as teen/adult Christina. If the truth be told, I much preferred young Mara Hobel's work as young Christina, as opposed to Diana Scarwid, who comes off rather wooden as the adult Christina. Mention should also be made of Rutanya Alda as Crawford's devoted housekeeper Carol Ann and Howard da Silva as Louis B Mayer. Steve Forrest was just miscast as Gregory Savitt, Crawford's on-again off again lover who, according to the film, brokered Christina's adoption through some slightly shady means, a character I'm pretty much convinced was fictional, but despite everything, the film is worth checking out for Faye Dunaway's endlessly fascinating performance as Joan Crawford. "},{"Title":"What is wrong with you people?","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" What do I mean by you people?! I mean you internet critics, are you just so pretentious that not even good movies are up to your standards? If it isn't a Christopher Nolan or James Cameron film then it's just garbage? Okay, preference in movies is opinionated I get that. But as film critics you are not there to judge overall films by simple minded Duhhhh did I like it? No you are supposed to break them down in characters, story, imagery, acting, scenery and dialog. Also you won't be able to correctly judge a film without empathy.Sorry, I just wanted to make sure people understood how to critique a film. Because for this film to win almost a dozen Razzies one of which being The worst film of the decade for 1980's clearly shows the majority of critics forgot how to critique a film. I guess it's possible the Razzies never had a sense of good judgement to begin with but wouldn't there be at least one person there who would come out and say Maybe the films we make fun of aren't bad maybe we're just stupid? sadly it hasn't happened it.Anyways on to the movie... Mommie Dearest is a movie adaptation of a book written by Christina Crawford the adopted daughter of Joan Crawford. The book is about Christina's childhood and relationship with her mother, who is a famous actress. The book showcases alcoholism, child abuse, child neglect and the cold harsh reality of Hollywood. The book was praised by many writers but it was also lashed at by many of Joan's friends. The book had caused a bit of controversy whether or not it was true. Christina's brother was mentioned in the book to have witnessed many events. He defended Christina and the book saying I never for one moment believed our mother loved any of us. It was all about publicity for her.This is important to the film because it was around this time the book had become a large debate. Many said it gave Joan a bad image and those claims were not true. This is where the comedy claim comes in, afraid whether the events were true or not as well as the growing reputation the film was a comedy the producers decided to add a tagline Meet the biggest MOTHER of them all but they never claimed it to be a comedy. It was not because the movie bombed at the box office, as a matter in fact it did the exact opposite. The budget and cost was 5 million, they made 39 million if that's a bomb to you then you failed basic math.Faye Dunaway's performance in this film is some of the best acting in film. Joan Crawford was over the top, she was the queen of being over the top. Faye not only portrayed the pain and suffering of what it was like to be an aging female actress in the cutthroat Hollywood world but her desire to be loved and adored. The scenes of child abuse are chilling. If you think the coat hanger scene is funny, I'm sorry but there's something wrong with you. A child being beaten with a coat hanger shouldn't come off as funny, unless the child is the kid from the Star Wars prequels.In all seriousness if a friend wanted to see a good example of acting I'd show him this film. Faye is not only gorgeous but extremely terrifying, it's such a misconception that it only makes her more evil. Faye playing as Joan... yeah I can't help but find that attractive. She lures you in then makes you regret it. I will admit later in the film we see an older Christina Crawford and yeah that acting is slightly odd but if you were beaten with coat hangers, yelled at then sent off to a boarding school cause you were the one being bad you would be slightly off too.I don't really like drama movies, hell I'm a comic book nerd. I do reviews of video games. I shouldn't be the voice of reason here! I will repeat myself for the morons over at the Razzies... actually considering how incredibly idiotic they are I should say their name to get their attention, might be a good idea to jingle keys in front of their face just to keep it long enough to say this but whatever.David Denby / New York Magazine David Sterrittt / Christian Science Monitor ...Christian Science what is that the Justice League for Religion and Atheist? And of course the ring leader Head RAZberry John WilsonYour heads are in a very censored place for a IMDb review, would you kindly remove your heads from this dark crevice and GROW UP! Or go pursue a career in something else, something that doesn't require thoughtful analysis. "},{"Title":"Campy, Reviled and Oscar Worthy","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest began it's rise to pop culture touchstone as a corpse kicking bio by Christine Crawford detailing the horrors of child abuse she claimed to endure at the hands of her famous mother; Joan Crawford. With millions of copies sold, the studios signed Faye Dunaway to star in Paramounts' A-List production which ultimately went on to box office success. Whatever dreams the studio had for a strong showing at the Oscars however went straight down the toilet as Mommie Dearest was subjected to some of the nastiest press and criticism ever bestowed upon a mainstream film. It swept the Golden Raspberry awards and appeared on everybody's worst film list. The campier elements cemented it as a cult classic. Lost in the firestorm of bad press was Faye Dunaway's Oscar worthy performance. It's an amazing piece of work that blurs the lines between where Faye ends and Joan begins. Put aside the camp following, the hate and the controversy and you have one of the finest performances from one of the greatest actresses of our time. "},{"Title":"Don't mess with Joan Crawford, fellas. This ain't her first time at the rodeo. This movie is the mother of all good celebrity tell all stories","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1978, Christina Crawford, the daughter of famous movie star Joan Crawford, wrote and shocked the world with the first tell-all celebrity memoir. In the book, 'Mommie Dearest, she shine light into the hidden life of her mother, claiming Joan Crawford was a cruel, abusive alcoholic. The book was Number 1 New York Times bestseller list for 42 weeks. So, there was no surprise that a movie would be made from that source material. Directed by Frank Perry, the movie had a number of over the top moments. Due to that reason, a lot of people couldn't take this film as a serious bio. Some people think that Faye Dunaway who played Joan Crawford, in the film, act too hammy like an evil cartoony character. I believe Faye Dunaway acting in this movie is amazing. She really show the larger than life sadistic tones well. You cannot feel bit scare or disturb during the infamous wire-hanger or the pruning the garden scenes. Honestly, I don't know how some people can feel that those scenes are funny. It's clearly child abuse. While, the movie isn't as brutal or dark as a lot of newer movies with similar plots. Those scenes are not at all, meant to be funny to watch. You kinda feel bad for any child, going through that. Many assume Dunaway's performance is campy, but I will defend it, because the drunk abusive people, I know, have acted that way in reality. Not to mention how over the top the real life Joan Crawford was in on screen and off screen. After all, she did had a very public feud with another actress, Bette Davis. I kinda wish the movie mention that. However, what they did feature, made Joan a rather pathetic, sad figure who get into fights with people, way too much. It is sadder still however, that she chose to force her anger of that upon a helpless child who couldn't defend herself. Young Christina (Mara Hobel) might not be truly innocent. She does get a bit annoying, and whining at times. Indeed, it's hard to feel too bad for her, when she's living in a pretty spoil rich life during her childhood, but in no way deserve such abuse from any parent. When, she grow up, (played as an adult by Diana Scarwid), she does become a bit of a moocher and smartass due to the years of abuse. Some people question if Christina was actually abused. Defenders of Joan Crawford had argued that Joan's strictness toward her children was grossly overblown by Christina as Joan was only following the stern disciplinarian that was the standards of the era. After all, most of the movie has Joan only spanking her child. While, hitting your child isn't a good idea, people still view spanking as an alright parental discipline. Supposedly, her brother Christopher and the twins that Joan later adopted in which the film forgot to mention, had a much better relationship with their mother. It's hard to believe that, considering that Joan indeed strap Christopher down to his bed to prevent him from masturbating, but it came with the times. Christopher does defend Christina's claims, but the later twins do not. Indeed, being a strict parent and wanting the best for your children does not make you an abusive parent. Was young Christina just a demanding, spoil brat? Was Adult Christina just a bitter young woman trying to make money off her dead mother? Some people have forward to say they did witness some abuse by Joan, but for the most part, it's up to the viewer. Still, you felt sympathy for Joan Crawford whom all she wants is a perfect life. It's just that Joan tend to get caught up in her will power, that she feel disappointed in people who wouldn't live up to her demand perfection. Joan suffered greatly from the sudden rise from rags to riches, causing her to project all of her issues with being poor into her obsessive cleaning and going postal on Christina when she used poor people clothing hangers or using her ultra-expensive make-up. Some people misinterpreted Joan's freak-out over the wire hangers for her having had a wire hanger abortion in the past and not wanting to be reminded of it. She tend to alienation a lot of people, ranging from companies like Pepsi & MGM Grand, to her series of fail relationships like Greg Savitt (Steve Forrest). In the movie, Greg is a combination of the various husbands and lovers Joan Crawford had, while the housekeeper is meant to represent several employees in Joan's house. In the film, Joan Crawford does have some very affectionate, supportive, doting motherhood trying scenes. After all, the movie doesn't make her look all bad. Still, years after Mommie Dearest came out. Joan Crawford's reputation took a battering so ferocious that it has never fully recovered. Go see the movie, it's up to you, if the events being shown are fact or fiction. "},{"Title":"Oh you boys are just too much....","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" So said Ms. Dunaway when she came upon this film in the center of a video store section called Films that every card-carrying homosexual should see! Just like Tallulah, Bette and the real-deal, Joan Crawford, Faye shrugged that line off as if she was biting the head off a lobster. And like Patty Duke with Valley of the Dolls, she has learned to live with the legend of what her most infamous role has come to mean to her career. If Tallulah can croak through Die Die My Darling, Bette can laugh at a pee'ing statue in The Anniversary and Ms. C. can become motherly to Trog, than Faye can laugh at the memory of wire hangers! as much as Patty Duke laughs at her twisting beads as Neeley O'Hara.From the first moment you see her Faye-ness as Joan Crawford, you know you've gone back to shoulder-pad heaven. MGM's most bankable star of the 1930's wasn't necessarily the most critically lauded, but when you look back at these art-deco films, you really see someone who deserved more credit than they got. Even if many of these films were formula, toss in A Woman's Face or even the underrated The Bride Wore Red to see what a bankable star she was. In the 1960's, Joan herself said that the only new actor she really saw any future for was Faye Dunaway, and certainly, with films like Bonnie and Clyde, Chinatown and her Oscar-Winning role in Network, she was certainly on the road to becoming an instant legend.The film, itself, is not as bad as what critics have made it out to be, and Faye puts every acting muscle she has into the role. She's not one- dimensional in any sense of the word, giving this character multi facets which makes it difficult to hate her in spite of the fact that the story makes her out to be an abusive mother. Whether or not this is true is continuously disputed, but what is clear through Faye's performance is the fact that this was a very complicated woman torn through ego, insecurities and a desire to remain on top in the studio and corporate world run by men.In this case, the men in her life are Louis B. Mayer (played by Howard da Silva who ironically worked at MGM during the Mayer era) and the amalgamation of men in Crawford's life, here played by Steve Forrest. The woman in Crawford's life is her daughter Christina, played with a much maligned Diana Scarwid who not only bites the head off the lobster but flosses her teeth with the shell. Unfortunately, it is a performance that was directed to be much overacted, and she spits out lines like Why did you adopt me? as if she was watching an early John Waters movie and emulating Mink Stole.You have to give this film more of a chance than the critics give it, and you will see why Faye herself saw at the time that this would be the film she would be remembered for, even if it didn't end up being the way she wanted to be remembered. In reality, you may come out of the film, like I did, being more sympathetic to Joan than to Christina, and will certainly think twice before believing what every seemingly embittered child of a star has to say about their parent who was probably too busy to give them the love and attention they felt they were entitled to. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as bad as its detractors make out","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There are cult movies and then there are cult movies. Some films to which this term has been applied are indeed unjustly neglected masterpieces. Others are rubbish, justly neglected by all except their devotees who loudly maintain that the critics and the public are ignorant Philistines who do not recognise a masterpiece when they see one. Mommie Dearest, however, is the sort of cult movie that even its cultists do not claim as a masterpiece. It has acquired the reputation of a guilty pleasure, an expression which can generally be translated as the sort of film which nobody really likes but which certain people enjoy watching in order to snigger at how bad it is. The film seems to have started acquiring its dubious reputation almost as soon as it was released in 1981. The critics were less than enthusiastic- Roger Ebert wrote I can't imagine who would want to subject themselves to this movie. It performed relatively well at the box-office, but that might have been due to the decision by Paramount, realising that they had a potential turkey on their hands, to change their marketing strategy halfway though its run, advertising it as an over-the-top camp comedy. It received five Razzie awards, including Worst Picture, Worst Screenplay, and Worst Actress (a tie) for Faye Dunaway. Nine years later it achieved further infamy when the organisers of the Razzies voted it Worst Picture of the Decade. I think that the main problem is that the film relies on one single, highly partisan, source, never a good way to produce a biography, whether written or filmed. A year after Joan Crawford died in 1977 her adopted daughter Christina published her memoir Mommie Dearest which painted Joan as a cruel and abusive mother with an uncontrollable temper. Christina's allegations unleashed a heated controversy, in which many leading Hollywood figures took part, and many of Joan's friends and colleagues came forward to defend her reputation, as did her first husband Douglas Fairbanks junior and Christina's adoptive sisters Cynthia and Catherine. Some, however, supported Christina, including Crawford's old enemy Bette Davis. The film adaptation, which followed three years later, was bound to be equally controversialBecause of its reliance on a single source, the film is not, and does not aim to be, a comprehensive biography of Joan Crawford. It does not deal at all with Crawford's life before she adopted Christina in 1939. Even after that date there are some curious omissions. No mention is made of Joan's brief marriage in the forties to actor Philip Terry, and Cynthia and Catherine are omitted altogether, doubtless because they refused to support their sister's claims. Her brother Christopher, however, who did support her, does appear. Some of Christina's allegations are referred to, others are not. There is plenty in the film about Joan's alleged cruelty, violent temper and alcoholism, and her various male lovers are much in evidence, but the film is silent on her supposed bisexuality, which Christina also mentioned in her book. Some of the women with whom Joan supposedly enjoyed lesbian affairs were still alive in 1981, and the studio doubtless did not want to risk a libel suit. In the 1970s Dunaway was one of Hollywood's leading stars, but her career went into something of a decline in the eighties, and some have placed the blame on the poor reception given to this film. She did, however, make a number of poor career choices during this decade, and some of her films, such as The Wicked Lady and Supergirl, were considerably worse than this one. In fact, her performance here is not particularly bad, and I cannot see what she did to earn that Razzie award. To bracket it together with Bo Derek's appalling contribution in Tarzan of the Apes (the two tied for Worst Actress) was an insult she did not deserve. Certainly, her performance is often hysterical and over-the-top, particularly during the notorious no wire coat-hangers scene, but if Christina Crawford is to be believed her adoptive mother was a hysterical, over-the-top sort of person, so the role could not really have been played in any other way. The child actress Mara Hobel is enchanting as the young Christina, but one person who did deserve her Razzie was Diana Scarwid for Worst Supporting Actress as the adult Christina. Scarwid, 26 at the time, was required to portray Christina from her early teens to her late thirties, and makes a singularly unconvincing teenager, although she is pretty wooden even in the later scenes. None of the other actors really stand out, although at least they do not stand out for the wrong reasons. Overall, I did not find Mommie Dearest to be anywhere near as bad as its detractors have made out. Its factual accuracy has been challenged, but a controversial film is not automatically a bad one. It is notable that the film was made by Paramount, the only major studio for which Crawford never worked. (The likes of MGM and Warner Bros doubtless owed her too much loyalty to get involved). It seems to me quite possible that the film's contemporary unpopularity may have been, at least in part, due as much to Hollywood's distaste for Christina's allegations as to any lack of talent on the part of the film-makers and actors involved. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The craziest mother EVER!","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" All through my younger years I have been told that I am an old soul. Ever since I was six years old I have always been different than the other kids my age. The BeeGees have always been my favorite to listen to since I came out the womb. Also I love looking at older classic films like Birds. While most of my classmates would play with their toys and take naps, I would listen to Earth, Wind, Fire and look at 1980s films. My favorite decade has always been the eighties and it always will be, thanks to mommy dearest.Joan Crawford (Faye Dunaway) is a driven actress and compulsively clean housekeeper who tries to control the lives of those around her as tightly as the self-control she exhibits. Joan is in a relationship with Hollywood lawyer Gregg Savitt (Steve Forrest), but her career is in a bit of a downswing. Joan adopts a girl whom she names Christina, and later a boy, Christopher. Joan lavishes Christina with attention and luxuries, such as an extravagant birthday party but also enforces a code of denial and discipline. As Christina rebels against her mother's demands and standards, a series of confrontations ensues. Meaning, all hell breaks loose! The primary message of the message of the film was that director (Frank Perry) wanted to show the audience how controlling Joan was and wanted to be. She was striving to stay on top of her career and her personal life as well. But as her life crumbled in certain areas, she failed to keep her cool. The director also showed that with the many things that she faced head on she still remained a strong obsessive woman who would not take no for an answer.Throughout the lavish film, the characters were the real standouts of the movie. Faye Dunaway not only takes the cake in this film but she gives the true meaning as a true crazy helicopter mother. Also the lighting in the film really softens each scene in movie, making it very pleasant to watch. "},{"Title":"Tina! Bring Me the Ax! Joan Crawford goes from star to psycho","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Faye Dunaway stars as Joan Crawford, a well known movie actress of Hollywood. Unfortunately, when nothing good comes her way, she resorts to beating the living daylights out of her children, especially Christina Crawford. Two of the most shocking scenes of all, in which I was severely shocked by, was 1) Joan beating her daughter with a wire coat hanger No wire hangers....EVER! and beating her senseless with a can of bleach and 2) Joan strangling Christina after Christina screams I'm not one of your fans!!!. Yikes! Talk about crazy if you know what I mean. If this were even worse, it would make Cannibal Holocaust feel like a kids movie(Which, by the way, I wouldn't watch if it were the last movie on Earth)! If you're a fan of Joan Crawford(or not), you might want to be careful when watching this movie(mainly because of the scenes I described earlier). I would give this movie a 10 out of 10. However, after witnessing the infamous scenes, I'll give it a 6 out of 10. Toodles! "},{"Title":"I am not going to say what is contained in this film is all lies, but I am betting a lot of it is exaggerated.","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is not a really good movie in my mind or a good movie in the minds of a lot of critics back when it was released back in 1981. It apparently won a whole heck of a lot of Razzies. Still, I find it to be a rather fun movie to watch as it is at times so crazy and Dunaway's performance so over the top and evil that it becomes almost a comedy. I am not going to call Christina Crawford and out right liar, but I have a feeling she greatly exaggerated certain points in her life to make her memoirs a lot more juicy. While I certainly do not agree that Joan Crawford did not leave her any money, it seems that this film is just a revenge piece for Christina because of that snub. The film shows how Crawford raised her child with some moments of great abuse being a part of the film. Most know of the infamous wire hanger scene where an angry Crawford repeatedly hits her child again and again saying No wire Hangers. I am guessing that sort of happened in that she probably found a wire hanger and then yelled that phrase and then that was probably the extent of it. The swimming pool incident was also made more extreme, the girl more than likely only got a speech about not giving up and that just because she is losing she should not quit. The way the film goes though you really must believe Joan Crawford was one horrible lady who had no redeeming qualities, however this claim is disputed by the other siblings so like I said I am sure life was not all that great for the girl, but not as bad as portrayed here. The movie is bad too, but funny in a sick and twisted kind of way. "}{"Title":"Hell are we ourselves","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is an interesting movie on many levels. There's the question how something that was made with integrity turned into a camp classic. And why, after seeing some hideously acted scenes, bad dialogue and the worst make up ever, we still are moved when Joan watches Christina accept an award in her name.One problem must come down to the fact that playing an actress is difficult. It's no wonder that there are not many films with an actress as the main character. Dancing girls, singing girls, showgirls yes. Aging actresses falling in love with young men or actresses as suspects in a murder mystery, yes. But an actress as a character role no. To play a character who plays a character is such balancing on a thin thread that it takes a lot of experience and courage to take on such a role. Furthermore it is profoundly hard to write about an actress who plays brilliantly how do you attest in a film that an actress (who is played by an actress who should play well) plays well? Either you get two performances who are quite alike or you get some over the top playing which quickly seems bad acting.Joan Crawford was a skilled actress. Faye Dunaway is a skilled actress. But matching the two there emerges a character that no longer acts like a skilled actress but uses all techniques to override life. Every scene Dunaway enters with fire. She takes the emotion, and we see her sometimes taken aback by her own energy. She also is trying to act brilliantly, which means that she is 'in the moment, in the character' and lets her character decide how to proceed with laughter, with anger, with an evil look, with a deep breath. There are a lot of moments where we observe Dunaway look for the right reaction as Crawford, just as is teached in acting classes all around the world but the effect is so strange and overambitious, that the whole performance turns into 'anger for beginners'.The other actors are answering with good old fashioned acting (just saying the lines in the right emotion) or trying to match themselves with Dunaway as the grown up Christina does. She is making every emotion as tiny as possible, counting on this less is more principle to counter Dunaways fury. This doesn't work she just turns into someone who is either careless, numb or lazy. (Her ridiculous wig doesn't help.) She is supposed to be an actress as well, but more out of an 'I don't know anything else to do' that out of ambition or love for the profession.The script is uneven, bad at times and puzzling in its message. Are we to feel compassion for the little girl for being adopted by such a monster? We don't feel it, because the little girl is a monster herself.And that might be the answer for the unbalanced movie there is no monster, there is no guilt. What we see are two people entangled in love and war, not being able to step out of themselves, out of their anger and ambition, to reach out, not only to the other but mostly within themselves. Hell are not the others, hell are we ourselves when we oblige ourselves to reach the top no matter what, to act brilliantly no matter what the standards set for themselves, for Crawford and her daughter, as for Dunaway and Diana Scarwid are simply too high. And so we make the hell ourselves and we are left with one hell of a movie. "},{"Title":"Has anyone read the book?","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you've read the book, as I did when it was first published in 1978, you'll realize that the movie was only loosely based on it. Also, the movie was actually much better than the book! The book was poorly written and contained many more chronological errors and inconsistencies than the movie. I'm not sure how the movie was ever made. Major characters in the book (such as the adopted twins) were left out completely. From the standpoint of the sets, the costumes, the music (Henry Mancini)and the props, the movie was lush and dramatic. However, the writing was inexplicably horrible and the acting worse. When the 20 year anniversary edition of the book came out in 1998, I bought a copy but was unable to finish it. It's that amateurish - like a high school girl's diary (no offense to high school girls intended). To this day, nobody has adequately verified or discounted the abuse chronicled in this story. Makes you wonder if there was fire with the smoke. "},{"Title":"Tina darling, coffee?","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One can't say much about Mommie Dearest that hasn't already been said. In a nutshell, you don't want to miss seeing this one folks. Although I doubt that the real Joan Crawford was as completely out of her skull as Ms. Dunaway plays her, it just doesn't really matter here. Her performance is so complete, so utterly mesmerizing and unforgettable that you'll never again hear the name Joan Crawford without the hair on the back of your neck standing up.This is genuine guilty pleasure tonic in it's purest form. Including myself, I don't know of anyone who would want to admit to loving this film simply because of the campy and completely over-the-top joyride that it is. The producers had every intention of making a serious movie based on the book of the same name, yet failed on the grandest of scales. However that is one reason the unintentional laughs are just that much funnier. One of the first indications of the pleasures ahead is when we see Joan cradling her newly adopted daughter Christina on the stairs. She poses (perfectly framed by the ridiculously lavish art deco stairway) wearing a gown that matches the draperies.This calamity (or masterpiece, take your pick) is just fun on so many levels. When your not completely entranced (or appalled) by Crawford's antics, your shaking your head at the 2nd grade editing job, or the less than stellar performances of the supporting cast. But this movie isn't about anyone or anything other than Faye Dunaway, and the ultimate movie star playing movie star performance of the century. "},{"Title":"A love letter from a member of Joanstown..","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A far-flung, over the top melodrama. Lots of fun, can make the viewer question their feelings about corporal punishment for obnoxious, spoiled rich brats. Dunaway doesn't really resemble Crawford in profile. Joan Crawford may have been intense and neurotic but beautiful from any angle. Photographers back in her day called her face camera-proof. I think Crawford varied her makeup styles as the years changed, didn't she? Dunaway has these magic-marker, stenciled eyebrows all through the flick. Still, it's a good movie with beautiful sets with great period costumes/hair. You get the idea of the very very grueling hard work involved with show business...Crawford's (apparently true) attention to her fans---..you expect me to ignore my fans? They're life and death to me. baby..sounds cheesy but really is true. Nowadays it's sad because of the stalking and whatever Hollywood people have to remain cloistered and paranoid in public. Oh well. Mommie Dearest is a fun movie leaving me (?strangely?) unsympathetic for Christina and understanding and appreciating Joan Crawford even more. Lotsa love to Joan; sign me off a proud member of Joanstown. "},{"Title":"To Harry 76","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Harry's thats a interesting point to look at but I saw this movie and I thought like you did some of it might of been contradicting itself because there was no allegory to Christina's experiences with dear ol' mom, but I also believe that while Joan was still kicking around in her last tank of gas Christine was in the midst of writing the book, I also believe maybe that is the deadly negative result to her will at the end as 'for reasons they know'. So I think it's really a toss up, maybe Christine exeggerated a little here and there after mom's death or bitter about the will and plot a nice little cozy revenge. I wouldnt know who really would believe the book in a hundred percent state of mind of pure non fiction, you have to take everything you read with a little bit of grain and salt , especially biographies and memoirs such as this. But as I feel towards it I think Joan was a pretty ruthless creature towards her kids and gave them a lot of self discipline, including the coat hangar scene which was always so ridicolous to think about , but it might of happened, I believe in it, just not a hundred percent and I expect a few flaws lingering around maybe, but Joan Crawford in my book was another Hollywood actress of a tyrant!!! "},{"Title":"Camp acting at it's best","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Don't F**K with me fellas. I know how to get things done the hard way.This is one of my favorite bad movies we love. Did they know it was going to be so campy when they made it? My guess is no. Diana Scarwid has always been underrated as an actress. She held her own through all of the film and enjoy watching her(BECAUSE I AM NOT ONE OF YOUR FANS!!!) almost as much as Faye Dunaway.If this only had gotten more of the recoginition it deserved.It is on TCM tonight. Record it for a good Laugh!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"So Dreadful It's Wonderful!!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have always thought that Faye Dunaway was a lousy actress, and her over-the-top performance in MOMMIE DEAREST bears this out to the nth degree.  There is not a shred of characterization to be found in Dunaway's work on this film; the woman on the screen is a cartoon character right out of the old horror comics.  Dunaway, a woman who has the reputation of taking herself VERY seriously as an actress, makes a complete fool of herself in this movie, mugging for the camera in ridiculously overdone makeup while attempting to duplicate Crawford's throaty voice (she succeeds in sounding a bit like Crawford once or twice, but that's it).  The rest of her acting consists mainly of screaming like a banshee and crossing her eyes.The beauty part of this is that this movie is so dreadful that it's wonderful!  I have seen it many times, and I literally HOWL with laughter each time I see it.To be fair, Dunaway is not the only thing that makes this a REALLY REALLY bad movie.  The script is so utterly ridiculous that one wonders if Mel Brooks had a hand in writing it.  The director must take a great deal of the blame as well; he apparently thought he was making a work of art, but obviously he has no idea how to tell a serious story.Dunaway has since said that MOMMIE DEAREST nearly ruined her career; see it and you will understand why.But Dunaway is not the only actress in the film who suffers from the director's sheer incompetence.  Diana Scarwid is a fine actress, but she has never quite been able to rid herself of her Southern accent.  So here we go (in a VERY awkward transition) from Mara Hobel as the child Christina (whose accent is appropriately Southern California) to Miss Scarwid (who looks WAY older than 13) reading from Anhouil's ANTIGONE in a Southern accent so thick a knife couldn't cut it.  And it get's worse when she gets mad; check out the way she delivers the line Whah did yew adopt me?The movie plays fast and loose with the facts here as well.  Greg Savitt is a composite character based on several men in Crawford's life (including two of her husbands).  There was a Greg Bautzer with whom Crawford was involved, but unlike the depiction in the film, SHE dumped HIM.  She also walked out on MGM and not the other way around.But this is not a biopic; it is a campy black comedy whether it was meant to be or not. "},{"Title":"The Worst Adaptation Of a Book I Have Ever Seen.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, they don't even show anything to do with Joan Crawford's other two daughters, they only have Christopher and Christina.  Also, they leave out so many vital parts, like when Christina has like, a complete mental breakdown at Sacred Hearts.  And when she goes through her first divorce, or when she gets another part on a different T.V. series.  They also don't show Joan as an abusive alchoholic like the book portrays her, they have her as just a bitter old women who seems to get sympathy from everyone and everything and they make Christina into a whiney old brat when really she was the one who deserved sympathy.  Read the book instead of watching the movie. "},{"Title":"Well acted, but over the top movie","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Despite all the ribbing she took for making this picture, Faye Dunaway does an amazing job at portraying Joan Crawford.  She literally becomes Christina Crawford's vision of the public legend and private monster.  Here we see Joan's infamous relationship with her adopted daughter where she cruelly punishes and abuses the girl after adopting her for what seems to be publicity.  Dunaway portrays Crawford as obsessive compulsive, vindictive, and a woman who cares more about her image and fans than anything else.  Christina is portrayed as the bane of her mother's exisistence, from disobeying during childhood to being bratty during her young adulthood.  If what happened to Christina was true, then this movie most likely was not the best way to show that.   "},{"Title":"Attack of the Killer Mommie","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Time has helped this movie has moved beyond the status of mere guilty pleasure to that rare stature as a camp classic. All the necessary elements of unintentional hilarity are on display. You've got cheesy, low-budget visuals/effects (check out the teen/adult Christina's progression of bad wigs and the obvious dummy used to double her in the famed choking scene). Wretched dialogue (I'm not mad at you. I'm mad at the dirt.) And of course, the way over the top acting. Dunaway takes elements of Crawford's own over-acting and adds her own bizarre horror movie twist. I mean, what is Dunaway's raging and bellowing Crawford but the Thing That Ate Hollywood (but not before scouring it clean)? If they ever decide to resurrect the character, they could start a new franchise of Mommie Dearest Meets Godzilla, Mommie vs. The Smog Monster, and the like.  "}{"Title":"Stylish","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw it for the second time and was rather impressed. The cinematography, the whole feel and style is unusually good for today. It is grand camp, with lots of flair, and Dunaway's acting is kabuki, according to her. Did the critics like it? Of course not! The movie could have been far better, but good is good enough for me. (1997 diary entry).I'm a fan of both Crawford and Dunaway. The plot is riveting, the acting brilliant, but what I really like about this film is its STYLE. It has an elegance. Content is important, but to me a movie must transcend content and be more than the sum of its parts, like a quartet. I am tempted to say that Dunaway didn't just become her character, she made it.  "},{"Title":"Faye Dunaway is Joan Crawford!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Watch this movie for only one reason - Faye Dunaway's over-the-top performance as the legendary actress Joan Crawford. This film when originally released went throught alot of hullaboo just as did the book as it was based upon. I've never read the book by Christine Crawford so I can only accept what I see as this aging movie idol who takes on the man's world and vents her frustration out on her adopted daughter. There is no doubt that this is Dunaway's picture. She probably would have been recognized more for this performance if the subject matter wasn't so Hollywood trashy. As for this being a definitive biopic of Crawford's life it probably fails - it is so transfixed on the episodes of the ill-treatment that Crawford's daughter went through - we get no real sense of how Crawford gave us those entertaining performances on screen and  how she turned into Mr. Hyde at home. But this was based on a tell-all book by her daughter.  "},{"Title":"One of the best cult classics of all time!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Simply put. I have been a fan of this movie for well over 10 years now, and I never get tired of watching it or analyzing it! It is so over the top and campy, that it doesn't even come across as being serious about the issue of child abuse at all! However, the acting was great and the cinematography was awesome. The movie itself looks like it was made around 1945, and as the years go by, the movie takes on a different look and feel, as if actually changing with the times itself. It's one of my favorite guilty pleasure movies! "},{"Title":"Joan Got the Last Laugh","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Poor, poor Christina...I think she made most of it up..the axe ordeal is from Strait-Jacket, the cleaning fetish is from Harriet Craig and the viciousness from Queen Bee. But don't fret..Joan's laughing somewhere, because this movie sank Dunaway's stellar career faster than you can say Baby Jane.. "},{"Title":"NO WIRE HANGERS EVER!!!","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films ever made. But it's definitely tops in the so bad it's good genre. Faye Dunaway had to be physically worn out after wrapping the film. She makes the movie, and literally goes bananas playing Joan Crawford. It isn't hard to see why her career hit a brick wall afterwards.On the other hand, everyone else in the film underracts and they all look bored all the time. The script is terrible and the sets are so cheap looking! But those are all ingredients for a great campy trash movie. Of course the best line is NO WIRE HANGERS EVER!!! I've lived in fear of wire hangers ever since I saw this film! "},{"Title":"Bad Movie - Great Acting","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie by far could have been better.  However, Faye Dunaway's performance was chilling. Her portrayal of Joan Crawford should have garnered her an Academy Award Nomination. The way Ms. Dunaway played an actress who's always acting on an everyday basis must have been tricky. And in my opinion, no other actress could have pulled it off as brilliantly as Ms. Dunaway. "},{"Title":"NO WIRE HANGERS...EVER!!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Well after seeing this film, in certainly made me think twice about Joan Crawford. Based on the book of the same name by her adopted daughter Christina, the film chronicles the life of the actress as she struggles with her personal career and rebellious daughter. I absolutely love this movie, Faye Dunaway does such an over-the-top performance of Joan that you have to love her. She adopted 4 kids but only the two (Christina and Christopher) were shown. She tied the kids to their beds, made them eat raw meat, abused Christina by cutting off all of her hair and hitting her with wire hangers and soap boxes, forcing them to do ridiculous chores (Tina! Fetch me the axe!), and even leaving them out of her will completely. The film is acted horribly, with only Dunaway being awesome. I mean come on, how many times can you see an actress go completely nuts over wire hangers? Diana Scarwid who plays the older Tina looks bored here, and all of the other actors look even more bored than her. No doubt this film is a BAD film, but it's so bad that it's great. I would tell anyone to rent this to either A.) get a good laugh or B.) See Faye Dunaway try to choke Diana Scarwid.  B+ "},{"Title":"Shoulda Benna Mini-Series","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The first time I watched Mommie Dearest, I was very confused. the only clues to what year we're in is by the movie Joan is working on and the size of the children. The editing is the worst; the movie jumps years from scene to scene without explanation. When I read the book, I gained a better understanding. The point of view should have been Christina's, her narration is desperately needed to tell her story. Part of Christina's problem with her mother was the inconsistent was she was treated. At times Joan was kind and motherly. Christina never knew when her mother would fly off the handle. The movie never really showed that side. Instead we see Faye Dunaway (looking more like Bette Davis in What Ever Happened to Baby Jane) rant and rave. So much artistic license was taken to cut the book down to feature length (Joan Crawford adopted 4 children not just 2) a mini-series would have been a better method.    "},{"Title":"A tribute to high camp!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  One must wonder what Joan Crawford would think about the horrific image painted of her by her jaded daughter soon after her death in 1977, however one can't deny that this image is what has kept her name going for years since. This film is based on the highly controversial biography of the late, great Hollywood diva.  The book spawned several copycat books, making movie stars think twice about how they treat their children.  Its impact was widespread, and I believe it is a major contributor to the way we view the private lives of stars today.Joan Crawford is played by Faye Dunaway (interestingly enough a woman who Joan once pegged as a bright light when Faye was first breaking into films).  The story is about her desire to have children (she can't have any of her own) and her treatment of two that she adopted (she adopted two others but they objected to being portrayed in this film).  According to Christina, Joan was not looking for a daughter, but rather a publicity stunt to boost her sagging career.  The film recounts several incidents that have since become legendary to Crawford's life and career.  Joan has a fit when she finds wire hangers in the closet.  She massacres the rose garden when MGM terminates her contract.  The children are victims of endless abuse, including being tied to the bed at night, eating raw meat and having to choose only one gift from the dozens that they receive at birthdays and Christmas.  Even in her adult years Christina must suffer the wrath of her mother.  Returning from boarding school she stands up to her mother in front of a reporter from Redbook.  Christina is nearly strangled.  When Christina falls ill during a run in a soap opera her aging mother takes over her part, unwittingly sabotaging her career (?).Anyone who knows anything about Joan Crawford knows that she is much more complicated than this story gives her credit.  Gossip about her is legendary and any Joan Crawford biography worth the paper its printed on is full of hot innuendo.  We also know that Joan was a fighter.  At the risk of sounding cliche, in those days, you had to be!  Using her own gumption, Crawford was able to establish herself as one of the leading stars of the 1930's.  She played the shopgirl with a heart of gold and chest of steel.  Her fans loved her. When her career started to wane, primarily because the studio thought she was getting too old, Crawford must have taken it hard. I loved this movie, but I certainly don't take it seriously.  If these incidents make Crawford a child abuser, then many parents out there should pay heed.  I mean, come on.  We're all entitled to a few bad days.  And it wasn't like Christina was deprived!  In fact the movie is even smart enough to point out that Christina was an obstinent child, certainly the perfect match for her mother! Mommie Dearest is more of a tribute to a career that has become high camp.  Look at any Joan Crawford movie today and you can see just how over the top she can be.  This is not a slight to her acting, because she was good. Faye Dunaway is (for lack of a better word) fabulous playing the lead part.  Diana Scarwid is passable as daughter Christina only because her rotten performance compliments the high camp surrounding this story.  I have heard people complain that the child abuse in this movie was simply too much for them.  I say watch it from another level.  This is not a film to be taken seriously, but rather a glitzy 'drag show'.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"So-o bad, it's good...","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This opus actually is bad enough to be good. It's worth watching if only to hear Dunaway tell the board of directors (who are trying to pay her off cheap after her husband dies), Don't f*** with me fellas. (They didn't.) "}{"Title":"NO MORE WIRE HANGERS!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best un-intentional funny movies of our time. Faye Dunaway plays Joan Crawford to the hilt and sunk her career in the process. I'm sure Ms. Crawford is just reeling in her grave. Some of the best one-liners in movie history. I'm not mad at you. I'm mad at the dirt. Is that the present you like best? Then that's the present you can keep. Tear that bitch of a bearing wall down and put a window where it ought to be. Cristina? Bring me the axe!. I could go on and on and on........  "},{"Title":"All of my clothes are on wire hangers!!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I think this is one of the best horror movies ever made, seriously.  Faye Dunaway is not playing Joan Crawford, she is playing an evil beast from the pits of hell.  It's funny and scary all at once, and I love this movie.  I actually like the scene where she whacks off all of Christina's hair even though it has the continuity error.  This movie rocks!  Just sit back and enjoy the manic wierdness of a bad movie that transcends its own badness. I can't even describe how I never tire of seeing this again and again.  "},{"Title":"No more wire hangers!","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When people ask me what scares me, I always tell them Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford in Mommie Dearest.  I mean, just look at the way the swings that ax when she's p*****!  And when she beats the pillow with the wire hangers screaming NO wire hangers!  She races her daughter in the pool, wins, and then teases her for being slow! She straps her kids to their beds while they sleep! She throws ajax all over the bathroom then stares into the camera cross-eyed, her face covered with some kind of beauty mask!  And I haven't even begun to mention her huge eyebrows and ridiculously large shoulder pads! This woman could play quarterback for the 49ers!Do I even have to say it?  Ok, I will.  Mommie Dearest is simply put, a classic.  For all the reasons above and for many many more.  Faye Dunaway has always been one of my favorite actresses and she is just so over the top in this.  If she wasn't possessed by the spirit of Joan Crawford, she sure as heck was possessed by something!  For all the over-acting Faye does, her co-star Diana Scarwid seems sedated.  It's funny watching these 2 argue constantly. Sure, this movie does a terrible injustice to a great movie star. Sure, this movie makes child abuse look funny.  But isn't that why we all love it? "},{"Title":"Dunaway Turns In Cringe-Worthy Performance.  All You Can Do Is Laugh.","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on Christina Crawford's tell-all memoir of the same name dealing with her abusive relationship with her mother Joan Crawford. Faye Dunaway as Joan, gives one of the most dreadfully over-acted performances in history. Instead of trying to give an accurate portrayal of child abuse, or making any attempt at giving a screen legend a fair and balanced portrait, showing her accomplishments along with her faults, what we get is this controversy baiting picture with very little resemblance to the actual subject. People familiar with Crawford's movies won't find much to recognize of the iconic actress here. Dunaway's Crawford is a grotesque cartoon more similar to Cruella de Vil than any real person. Her over-acting is so absurd it succeeds in making a joke of something that should be no laughing matter, the serious subject of child abuse. The validity of the claims of the memoir become irrelevant in the face of such an unbelievably over the top performance. I defy you not to bust out laughing at some of the scenes of this movie. Not surprisingly this has rendered the movie a significant cult hit because like a train-wreck it can be difficult to look away. "},{"Title":"Sublime Camp Classic","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There has been much said about this 1981 classic, most of it bad. How could I have written over 100 reviews and neglected what is my favorite guilty pleasure? I saw this three times in the theater upon it's release, and have seen an interactive version screened here in Chicago twice. I brought this to a bar on Mother's Day years ago for their weekly movie afternoon. Yeah, I love Mommie Dearest. Faye Dunaway chews up the scenery and everything else in sight in this, and while it was unintentional, Paramount made the ultimate camp classic. The production itself gets the deluxe treatment by Paramount, with good settings, great classic cars, a lush Henry Mancini score, etc. The dynamite performance by Ms. Dunaway is nearly matched by Mara Hobel as the young Christina in the first half of the film. Diana Scarwid, however, must rank as one of the all-time worst actresses in this. After a scene where Ms. Dunaway as Joan acts all over the place describing losing her contract at Warner's while the two are doing laundry, Ms. Scarwid replies to this teary diatribe with a flat We'll manage. The only good acting Ms. Scarwid manages to put forth in this is during the I am NOT one of your FANS!!! sequence. Rutanya Alda is tiresome as the much put-upon Carol Ann, and her aging process consists of a few gray hairs interspersed and a couple of make up induced wrinkles. Henry Da Silva is good as always as Louis B. Mayer and Alice Nunn is delightful as Helga who can't seem to clean under the tree in the foyer properly. Whenever I want a good laugh, I pop Mommie Dearest into the player for 129 minutes of sure-fire entertainment. "},{"Title":"Worst Performance In Film History (But Not The One You've Heard About)","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you've never seen this 1981 adaptation of Christina Crawford's hatchet job on her late adoptive mother, Hollywood legend Joan, chances are you've heard about Faye Dunaway's unhinged lead performance. And yes, Faye is every frightening thing you've heard about and more, from the crossed eyes to the screaming fits to the unconvincing drunken wobbling. But give the dread Dunaway (Jack Nicholson's affectionate term for her) some credit. She's playing Joan Crawford, a melodramatic actress and fiercely assertive personality. Beyond that, she's asked to play Joan Crawford as the violent, alcoholic monster that her vengeful daughter wants us to believe she was, which demands an extra layer of mania. And surely, the producers knew that Faye was never the subtlest actress -- she earned that Oscar for Network with a convincing portrayal of an obvious but charming sociopath. Finally, she's dealing with an atrocious script. Faye didn't write lines like I can handle the socks! and Tina, bring me the ax! or dream up the ludicrous wire hanger scene on her own. The movie makers lavished a multi-million dollar budget on sets, costumes, make-up, a two-bit script and a director (Frank Perry)who obviously didn't know how to rein in his stars' worst impulses. I'm not talking about Faye here, I mean Diana Scarwid, the expressionless stiff who portrayed Christina as an adult.Maybe Perry can be forgiven for not throwing a net over Dunaway -- based on every report, the lady is a giant pain (Bette Davis, for one, hated Faye even more than she hated Joan, and that's saying a lot). But why on Earth did he fail so miserably to coax anything like a recognizable human emotion out of Scarwid? After an hour or so of watching Faye chop the hair off, beat and insult poor little Mara Hobel (few movies are simultaneously so ridiculous and so disturbing), Scarwid shows up as teenage Christina, dressed like the Statue of Liberty and reciting lines from Jean Anouihl's Antigone (cute, guys) and somehow manages to get less believable from that point onward. Maybe Scarwid & Perry decided that portraying Christina as a listless, mealy-mouthed little simp would invite audience sympathy. Actually, we wonder if Christina raided the medicine cabinet for the anti-psychotic meds that might have calmed her mother down. The explosive mother-daughter confrontation scene, late in the film after Joan pulls Christina out of boarding school for canoodling with an apparently near-sighted boy, should be climactic -- the victim is finally standing up for herself. Instead, we cheer Faye on for pushing Scarwid over that end table, since we might be tempted to do the same if we were trying to get a realistic reaction out of such a semi-animated mannequin. Mommie Dearest destroyed careers, and almost everyone deserved their fate. "},{"Title":"Bad, but not as bad as it's made out to be","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" So I was staying at my parent's place, and couldn't sleep, so I pulled the paperback of Mommie Dearest off my mom's bookshelf. I knew a lot of the story already - hell, it stuck in my head as a kid who heard his mom gasp about this book (I was six when it came out) but I was curious to read the whole story.Here's the thing - it's really a pretty bad movie, but the story itself could be great. First problem I saw is that it's not a Christina Crawford movie, but a Joan Crawford one. It's interesting that now I'm reading some stuff online and that's Tina's POV on it too. The book is about being raised by Joan Crawford, and numerous scenes happened that Christina simply wasn't party to. Secondly, the script is utterly atrocious - no continuity, no semblance of a storyline, stuff just happens willy nilly. I think we can all agree on that. As for the campiness? Here's the thing it would have worked well in bursts, in smaller doses. So the wire hanger scene actually might not be so laughable in isolation, but combined with every other scene with Dunaway being in a psychotic rage it's just too much.I actually did enjoy the book a lot, and I really wish someone would have the guts to make a good movie out of this, as I think it could very well be done. Here's how for starters 1. Start the movie with the strangling scene, stop just before Joan lunges on her, and have Christina make the point that that was the first time she really stood up to her mother hard.2. Then flash back. Do voice overs...like, I'm almost thinking Goodfellas structure in storytelling here. Write it from the kid's standpoint - write how SHE perceived what was happening, since - DUH! - that's how the book was written! 3. DO NOT do the wire hangers scene. It would be impossible to take seriously at this point. Focus instead on the daily minutiae of living with a bipolar control freak. That's more what I got from the book.4. I would actually end the movie before the book was done - when Christina was out on her own, earning her own living. Perhaps a last scene at the funeral, years later. Again, focus on what the book focused on - the years of Christina under her mother's thumb.I think it could be done, and done very well. "},{"Title":"better than you think","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The film, like the book, is necessarily one-sided, but it's interesting to read about and see that, when the film came out, Christina Crawford bitched that director Frank Perry and writer/producer Frank Yablans had turned her memoir into a 'Joan Crawford film.' But, really, what else could a film about a movie stare be? At least so that it could hold its star's audience? Why would anyone want to read about Christina Crawford, save for her mother? After all, she was a spoiled brat who suffered, in actuality, nothing more than the typical behavior of an alcoholic and/or bipolar parent (as well as OCD and manic depressive), and fared much better than your typical orphan of the period. That she personalized this, when the reality was obvious, says more about her than her mother, as did the expectation that she could ever be the 'star' of a film her mother was in (in reality or spirit). The fact is that while 'everyone has a story'- to quote the PC cliché, few of those stories are worth experiencing. Christina's is actually one of them, save for the fact that her mother was a Hollywood legend. Sans that and she's the snotty kid of the town drunk. Period.Naturally, the film was savaged by the critics, and the studio almost immediately tried to turn the film's fortunes around by re-marketing it as a camp classic, rather than serious drama. It did not work, although the film did make a profit, and in the intervening decades has become a cult favorite amongst gays. Dunaway did, however, get some well deserved kudos, including a nomination as Best Actress from the New York Film Critics Circle Awards, for what it's worth. But, the post-release arc of the film has been one of almost constant critical cribbing- especially in a negative vein; and to the point that many online critics flub even basic facts about the film and specific scenes. Mainstream critics fared just as poorly. Critical superstar Roger Ebert lamented 'Mommie Dearest repeats the same basic dramatic situation again and again. Baby Christina tries to do the right thing, tries to be a good girl, tries to please Mommie, but Mommie is a manic-depressive who alternates between brief triumphs and long savage tirades, infecting her daughter with resentment and guilt&#x85;.'. Yet, this is clearly not so, for much of the film shows the exact opposite- a desperate mother doing any and all things to try to buy her daughter's love. And, the brat often refuses it, or will accept it only on her terms! Recall I noted that Christina is a very unsympathetic character. Just watch the scenes of Christina's birthday party, her watching her mother on the soap opera, and a few others- most notably during the hanger/bathroom scene, when a desperate Joan begs her daughter, after she calls her Mommie Dearest, 'When I told you to call me that, I wanted you to mean it.' It's clear that Crawford (at least the filmic version) sublimated a good deal of her real nature (one admittedly not suited for parenting) to try to be a good mother.But, this sublimation of the self, as well as the shared commiseration of mother and daughter, is the essence and major theme of the film. It is also the way the two characters define love- not 'conquering all,' but 'barely managing to survive.' The odd thing is, though, that decades after the events in the film actually took place (or not), as well as the book and film's shots at immortality, the film's theme remains the same. Not quite worthy of a song, granted; but more than worthy of a looksy. Trust me on that. "},{"Title":"The HORROR it is.","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the best women acting i have ever seen. I was chilled to my bones. Jesus how well madness is portrayed here by Faye Dunaway. I was thinking even to quit smoking ;). Anyway it's a biography of Joan Crawford the famous actress who - due to her ambition - losses sanity step by step. Seen through her adopted child Christina eyes. We can see how quickly those children had to grow up seeing their mommy breaking apart. We can also understand better to families in agony. This movie was made after a book Christina wrote. Christina being played by underdog actress Diana Scarwid. In my opinion it goes side by side with The Shining or Psycho. I will surely try to see more Faye Dunaway movies in near future. "},{"Title":"When I Told You To Call Me That (Mommy Dearest), I Want You To Mean It!","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Please! Don't make me vomit. I saw all I needed to see of this movie on the TV trailer. Since trailers are notorious for giving away the best parts of a film, I saw the scene where Joan Crawford said this to a cowering Christina along with the (in)famous NO MORE WIRE HANGERS! crap and decided that if this was the best that movie had to offer, then forget it. Besides, a movie depicting the cruel mistreatment of children is not exactly something I would try to leap over tall buildings at a single bound to see. Christina's book devotes quite a few pages to the wire hangers episode as I recall. Personally, if I had been awakened in the middle of the night by my mother with some garbage on her face, screaming like a banshee, and beating me over the head with a wire hanger and a can of Comet, the first thing that would come to my mind is that it's time for me to lay off of the late night creature features for a while. True or not, how ridiculous can you get? I read Christina's book about thirty years ago and, true or not, it is a captivating story. I'm not going to get into an argument over whether or not her story is truth or fabrication. Most of the people who can confirm or deny any of these allegations are dead. All I will say is that if Christina's allegations against her mother are true, then Joan should have been taken out and horsewhipped. If they are untrue, then Christina owes Joan's fans and the people who bought into her story an apology. That's all I have to say about that.TINA, BRING ME THE AX! Yes, Tina. By all means bring her the ax. If she was as cruel as you have alleged in your book and as this movie seems to portray, then give her the ax. Right upside the head. "}{"Title":"No.... more.... critical.... teasing!","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I think this movie has a bad reputation, wherein bad means misleading. With John Waters claiming it as one of his favorite films of all time and various plot synopses calling it a camp classic, the idea that people get going into this film for the first time is that of the ironic so-bad-it's-good, the idea that Joan Crawford was of course absolutely crazy, and that this film will be filled with delightful horrors to laugh at. Eh, I guess through some people's eyes, that's the truth, but it's still misleading to the whole truth.The fact of the matter is that this film is actually pretty decently done (none moreso in that Faye Dunaway's acting is horrifically spot-on) and does in fact reveal something about child abuse in a time when child abuse wasn't much recognized in society. The film version diverts its gaze a bit from Christina's character, spending more time on Joan's, but the point is still there.The infamous wire-hanger scene is definitely what can be considered a work of art. Though it's full of continuity errors (the bedspread?! Hello!), the make-up on Dunaway's face is pure horror film, reminiscent of terror baddies from zombies to vampires, even a bit of the demonic. The presence Dunaway has in her movements puts the beating beyond the level of strict disciplinarian--she's facing down YOU, and YOU are being beaten by her, and it's very difficult not to recoil.The movie does have it's flaws, enough for it to not be considered the greatest movie ever. But for what it is, I consider it quite successful and wish it was given more serious consideration instead of the cult focus it's obtained.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Not as bad of a film as people make it to be.","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I know a lot about good acting and movie production, and I've been living in or around the Hollywood area for a very long time. I think people are being way too harsh on the film. I notice a lot of the messages posted aren't from people in Los Angeles or know much about good acting. Of course, the film was not a box office smash but it has very good acting from some of the characters. The director does a great job of recreating the different decades changing the costumes, furniture, cars, etc. to really make the different time frames look real. Faye Dunaway playing the part of Joan Crawford isn't exactly accurate, of course, but that's not her fault. She's doing exactly what she's supposed to do in the film -- be an ACTRESS...she's simply following a script. And I tell ya, it's damn hard to do some of the flipping-out scenes she does. I know too many actresses that can't come near to getting as angry and pyschotic. It is true though, the directing and writing could have been done a little better. But I think the on-going list of Razzie Awards that were awarded to this movie were outrageous and unfair. I have this film in my huge collection of movies and I never get tired of watching it. "},{"Title":"Mommie Dearest- Even Any Mother Couldn't Love This ***1/2","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is based on adopted daughter Christina Crawford's biography of her legendary screen mother, Joan Crawford.Faye Dunaway gives an absolutely mesmerizing performance as Miss Crawford. Her make-up artist deserved some kind of recognition for those broad shoulders that the late Joan Crawford was known for.Many say that Dunaway's performance was over the top. What are they talking about? She is absolutely brilliant as the screen icon who was unbelievably brutal to her children. Who can forget the scene with the hangers? Who can forget the scene after Crawford wins the Oscar for Mildred Pierce? She acts as if she felt the award was coming to her.No matter what, Crawford was emotionally distraught. Dunaway conveys this in every scene of the film. What made Joan Crawford tick?As her abused daughter, Diana Scarwid turned in a powerhouse performance as well. Notably absent were Oscar nominations for both Dunaway and Scarwid in the best actress and supporting actress divisions. What has happened to Ms. Scarwid? She was terrific as well as Bess Truman in the HBO biography of Harry Truman starring Gary Sinise. She seems to have faded from the acting scene. Her presence is missed as well as quality pictures such as this one. "},{"Title":"Before tell-all stories became fashionable...","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Joan Crawford once said that Faye Dunaway would be the right actress to play her. If only she'd seen Mommie Dearest! This movie usually has been regarded with scorn, due to its nearly comical treatment of its subject. But I have to admit that while watching this movie, I didn't even giggle, let alone laugh; I did actually take the movie fairly seriously. I know, I sound like an imbecile for taking such a trashy movie seriously. But let's face it, this is Mommie Dearest, not any of the movies in which Eddie Murphy has starred in the last few years.As for the movie itself, Joan Crawford comes across as mentally ill. I don't know whether or not she was in real life; she may have just been tormented. But in the movie, she seems like a dictator, given how she treats Christina and Christopher. As for the wire hanger scene...well, you'll have to determine for yourself what you think of that. But overall, I think that Faye Dunaway did a pretty good job (or at least as good as was possible, given the material).Another aspect is that Christina got the last laugh she got to write a book exposing the real Joan. That must have been the first tell-all book. In the years since, it seems that there has been a tell-all book about almost every celebrity. Peter Fonda wrote Don't Tell Dad, exposing what a terrible father Henry Fonda was. I guess that someday, everyone's doomed to be exposed as an unpleasant person! And to think that it all started with Christina Crawford's book... "},{"Title":"Faye Dunaway Rocks","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Faye Dunaway does an incredible slash-and-burn job on Joan Crawford in this film, much to the disdain of Hollywood. For Miss Dunaway to go from Best Actress in Network to Worst Actress in this flick indicates that much of Tinseltown did not like what they did to Crawford. The movie apparently leaves out many parts of Crawford's long and distinguished career, horror films of the 1960s, and many marriages and other relationships.Now almost 30 years after Crawford's 1977 death, no one will ever know if the accusations of daughter dearest Christina are even remotely accurate, but it makes for a hilarious film. I have compared Miss Crawford to my mother at times for laughs. Parts of the film will never be forgotten digging up the garden at midnight, making drinks for Christina's uncles, putting her in a convent, etc.The Wire Hangers Scene will live in infamy. Do not miss this film. "},{"Title":"Watch it Once every 5 or 10 years","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I caught this one on it's initial release after having read the book, and I can tell you, I couldn't wait. At that time, around 1981, the movie really struck me as fantastic -- kind of like John Waters' Hairspray did a few years later. I've since seen it or parts of it a zillion times and so it's more like the Wizard of Oz to me I know it by heart and familiarity has made it a bit boring. UNLESS, I happen to be in just the right mood and then it's fresh again. Like Oz the scenes are legendary and in no time you'll have them down pat. It's fun to watch alone or with a crowd a la Rocky Horror. When Joan shakes her empty flask in the station wagon on their way home after yanking Tina out of boarding school and says in response to Christina's comment that there is a liquor store around the corner, I should have known you'd know where to find the boys AND the BOOZE it's just classic. The film's got a million of 'em. "},{"Title":"The (not very flattering) Joan Crawford Story","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Any die-hard Joan Crawford fan will look at the actress differently after seeing this The Joan Crawford Story as told by her estranged adoptive daughter Christina.The account begins ca. 1945, just before Joan Crawford received her Oscar for the title role in Mildred Pierce. Christina had just entered the Crawford household and quickly finds out about Mommie's erratic behavior. Later adopting a little boy, Joan Crawford appears desperate to gain the children's respect and love. To her adoring fans Ms. Crawford always appears to be the loving mother with a heart of gold. Behind closed doors the terror is on almost non-stop. Through about 10-15 years the children suffer emotionally and at times physically into young adulthood. Joan Crawford has the last laugh when neither of the children are remembered in her will.This film is painful to watch at times, making the audience turn away in disgust. The coat hanger scene brought tears to my mother's eyes (she grew up in an orphanage and empathized with little Christina). It would have been nice to learn about all this while Joan Crawford was still alive (to defend herself). One wonders how much of the story is embellished to make for more exciting reading.This film is very engaging, you won't get bored, but be prepared to have your admiration for a legendary actress completely shattered. This Joan Crawford Story was definitely NOT written by one of her fans. "},{"Title":"God help me, it's one of my favorite movies...","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" God help me, it's one of my favorite movies... But then again, I came from a psychotically abusive home like this one, so I felt this film championed my reality. No one will ever say this is a great, or even good, movie, but it is an honest movie. Insane people act insanely. The dialogue seems stited and creepy, because that's probably the way it was. Crawford was a woman in such denial about life, love, and basic human decency, and this film reflects all of that. I am grateful to children like the real Christina Crawford, who endured all of this and survived. Read the book and its sequel, Survivor, and you will understand the scope of the pain, and the lifetime it takes to overcome it. Then watch this movie again, and it doesn't seem like anything less than the Gospel truth. Also, try Radio Flyer and/or Bastard Out of Carolina and/or The Woodsman. Serious subjects don't always make for good entertainment, but they should be given a look anyway. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The cinematic bio-pic!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest (1981) was a hatchet job on the life of Joan Crawford that was written by her adopted daughter Christina Crawford. Some of the things she said about her mother are pretty questionable and real low. However the movie rectified it (somewhat) by portraying her as a spoiled rotten brat who grew up in the good life but could never show her mother any respect despite all the things she has done for her. The film makers still managed to display some of Joan's violent and odd behavior, although they've managed to mix a lot of fact with a healthy dose of fiction.The film follows the latter part of Ms. Crawford's movie career. Her star is fading and her inability to have children leaves her empty inside. So after a few of her friends pull a few strings she is a proud mother of twins, Christopher and Christina. The daughter feels the wrath of her mad mother and rebels at every chance she gets. As the film goes on, the daughter and mother have a very violent and abusive relationship. Christina no matter how hard she tries cannot escape her mother's shadow. In the end she still get's bogged down by her mother's last laugh from the grave. Will Christina ever win?The movie does nobody any favors. Everyone comes out smelling like rubbish in the end. Joan is a psycho woman defined and Christina is nothing more than a spoiled brat who doesn't know how good she had it. Alas, the winners of this war are cult film lovers. Faye Dunaway looks like a drag queen and Diana Scarwid is too attractive to play Chrstina (the real deal was a woof!). Cheap shots and laughs for all involved. Good for a few laughs and all forgotten. If you want the whole story go to your local used book store or second hand and find a copy of Mommie Dearest. Loads of fun!Recommended for Hollywood trash fans. "},{"Title":"Bring Me The Axe!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A fright-night horror movie, if there ever was one, starring Faye Dunaway in the role she was born to play &#150; Joan Crawford. No other actress alive could have portrayed Joan with the fire and intensity that, much to Faye's chagrin, has rendered her name synonymous with the role. Spawning a zillion one-liners (It's not you I'm mad at, Helga, it's the dirt. Strap yourself in, Christopher! No wire hangers, ever! Tina! Bring me the axe! Don't f*ck with me, fellas. And You're a lousy excuse for someone who *really* cares, among others), the film is not to be taken seriously and is definitely *not* for the faint of heart. In the celebrated night raid scene, Faye, as Joan, performs what can only be described as American Kabuki. With cold-cream obliterating her features except for the twisted mouth and incendiary eyes, Faye *becomes* the enraged Joan, practically showing us the inside of Joan's brain. The scene of the psycho-somatically bedridden Joan accepting her Oscar for her superlative work on *Mildred Pierce*, as well as the famous Christmas broadcast scene, are thrillingly realistic, as is the scene where Joan watches Christina pretending to be Joan addressing her fans. Dunaway has said that it took her a long time to shake Joan out of her system. There is no doubt of this, since Dunaway's performance is riveting, and this is her best period for movie roles. Favorite moment (One of so *many*) A drunken Joan trying to lure her lover back to her, begging him to stay. He turns to the vulnerable and weepy Joan and tells her, If you're acting, you're wasting your time. If you're not, you're wasting mine. "}{"Title":"A deliciously bad film","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Frank Perry's 1981 film Mommie Dearest is just plain horrid&#133; and I absolutely love it. Adapted from Christina Crawford's book of the same name, it tells the story of Joan Crawford's years as a mother to Christina and her brother Christopher, children she adopted as a single woman. By Christina's account, Crawford is an abusive mother, and basically out of her mind. With moments like the infamous wire hanger scene, drunken tirades and episodes where she physically beat and choked Christina, the film is pure, over-the-top melodrama.It has been so long since I've read Crawford's book that I don't remember if it mentioned any abuse of Christopher, or even mentioned Crawford's other adopted children, but Mommie Dearest the film only centers on Christina's abuse. The performances are SO overdone, and the script is full of so many gems that the film very quickly became a Midnight Movie sensation fairly quickly after bombing at the box office. I myself know a bunch of people who love to schedule yearly Mommie Dearest viewings, screaming along with Dunaway while she says, Tina!!! Bring me the axe!! or Don't f--- with me fellas!! This ain't my first time at the rodeo&#133;. I myself, in a pinch six years ago to come up with a Halloween costume put some cold cream on my face, a head band in my hair, put on my robe and grabbed a hanger on the way out the door, and ended up winning one of the prizes at the costume party I was attending. This film is so pervasive in our pop culture that one can pretty much say Mommie Dearest and someone will groan or laugh, and it is all because this film is just so outlandish.Mommie Dearest is just bizarre, and Faye Dunaway is mind-bogglingly histrionic, but it is all wonderful, and hilarious, and just plain fun. The fondness I have for this film is like the fondness I have for the film Xanadu; I love it for its downright horridness. Rating it is tough because I know it's a crappy movie, so I'm going to settle for a happy medium and give it a 5/10.--Shelly "},{"Title":"Without Faye Dunaway This Film Would Have Been A Total Disaster!!","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As a fan of celebrity biographies, I have recently watched Mommie Dearest for the first time, out of curiosity of Joan Crawford's personal life, and I found the movie to be pretty interesting. I can see why this film was honored the Worst Picture Of The Decade of the Eighties, it is very silly. But one thing I do not agree with for The Razzies, it was Faye Dunaway winning Worst Actress. I think this is Faye Dunaway's third greatest performance, next to Chinatown and Network. I absolutely adored Faye Dunaway in this movie.She played Joan Crawford with such rage and craziness. The most memorable scene in the movie, in which you see Joan Crawford at her most frantic, was the infamous No Wire Hangers scene, and the bathroom scene with my favorite lines in the movie,The Floor Is Not Clean, Nothing Is Clean, The Whole Place Is A Mess I absolutely loved and dreaded that scene, when I first saw it. The supporting roles in the film were pretty bad, except, Mara Hobel as Young Christina Crawford who was just great, but the worst performance in the movie was Diana Scarwid as adult Christina, she looked like a zombie throughout the film, especially when we see Christina as an adult for the first time.I said it before and I will say it again, without Faye Dunaway this film would have been a total disaster!!!I loved it for Faye Dunaway only.8/10 (Mainly for Miss Dunaway) "},{"Title":"I believe it.","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I recently saw Mommy Dearest on HBO. This was the first time I had seen it.The movie hits close to home. My sister and myself were abused as children by a waked out psycho mother like Joan Crawford. I have read the other reviews about the Crawford family and there were two other children in the house that do recount any abuse, as well as friends of Joan's that did not know of any abuse. Well the same went in my family. Our third sibling will say my mother never abused the two of us. The third sibling says she does not remember any of it. However, my mother the party giving hostess was thought as the perfect mother, neighbor, and person by her friends and neighbors. Although, when the doors were closed and the last guest had gone home, she would turn in the psycho that is in the mommy dearest movie. So, Christina Crawford I truly believe your story, and commend you on telling it. "},{"Title":"Simply disturbing","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was able to catch this AGAIN not too long ago. I remember reading the book when I was 12 years old and saw the movie not much later. I feel that Joan Crawford was not only an alcoholic but had some delusional problems not to mention obsessive compulsive tendencies, was manipulative and outright NUTS! If parenting was conducted now like this was back in the day, this woman would have been at Social Services in a New York minute! I am glad Christina told her story because in my opinion, she grew up at the hands of a madwoman. Even though some have found humor in this, I also hope that it helps others out there to speak out against abuse among children. They have rights too! "},{"Title":"Revenge is bitter sweet","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  ****************Spoilers**********************I guess Christina got her revenge for not being in her mothers will by writing a book about how bad her mother was after she was dead.Are we supposed to believe that this child who got her hair cut off,who was sent to boarding school, hit with a wire hanger and forced to clean the floors and locked in a poolside cabana bigger than most people's houses was tortured?  I could embellish events from my childhood that would make Joan Crawford look like the perfect mother. I'm sure anyone else could too. Except we couldn't sell books or film rights because our mother wasn't Joan Crawford. I guess Christina never got over the fact that all she would ever be is Joan Crawfords daughter and look, it got her much farther than she could have gone on her own. I'm not a fan of Joan Crawford as she was way too dramatic for me except for her role in what ever happened to baby Jane? but if that's all Christina could come up with to try and tarnish her mothers name, it was weak. To me it made her look like an over reacting spoiled child throwing a tantrum. The movie never says why Christina and her brother didn't get any of Crawfords estate and the other children did.  All the dialog says is they know why. So, why was it Christina?  I think Christina is the evil one.Faye Dunaway put in a great performance.  "},{"Title":"Factual Questions","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Since this film, based on Actress Joan Crawford's Adopted Daughter Christine's book, is supposed to be factual, its historical accuracy must ultimately determine its quality. Otherwise, what's the point?In most of the expose scenes, only two people were present, Christine and her mother.  So who else can affirm or deny the daughter's allegations?In the Biography Channel's Special on Crawford, there were no interviewees who supported Christine's assertions. In fact, Joan's other adopted daughter, Cindy Jordan actually negated them, claiming her mother to have been a fastidious though not cruel disciplinarian. Who are we to believe?Most of the interviewees saw Christine as one who was actually envious of her mother's celebrity status and good fortune.  They even painted Christine as vindictive and vicious of her mother.  These allegations don't much help Mommie Dearest; in fact, they severely undermine this dramatized memoir's credibility. While Christine significantly damaged mom's reputation when the book and film came out, Joan's more positive image is slowly being restored to public good graces.   Others close to Crawford are beginning to speak out to set the records straight.  It's too bad Christine didn't write a novel of fiction, leaving the reader to read between the lines--but she filled in everything. This was at first a lucrative blessing, yet may prove to be an ultimate curse.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical camp drama - with unordered laughs","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story of the later years of the star actress Joan Crawford, told from the perspective of her adopted daughter Christina.I always take the view that making a cult movie must be harder than making a classic. While not having immediate box office success (they are then hits in my book),  somehow the movie must  continue to be seen and discussed long after the publicists have gone.In this case it is still viewed to see the hysterical over-acting and famous scenes of cruelty and selfishness. Blame it all your problems on your parents? That is a game we have all played at one time or another. But how many of us have had our parent fill in for us while we are sick (Joan Crawford took over from her daughter on a soap opera!)Crawford went through one failed pregnancy after another, children were not a hobby or a whim. The movie also hints that she used children to gain publicity - probably she did, but the children got treats no one else would have given them and she did pick up the tab!The movie plays cute with the budget. A classy recreation of Joan Crawford's home, but we do spend a lot of screen time here. The other sets are basic and mostly empty bar the principles. Film making is barely touched upon in the film itself, but we are shown MGM giving Crawford the boot - to suggest decline and fall, but she won a Best Actress Oscar after this!The performance of Faye Dunaway is the subject of much hilarity here (IMDB) and elsewhere. Yes - it is way, way over the top. Dunaway hadn't done too much real acting before this and it shows. But what was her options? To underplay would have been just as bad and Crawford really was neurotic about dirt and disorder. But this much? Douglas Fairbanks Junior didn't recognise anything on screen and he was married to her!Crawford was a fame and camera junkie - right down to doing Z grade horror movies. It was her drug. She did struggle in her early days (not seen on screen). She was used and abused by men (some say she made herself a victim of men, Betty Davies for one!)But she was NOT a pantomime dame, she was the 40's it girl - with a unique look that turned heads wherever she went. She set fashions. In time she turned in to something more more along the lines of the Bride of Frankenstien played by a drag queen. But father time plays dirty tricks on most of us. The real problem (while watching the film) is that we don't really care about Christina, beyond the hope that she doesn't suffer (as the child) at the hands of  her mother any more. In later life she was pretty talentless actress who chose to use her mother's last name (and fame) to get a leg-up.  As the movie shows, she was not beyond a hand-out even in adult life.She got nothing of the Crawford two million dollar will. That scene I know for certain to be true. The rest can be filed under one big question mark. Make that three big question marks - it is that kind of movie.   "},{"Title":"WE all do agree NO WIRE HANGERS EEEVERRR!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There's one thing about this classic of the it's so bad that it's incredible's that WE all do agree with It's horrible, maybe one of the worst movies ever made, OK, but we just love it, and we're likely not to get tired to watching it never. I think it's a great idea editing a double DVD. The second one perhaps might include Joan and Faye unconditionals' best performances around the World. And the fact is that I am aware that Mommie Dearest has become a sort of cod, a universal language made up from the movie's script. Sometimes I think that a probably infallible way for two gay men from opposite sides of the World who meet accidentally anywhere and who don't know for sure if the other one is what both of them are expecting to be (so we can suppose that the two of us are a little bit afraid of being explicit) would be to keep looking each other with their eyes like eggs, smoking hystericaly and, suddenly, look for a near wall and start to scream TAKE OUT THAT BITCH OF A BEARING WALL AND PUT A WINDOW WHERE IT OUGHT TO BE! -by the way my favourite one-. Otherwise Can anyone explain to me why everyone who has seen this jewel of the Seventh Art (I insist EVERYONE)is able to speak the WHOLE script from memory, without failing one single word? (by the way once again those of you who are reading this and are not from my country should listen Dunaway's horrible dubbing. It's likely to be the second worst thing that the movie encompasses all around the World after Dunaway's play). It's absolutely true too that I don't know anyone who has seen it whose whole life has not change drastically after the event. I can see it time after time and without getting tired, always founding new details, polishing the Joan-Fay perception that everyone of us carries inside. But, for me, the question remains the same WHY, WHY, WHY, if there isn't anyone in his/ her right mind who is not aware that this is simply horrible? I ADORE Joan and (less) Fay, so I can't explain how I can enjoy with a movie (?) that destroys the former and do a little favour to the latter -who, let's say, had been training herself in performances like Network or (great) Chinatown for playing the role of her life, so I suppose that her famous Crawford's haunting took place a little bit before- Well, I suppose that the fact is that nobody (not me, at least) who has seen it takes it seriously. And if it's about enjoy, there is no one like Mommie Dearest.Anyway, if you haven't seen Mommie Dearest, you don't know what you're misssing. Come on, join the club and tell us what is your favourite phrase!Greetings, and long life to the wire hangers.     "},{"Title":"Mommie Dearest","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are two sides to this picture. There are some awful performances, notably from the always overbearing Forrest as a love interest of Joan Crawford and from child star Mara Hobel who suffers because she makes us suffer watching her. Then there's Diana Scarwid, a bit comatosed at times, but often poignant as an older Christina Crawford. She brings the anger out with raw vigor, although the character's story is a bit on the insufferable side. Why the young Crawford wrote this book, no one will ever really know? Many still say that it was Christina's way of getting back at her mother. Who knows? Dunaway does a sound impersonation of superstar Crawford, if Joan was indeed the bitch depicted in the film and in the book. The transformation into the character is an impressive one, thanks to good make up design and hairstyling. However, Dunaway turns Joan's life into a sordid set of soap opera vignettes, which may not have been her fault as only the actress, but has burned her career for almost 20 years now. I go back to the film from time to time to see the transformation continue. Parts I like and parts I detest. I may never know how I feel about this film as a whole. I'm still searching!  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie dozens of times and have the text committed to memory.  It is so bad it's good.  Faye has flashes of brilliance, but the screenplay lets her down from time to time.  Some of the dialogue is so awful that you cannot believe anyone had to mouth those words.  "}{"Title":"Hey! Hey! You! You!  I Don't Like Your Mother!","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I have seen Mommie Dearest when I was younger, and I have to say it is one of the absolute worst movies ever! Joan Crawford (Faye Dunaway) is the adoptive mother of Christina, who is telling her side of the story. I have to admit, I'm not sure whose side is true, but in this movie, Joan is nothing but a two-faced (witch) who says she loves her daughter but is just plain horrible to her! I mean, she wants Christina to be perfect. That's why she (spoiler warning!) tries to make her eat raw meat (My mom, sister and I personally like our meat well-done, too!); she has a swimming contest with her daughter than gloats when Christina loses, then Christina says it's not fair so Joan spanks her and locks her up in a pool house. Then (more spoilers!) when she hangs her dresses on wire hangers Joan yells at her and beats her with a hanger (I don't care for wire hangers either, but my goodness!); Joan makes Christina scrub the floor, beats her, chokes her, and fusses at her constantly, expecting her daughter to call her Mommie Dearest, which sure as flip is not the right name for her. Well, guess what, Miss Crawford? Like it or not, you are this child's mother and you don't show her a part of the love she tries to show you. I hope someday you can live a decent life without wanting to be perfect, but, you know what? Your daughter's not going to be perfect (until she gets to Heaven), and neither are you! Nobody's perfect, so deal with it!!!!! To the viewers If you like this movie, good for you. Whoever doesn't, I don't blame you. "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie! No, seriously, I mean it!","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a very powerful movie about the life and times of Joan Crawford, a fading movie star who decides she wants to have it all, everything must be perfect, but she was living in an imperfect world. She had been messed up since her childhood. One day while taking a stroll on a beach in twilight, she decides she wants a child. She has had SEVEN CONSECUTIVE miscarriages previously, so these have contributed to her sanity problems.It seems she suffered from insomnia too, waking at four each morning, even in the middle of the night. She insisted everything be spotless, so much, she even cleaned her own house after her maid's and servants had done so minutes before. She had a severe case of O.C.D from this too.Getting angry at dirt on the floor, etc. When she finally adopts her first child, a daughter named Christina, through a black-market scandal through her seedy lawyer-turned-lover. She is ''happy'', but not for long, she becomes greedy and wants to adopt every single unwanted child.But the greed turned to horror as her sanity sunk even further in to depression, not to mention alcohol problems, insomnia, problems in the bedroom and the slow decline of her career. Joan developed phobias, such as not allowing expensive clothes to be hung on wire hangers, thinking her daughter was a slut because she thought she was prettier than herself. The list was endless.What a release her daughter must have had though when Joan died. A nice breath of fresh air. She was free. She thought she and her ''mommie'' had bonded, but Joan had one last trick up her $40,000 sleeve - to dis-inherit Christopher and Christina from her will.But Christina decided to get her own back once and for all, and rightly so, she spilled the story of the true Joan Crawford for all to hear - and rightly so, Joan thought that even in death, she had one, but Christina got the last word. And it's right here - in Mommie Dearest. "},{"Title":"Not that funny","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie back when it first opened at theaters and it still remains one of my best movie experiences. Granted it had some unintentional humor but to say this movie is funny is way off. For those who have actually seen Joan Crawford movies will agree that Faye Dunaway's performance was the closest thing to the real Joan, you can see this in her later performances in movies like What ever happened to baby Jane?, I saw what you did, and Straight jacket, if people think Joan Crawford portrayal in Mommie dearest was exaggerated and overacted should do a little bit more research, some old articles mention her obsession with cleaning and her overwhelming fear of germs, if you think that today's divas are unbearable remember they didn't name it the Hollywood golden era for nothing, those days were when true glamor began. If you think you know everything there is to know about Joan Crawford just because you saw Mommie dearest then you been missing out on many, many great performances by one of Hollywood's best actresses that ever lived. "},{"Title":"My two cents, not counting inflation.","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I am a huge Joan Crawford fan, as everyone should be, and I guess I felt I had to say something about this movie. First off, it in no way changed my opinion of Joan Crawford or even my opinion of Faye Dunaway. Neither actress was ruined during the making of this movie, but both were considerably tarnished. Lord knows Faye Dunaway got a boost from this movie, even if it wasn't the kind of boost she had hoped for.As I mentioned earlier, I am a huge Joan Crawford fan. I am also a follower of Faye Dunaway's career, so this movie should be a delight. Ha. Upon reading Ms. Dunaway's autobiography, Looking for Gatsby, one can gain a little insight into her take on the movie. As I understood it, she had hoped (along with one of the umpteen producers) that the film would depict a struggle between a bratty rich girl and an unhappy poor girl. It ends up that way, only reversed. Ms. Dunaway had pictured Joan herself as the poor girl desperate for love and attention. Wouldn't that have made a better film? An actual film and not a travesty of just about every emotion available to human beings? Back to the backstory--it seems that Christina Crawford's then husband was also one of the producers, and the rich girl--poor girl scenario got shot down.I agree wholeheartedly with everyone who has mentioned the insanely quotable dialogue. I have found occasion to actually quote this movie in average every-day conversation. It's right up there with What Ever Happened to Baby Jane--I am somewhat ashamed of this, but I can recite that whole movie, and could even describe the action if blindfolded. Mommie Dearest is just like that--you see it once and it sears into your brain to torture you for all of eternity. (I've got Crawforditis--I keep overdoing everything!) I have some huge bones to pick with this epic though, and I'm not doing to detail differences from the book's material as I haven't read the book. I wasn't there either, so I won't try to influence anyone's opinion on what actually happened. Anyway, here are my complaints. First, Joan Crawford made somewhere around eighty films, covering a span of over fifty years. This movie mentions TWO. One, The Ice Follies of 1939 is mentioned only to give us an idea of the year and to see Faye Dunaway on ice skates. The second is Mildred Pierce, and it would be difficult to depict Joan Crawford winning an Oscar without mentioning the film for which she won it. WHERE ARE THE REST OF THE MOVIES? It seems Joan didn't have time for movie-making what with all the hysterical freak-outs she possibly experienced every two minutes. Joan Crawford without any movies isn't Joan Crawford to me.Also, there were several things that seemed pointless--a petulant Christina not eating the beef given her seemed stupid to me. I didn't feel bad for her, but I thought Joan was acting silly as well. As for children being whipped, even with clothes hangers, that used to go on all the time and still does. That doesn't make it right, but it doesn't make Christina special either. Another gripe--the endless wait at the beginning of the movie to see Joan Crawford. (One wonders if the director was attempting an homage to A Woman's Face, where the audience eagerly waits to see how gorgeous Joan has become, even though everyone knows what she looks like anyway. It doesn't dull the impact at all, though.) I almost fell off my chair at the visual revelation the movie provides, but not in a good way. It was more of a Damn, that's awful moment. Two of the most important characters, Greg and Carol Ann, are fictional. Since a huge chunk of Joan's animosity is directed at them, it's sort of odd that the two people never even existed. How can you show animosity when there's no recipient? My last gripe is really unimportant, but I dislike the rehearsal of Mildred Pierce. Rather than act out the scene, Faye Dunaway does an impression of Joan Crawford doing the scene. That bothers me--did Joan have everything nailed this early in the production of the movie? I would have liked to see a different interpretation of the scene. As for the Mommie Dearest take on it, we are supposed to be horrified that Joan actually slaps Carol Ann in the face. I recall hearing that Joan actually slapped Ann Blyth in the actual movie, but Ann Blyth had to slap Joan as well. Dozens of people got slapped by Joan Crawford, and I've seen La Crawford herself get smacked. (No one did that nifty backhand like her, though, huh? She'd backhand somebody, and then come around for seconds before they recovered. Dang, that's the coolest slap around.) The acting out of Mildred Pierce is unfortunately an example of a prevalent theme of this movie. In several scenes, Faye Dunaway opts to depict a Joan Crawford CHARACTER rather than Joan herself. I don't think that's her fault, as an actress usually doesn't construct a character from the ground up on her own. Who can watch the rose cutting/annihilate sequence and not see the Lucy Harbin character from Strait Jacket? As it stands, most the moments have little to no impact and you won't feel sorry for the characters, just for the actors playing them.Incidentally, I've known people to be horrified when I attempted to explain the hilarity this movie provides. How can you laugh at child abuse? they would fume. Just watch the movie, I replied every time. Every time the person would come back to me and say That's the funniest movie I've even seen. So see, it is good for something, and that's what I gave it a seven. "},{"Title":"Bad mother?  Try uptight daughter.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Finally caught this movie all the way through on TV recently.  Of course, you don't have to watch to know that Joan Crawford was a frightening mother with eyebrows to match.  The expression Mommie dearest and the No wire hangers bit are set in stone in pop culture.  Legend aside, the movie's depiction of Joan Crawford doesn't jive with a truly bad (adoptive) parent.  If we assume the story is accurate, then the only thing Joan Crawford is guilty of is being eccentric in the course of dispensing discipline.  That's it.  Unlike countless other parents who refuse to be passively submissive to their children, Joan Crawford was famous.  In my opinion, Mommie Dearest helped usher in the age of Assume no responsibility for your problems, just blame others, sending society on the downward spiral of political correctness and revisionist history.  Mommie Dearest is the blueprint for the modern talk show, with daughter Christina as the first guest.     "},{"Title":"Memorable trashing of a Hollywood icon","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to describe this film because it's so unique.  There have been many movie biographys of film stars, but this one leaves a lasting impression.Faye Dunaway gives a completely over-the-top performance as Joan Crawford.  Her grotesque characterization is fascinating and repulsive, comical and sad.  She portrays Joan Crawford as a hideous psychopath constantly fawning for attention, who terrorizes and manipulates all those around her, especially her daughter, Christine, whose point of view provides the basis for this story.At times you can't help but burst out laughing at the total audacity of anyone behaving this way, but underneath it all is a sadness that anyone could be so insecure and hurtful.  Joan Crawford was a talented actress, but you could always see the edge in her work, like there was a live wire sending off sparks somewhere inside of her.   She always seemed a bit angry and defensive in the roles that she played, and as portrayed in this movie, it carried over into her home life.Whether it is true or not really doesn't matter.  For better or for worse, Joan Crawford will always be remembered for how she's portrayed in this film. "},{"Title":"The Monster That Ate Hollywood","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Only common sense and my personal conviction to be taken seriously as a rational human being, prevents me from giving this now cult classic an eight on the IMDb voting scale.When Christina Crawford's book Mommie Dearest was first released in print, many people came forward and either yelled 'foul' or 'you said it!' And Whether or not Christina was truly on the receiving end of a Hollywood-aided (or -created) monster, remains a mystery to this day.Preventing me from giving this one an 8 is the fact that MD runs a close second to The Rocky Horror Picture Show, in terms of audience interaction and probable participation.  MD is currently spending its half-life on HBO and several other cable stations that, for all this film's camp and unintentionally generated laughs, continue to intrigue and fascinate new generations of fans.On the upside Mommie Dearest sports excellent production designs, makeup, costumes (worn mostly by actress Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford), sets, a supporting cast and a sincere effort to capture the years between WW2 and 1977 (the year the Queen of Hollywood died).  Dunaway does a superior job in capturing the abusive cinema siren-turned-gargoyle, Joan Crawford (I confess, I can't help but snicker every time I see the actress crossing her eyes during the 'wire hanger' bedroom scene).Because we are watching a movie, we rarely get any explanation for 'Crawford's' bizarre personality changes and actions.  For instance, why does she level her rosebushes?  As Christina tells us in her book, Joan chopped them down because they were a gift (rose bulbs) to the actress from L.B. Mayer (the guy who's just fired her from MGM).  And although nobody in their right mind can truly justify anything Joan may have done or said, we still get (at least) a somewhat better understanding as to how Hollywood may have had a hand in making her that way. Ultimately, actors are forever at the mercy of Father Time, no matter how many fans they might have generated over the years... or how many face-lifts they get.Long live Hollywood's tenacity! "},{"Title":"Intense Biography","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when I was a child, and, as a child, I didn't really know who Joan Crawford was. I saw a movie about an abusive mother and how her daughter overcame the abuse. It wasn't until later on that I learned that this was a woman many people in America looked up to and admired. She put forth a facade of tranquility when her life was utter chaos.it is an eye opening movie that is riveting to watch. Faye Dunaway gives a performance that is worthy of Crawford herself. You end up feeling just as bad for her as you do for the daughter she allegedly abused.I am giving this movie an 8 instead of a ten because there is some doubt that the story is true. Some say Christina Crawford just never got along with Joan and this was her way of sticking it to her. We may never know whether or not that's true. "},{"Title":"I Remember Mamma","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is very hard to rate. Is it a plain, old bad movie or is it a good bad movie? I've decided it's just a plain, old bad movie. Yet whenever I stumbled upon this movie (usually on Lifetime) I get drawn in. Think train wreck and you understand what I mean. Regardless of Christina's allegations this movie certainly bends and twists facts and sometimes even creates brand new characters who never existed to help fill in the blanks. The E! True Hollywood Story would be more factual than this, so this movie falls into the realm of sheer fantasy. Faye Dunaway. What can be said? She needs to be done away with. The rest of the cast, especially young and old Christina were played by two very bad actresses who must have been striving to be nominated for the Academy Award with the amount of gusto they put into their portrayals of She who must not be named. I give this movie one weak handed bitch slap out of five. "},{"Title":"It's just a shame...","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I used to like this movie. A lot. It's campy and hilarious- but I have learned that it is also pure fiction. It breaks my heart that these lies have tarnished the reputation of one of the most talented actresses Hollywood will ever see. Joan adopted three other children, all of whom have denied Christina's allegations (Christopher went along at first, but later denied any abuse). Also, Myrna Loy, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. (Crawford's first husband), and Betty Barker (her personal assistant for many years) as well as many others within her acquaintance, have dismissed Christina's accusations as outright lies- and pure revenge for having been left out of the will. I am quite sure, that if these allegations were true- SOMEONE would have noticed- but no one did. They also say that Christina was an absolute brat, as a child, and as an adult. I have to say- even in the movie she seems like an insufferable spoiled brat. Honestly- my mother made me write thank you notes when I received gifts- it's common courtesy- and I certainly didn't flip out at her for it. Also- wire hangers *do* ruin clothes- they leave rust stains and kill the shape of the garment. "}{"Title":"A Woman's Face.","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It's said that some movie are so bad they're fun to watch. I wonder if the people who believe that have actually sat all the way through one of these dismal products and genuinely enjoyed it.Faye Dunaway is Joan Crawford, fading movie star and virago. Next to her, Xanthippe was a model of graciousness and decorum. But it must not have been easy to turn Faye Dunaway, with her modelesque features, into Joan Crawford, a big-jawed, big-eyed woman with a face of polished steel. Certainly the Make Up Department couldn't do it.One imagines their conundrum. Miss Dunaway, you're gorgeous and so was Miss Crawford, but in different ways. We just have to change a few details. Joan had heavier, darker eyebrows. Oh, Raoul, bring me the laundry marker? And Joan was given to false upper lashes of, er, an unusual size. Priscilla, do we have any of those black awnings left over? Yes, that's it. A mouth like a crimson gash. And she was a bit more pale than you. The whitewash.The result? Not Faye Dunaway and not Joan Crawford but a horrifying chimera.It's just terrible, everything is, not just the make up. The direction by Frank Perry lumbers heavily along, making one obvious point after another. When Dunaway is wrestling with her now grown-up daughter, Diana Scarwid, who has given excellent performances elsewhere, the director has Dunaway throw Scarwid to the floor and try to strangle her while Scarwid's legs kick wildly and the viewer is treated to tantalizing glimpses of the crotch of her underpants. Yes, the taste throughout is exquisite.The script is full of non sequiturs. Dunaway has just had a cinematic triumph of some sort and is weeping with happiness, and then she discovers her daughter playing with the grooming devices at the dressing table. For no reason, Dunaway goes berserk, screaming at her daughter -- WHY do you LOOK at yourself in the MIRROR???, before grabbing a pair of scissors and cutting the hair off her screaming child. I can't go on with this. It's bad, but it's not funny. I guess the studio must have disagreed because they first released it as a serious biographical drama. After the first reviews, they changed the marketing pitch. The slogan now became, The Biggest Mother Of Them All. Crawford is gone now, but, as Huck Finn says of a gloomy poet, I reckon that with her disposition she was having a better time in the graveyard.Not that it's entirely lacking in merit. It was a learning experience. I've learned never to hang my most expensive dresses on wire hangers. "},{"Title":"Was There a Point to Any of This?","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest (1981) * 1/2 (out of 4) Adaptation of the best-seller by Christina Crawford about her troubled childhood with her adoptive mother Joan Crawford (Fayne Dunaway). I guess that's pretty much all you have to say about this movie, which seemed to get a strong group of fans who loved it but also a strong group of people who downright hated it. Even if you haven't seen the movie you've at least heard of its reputation or seen spoofs of it on TV shows or other movies. I will say that I didn't find the movie as bad as many and I don't think it lived up to its reputation as a so bad its good film. In fact, I'd say I was disappointed because it didn't reach any sort of campy level because I found the entire thing to be rather deadly dull and boring. For the life of me I couldn't see any point to anything happening in this movie with the exception of taking a legend and ruining her legacy going forward. I'm not sure what really happened and I'm not sure how much of the story was made up or changed for dramatic purposes. I don't guess it really matters because the film is just so dead that I really don't care. It's strange but if everything in this movie was the exact same except the lead character wasn't a movie legend then it's doubtful anyone would care about it. I mean, the acting is all over the place, the story has countless holes in it and it really feels like a cheap TV-movie adaptation of some soap opera. Dunaway is such a great actress that she can be forgiven for how bad she is at times during this thing. I can't fully blame her because the film itself really never answers any questions. I mean, was Crawford always insane? Was she crazy or did she have some sort of mental health issues? Was she abusive to everyone in her life? She has a son yet he disappears from the film. Was he abused? We never really learn anything about Crawford or why she is the way she is so perhaps this is why Dunaway simply doesn't know what to do with the part. At times she's quite good but whenever she hits this crazy spells it's just so over-the-top that you can't help but roll your eyes and there are times where you will want to laugh and you really shouldn't be laughing at child abuse. I thought both Mara Hobel and Diana Scarwid were very good playing the young and adult daughters. Howard Da Silva was memorable as Louis B. Mayer and Steve Forrest does a nice job as Greg Savitt. With that said, MOMMIE DEAREST just falls flat on its face. It really does seem as the screenplay and director felt that showing Joan Crawford as a monster was entertaining enough and they didn't have to do anything else. Sorry folks but it's not that simple. Whatever the truth to the real story is we'll never know but this film is just lousy. "},{"Title":"I think you're overacting, Miss Dunaway","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I think you're overreacting, Miss Crawford ... I'm not acting -- Faye Dunaway chews the scenery in a performance Joan herself would have envied. After all, Joan once said that Faye was the only movie star left in Hollywood. It's not a facocta Broadway play. It's a movie within a movie about movies. It's Commedia dell Arte at an operatic pitch in black face (which Joan herself wore in the movie Torch Song.) Yes, it's all a gawd-awful mess but that's what makes it so fun. It's not about acting. It's about movie stars playing movie stars and the ultimate truth that involves.Box office Poison -- They circled the wagons and made her pay for daring to make fun of them. It goes to prove the theory that Hollywood was created and is maintained by the freaks and geeks who were teased in school and have no sense of humor at how ridiculous they and their little art form truly are.With me, feeling is more important than money -- Make no mistake if this movie would have made $100 million, it would be on AFI's Top 100 and Miss Dunaway would have gotten her fourth Oscar nomination. Don't think for one minute this isn't about the Benjamins.That son of a bitch is trying to ruin my career -- Frank Perry is the genius of the soft drink world! Too bad he makes movies. He didn't have a clue how to rein in and control this Category 5 Hurricane of a performance.You've always given me my share of bad scripts because you knew I'd make them work! -- It's the script, LB. Too many writers, too many points of view, too many scenes, and ... to quote Amadeus, another over the top biopic too many notes.Bad with you, good with others -- Anne Bancroft would have been brilliant but boring. Oh, sure, character development, Smart-Aleck back-story, nuance &#133; so what! Would she have slammed Diana Scarwid's head against the floor, back handed Rutanya Alda full force, smashed a glass lamp and near toppled to the ground herself in one fluid explosion of furious kinetic intensity? I think not. Ms. Bancroft would have been far better suited to playing one of Crawford's more composed, dignified rivals, for example, the forgettable Norma Shearer or the superb Greer Garson.No studio, no money &#133; I don't know what I'm gonna do -- And so she was cast out of the golden city, forced to take refuge in Europe and &#133; television. (Do you know how shameful that is to her??) But the truth was, she was getting old. That was the truth to face and deal with. She needed bot-ox if she wanted to survive.I'll only speak well of you -- And now she will barely discuss it. Not that I blame her. The ferocity of her rejection by Hollywood is matched only be the fictional firing of Joan by LB Mayer in this film. Of course, in reality Ms. Crawford asked legendary agent and eventual studio mogul Lew Wasserman to get her out of her contract and make the deal to move to Warner Bros. But that was neither tragic nor humoresque enough for these screenwriters.I could be mother and father to a kid -- As Joan tended to do in her later movies, Faye takes over the male and female lead roles, relegating male co-stars to be window dressing for her histrionics. Again, a more truthful depiction of Hollywood movie making has rarely been seen. This isn't just a star vehicle, this is vehicular co-star slaughter.Something good had to have rubbed off -- Mark my words, this movie and Faye's performance will continue to grow in stature, eventually all but erasing memories of our Joan, just as Crawford's own late career Grand Guignol performances in such films as Whatever Happened to Baby Jane and Strait Jacket forever replaced affection for decades of her often very popular films since her breakthrough silent movie role in Our Dancing Daughters in 1928. How sad that is. But nobody ever said life is fair Tina. I'm bigger, I'm faster and I'll always beat you. A TONY BLASS REVIEW "},{"Title":"Faye Dunaway deserved the Oscar","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I was appalled when I found out that Faye Dunaway wasn't even nominated for an academy award for her performance as Joan Crawford. After doing some research on the film I came to understand that for it's time, the film was thought to be terrible, it was considered a disgrace because of what it dared to show in the film. It made sense after finding out, now the movie is liked among most of the people you would talk to, but for its time, it was too much for people.Anyway Faye Dunaway is incredible as the estranged Hollywood icon, Joan Crawford, her performance was very satisfying, the way she created this character was the best thing about this film. Though the supporting performances are weak, and Frank Perry's directing isn't exactly inspiring, I enjoyed the film for the energy, and I thought it showed how Joan Crawford really was.My favorite scene was when Joan Crawford gets incredibly upset over a dress being hung in the closet with a wire hanger, it is one of those scenes that no matter how many times you see it, it is still hard to watch, which I believe makes it a good film. I do recommend it, just don't go by the original reviews, because it is a good film that shows the abusive relationship between Joan Crawford and her adopted daughter. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm not one to argue with what a lot of people say about certain things, however, I do have to argue about this film. While the critics shot this movie down as some of the scenes where way over the top, I must argue and say this film is heavily underrated is a good film to check out, if you love camp classics, or cult films in general.This film is based on the book by Christina Crawford's of the same name. The movies depicts the abusive and traumatic adoptive upbringing of Christina Crawford by her mother.The acting in general is good, a lot of people will tell you that Faye Dunaway was a little over the top, but in my opinion, did a fine job of being Joan Crawford. The scenes that really bring Faye's character was the wire hanger scene and the rose garden scene. I loved the wire hanger scene as it was a classic moment in the film, and on of my favorites.The script was also well written, and there are no cheesy lines in this film.This is one of those films, that you will either agree with the critics and say that it was horrible, or you disagree and say it was pretty good. All in all, give this movie a chance, if you are for camp classics. "},{"Title":"Ghoulish","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Pretty bad. Faye Dunaway, like an anaconda, not only chews the scenery, she vomits it up and eats it again. Her performance as Joan Crawford has to be some sort of actor's lesson in what not to do...EVER. Based on Christina Crawford's memoir, MOMMIE DEAREST focuses primarily on Crawford in the 1940s when she adopted a few children and was, at least briefly, considered a good actress. For some reason Dunaway looks and acts like the Crawford of the 1960s --- think NIGHT GALLERY, TROG, BERSERK! Frank Perry, a previously classy director, clearly had no control over Dunaway. She runs amok and soundly dwarfs the rest of the cast including Mara Hobel as young Christina, Howard da Silva as Louis B. Mayer and the always unusual Diana Scarwid as the adult Christina. Steve Forrest appears as Dunaway's lawyer/lover/confidant. The film's become a camp classic, but it's actually just dull and awkwardly made for the first hour or so. It does reach a certain level of hysteria in the second half particularly when the 50-something Dunaway/Crawford replaces her ill 20-something daughter on a soap opera. "},{"Title":"Probably the greatest movie in the history of cinema","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mommie Dearest is not just the greatest piece of over the top hyperbolic autofiction, it is the greatest film ever - period.Based on Christina Crawford's coffin-kicking book, film traces her adoption by golden age film star Joan Crawford, through hideous abuse she suffered at her mother's hands.How can you not love Faye Dunaway in kabuki make-up and baby-doll clothing with shoulder pads like speed bumps, terrorizing a nine-year old.As Crawford, Dunaway hits high notes Shakespeare could only dream about. And the infamous wire hanger scene is like watching an Aztec fire god perform King Lear.If you ever need a good jolt of horror, and you're not afraid to chuckle, this one will make your day.On a serious note, everyone involved in this film is very talented and they have all gone on to wonderful careers (this may have sidelined Dunaway's career briefly, but no way could it ruin it) and director Frank Perry has made some fantastic films otherwise (David and Lisa, Last Summer) "},{"Title":"Mommie Dearest - Cult Classic","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is perhaps along with The Rocky Horror Picture Show a must have for your film collection.Faye Dunaway should have won an Oscar for this amazing portrayal of a Hollywood aging movie icon, Joan Crawford! I just bought the DVD version and I love it even more.....funny how the whole movie works with out the aid of a soundtrack!!! The actress that plays the young Christina is fabulous, she delivers her lines like a pro...the child abusing scenes are hysterical..I laughed my ass off!!! )Carlos V. "},{"Title":"Not such a bad film... just okay!","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In this movie, it is very amazing the way that Christina Crawford remembers everything when living with her mother, Joan... it makes you feel sorry for her, as she faces the abuse and how she and her brother wasn't mentioned in the will! You can feel the starting of the show was nice... as she washes her face and dips it in the bowl of ice! Later, it is very horrible to find out that she loses her status as an actress and further... the director of the Pepsi firm! It was so horrible watching the parts where Joan would just abuse Christina, and would just make her eat the rare beef... you can see it in her face where Joan just orders the 2 rare beefs, without even asking her! A fine show to watch, but mostly for those who want to know more about Child Abuse! "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure, Little Truth","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, though it is amusing to me in retrospect, that this film is the one which made me a devoted fan of Joan Crawford--and she isn't even in it!What is good and worth watching in this picture?  Hardly anything.  The acting is bad, the dialogue is abysmal, and the settings are garish and overdone (I happen to know that Crawford's real home was not THAT big or elaborate).  At the same time, however, the film falls into that so-bad-it's-good category.  And so, I continue to get it out and watch it every so often for the pure campy fun of seeing Faye Dunaway bellow, snarl, and scratch her way through this film that really never should have been made, but how lucky for devotees of camp like myself that it was!I also feel I should climb up on my soapbox here while I have the opportunity and just say that, while I am sure that Miss Crawford was not a great mother, neither do I believe that she was the Medusa-like caricature presented here. I have studied and researched her life for years, and yes, she was difficult, abusive, egotistical, alcoholic--this has all been documented by many who knew her well, aside from her daughter, Christina. At the same time, though, there was clearly a warm, loyal, and generous side to her nature that most people choose to forget about.  And regardless of how one feels about her personally, there is no doubt that Crawford succeeded in her career and set a professional standard few can hope to match, especially in the Hollywood of today.In conclusion, this is not a film for everyone, and those who do see it should obviously not take it too seriously.  If it happens that you are interested in the real Joan Crawford, then I recommend her Oscar-winner Mildred Pierce (1945), along with Humoresque (1946), Possessed (1947), and Harriet Craig (1950).    "}{"Title":"For Christ's sakes, get them out of the garden!!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Totally toss out every disgusted notion you have about child abuse and strap yourself in for a fun time at the anal retentive corral. A beyond campy look at a truly scary control freak. Manages to resemble an over exaggerated episode of Dynasty, mixed in with a dash of Frankenstein. At certain points of her type A personality mania, Mz. Dunaway seems to resemble a cross between the monster from Alien and Casper the very unfriendly ghost. It's hard to believe the real Crawford was this comical. Maybe her old movies? But once the cameras stopped rolling? One can only wonder how daughter Christina felt at the premiere, watching this gay icon merriment unfold before her upset eyes. All that's missing are Dorothy and the flying monkeys. Dunaway can't even jog up the driveway without causing belly aches. For sheer, drawn out amusement, pause her extreme facial movements on the VCR or DVD. Pure comic hilarity! "},{"Title":"This movie is entertainment.","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie again and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  It doesn't matter why you like this movie....camp classic....serious docu-drama....stylish sets and costumes....or all of the above.  What does matter is that people DO like it in spite of what the movie critics had to say.  You are better off getting your movie reviews from a forum like this using real people than you are from professional movie critics who are PAID to write their reviews. "},{"Title":"A campy, funny, disturbing movie","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford.  Movie history.  Being a college theatre performance major I see movies mostly for performances.  Dunaway nearly went insane portraying.  She does a commendable job for parts of the picture, but it gets hard to watch her screaming her lines in your face.  When Dunaway has subtle, intimate scenes she is believable.  Poor Diana Scarwid.  She is not at all in the same league as Dunaway.  She looks like an inexperienced actress.Though the film is overlong, it still is watchable.  There are moments of sheer hilarity, some disturbing scenes (of course NO WIRE HANGERS). Watch it for the costumes and Dunaway, always one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  *Mommie Dearest*In 1990 Mommie Dearest took home the Razzie for worst movie of the decade.  I have no idea how.  It won over such bombs as Howard the Duck and any Bo Derek movie.  And 8 years before that it won worst movie over Endless love and any Bo Derek movie.  Faye Dunaway also won worst actress, and it was the film that KILLED her career.  She was in demand in the 70's, but come 80's... it all went down from there.When I say it's not that bad, I'm not saying it's good.  But c'mon, Endless love didn't give us NO WIRE HANGERS... EVER!!!!.  That scene is famous, dare I say infamous?  And it's hilarious.  I don't think anyone can have a discussion about hangers (oh, I've had them) without mentioning that line.  But some scenes in this movie are tedious.  In other words every scene where Faye isn't going crazy and yelling at her daughter, Christina.  You would never expect Joan Crawford was like that.AND FAYE DUNAWAY WASN'T THAT BAD!  Considering what she had to do, she did it perfectly!  It's the role every actress wants to play.  But, yes, maybe a little but TOO over the top.  But still very funny.  Poor Faye, she was a good actress too.If you haven't seen this movie don't rush out to the video store and rent it, just wait for it to come on the old TV, it plays every now and than.  And remember NO WIRE HANGERS... EVER!!!*5/10* "},{"Title":"Down to the wire....... hangers","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is incredible. I swear that Faye Dunaway had ingested large amounts of LSD coupled with mushrooms to belt this portrayal out because her performance is unbelievable. I can only imagine how she must feel knowing that this crock is on her resume. Watching this movie gets you about the same result as hearing cats coupling outside of your bedroom all night while you're trying to get some sleep. It's very upsetting to watch because you know that you're wasting your time watching it but somehow it keeps you glued. Joan Crawford's ghost must be cross-eyed with rage and shaking her fists at whomever is near because this movie has completely destroyed whatever rep she had in her final days. This movie gets *1/2 out of ***** on a regular rating but gets a full 5 YIKES! on the YIKES-o-METER scale. "},{"Title":"Caterpillar Eyebrows and Crappy Acting.","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Obviously it took a ton of makeup to make Faye Dunaway look like the repulsively ugly Joan Crawford. Every time I see a Joan Crawford film, I wonder in bewilderment, were people blind in the forties? How in the world did this woman ever land an acting role, regardless of how deranged or insane the character might be?Just google Joan Crawford and hit images. You'll see some of the most frighteningly ugly portraits in the history of Hollywood. Was this before they invented tweezers? Did the makeup artist think 1/2 thick eyebrows would help her look more demented? As if that was even possible?Then you watch this film and find out that in real life Joan Crawford was a complete mental case. I guess that explains the fact her face could shatter a mirror. Also explains all the demented characters she played were not a matter of acting, but just being herself. If you're crazy to the bone and ugly as a steaming pile of dog feces, than playing that type of character requires no acting skills. Just show up on the set drunk, use a magic marker to apply fake eyebrows and just be yourself.Then when you get home you can abuse the Hell out of your daughter. If there was any justice, Joan Crawford would have died of old age in jail. She had no talent, looked like Satan took a dump on her face and beat her with an ugly stick, she treated her kid like an animal, and couldn't act her way out of a loosely tied Walmart bag.As far as this movie goes, portraying her pathetic life and horrid motherhood, it sucks to the same level as Crawford. Which is fitting. What better way to portray the life of a piece of crap than hire lame actors for the roles of mother and daughter. Top it off with bad directing, a 1st grade level script and surround it all with unknown supporting actors.A crowning achievement in all that is lame. "},{"Title":"Joan Crawford never jogged a minute in her life.","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There have been 11 pages of astute observations regarding this terrible film. I will only add one and save the reader from having to read a redundant comment.In 1972 Frank Shorter became the first American in over 50 years to win the gold medal in the Olympic marathon in Munich, Germany. He came in second out of hundreds runners in the next Olympics in 1976.In the early 1970s, for the first time ever, Americans started running regularly in the streets. Before Shorter's gold medal performance running in the streets was only done by college and high school runners. It was not considered a form of exercise for anyone else.Think back to that time. Did you ever see anyone running in the street outside of high school and college runners before 1972. NO! NO! NO! But Joan Crawford in this film was jogging in either the late 1930s or early 1940s. I wanted to mention this is another inaccuracy in the movie. The only jogging Joan did was to the liquor store from her car or to hop in bed with her latest boyfriend. "},{"Title":"A classic....waste of time.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It took me twenty years, but I finally saw Mommie Dearest, and I must say, I waited twenty years too soon.I realize that it has become somewhat of a cult classic, but why???!! Do people actually find humor in the psychological (and physical)torment of an adopted child in the hands of an unstable, publicity-hungry, egomaniacal Hollywood actress who cared more about what was in her child's closet than her own child? No more wire hangers...ever!!!!I'll admit to finding some entertainment value in the painfully melodramatic acting; and yes, Ms. Dunaway was a perfect clone for Ms. Crawford. But the film made me cringe, and in the end it made me sad. Both mother and daughter never got what they really wanted.Grade F "},{"Title":"Great Star Destroyed by Cheap Campy Soap Opera","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" It's disgusting how a fourth-rate, cheap, exploitative soap opera of a movie like this can erase the entire oeuvre of a truly gifted, truly remarkable film star such as Joan Crawford. Written by an envious little brat with no beauty or talent who hated her glamorous mother for having what she could never have, this movie and the book it's based on appeal to the lowest instincts of the human character. We love to hate celebrities, we love it when the powerful and talented fall, we love tawdry stories of abuse perpetrated on helpless victims by the powerful, we love stories about horrible mothers, and especially about horrible WOMEN. Regardless of Joan Crawford's apocryphal flaws as a mother (which are not corroborated by her other children), she was a richly talented star, and anyone can gain a hundred times more entertainment from watching any one of her movies than by watching this dreck. People who blame Dunaway's horrible performance on the fact that she was merely mimicking Joan Crawford herself are dead wrong. One only has to view Crawford on screen or in interviews to clearly see this. Dunaway alone is responsible for her ludicrous scenery-chewing performance, the awfulness of which is the main thing that pulls this film out of oblivion into camp notoriety. I normally wouldn't care enough about such a worthless movie to write about it, except that it has all but ruined Joan Crawford in the eyes of audiences, who often know the star only by this movie. I blame the stupidity of audiences who continue to support this movie as much as the movie itself, Christina's book, the script, the directing, or Dunaway's performance. But of course trash is drawn to trash. "},{"Title":"Ms. Dunaway reserves the right to remain silent","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The film Mommie Dearest was based on the book of the same name written by Christine Crawford, and it was about her mother, Joan Crawford. It's safe to say that this may very well be the most hilarious and misguided film in history, and I will never grant it higher than a smoked ham, but I do feel sorry for Faye Dunaway. She was only doing her job as an actress. I can't help but feel that she was robbed of her dignity, and as most people would say she brought it on herself, or that she never had dignity to begin with, I will say otherwise. She's merely an actress, one of the best to be exact, and she was only jumping at the chance to star in what could have been a good film. Saddly the film was a disaster, even more sad, Dunaways character was the ruins of Hollywood glamor, and Dunaway was, I feel, wasting her time portraying cheap trash of the likes of Joan Crawford. I don't feel it was completely Faye who ruined the role, I feel the role was the role. Joan Crawford was just a cheap, ridiculous, impudent whore of Hollywood Babylon, who would do anything for anything. Faye Dunaway was just doing what she could to bring out that part of her that could empathize with the horrid actress she portrays in the film. The problem with the film is that it is about Joan Crawford, period. Anybody wasting their time on that stupid drama queen of a strumpet has to be out of their minds, god knows I'm out of mine for reviewing this movie that pays tribute to the most gruesome actress of all, but in Faye's defense, I think I'll say a bit more. Faye was not, and is not a bad actress, she's one of the best, and this movie, in all it's campy, inglorious flames, might prove as well as disprove. I say she portrayed the part perfectly. It's not that Faye Dunaway is a bad actress, but rather that Joan Crawford was just stupid, silly, over-the-top trash, simple as that. In recent days, Ms. Dunaway reserves the right to remain silent about this embarrassment, and why not, anything Crawford touched was ultimate trash, and she was herself trash, and Ms. Dunaway was and is sheer delight and talent, and nothing will change that. Hat's off to Faye Dunaway for doing what she could with what she had. as for Joan Crawford... rot in hell! "}{"Title":"The Gay Community has pretty much RUINED THIS MOVIE FOR ME FOR LIFE !!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm a gay man, age 46, who was something like 21 years old when this movie first came out in 1981. Immediately, as the TRIVIA NOTES mention, Paramount sense they had a bomb on their hands, and proceeded to cater to the camp humor of NO WIRE HANGERS, EVER! to the general masses out there ! Needless to say, EVERY DRAG QUEEN in San Francisco at the time was doing MOMMIE DEAREST, if not Bette Davis and Joan in BABY JANE. This movie was meant to be taken 'SERIOUSLY', but I can never really watch it anymore without cracking at least a little smile at the OVER THE TOP OVERACTING by FAYE and other cast members. FAYE DUNAWAY is a great actress, DON'T MISUNDERSTAND ME ! But even she said in People at the time that this movie made her a laughing stock in Hollywood and almost destroyed her career in one fell swoop. Besides all of that, the few remaining people from the REAL JOAN CRAWFORD'S era said that Christina was a spoiled little BEVERLY HILLS GIRL, who grossly over-exaggerated a lot of the alleged abuse from her mother. I suspect they are probably right! SHOW BIS IS A HARD BUSINESS TO MAKE A LIVING IN, but I doubt Joan Crawford, at one time THE NUMBER ONE BOX OFFICE STAR, went crazy with Christina over her ups and downs in the biz.Anyway, to repeat IT WAS MEANT TO BE SEEN AS A SERIOUS MOVIE, but the camp quality to it has forever ruined that possibility, at least for me (and future generations of DRAG QUEENS, who are now weened on doing BETTE and JOAN FOREVER !). Sigh. Oh, well -- THAT'S SHOW BIZ ! "},{"Title":"It all depends on you perspective","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Not having been there at the time, I can't say if Joan was abusive or if Christina is a liar. I've read reviews here from people who say people who did know them swear that yes, she was nuts, or yes, Christina is a liar. I lean towards Joan being wacko, but that's just me.Now on to the movie. It was EXTREMELY over the top. Dunaway over did it BIG TIME. Diana Scarwid was...how shall I put this?....LOUSY! If Dunaway's performance was frenzied, Scarwid was like a zombie. Mara Hobel was cute and did a good job as young Christina (although in my opinion, it's a form of child abuse to allow your kid to be in a film like this).I guess if the subject matter were different, I could see how people could classify this as hilarious. Dunaway's hysterical fits (i.e. the rosebush scene), her pathetic groveling after a man, her grandiose Oscar acceptance speech were so over the top they were almost funny, in a weird sort of way. But true or not, to some people there's just nothing funny about child abuse. I guess I'm just one of those people. "},{"Title":"Poor, Poor, Pityful Me","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is one long tantrum of ingratitude. The writer of the material this film was based on was Christina Crawford, the adopted daughter of Joan Crawford. Yes, the same Christina Crawford who went from being a homeless orphan to living in a million dollar mansion in Brentwood. The Christina Crawford who has a luxurious wardrobe and never has to worry about where her next meal is coming from. So what does she do? She spends the whole movie bitching and moaning about how she had to use wood hangers instead of wire hangers. About having a little discipline imposed on her. Hey Christina, out here in the real world, no one worries about wood hangers, because most of us don't have enough clothes to make any difference. We honestly wish our mother would care enough about us to actually discipline us once in a while. Yeah, Christina, our hearts really bleed for you. Toward the end of the film Christina is bitching once again about her mother taking her place on some soap opera. She never stops to think that she would never have been on the soap opera in the first place unless her mother was Joan Crawford. Grow up Christina. Live in the real world, and count your blessing instead of your very few troubles. "},{"Title":"Fail Time for Hollywood","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Faye Dunaway is perhaps the worst actress in Hollywood history. she's a gal you just can't take seriously. her silly eye rolls and one-liners are cringe-worthy, ensuring that the viewer NEVER takes this one seriously. she seems like the kind of frail you'd want to punch in the face two minutes after meeting her, she's THAT annoying....i must protest this film being called a 'thriller', since there are really no thrills on offer, rather a tired, straight-forward whodunit, masquerading as something hitchcockian, but failing miserably. by the time the mystery is revealed, you already knew the solution two hours earlier and have stuck around for reasons other than wanting to know how it ends....like many other US films of this era, the point was to fill it up with as many random car chases and one-liners as possible to disguise its lack of plot. silly Hollywood clichés abound throughout the entire thing and there's really no story here at all, other than the typical 'girl gets mistreated by her parents' plot that is used in just about every Hollywood film ever made.'Mommie Dearest' is an exercise in style over substance, which is the reason why it was such a big hit and so influential. it's all dressing, no substance. flashy, colourful clothes, sets and music are used, announcing America's entry into the mod scene. this movie is a showcase for that and nothing more. it simultaneously tries to be a comedy, drama, thriller, and romance and as a result, ends up failing at all of these... sadly, as is so common in the story of American film, it was popular, so its style became endlessly imitated, recycled, regurgitated and consumed again by hopelessly trend-following Americans, so at least Dunaway can take credit for something with this failure.... "},{"Title":"Scenery Chewing at its Very Worst","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I have never thought much of Faye Dunaway as an actress; a beauty, she was miscast as the butt-ugly Bonnie Parker in BONNIE AND CLYDE; her role in CHINATOWN was mostly arm candy for Jack Nicholson, and the Oscar that should have gone to Sissy Spacek for CARRIE went unaccountably to Dunaway for her frustratingly one-note performance in NETWORK. But on the strength of that Oscar she sailed into a role that half the actresses her age were clamoring for Joan Crawford in the film version of Christina Crawford's autobiographical novel MOMMIE DEAREST.Oddly enough, Dunaway was not the first choice for the role; Anne Bancroft was set to begin filming but backed out at the last minute in a dispute over the script. I have often wondered in the last thirty years if Dunaway ever wished Bancroft had kept the job. For MOMMIE DEAREST was to go down in history as the film that wrecked Faye Dunaway's career; it made her all but unemployable for several years, and the films she did get were pulp like THE EYES OF LAURA MARS.MOMMIE DEAREST is an illustration of the Peter Principle at it's apotheosis. For starters, the original book, written by Crawford's adopted daughter Christina after being disinherited by her mother, was, shall we say, questionable, but it sold like hotcakes (Hollywood dirt always does). Had they made even a half-assed attempt at a faithful adaptation they might have had something, but the movie is a mess of disjointed scenes with no rhyme or reason to them; perhaps this reflects the fact that no fewer than four writers toiled on the script.Not that everything is a failure. This is a marvelous-LOOKING production; every visual period detail is lovingly recreated, and Dunaway's makeup is pretty good, though she really does not, in the end, look like Crawford (Bancroft might have fared better there), and at moments it looks more like a mask than makeup.But the bottom line is the acting, particularly by Dunaway. Christina is played very effectively as a little girl by Mara Hobel, then pops up as Diana Scarwid, sporting a sudden and unexpected Southern drawl. Scarwid is not bad, though; despite the accent, she seems to have a good grasp of the character, and she wisely answers the excesses of Dunaway by underplaying the role.Dunaway, in a word, is a disaster. Overacting was always her worst failing, and director Frank Perry lets her do that all over his film. The makeup doesn't work, Dunaway is much too tall, and the manic scenes are simply explosions for which no explanation is offered (though there wasn't always one in the book either).I happened to see this thing in a theatre in New York when it first opened, and the audience, myself included, found most of it utterly hilarious. When Dunaway screamed NO WIRE HANGERS!!!! with about three and a half pounds of cold cream on her face and her eyes so wild they were crossed, we were in a rapture of hilarity.It's really rather sad, I guess, that a woman who had as difficult a life as Crawford allegedly had left such a tacky legacy. But whatever JOAN Crawford may have been guilty of, it was Christina Crawford who wrote this thing. I had my doubts about it, and I still do. But to give her credit, the book was at least plausible. The film is a God-awful mess.Incidentally, the book was reissued in both a Twentieth Anniversary edition and a Thirtieth Anniversary edition a decade later; I gave the former a pass, but I recently succumbed to curiosity and read the most recent version and it pointed up something I had not noticed before the abuse tales told by Christina were never corroborated by anyone; a biography of Crawford by Bob Thomas at around the same time mentioned a couple of incidents, but neither of them are in Christina's books although the hair-cutting scene, which also did not appear in Christina's book, wound up in the movie. Plus the latest edition appears to have been published by Christina herself (it arrived autographed) using a vanity press whose editorial department must consist of third graders (I have never seen so many typos and misspelled words in one book before), giving the impression that Christina was trolling for money. Both back then and now. So in addition to uneven quality in the writing and acting, we are also faced with a sense of some fundamental dishonesty going on here. Who is telling the truth? Only Christina Crawford knows and from what I have been able to discern she plans to take that knowledge to the grave; apparently there's too much riding on it financially for her. "},{"Title":"Well, a bit over-acted, but still an excellent movie","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I just went up to my mom and even asked her that I thought Joan Crawford was real, she said that she was and that this is a very true story about her, may I say that this was a very mad woman! The way I thought of seeing this movie was that I was watching I love the 80's Strikes Back and they mentioned this movie, it looked so entertaining and crazy, I simply had to see this movie. While I did laugh a few times unintentionalbly, I really did get into Mommie Dearest. It was so intense and disturbing to watch.Mommie Dearest is based on the real life of Joan Crawford, an actress who is praised most of the time, but sometimes put down quite a bit. She wants one thing, a child of her own, but since she can't get pregnant, she adopts two children, Christina and Christopher. As she gets older and gets more rejections from studios, she becomes a raging and abusive alcoholic, not to mention a neat freak, I don't think freak is a strong enough word. The children learn how to deal with her as long as she lives and does their best to survive.Over all, despite the fact that it is over acted, I think this was a pretty good movie. It kept my attention throughout the whole film and I am surprised by a low rating. I know Joan would throw a fit, so out of respect and fear ;-P, no just kidding, just because I really did like the movie, I'm going to be very fair.8/10 "},{"Title":"the funniest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the funniest movie I've ever seen, more hysterical than Heathers or even It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World!!! I can't even begin to describe how much laughter comes from the ugly looks they give Faye, don't get me wrong, Faye is beautiful, but as Joan Crawford??? How do we americans begin to fathom the reality, if there is any? Filled with tons of goofs, and misplaced modifyers (ie. Christine Crawford, and wire hangers), this film is forever a camp classic, that will shine on the faces of laughter in eternity. Faye Dunaway is too strong to be Crawford, and Scarwid has better things to be doing. Best way to make a Crawford film...DON'T! "},{"Title":"Faye at her Best","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie brings out Faye's acting at its finest. When made up properly, she looked almost exactly like her. If they were trying to find a clone,they didn't do a bad job. Secondly, to respond to Amy Vandoren's comment about Diana Scarwid, she was supposed to be wooden and emotionless. But as you look at the end, she is not all that emotionless. She does express sadness in response to her mother's refusal to provide for her after her death. "},{"Title":"She worked and worked until she was half dead and what did she get?","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I suspect the dead and near dead contemporaries of Ms. Crawford who still roam Hollywood clutching the legendary blue note cards of thanks from their Goddess (Bless you, Joan) are behind some of the nastier reviews on this board. Cronyism was and is the grease that makes this sh*tty movie business work and Joan was the master of it. Yes, she remembered the names of every stage hand she ever worked with and sent cards to their wives on birthdays and anniversaries. So what. She was a demented old bag (even when she was young) who was clearly obsessive about this image that she thought could (and did, apparently) make up for a nearly total lack of talent or intelligence.I speak as an expert of all thing Joan so don't even try me on this one. I've seen not only every Crawford film ever released on VHS or DVD (including silents), I caught most of the others on TNT (where she reigns eternally). And, yes, I was inspired to do all this due to Dunaway's stunning and massively under-appreciated turn as Our Dancing Daughter.I realize that Joan made movies in four decades - long after rivals Norma Shearer and Greta Garbo had turned in their shoulder pads to the MGM wardrobe department. Yes, she nabbed tubby Mr. Steele (probably driving him to an early grave) and, with it the prestige of being a so-called businesswoman (she opened bottling plants, people - not unlike the cheesy appearances that Adam West and most other showbiz has-beens do following movie and/or TV careers). And yes, she won your industry's most prestigious hallmark of self-congratulation - the hallowed Oscar (not to mention the other two nominations ... why, it's an HONOR just to be NOMINATED! UGH!) Never mind that Louis B. Meyer himself invented the stupid things as promotional tools to allow studio heads to legitimize their stars. One only needs to see the screaming ads in trade papers or hear the phrase it was given for a body of work to understand that these things are bought and paid for by aging cronies to reward their friends for being good little industry soldiers.The fact is that Dunaway was ten times the actor Crawford ever dreamt of being and her exile from Hollywood as a result of this picture was due to angry little crones joining ranks to punish a transgressor for tarnishing one of their own. Bonnie and Clyde, Chinatown, and her Oscar winning (hurray!) performance in Network ... the list goes on and on. Compare any of them to Joan's best performance in Mildred Pierce and Joan is instantly revealed for Mannequin she was.Dunaway's Crawford complains to Mayer that bad scripts were the reason for her being called box office poison in the late 30s. Please. Joan Crawford was never more an actress than Madonna (and they had other things in common, too - like posing nude and doing whatever it took to climb that ladder). The little shop girl who makes good isn't a far cry from the tough little NYC street urchin who makes good - it's just an update of Hollywood's favorite fairy tale Cinderella. Except that in real life, Cindy sleeps her way through ranks of the court and then uses blackmail to get the Prince to marry her (and direct her next picture).So everyone is whining that Mommie Dearest is done in the style of a Joan Crawford movie. That only proves my point that a Joan Crawford movie is the quintessence of an exploitive, derivative, over-the-top potboiler. It was a choice made by the director and script writer, not the lead actor. So she's to be crucified for not quitting like Anne Bancroft did? She could have just as easily been ostracized for that choice by the black-balling toadies of tinsel town. She tried to make it work and apparently it didn't. Gee, I think Frank Perry is still making movies. Does he bear no blame for this so-called fiasco? The bottom line is Dunaway is amazing to watch in this movie. Mesmerizing, vulnerable, terrifying. A true tour de force. The fact that the writer put such laughable trash talk in her mouth and the director exercised no restraint on his lead actor is not her fault. She deserves to be recognized for a bravura performance despite it all. "},{"Title":"Proof that Mommie Dearest was Untrue!","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Joan Crawford was not the monster portrayed in the book or film of MOMMIE DEAREST. Unfortunately, many have judged her, but she remains innocent until proved guilty!Here is PROOF that Mommie Dearest was closer to fiction than fact, courtesy of a 1994 interview with director Herman Cohen about Joan CrawfordThen she said to me, What time are you leaving for the studio tomorrow morning?&#151;we were shooting at Shepperton at the time. Look, why don't you leave around five-thirty and pick me up? I said, Well, what's wrong with your car? Oh, there's something wrong with the car, she said. That was all b.s. It turned out that one of our prop men had to have all his teeth extracted, and she sent her Rolls-Royce over to pick him up&#151;take him to the dentist&#151;wait for him&#151;and take him home. Then she had it go to a Jewish restaurant in Soho called Isow's, where a lot of members of the industry would always go, and pick him up some chicken soup and bring it to his house! That's why she didn't have a car that day! So I had to call my driver, wake him up, and have him pick her up at five-thirty in the morning. She didn't tell me until after all this happened&#151;in fact, it was the prop man who told me what Joan had done. But she was always doing this kind of stuff&#151;None of which you'll find in Mommie Dearest.Right. Christina (Crawford) doesn't mention the nice things that Joan always did, especially for the crew. She was always very close to the crew, and knew all of them by their first names. When we were doing BERSERK, Christina married Harvey Medlinsky, who was a director, and Joan gave Christina a check for five thousand dollars, told her to enjoy herself&#151;I was right there at the time. And she gave her a big dinner party at Les Ambassadeurs, which was the restaurant club in London. None of this is covered in Mommie Dearest. (Harvey was married to Christina for about six years, and he said he never heard Christina tell one of these awful stories. It was her second husband who got her to write this book&#151;they were broke and needed the money and what have you.) Joan ended up leaving Christina and (Joan's) son Chris out of her will, and that was a big mistake. Her attorneys should have advised her to leave them, say one thousand dollars, so they could not contest the will. (They both contested the will.) She was closer to her twins, the two girls, than she was to Christina or Chris. Joan had a lot of problems with Chris. "}{"Title":"Mommie Dearest","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on the book by her vengeful adopted daughter, this is the true story of one of Hollywood's greatest actresses going to the bottom. Bonnie and Clyde's Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford is the most misunderstood and dramatic characters since Alex Forrest or Annie Wilkes, and just as nasty. She is obviously a huge star, and she adopted a son and daughter to get bothy publicity and a family. It is just when she goes mad that she looks like an unfit and struggling mother, especially when her career seems to be failing. Diana Scarwid as Christina Crawford (adult) is great, and Mara Hobel as Christina (child) is also gripping. Also starring Steve Forrest as Greg Savitt, Howard Da Silva as Louis B. Mayer, Rutanya Alda as Carol Ann, Xander Berkeley as Christopher Crawford (adult) and Jeremy Scott Reinbolt as Christopher (child). It is quite disturbing to see a Hollywood actress do the types of things she does to Christina. It was number 72 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes (No wire hanger, ever.), and Joan Crawford (the character) was number 41 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains. Very good! "}]