[{"Title":"Significant Disney Movie!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The really significant part of this movie has nothing to do with the players, but the producers.  This is the FIRST ever PG movie released by Disney - after almost 35 years a G-only releases.I saw this movie as a kid.  It had a catchy song - slightly memorable plot and ... well not much else.  Not horrible or good.  OK.Sadly, as Disney movies go - you'll notice on the DVD cover - no mention of Disney.  Professionals admit their mistakes, are humble in their successes and remain proud about the rest.  Walt Disney would have.  Eisner doesn't. "},{"Title":"Sweet and charming","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie as a kid and loving it.  Recently, I watched again as an adult and found it to still be a sweet, charming little movie. The basic plot has Elliot Gould's character signing a pact with the Devil (Bill Cosby)to recruit three good souls and thus saving his own from eternal damnation.  Gould gets three young people including an aspiring young singer (Julie Budd)and a fatherless young boy (Adam Rich), to sign a contract with the devil in exchange for making their dreams come true while on Earth. It all works out happily as all Disney films do, but there are several laughs, touching moments, and lesson learned along the way.  I was really intrigued by Julie Budd after this film who more than resembled a young Barbra Streisand in both looks and talent.  Loved the song that she sang in the film Any Fool Can See.  I wonder what happened to her after this film. Seems she never worked again. "},{"Title":"ordinary","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  After a promising opening ten minutes, highlighted by some good gags, this movie quickly slips into dreariness and never recovers. It's not that there's anything particularly wrong with this film, it's just that there's nothing particularly good about it either and it wastes a potentially interesting leading duo.The best thing that can be said about it is that it's inoffensive and easy to take but it's also totally forgettable and one of the more uninventive films you're likely to come across. "},{"Title":"Cute Comedy","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a film I watched as a kid and I viewed several times. It's cute and it was a popular comedy movie back in the day. The movie has a few moments of being hilarious for an old Disney film.The movie is OK - I don't think it's the type of movie a person would want to watch several times but it is, however, a movie that is good the first time you view it so I do recommend it for those that want a silly comedy without a bunch of questionable language in it.If you liked the Oh God movies with George Burns then you will most likely enjoy The Devil and Max Devlin.6/10 "},{"Title":"a great follow up to The Last Flight Of Noah's Ark","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Elliot Gould has always been one of my favorite actors. I feel that he has been so sadly underrated. When he starred in the 1980 Disney film The Last Flight Of Noah's Ark, I felt he should have been named a Disney Legend for the great work he did. The year after TLFONA, he made this film which is a very worthy follow up, in fact I remember at the time it was released that he proclaimed it as the best film he ever made. Despite the fact it deals with the devil and hell, I still feel this is a good family film that teaches a lesson. We see that Gould's character isn't really bad, he just needs a good slap in the face to make him realize how greedy and selfish he is. The scenes in hell that are supposed to be scary are really funny, special effects in 1981 weren't what they are today! Whats interesting is that the young actress who plays the singer in the film looks a lot like Barbara Streisand and Gould was married to her! I really enjoyed the song Roses and Rainbows that she sang. What really tickled me about this movie is the fact that it is the only time I have ever seen Bill Cosby, America's favorite TV dad and all around good guy, play a baddie, the Devil himself! I'll be he had a ball making this film! The only thing is that scene where it shows him in full Devil costume screaming at Elliott Gould might frighten small children. Not to be a spoiler, but this film has a very happy ending and you really feel good for Gould's character because he has learned his lesson the hardest way imaginable! "},{"Title":"Wants to Be Funny, But Fails in Its Attempt.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Elliott Gould dies in an accident and goes straight to hell to meet the devil himself (Bill Cosby), but that is not the end. Gould makes a deal to get out of hell by going back to Earth to get the souls of three young people in this would-be-comedy that is just not funny. Cosby is not on screen enough to even make a lasting impression and it is up to Gould and some sub-par young actors to carry the project. Gould does do his best, but all in all the film is just a project that wants to entertain and provide messages to its audience and failed to do either of those things. An odd production from the Disney studios. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"An ideal family film","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is nothing like any movie I've seen before, a tale about an ungracious man who goes straight to hell and gets the chance to redeem himself by selling his soul for three others. I must admit, Bill Cosby seems more like a mere tormentor than Satan. But then again, this is a family film. If this were simply a comedy, the performance would probably be different. Anyway, this guy, Max, helps three people a singer, a biker, and a boy who's trying to get his mother to marry. I did enjoy all three of these stories. And I really enjoyed the song Any Fool Can See. Max eventually does become a better person, but of course, this is not what Barney really intended.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Good Family Movie","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I can remember seeing this movie when I was a young man. It was good and wholesome. Even my parents enjoyed watching it when it came on the tube. Ms. Budd's performance is one of the highlights of this movie, along with a wonderful performance by a young Adam Rich. There is a lot of talent in this movie, which brings for fun watching over and over. Those who are looking for the sex, murder, more sex, blood/gore, or foul language feature will probably NOT like this movie. Then again, we are not all alike, and thank God for that, but I think that many will enjoy this movie and refer it's viewing to others. When I would have school friends come to the house for a sleep over, it was always a 'must' to watch (if the friend(s) had not already seen the movie) and seemed clean and fresh with each viewing. I can't remember any of them having NOT liked it. Just to make sure it wasn't just because I was 'a kid' then, I watched it recently........ still very enjoyable.Gene C. Baton Rouge, Louisiana "},{"Title":"Disney mis-fire.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Elliott Gould's career slowed down after a string of R-rated films in the 60's and 70's...and came to a screeching halt in 1981.  Disney's attempt in the eighties to modernize their films included casting Bill Cosby and Elliott Gould as The Devil and Max Devlin respectively.  The plot involves Gould signing up three good souls for the Devil so as to replace his own soul from going down South.  In concept, this is basically the flip side of Oh God! (George Burns and John Denver).  Bill Cosby probably seemed like a hip if not fair replacement for George Burns (both being beloved stand-ups) but Elliott Gould was too much of a bad boy to be considered sympathetic in any film.  The sort of sympathy evoked by John Denver in Oh God!  Together, Cosby and Gould had no chemistry with little if any comic opportunities.  Cosby was not very believable as the Devil and we could care less if Gould spent eternity in Hell.  Singer Julie Budd was cast as one of the good souls (the in-joke here is that Julie Budd is a look-alike, sound-alike clone of Barbara Streisand and Streisand is the former Mrs. Gould.  Of course kids who saw this film in 1981 didn't have a clue who she was...oh heck, most adults didn't know who she was...so why the trouble in casting Julie Budd?)  To make things worse she sings one song Rainbows and Roses over and over and over and over and over again.  Disney turns out more music than any film studio, couldn't they write a few songs for this film?  Adam Rich (former Eight Is Enough social tragedy) and David Knell round out the trio in appearances that are a notch below a below-average Love Boat guest spot.  Susan Anspach (Montenegro) plays Adam Rich's mom and Gould's love interest and deserves the most sympathy for that alone.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed this movie - The singing in the movie is wonderful and the ending song just sticks with me. It has a good soul-searching ending. I saw this movie when I was little and couldn't wait to see it again - I still loved it 15 years later! When you look back to the movies of that time, especially all the ones with Kurt Russell - this is the same sort of quality movie. You can't expect the technology of today but its good for the time. To have the comic genius of Bill Cosby, you know it has to be decent. I keep looking on You Tube for the songs that were sung. Haven't had that luck yet. It's good to see that Good always WINS!!! Another Disney Life lesson! "}]