[{"Title":"A delightful study into the disintegrating psychology of a bored and frustrated housewife&#133;","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" It is funny, very erotic, passionate, and riddled with jabs into society's snobbish attitude toward sexual fulfillment&#133; A very wealthy American woman is married to a dull Swedish businessman&#133; When the husband is about to leave for Brazil, she decides to go along with him, but is held up in customs and misses the plane&#133; Trying to get back home, she is caught up in the life-style of a group of vibrant Yugoslavian immigrants living in Sweden&#133; She falls in love with the peculiar manners of the group and decides to stay for a couple of days, ending up in a romantic affair with one of the workers, singing in a topless bar, and having a lot of fun&#133; In contrast to Makavejev's other noteworthy films, WR&#151;Mysteries of the Organism and Sweet Movie, Montenegro is light and uncomplicated... It's a simple story simply told&#133; The message is the same&#151;sexual repression leads to insanity, but sensual indulgence livens the spirit&#133; Montenegro does not exploit its eroticism; it lets it grow out of the situation, out of the characters&#133; When Susan Anspach is seen taking a shower, it is photographed in a very beautiful, soft manner... When a couple is making love, the camera pans up their reeling bodies only long enough to establish their lovemaking, then moves on&#133; "},{"Title":"The Madness of Civility Seeks Grounding in the Primal","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"31 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Others who have commented on 'Montenegro' seem to miss the film's point. Yes, it is a black comedy; no, it's not nihilistic. The characters do not behave in incomprehensible ways - they behave in ways alien to our Western acculturation & our snobby everybody must do nice-nice to each other civility. 'Montenegro' takes effete, overbaked, hypersophisticated, irrelevant Western sensibilities & turns them smack on their pointed little heads.American Marliyn Jordan (Susan Anspach in a tour de force performance) lives in Sweden with her Swedish husband. Marilyn is not, as other commentators have misapprehended, a bored, psychotic housewife - she's a woman who, in her overbaked Western milieu of mind-blenching affluence, oversensitive men & women, diplomatic euphemism, & arcane, costly, necessary, psychobabble (brilliantly depicted, & sent up, in the analysis scene), has lost touch with all that's primal, urgent, & vital in herself.Already whacked out from living in her gilded, padded, safe-till-she's-numbed life, Jordan impulsively hooks up with a completely primal, totally up front & no bones about it, caveman & club bunch of howling, lusty Montenegrans. Once she's with them things happen very differently from the way they failed to happen in her previous ersatz saccharine-junkie life.Jordan is in for keeps with people who play for keeps. Lust, blood, sex, ooze, vendettas, vengeance - all the primal, classical, down-deep-in-human-nature emotions & their instantaneous acting-out - are how things are for Jordan now in Montenegro. The suddenness, violence, & clarity of emotion & action repulses us because we're so used to warning labels on everything from cigarette lighters & child safety seats, & from self-esteem minuets in schools to language prohibitions in our workplaces. All that's out the window in 'Montenegro' with Marilyn Jordan fast losing her melancholia & madness, & rushing headlong into shameless, unbridled lust, man-baiting, cat-fighting, & knock-down (with that caveman club!) & drag out sex.Watching 'Montenegro' we Westerners are intrigued, repelled, fascinated, revolted - but we can't turn away from the fluids & furze, the basal & nasal sensation, the genitals-out-in-the-winds-of-Fate abandon, & the cathartic, orgasmic, lethal, & vital primordial reckoning that is 'Montenegro' exploding on our retinae, in our ears, on our skin, in our nostrils, & in our wide-open mouths.One wonders if Camille Paglia has seen 'Montenegro' because one expects she'd love it, because this film delves into things primal that Paglia's betes noires - radical gender feminist ideologues - reject and label patriarchal violence against women & not women's way of knowing. Let's just say that 'Montenegro' isn't likely to be high on Gloria Steinem's, Patricia Ireland's, or Susan Sontag's list of all-time favorite films. That alone tells how worthy this film is of wide open embrace & enjoyment 'Montenegro' doesn't cave or cop to salon intellectualism, pop psychology, Botox beauty, animal rights activist solipsism, or moral relativism. This is the real deal down to brass tacks humanity stripped of culture & deodorant & Sani-Pure flush toilets & sparkling bidets & layers of insulation from the Real.'Montenegro' isn't Greek Tragedy, it's not Shakespearian artistry, & it sure isn't Frank Capra or Spike Lee - it's pure primal, take no prisoners, heads-on-lances, bareass naked human nature turning back the clock & stripping away the veneer of Western propriety. It's an enrapturing, refreshing, uncensored look at the way we humans were...and still are. 'Monetenegro' gives us a pungent whiff of how we smell without deodorant, look without makeup, feel without politically correct civilized Thought Police cues, touch with unwashed hands, & taste blood-rare meat without first checking to be sure our side of veggies is certified to be organic, washed, or attractively presented. Nobody calls for a cop in Montenegro, watches Oprah, or cares less what Dr. Phil advises; nobody hails a waiter without ducking for the dagger that will come hurtling his way; & nobody bats an eyelash without understanding up front that it means, Come hither Now! In 'Montenegro' nobody trifles with food & wine & sex & death because they're the stuff of everyday life - life on the edge, life in the Now, into which Marliyn Jordan, body & soul, hurls herself. "},{"Title":"From the opening frames you know it's going to be a wild ride","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this film as a young guy at a film festival when it was first released knowing little about it's content of its directors past. The advertising poster led people to believe it may be some sort of eastern European soft core porn but how mistaken we all were once the reels started rolling. With Marianne Faithful singing her signature The Ballad of Lucy Jordan tune, I just knew that the premise of this song was somehow linked to this movie. I won't bore you with the synopsis of this film as others have already done this, what I will tell you is this is probably one of the most cleverly made movies I have seen in years. All sorts of social commentaries can be concluded about this movie, but having owned a copy of the film and viewing it on numerous occasions, each screening presents a different interpretation. What still blows me away is the closing scene of the movie, even after all this time and myself and friends have sat around a dinner table discussing what does it really all mean. Each glass of Merlot presented even more outrageous takes like the movie itself. 10/10 to Susan Anspach, director Dusan and hats off to the two young support players who play Susans children, the talent is all class. Do yourself a favor and watch this movie for the wild ride that it is, even just to experience the wonderful unpredictable ending......I'd love to know what you all think. "},{"Title":"Quirky Black Comedy","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" A quirky black comedy about a bored housewife in Sweden who spends some time with a group of Yugoslavian gypsies. Anspach, in perhaps her best role, looks great and is terrific as the woman who's slowly going to pieces and must get away from home to regain her sanity. The film is full of loony characters and bizarre situations but it has a strangely endearing quality to it. The scenes at Zanzi Bar, where the Yugoslav characters reside in a Boheminian lifestyle, are brimming with raw sensuality, helped by Zachrisson as an Earth-mother and Gelin as a young prostitute. Ingmar Bergman veteran Josephson is Anspach's perplexed husband. Other eccentric characters include Josephson's father and his shrink. "},{"Title":"So weird, so hot","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" From the director of Sweet Movie and The Coca-Cola Kid, this English-language film is very reminiscent of the latter (which was made four years later). It's just a very odd, quirky comedy. It also contains bits of blistering, hilarious eroticism. It's hard to make eroticism humorous. The film's most memorable bit involves an exotic dancer dodging a remote-control tank armed with a dildo. The story involves a wife (Susan Anspach) who tries to catch up with her husband (Erland Josephson, RIP) as he boards a flight. Unfortunately, she packed garden shears, which gets her taken to a small, back room for searching. There she meets up with a Yugoslavian immigrant, with whom she attempts to catch a ride home. They get sidetracked, though, to a settlement of other Yugoslavian immigrants, where her adventure begins. Meanwhile, Josephson returns home, not knowing what happened to his wife. The film is very airy and enjoyable. It doesn't equal out to much at the end. I'd rank it a ways below The Coca-Cola Kid, but it's well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Hilarious & Weird","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  An hilarious and weird sex comedy from Dusan Makavejev, about an bored, neurotic American woman married into an insane and yet strangely uninteresting Swedish family, who finds release in a group of randy, freedom-loving (if scruffy) Yugoslavian immigrants. Makavejev's take on modern Europe and modern life in general seems just right to me. Susan Anspach makes the most of her leading role, and is better than I've ever seen her before. She never quite broke through as a major star, and her work in Montenegro will leave the viewer wondering why. "},{"Title":"A thing of strange beauty!!!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Montenegro is, without a doubt, one the freshest, most original and seldom seen gems on the planet.  Anspach delivers a personal best as a housewife on the brink of insanity who befriends a band of eccentrics at the Zanzi Bar.  What follows is a bizarre odyssey of sexual and emotional discovery.  Robust characters, Pinter's beautiful cinematography, and tart humor make this a must.  The stuff of life. "},{"Title":"Montenegro Black Humor At Its Best","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" The movie is rather captivating in the way it teases you with the sexiness of the main character. From the airport search to the way she is approached by the young girl. i got a feeling of Cabaret during some of the dance scenes. The rawness of the sexual encounters seemed to exemplify the statement the officer at the airport said, There is plenty of food in this country. It made me feel as if I was an immigrant dealing with the restraints of a modern country. The sex scenes were tasteful for an early 80's film and the lure of the folk like style of the people displayed the fact that she was less naive then they were. The last part seemed like a joke that sealed the blackness of the film. It seemed unnecessary but the statement rang through. How all of the decadence of her real life was totally repulsive to the viewer and the lead. I watched it with my wife and found the tension of what they would do to the lead character as she went deeper into their world almost unbearable. Little did I know it was the opposite.Great movie that holds up well through time. "},{"Title":"The most outrageous of the psychotic housewife genre","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Susan Anspach is beautiful and delirious (must've been the acting lessons from Jack Nicholson), Marianne Faithfull singing The Ballad of Lucy Jordan was a stroke of brilliance, and the scene of the husband prancing around the Danish moderne bedroom with his psychiatrist and his wife, wearing nothing but matching bathrobes juxtaposed to the gypsy basting the roast with the beer he's drinking is one of the most memorable scenes.I'd own this but there are children in the house.  It is raunchy. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Mrs. Jordan is a rich house wife. She got all the things that maybe all of us need a family, a couple of kids, a palatial house by the sea... But the movie shows the emptiness of her life she is bored, she doesn't like her life. Her husband decides get some holidays on Brazil these Christmas... She decides to go with him but at the airport she falls in with some Yugoslavian immigrants that run a bar called Zanzibar. Attracted by their way of living she enters Zanzibar, she feels very well, she feels something different, she realizes that doesn't need all the things she had... When she phones her family, she finds out that her daughter (a nine years old girl) has taken her place at home the girl cooks, cleans... Her husband says it is so peaceful when your mother is not here... He doesn't love her... And this is the problem since Mrs. Jordan is unable to understand that, that her family doesn't need her, that all her life was wasted, and although she feels alive in Zanzibar, she forgets that she doesn't belong to the world of the Yugoslavian immigrants she is out of place. So really she has no way to go. Very sad. Understanding that all your life was a nonsense, understanding that all your life has always been empty I suppose is not easy so she kills the man who becomes her lover in Zanzibar and then kills all her family including the psychiatrist her husband hired !!! the movie got some comic moments, but is not a joke in anyway. Makavejev scoffs at family, materialism, capitalism..., he is telling you forget the money, forget the clothes, just feel the heat of life... Think of it.  Very good movie.   "}{"Title":"One of the best movies you never heard of.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is a nihilist black comedy about the emptiness of success and riches.Susan Anspach is an American housewife, 40ish, married to a rich Swede, and living in a palatial Stockholm seaside residence. She's bored and frustrated. Her father-in-law is 80ish and auditioning wives. Her children are helping their grandfather with the auditions. Her husband is always out of town, and when he's in town he won't sleep with her. Gradually, her behavior is becoming more and more erratic.When she is denied permission to board a plane to Brazil (because she tried to carry oversized gardening shears on board), she falls in with some struggling Yugoslavian immigrants, and is attracted by their zestful, lusty craziness.This movie is completely nihilistic. All of the characters are painted in very broad comic brushstrokes, ala Dr. Strangelove, and the sets and situations border on the surrealistic. (There's even a dysfunctional clock homage to Dali's Persistence of Memory)This is one odd movie, but I liked it a lot. One cannot expect the characters to behave as people really would, but the movie is energetic and hilarious in sections, erotic in other sections, and the production values are impressive.This was made in 1981. The director never really made a brilliant movie, but he should have. There is so much talent in evidence here.  "},{"Title":"A great exercise in post-modernity","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I really don't like doing the whole, Not many people will understand this, vein, but this movie really isn't for everybody. I personally got so much from it from my first viewing, and yet I got the strange feeling that no one else in the theatre I was in really quite got it, so to speak. A lot of them laughed heartily, but they seemed to laugh at the apparent randomness of it, but none of it was random at all. This is a very precise and firmly crafted piece of postmodern art.First of all, the climax is somewhat in the beginning when she says I hate being in this movie! and the very beginning is really the last shot. A lot of situations that incited laughter only did so after the punchline had already been given moments beforehand. A lot of this film is circuitous and self-reflexive, and everything breaks down so that any given meaning something may have eventually undermines itself later. The thing that's excellent about it is how precise and organized it is at breaking everything down into structureless structure. The acting is great but unnecessary because the characters just say what they're thinking/feeling/etc. The story is of a bourgeois woman who falls in love with a man from a lower class and lives happily ever after... only not really. Montenegro is a character only he's one of the most incidental and least important. The children are the caretakers. The adults are the adolescents. And so on...This film gets a lot of laughs from its irony, but mostly it's a very tense film to try to watch, and I would have MUCH preferred watching it in private so that I wouldn't feel the tension mounting in the auditorium as people literally strained to try to make sense of it. So by all means, believe my intentions are good when I say this film is not for everybody.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Strange stuff here","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film was darn good in spite of the fact that almost all of the characters behave in utterly incomprehensible ways. Marilyn Jordan (Susan Anspach) was at least characterized as a bit of a loon from the beginning. Some really fine acting here, Anspach most notably, but also just about all of the Yugoslavian actors, none of whom had I ever heard of before. Of particular note was the young woman, I think it was Patricia Gelin. I'll have to check and see if she has made other English-language films.  "},{"Title":"superb film - first saw it when it came out...and it holds up","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This film has it all. Great acting.Great script.The story is quirky and pulls you in.The mixture of conventional Sweden, the ex-patriot wife, and the Balkan immigrant community creates a powerful tension.Wonderful photography/editing,And charming theme song, thanks to Shel Silverstein. Susan Anspach is a knockout in portraying the dislocated housewife amidst the bizarre immigrants of the Zanzibar.It is an example of why small, independent films rule over the excesses of Hollywood garbage. "},{"Title":"A more conventional Makavejev offering","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I guess with Sweet Movie Dusan Makavejev's bizarreness peaked and he decided to make something more straight forward. It is still by no means a regular movie, but there's weird and then there's weirdest.This one is like a feminist tract about a bored, rich housewife who leaves her snobbish husband and perfect kids to stay with some bohemian Serbs who run a debauched night club.She has a fling with a young man, and yes, that does mean they have sex on a pile of food.I think with his less bizarre, assaultively creative movies, Makavejev also became less interesting. His next one, The Coca Cola Kid, was a new peak in that direction. This one had some of the outrageousness and some of the mundane. It was an intriguing concoction, but not as successful as WRMysteries of the Organism. "},{"Title":"Strange stuff here","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film was darn good in spite of the fact that almost all of the characters behave in utterly incomprehensible ways. Marilyn Jordan (Susan Anspach) was at least characterized as a bit of a loon from the beginning. Some really fine acting here, Anspach most notably, but also just about all of the Yugoslavian actors, none of whom had I ever heard of before. Of particular note was the young woman, I think it was Patricia Gelin. I'll have to check and see if she has made other English-language films.  "},{"Title":"Immensely watchable but hollow","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" ....Is the best way to describe this movie. It will keep your eyes glued but otherwise won't provoke much else. The storyline seems to me to be a rather weak way to tie together the sex scenes, which outside a porno are some of the raunchiest 80's Hollywood will have to offer (and both female and male frontal nudity).Outside of this, the storyline is typical and utterly predictable. Rich, bored Northern European housewife seeks excitement and sexual fulfillment somewhere primal and vibrant in this case Yugoslavian immigrants (specifically shown to be Serbian and Montenegrin).Of course this message is debasing to both cultures involved. Since I'm Serbian/Montenegrin I found the caricatures of my culture insulting, but more often than that incorrect. But I didn't let this influence my score. It's very watchable and at the same time very forgettable. "},{"Title":"What are pearls in the eyes of a pig?","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Pearls? Nursery rhymes (sound track lyric) are templates for future behaviors. Pigs? Read this review to decide for yourself if hogs look better with ear-rings and lipstick. Montenegro I have yet to read Rex Stout's prewar novel Over My Dead Body and the novel which followed when Tito came on stage, The Black Mountain. Anyone interested in how to fight society's anti-libido, control freak, exploitive mindset which Makavejev describes quite well in several of his works, may want to consider how humor, as he points out in interviews and with this film, succeeds in doing so. Reading Listen Little Man and Character Analysis by Wilhelm Reich or Charles Konia's The Emotional Plague may open a heart or two to better appreciate Makavejev's subtle contrasts. Nobel Prize receiver, Doris Lessing's 1971 Briefing for a Descent into Hell shares a similar Balkan story about making choices shortly before punk rock lyrics hit the scene to remind us of what we look like from our mirrors' lighter, more honest side. Marianne Faithful's ballad for Lucy Jordan found love hidden between the lines in this story's corners. "},{"Title":"a wonderful black comedy","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" it's a wonderful black comedy i have recently seen.the entire cast, direction are absolutely brilliant.especially, i want to mention characters named marylin, montenegro, maryline's son and daughter. their acting are really good to me.special scenes which i like in this movies are when marylin sings under the cuburd at her kitchen, she mixed poisons in her dog's milk,the airport scenes, the shower scene of montenegro and marylin, and the arrival of marylin to her family.especially, i think characters named marylin and montenegro are nicely depicted in this movie.the bizarre, facial, slight abnormal expressions of maryline are quite brilliant and absolutely i like the character montenegro with his charming face and beautiful personality.well, it's not the movie for everyone but obviously it's a worth-watching movie.i rate this movie 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cold, wooden","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Were it not for the wooden dialogs this could have been a better movie. It is a little hard for the characters to come off as authentic when they sound as if they give dictation. The humor was not bad, especially in scenes such as the group-photographs with the man with the knife sticking out of his forehead, but such scenes are few and far between in this movie. The ending (no spoilers here) is too abrupt, as if the director wanted to end the film in the quickest way possible. I could not identify with, or bring myself to like any of the characters, and that alone makes this a bad movie. The one thing I would say for this endeavor is that the sex scenes are refreshingly original. "}{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" An interesting enough film to watch, it is very unusual, yet it is not really satisfying stuff. There are some rather intense bits, especially one of the dance acts in the bar, but it seems to go off on tangents, with a limited sense of linear storytelling, kind of as if it had just been written only as it went along. There is a great song, sung by Marianne Faithful, which is added into the mix very well, but the mix is awfully hard to make sense of, and it is even difficult to tell if the film is trying to be a comedy or a drama. I am actually fully uncertain of what to make of this film - whether it is good or whether it is bad. All I can say is that it is interesting as something very different, but somehow not quite satisfying after the end credits have finished rolling. "},{"Title":"Weird, Non-Sense and Bizarre Black Humor Comedy","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  In Stockholm, the American Marilyn Jordan (Susan Anspach) is a woman married with the Swedish Martin Jordan (Erland Josephson), having two children and a nice house. She is bored with her life and presents some traces of insanity. One day, after an incident in the airport, when her husband intended to travel to Recife, she meets a group of Yugoslavians, goes with them to a strange night-club, has an affair with a guy (Montenegro &#150; Svetozar Cvetkovic) who treats animals and comes back home with some fruits and a `big' surprise. This movie is a very weird, non-sense and bizarre black humor comedy. Although being awarded in Brazil, in the São Paulo Film Festival, I did not like it. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) `Montenegro'   "}]