[{"Title":"A stylish slasher. One of the bests from the 80's.","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper's straight slasher flick deserves a chance. We admire this genius for Poltergeist and especially Texas Chainsaw Massacre but it's fair to recognize the good job he did with The Funhouse.The movie is creepy itself because of it's colorful but creepy setting and atmosphere. I mean, how could something go wrong in the fun house? Well, when there's a freak wearing a Frankenstein mask killing other weird people you can imagine that things could get nasty. The premise is well known. Two couples go to the amusement park at night and soon after they arrive they enter the fun house and witness how a freak kills a woman. That's when the typical killing starts as the freak and his father chase the teens in order to hide the murder.Overall there are some very creepy moments like when the freak takes off his mask revealing his disfigured head, when this freak slaughters a girl with his claws, the crazy witch, the puppets, and the death scenes. Hooper's direction is top class as always. He put a lot of effort in a low budget slasher flick and that's why he deserves some credit. I'm not saying that he wasted his talent on a movie that doesn't asks much for it; I think that this is one of the best looking and directed slasher flicks of all time. There are some camera angles that looked very innovative for it's time (example, Richie's dead body in the moving wagon). The acting is quite good for a movie like this. I felt sorry for the kids when murdered. Also, the cinematography is quite impressive. The movie is from 1981 and looks very good. The correct use of light in dark settings helped a lot and gave a creepy look to the fun house. The F/X is also good. The freak looks gruesome and horrible in a positive way. The gore is okay. The Funhouse is definitely a must see for fans of the genre. I can say that this is one of the best slasher flicks out there. The movie is not only about a demented killer chasing teens but it has some truly suspense moments and the effective jump-out of your seat scenes. Recommended for horror fans in general; this is another Tobe Hooper classic that shouldn't be missed.I wonder if this movie inspired Hooper to make The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2. There are some similarities between the two movies; for example, the freak trying to abuse on a girl, the setting, the child abuse (uh, the freak is often beaten and yelled by his father), some death scenes, the ending, etc. "},{"Title":"As Nightmares Go, This One's About As Terrifying As It Gets...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Up until THE FUNHOUSE, Tobe Hooper had only come pretty close to recapturing the relentless and ruthlessly nightmarish feel of the classic that catapulted him to fame, THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE. TCM 2 came closer than most of his films, but it traded in psychological terror for buckets of blood 'n' guts, where the first TCM had very little.THE FUNHOUSE goes back to Hooper's roots, trading in the gore for playing with your nerves like Jimmy Page playing guitar. Traveling carnivals have always had a sinister, menacing undertone to them - that's part of what makes them so attractive - and Hooper, with a smart assist from Larry Block's script, takes that queasy unease and turns it up to '11', so that when the true horror is revealed, it's intensified that much more.Four friends on a double date (Elizabeth Berridge, Miles Chapin, Cooper Huckabee and Largo Woodruff) decide to hole up in the Funhouse of a traveling carnival just outside of town way past closing time, just for kicks. It's a weird place that gives off a freaky vibe, but they don't come to realize just how freaky, until they see something that puts all of their lives in danger, and realize to their horror that not all the freaks in the show are fake...or at all fun.I don't want to spoil the surprises, but as is his habit, Hooper front-loads the movie with some acting vets, including genre favorites William Finley and Sylvia Miles. Plus the great Kevin Conway plays a pivotal role in bringing about the terror and death that the seemingly endless night holds for the trapped teens.Anyone expecting Hooper and company to just pour on the gore is bound to be disappointed. THE FUNHOUSE is more about empathy and atmosphere...I mean, who HASN'T been through a funhouse like this at some time in their lives? The more you can put yourself in the place of the main characters, the spookier the film will be for you - especially in the third act.Kudos to everybody for putting in some damn good performances, but especially to Berridge and to Wayne Doba who gives us a monster that is by turns pathetic, disgusting, pitiful and horrifying. And for John Beal, who created a score that plays with your nerves just as powerfully as the visuals do.This is one of those best viewed alone, with the sound up and all the lights out...And don't worry - if you screech like a little schoolgirl at some parts, it'll be our secret, I promise...(hehheh) "},{"Title":"For horror fans, The Funhouse is just that!","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" From director Toby Hooper (The Texas Chainsaw Massacre-1974) comes this above average slasher-thriller film, that's certainly one of the best of the '80's!Teenagers go to the county fair on a double date. Once there, they decide to spend the night hiding out in the fun house, unknowing that the consequences will be horrific.The Funhouse is a great, suspense-filled horror film that's far more intelligent than most of its type, especially compared to most of the splatter films of the era. The story is a gripping one, which builds tremendous tension right up to its claustrophobic climax. Hooper gives us an atmosphere of dread, much like he did with the original Texas Chainsaw'. The carnival becomes an underworld of fear and darkness in the skilled hands of Hooper with some colorful set pieces. The music score is wonderfully moody and dramatic.The cast is great as well. The beautiful Elizabeth Berridge makes a great screen debut. Cooper Huckabee is good as Berridge's beefy date. Kevin Conway is the best of the cast though, in his sinister performance as he plays a trio of carnie barkers. Kudos also go to makeup artist Rick Baker for one memorable creation!For those looking for above-average suspense and horror, it will be hard to do better than this entertaining gem!**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Above average 1980s scare flick","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Fast-paced and atmospheric thriller set in and around the carnival midway. Two couples visiting the local traveling carnival decide to spend the night in The Funhouse and fool around as a lark. After witnessing a murder, they become the targets of a deformed maniac and his barker dad who are determined they will not leave to report it to the police. I read the Owen West (aka Dean Koontz) novelization back in the day, which was infinitely more padded with back story, abortion issues, religious fanaticism, and a rather Byzantine attempt to link the heroine and her younger brother to the killers before they ever set foot on the midway. Mercifully, the film abandons all of the excess baggage and strips the story done to the bare essentials. I enjoy Tobe Hooper's direction here much more so than that shown in the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre as it seems we are seeing a much more polished effort. He nicely establishes the atmosphere of the midway, which by turns is colorful and sordid. The central characters are nicely delineated (although due to the abandoning of the subplots from the novelization, Shawn Carson's younger brother seems like a fifth wheel rather than integral to the story) and well played by an appealing cast. They seem like credible and overwhelmed young people rather than fodder for the axing. Lead Elizabeth Berridge, in particular, has a nice girl next door quality and radiates a resourcefulness through her terror without ever seeming like either Superwoman or a victim. The make-up for the primary killer is particularly effective and novel. The film builds up a substantial head of steam before going for broke in a wild Grand Guignol climax. The score is also worth mentioning as it provides a very effective counterpoint to the action. Ironically, this film is rarely mentioned by horror fans, having been buried amid the morass of Friday the 13th clones that proliferated in this period, but it is definitely one that should be rediscovered. "},{"Title":"Cosmic prank","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Along with every other horror fan out there, I have been puzzling about Tobe Hooper. Texas Chainsaw features highly in my list of favorite films. At least two of his other films are really worthwhile, one of them right here. But, it all quickly unraveled for him and by the time he had moved on to Cannon in the mid-80's, he was pretty much over as a filmmaker. I think the crux of the problem is that he was not Hollywood material. He seems to have been a shy and almost asocial presence on his own sets, a kind of droopy, charmless guy, bullied off The Dark by the crass Kinski, sidestepped in Poltergeist by the more agile Spielberg, which can be viewed in Europe as the kind of quality that signifies an artist, but the Hollywood environment requires someone to direct the crowded set and costly , complicated production, and that means energetic decision-makers of some persuasive wit and strong character. You see, he did not come up through the Hollywood system at all. He was a documentary cameraman in the 60's and you can see that in his best work. He did Chainsaw in a close circle of friends, away from Hollywood fanfare. It just didn't seem like he could muster the ego for necessary friction to see that vision through (the drug problems were probably ways to cope with that). His own fault was that he couldn't find it in him to cut out on his own.At any rate, I consider Hooper our loss. The guy had a genuine vision and that vision is prized by me, even snippets of it like we have here. Here's an easy riddle the film is typical in the slasher vein about a group of teens stranded after-hours in a funhouse. Its singular call to fame now is that it was once part of that notorious list of Nasties. Now that list is dumb and arbitrary in a number of ways, but why this nearly bloodless film? Why not Friday the 13th?But of course for the same reason that Texas Chainsaw got an R rating. The very fabric and walls of the thing are violence.Oh, a lot of what's inside including the storyline and bad guys is silly or simply mediocre, and mainly put together from bankable horror elements, from jump-scares to ruby-red color filters, which is after all the gist of a funhouse the horror house is fun because you anticipate the elements and staging, and look forward to this being controlled around you. The opening that slyly takes us from a re-enactment of famous scenes in Halloween and Psycho through a Frankenstein poster on the wall to Bride of Frankenstein playing on TV, is Hooper's way of commenting on the redressing of spare parts he's going to use.That's fun and really a lot of the film is, but not genuine vision. Hooper's vision is something more powerful than either Carpenter or Argento, both effective in other respects, were doing on this level, and that is the place itself is causing evil. It was dumbed-down by Spielberg in Poltergeist - written by him but a Hooper-originated project - as an actual force in the walls, and all sorts of gizmos and movie effects were brought around to clarify. But it was something altogether different to a 'haunted house' effect in its original conception.Chainsaw is the most pure in this regard. But, it's a recurring feature in Eaten Alive, Salem's Lot, Poltergeist, and this. Hooper explained it as a 'physical sensation' he was after. I think it's something more he achieved.There is violent energy in the gears and walls of the world, and it's the turning of those gears much more than storybased character decisions that control and manifest the energy as a kind of semiconscious , animal evil in the narrative of the film. You can observe that the 'Funhouse' extends and anticipates the actual physical place (opening scene - dog - shotgun guy). It's something mischievous in the air. In our film, all of it is centered on a imaginative kid on his way to the scary place. That kid is scared out of consciousness. Shots of the unconscious kid are intercut with shots of the terrified teenagers trapped inside the maze. And there is the enigmatic shot of the boy saying nothing about that to the parents.This is brilliant. The boy pulled a prank and expects one back from his sister, the cosmic prank that shatters lives is the universe conspires to stage the real thing.Nothing of this registers directly, because we are distracted by the much more ordinary monster in the narrative (initially Frankenstein).The entire last 20 minutes are a zap of cinematic energy from these cosmic gears that create and destroy the monster that is the prank that throws the world helter skelter (the finale takes place in a staging area full of gears).Why? Because the god of the machine is watching (as the old crone cackles about) and wants to be amused.Make no mistake, this is the sister film to Texas Chainsaw. "},{"Title":"Good Low-Budget Slash Movie","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The teenager Amy Harper (Elizabeth Berridge) dates Buzz Dawson (Cooper Huckabee) for the first time and they go to the carnival with their friends Richie (Miles Chapin) and Liz (Largo Woodruff). They smoke grass and have good-time visiting the attractions including a side show with freak animals. The silly Richie suggests the group to spend the night in the Funhouse for fun. During the night, they witness the murder of the fortune teller Madame Zena (Sylvia Miles) by a man wearing a mask of Frankenstein from an opening in the ceiling of a room. They decide to leave the fun house but they find all the exits locked. Meanwhile Richie sneaks in the room and steals the money of the manager of the place. The masked man returns with his father and owner of the fun house to show the corpse of Madame Zena; when the man realizes that he had been robbed, he presses his son that removes the mask and shows his horrible face. Richie startles and drops his lighter in the room. The owner asks his freak son to chase the thieves and eyewitnesses in a night of terror for the teenagers. Funhouse is a good low-budget slash movie and as usual based on the stupidity of a group of teenagers, especially Richie that is an irritating character. The cast is formed by unknown actors and actresses and Miles Chapin seems to be repeating his performance in Hair with another imbecile character. Tobe Hooper uses the entertainments in the fun house to keep a creepy atmosphere, but the movie could be shorter. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Pague para Entrar, Reze para Sair (Pay to Get In, Pray to Get Out)Note On 02 April 2015, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"One-of Tobe Hooper's Best?","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In all of my travels and travails, the most-remarkable experiences I have ever-had were in the long-lost carnivals and freak shows of the 1970s. They are gone, they are gone. The freak show was the best-part of any carnival, as any carny-goer will attest, and a great-time for scaring-the-ladies. One would be-regaled by the carnie-barkers as to the mysteries-within the two-headed cows, the mutant-babies and the stillborn-infants, the cock with four-legs, the bearded-ladies, the rubber-faced freaks, the geeks, and the mummified-mermaids and Old west-yeggs. All this got swept-away by the scions of political-correctness of all-political-persuasions. And where did that leave the freaks? Homeless. If the freak show gave the public anything-at-all, it was the sureness that there were indeed others worse-off than ourselves, and we supported-them. The good-news is, people like Jim Rose have resurrected this era, and here's to more! The film is possibly the finest stalk-and-slash of the era it was made-in, and the opening-scene is a very-funny homage to the shower-scene in Hitchcock's Psycho. The majority-of the action takes-place at the carnival, and the funhouse, but there are some great expositions of the entire-carnival (Hooper even inserts a man covered-in-blood into a crowd-shot to see if we're paying-attention). We see a striptease-tent, the freak show, and even some of the lives of the carnies, and it's definitely well-researched. The colors and the grotesqueness of ALL carnivals is here, on-display, and there are some interesting aside-comments on why we go to them. Often, it is mystery and curiosity, and that is the heart of the film--discovery-as-horror-reveal.And so, the kids go to the carnival, and stay-the-night in the funhouse on-a-dare, voyeuristically-invading the lives of the carnies. Before-long, they have witnessed-a-murder by the carny in the Frankenstein-mask...who might-not be-human. But, Hooper has forewarned-us of everything, including the mutant-killer in the earlier freak show scenes (the bifurcated-head of the cow, the mutant-fetus, and other-shots). It just builds-and-builds to the hysterical-ending, growing more-and-more ominous. There are many-many-scenes that are simply atmospheric--crucial to any effective-horror.As-usual, any great horror-film has its stand-out actor, and in-this-case, it is Kevin Conway. His triple-roles as the funhouse-barker, the strip-tent barker, and the freak show barker are simply-classic. Without-him, The Funhouse would not be nearly-so-good. Like many of Tobe Hooper's horror-films, this story concerns a family, or multiple-ones under-attack. There are a few-moments where it is truly-difficult not to feel-pity for the deformed-killer, as it is obvious his life has been miserable and abusive. If you don't have some empathy for the monster in a horror-film, you don't have a very-good story.There is an incredible-scene--possibly the best in the film--in-which the main female-protagonist lands in the machine-room of the funhouse. It is highly-orchestrated, and expresses a fear of the mechanical, with steam-blasting pumps, pulleys, gears, and timed-noise. It is probably Hooper's best-constructed scene in any of his films for sheer hysteria and tension--excepting the dinner-party in Texas Chainsaw Massacre, because the hysteria was real. Also-noteworthy, is the score by John Beal. It has the Bernard Hermann-style of descending-scales, and a skill for-creating atmosphere. The Universal-DVD is perfect, with superior image and audio-quality. This film will be-remembered, later-on, as one of Tobe Hooper's best. "},{"Title":"Fast-Moving And Stylish","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was better than it should have been, considering most of the actors are unknowns and the film has a Grade B feel to it throughout. It gets good points for two things the story moved fast and the cinematography was good. I like stylish-looking visuals, which is what you get here.Teenage punks usually turn me off but these guys - with one exception - were tolerable. The language was bad, but much of it came in bunches by just two of the guys.Overall, a surprisingly--decent horror film which is colorful and has its atmospheric merits. Is is super scary? No, but it's a fun-house and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"No, this one doesn't star J.D. Roth","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Funhouse is one of my absolute favorite horror movies of the 1980s. That being said, I consider the 1980s the grandest time for the horror genre.  You had fine slasher movies like Friday the 13th, Nightmare On Elm Street, My Bloody Valentine, and Prom Night.  You also had great monster/ghost/zombie movies like The Howling, Day of the Dead, and The Fog. Well, the Funhouse falls right in the middle of the these subgenres.  The story centers around Amy and her three friends (two guys and a girl), who, after seeing all the ghoulish and bizarre attractions at the carnival, decide to have a lock-in at the Funhouse for a night of hanky-panky. Well, a lock-in they get, followed by a night of sheer terror as the foursome witness a murder by the carnival's secret attraction, the hideously deformed freak, and become the target of the Funhouse's maniacal operators. Who will survive?  Will any survive?  And what kind of trauma will they have to endure?  For those that are into blood and guts, this movie will probably not do it for you, because it doesn't contain much.  But for those of you who love a great horror movie with suspense, a claustrophobic atmosphere, and a grainy touch, this chiller is for you.  I personally give it my highest recommendation.  I truly believe that it is a forgotten classic. After all, it was Tobe Hooper, of Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Poltergeist fame, who helmed this gem.  Even the tagline for this movie was perfect Pay to get in.  PRAY to get out.  And thank God that J.D. Roth wasn't in this film.  "},{"Title":"Could be Tobe Hooper's Crowning Achievement","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Two couples on a double date spend their evening at the local carnival, against the main character's father's wishes. Rumor was circulating that kids in another county were killed at that carnival in the past. But they ignore the father, craft a really thin lie (the old sleeping at a friend's house routine), and go anyway. And then comes the big idea stay overnight in the funhouse. This plan goes fine until the kids witness a fortune teller slash prostitute get murdered by the man in the Pat Sajak mask.Tobe Hooper, the director, is a big name in horror. Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Poltergeist are modern classics. I don't claim to be an expert on Hooper -- I've seen only a handful of his work -- but I would rank this near the top of the list. I have read other reviews calling this film, without hesitation, Hooper's best work, and I think they make a strong case. While the least known of the big three Hooper films, it has a timelessness to it that will strike terror in people's hearts forever.Carnivals are scary. From Carnival of Souls to the more recent Dark Ride, the background of a circus can be chilling. Throw in some clowns, carnival barkers and automated robots (dolls that move) and you have the perfect set-up. You don't really need a masked killer to heighten the fear, but Hooper throws one in anyway. If nothing else can be said about this movie, you can say the perfect atmosphere was created for winning film.Beyond that, we have the same old horror standards. Teenagers making out, smoking pot and being stupid. We have a main character -- Amy Harper (Elizabeth Berridge) -- who is quite sexy, although her taste in men needs some adjustment (I'm sorry, but I thought Buzz Klemmet (Cooper Huckabee) was a jerk). And getting busy on the first date after not hitting it off well? Believable for some reason. Unlike her female co-star (Largo Woodruff), they find ways to get her topless multiple times in the film. I'm not complaining, but the real mystery is this why didn't we see her in more 1980s films? I think the defining moment for this movie is when the mask is removed from the killer. I won't reveal anything that will spoil it, but I have to say that the man under the mask was quite the shocker for this first-time viewer. You think you know, but you have no idea.Absolutely see The Funhouse. 1970s and 1980s horror is a defining era for the genre, and this film sits right near the top of some of the best works. Possibly eclipsing Texas Chainsaw Massacre and comfortably resting with Halloween (a film this one pays homage to in the opening scene), Hooper has made a name for himself. More recent contributions -- such as The Damned Thing -- are lacking, but classics like The Funhouse will guarantee him a slot in the Horror Movie Hall of Fame, if such a thing existed. "}{"Title":"The sets are cool.","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The production of this film included the use of a real vintage carnival from the 40s/50s.  For anyone interested in the appeal of a traveling carnival, this film has some great sets.  The Funhouse also features some great Rick Baker/Craig Reardon effects in the form of the movie's villain, a deformed albino with fangs and claws.But the rest of the production is sorely lacking.  Tobe Hooper does his best with the material, but he's not too good at smoothing over the obvious lack of logic inherent in the film.  For instance, the plot concerns a small group of four teenagers who decide on a lark to spend the night in the funhouse of the traveling carnival they're visiting...the same carnival that was around when those two girls were found dead in the woods some time ago.  Now, why on Earth would anybody in their right minds find the idea of staying in a carnival funhouse overnight exciting?  Where will they sleep?  What will they do the next day?  Won't they get hungry?  Thirsty?  Have to brush their teeth?  Use the bathroom?Not only that, but the attractions in this carnival are most definitely not of the transportable variety.  The titular dark ride seems so immense that our teen protagonists find it impossible to navigate their way out of the funhouse when danger rears its ugly head.  Here's an idea maybe follow the metal tracks in the floor until you are standing at the exit?  In fact, the funhouse is built like a permanent fixture, with at least two floors and what appears to be a sub-basement!  How would the carnies ever be able to dismantle this thing and move it in one day?This flick also suffers another blow by giving us nobody to root for.  The teenage protagonists are wholly unlikeable.  They smoke pot like they're sipping soda out of a can, they steal money from strangers, they are stupid enough to want to spend the night in a carnival attraction, and they commit the unpardonable horror movie sin of fornication--all except for the female lead, of course, although she isn't even interesting enough to be engaging.  The dialogue in the film is flat, and it has no success in establishing any characterizations on behalf of the would-be victims.  I wasn't even paying attention to most of the film's first reel.  The Funhouse is also one of those movies where the villains seem to know exactly where their victims will be standing, like directly on top of a trap door that is conveniently deployed right on cue.  The machinery of the funhouse also knows exactly how to deposit dead bodies so that they will stop exactly in front of our screaming victims.Suspension of disbelief aside, The Funhouse stirs up some uncomfortable feelings when the filmmakers use their monster to get scares out of the audience, then tell us he's simply deformed.  In reality, he is one of the only sympathetic characters in the movie, and the film's climax is the only portion that packs a wallop the script pits the only two characters in the film worth caring about against one another.Hooper throws in some sly references to Texas Chain Saw Massacre, even if it does involve the gratuitous and illogical use of swinging hooks (haw haw), but by the time the movie delivers any real shudders, it's too late.  Ironically, Dean Koontz was hired to write a movie tie-in novel for The Funhouse, which was published under the psuedonym Owen West.  Koontz fleshed out the story considerably, adding some great touches that the filmmakers would have been wise to exploit in their own movie.  Too bad, because Koontz's treatment may have given Hooper a bigger, sharper hook on which to hang this film. "},{"Title":"Hooper+carnival+atmosphere+cast=classic slasher flick","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hooper has been known to every horror fan for being creator of legendary THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE. Well I don't know why this movie is bit forgotten, but it's one of the best Hooper movies till date.Make no mistake, this is your typical slasher flick. Four teens decided to spend a night in a Funhouse after a few joints and they witness brutal murder by a strange man. Soon, man turns out to be a vicious madman who is after them. Will they survive? (well, yeah, one will survive for sure) Special effects by FX maestro Rick Baker makes this one shine. Gore in this movie is done simply great, and mask of Frankenstein that killer uses during half of the movie is brilliantly great. Too bad we didn't see too much of it, but you'll gonna love it anyway once killer puts his mask down. Trust me, you will.Now... about characters. The Funhouse is slow movie and that's actually a good thing about it. It tries to develop the characters and yes it does successes on some levels, you actually care for characters. Lead actress, always lovely Elizabeth Berridge who plays Amy is sweet and looks very innocent here, even if she does reveal her boobs in one scene (actually two), but anyway, her character is very sweet and you care for her during the whole hide and seek period. Rest of the characters are OK and you can root for them even if they are not the smartest (why the hell would you take a joint in a Funhouse!? In a carnival? Why the hell would you steal a money from a gypsy? Don't you know it's a dangerous thing to do!?) I won't tell you anything more. If you are a horror fan, if you are a slasher fan, if you are a Tobe Hooper fan, or if you just want to see good ol' slasher flick, watch THE FUNHOUSE for sure, because this is how slasher flick should be made.ps. Too bad Tobe Hooper officially became a sucker. This and Poltergeist were two last great movies Hooper has made. All the rest suck badly. "},{"Title":"Dark Ride as horror motive","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There are only two horror movies known to me whose central topic is a Dark Ride (also called Ghost Train in England) Ghost Drive (2006) and The Funhouse (1981). Typologically, a Funhouse is a building which is not inhabited by humans, but by projections of human fantasy whose motives are basically taken from Old-World legends and mythologies, in some modern cases also from horror movies (zombies, aliens, Freddy Krueger, Bela Lugosi, etc.). Normally, you drive alone or as a couple in a wagon called vehicle that has either the form of an open car or an engine (hence Ghost Train) on a single or double rail along which there are contacts by which the passing wagon makes the appearances move, shine and utter sounds. Since most modern appearances are quite realistic, it is only a short step to think that they could become actually alive. However, The Funhouse falls not into this cheap trap to show as robots with alleged free will, but carefully maintains the Poly-con-textural border between the ghosts and their operators. As a matter of fact, this movie serves a lot of unexpected or rather seldom scary effects and thus belongs definitely to the best representatives of Slasher Movies. The idea, however, that there is actually no escape from a Funhouse-building is an invention In Europe as well as in the United States, such theme-buildings must have roofs that can be removed in no time in the case of a fire-emergency. Also, they must have clearly indicated emergency exists as well as water connections in the case that a Funhouse is a non-ambulant building (a building which is not transported, as the one shown in the movie, from fairground to fairground). Since I belong to the possibly very few people in this world who actually had several times the possibility to walk through enlightened Funhouses, Dark Rides and Ghost Trains, I can assure you that this movie - quite unlike Ghost Drive - does a hell of a job in showing you the inside of such a theme-park building which is normally as secret to public as the election of the pope is. "},{"Title":"Zombos Closet Review Good, atmospheric, creature-feature","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse presents a not so pretty picture of carnival life, and a somewhat pathetic&#151;-albeit homicidal&#151;-monster with a decidedly unhandsome visage, and penchant for mayhem.The opening of the film is a nod to Halloween and Psycho, two other masterworks of the genre, and from there builds into a creepy story revolving around teen lust, sleazy carnival characters, and a 'man-made' monster that has needs like everyone else, but simply cannot satisfy them in more socially acceptable ways. A fascinating subtext running through the story is that it is a variation on the tragedy of Dr. Frankenstein and his monster. In Tobe Hooper's tale, the monster is one born of genetic mutation, cleverly foreshadowed by the Freak Animals Alive tent exhibit, where the fetal brother of the monster floats in a jar as an abominable attraction for the hoi polloi.Indeed, in the film's opening sequence, the Frankenstein monster is shown, first as a poster showing the Glenn Strange characterization (my favorite!), and then as a Mego doll&#151;oh sorry, action figure&#151;carried by the young boy, Joey, whose sister soon curses him because of his bizarre prank that scares the wits out of her. Joey's actions are also another subtext running through the film he dons a mask to become a monster that frightens his sister, and the actual monster wears a Frankenstein mask to become less of a monster, and therefore less frightening to others. It is interesting to note that, unlike the current spate of horror films that feature eye (popping)-candy and little else, in this film, the characters are presented with choices, yet consistently make the wrong ones. And as we all know, in a horror film, when you make the wrong choices, someone, or more likely today everyone, winds up dead. Amy, Buzz, Liz, Ritchie, and Joey consistently make the wrong choices, and suffer the dire consequences. In the tale of Dr. Frankenstein and his monstrous creation, wrong choices also led to death and disaster, but at least here we have the Funhouse!The funhouse is surrounded by the carnival, a seedy, grimy affair filled with seedy and grimy denizens. There is a bag lady that looks very much like Grandmama from the Addams Family spouting god is watching you! a homeless man that wonders around like a zombie, a few bums, the past her prime fortune teller and palm reader (well played by Sylvia Miles), the not so magnificent Marco the Magician, and the barkers (three of them superbly played by Kevin Conway as if he were a natural). Properly toned by John Beal's score and Andrew Lazlo's cinematography, the loud and brightly lit carnival facade hides a darker, more primitive underbelly of murderous anarchy, and its nexus is the funhouse, established by Mr. Hooper's use of two tracking crane shots, one at the beginning and one at the ending of the mayhem, that emanate from the funhouse to encompass its surroundings.Our hapless group of monster fodder soon regrets their decision to stay the night in the funhouse, and Joey soon regrets sneaking out from his bedroom&#151;down the trusty-trellis-by-the-window&#151;to visit the carnival. We also learn that the father of the monster has regrets about letting it live, in a scene that contains a wealth of hinted at backstory, but must share responsibility for its actions because of choices he has made. Dean Koontz, in his novelization of the film, includes this back story.The climactic confrontation in the mechanical belly of the funhouse is suitably horrific, yet uses little gore, and, unlike the requisite sequelization antics of many fright films today, provides a definitive and satisfying closure. Unlike the mindless snuff horror approach to today's films, The Funhouse explores themes and provides a story depth that is worth viewing, along with the thrills and chills. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Group of teenagers double date and get the idea of spending the night in a carnival funhouse for a lark. They get more then they bargained for however when they witness the murder of a psychic at the hands of a freak. Richly colored, nicely mounted flick has effective jump scenes, terrifying special effects and a good cast full of oddballs. One of Tobe Hooper's better horror films.Rated R; Violence, Nudity, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Possibly the last watchable Tobe Hooper's horror film.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is based on a screenplay by Larry Block and Dean Koontz's The Funhouse novel was written and released as a tie-in with Tobe Hooper's movie,under the pseudonym of Owen West.The story moves around a group of teenagers who decide to break into a carnival funhouse and spend the night there for a bit of fun.Soon they're stalked by a ghastly freak from the carnival.The Funhouse is no Texas Chain Saw Massacre(1974)or even Eaten Alive(1976-check out my review of it!),but Tobe Hooper really creates some thrills and a good deal of suspense.The film probably ended up on a video nasties list by mistake,as it may have been confused with Last House on Dead End Street(1977)which was also known as The Fun House.So if you like horror genre-check out this quite sleazy and occasionally very scary film. "},{"Title":"I hate people who preach. Especially in bathrooms.","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A deformed killer is stalking a group of teens at a carnival because they saw him murder a prostitute. Heavens to Murgatroyd! Director Tobe Hooper, responsible for one of the greatest horror movies of all time (TCM) and at least partially responsible for another (Poltergeist), takes a stab (ha!) at the '80s slasher craze. On the surface it seems like just another mental defective/weirdo/lunatic goes on a killing spree movie. Those were hardly rare in the '80s. But it's put together well with stylish direction and ample amounts of suspense. The cast is decent with Elizabeth Berridge doing a fine job as the Final Girl. She also has a nice nude scene at the start of the movie, for all the breast enthusiasts out there. The main flaws with the movie are the pacing in the first hour and the overall familiarity of the material. Still, it's worth a look if you like '80s horror. "},{"Title":"In & Out","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is a film which everyone has spoken something about, even thought it's not even a classic of the genre. As the movie began, I felt like I was about to see the most bizarre and horrifying thing of my life, when, in fact, it was just the most bizarre. It is like this because, despite Tobi Hooper being a horror master, this project doesn't seem to be made to be (exclusively) creepy; the funny aspects of the story are what, in fact, bring some charm to it. Honestly, I thank god that it wasn't creepy; if director wanted it to be, he would SURELY be able to. All in all, if you've enjoyed 2007's Dead Silence and you want to see a corny and hilarious version of that, The Funhouse is probably a good choice for you. "},{"Title":"Effective 1981 carnival horror flick","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw The Funhouse a few years ago and was impressed since it's a semi-obscure horror film from 1981, although the movie poster has gotten some mileage. I guess I was expecting something low-budget and lame, but that's not the case. This is a top-rate quasi-slasher flick from that era, taking place at a carnival, which is a great location for a horror movie. The plot revolves around two high school couples (Elizabeth Berridge & Cooper Huckabee and Miles Chapin & Largo Woodruff) who spend their double date at the local carnival and foolishly decide to spend the night at the Funhouse where they inadvertently witness a murder. Horror ensues as the masked murderer turns out to be a hideous freak.I discovered why this is such a well-done horror film from that era &#x96; it was made by Tobe Hooper who directed significant horror films like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974), Salem's Lot (1979), Poltergeist (1982) and Crocodile (2000). I realize a lot of people don't appreciate the last one, but I actually prefer it to the other three.The movie's effective because the protagonists represent the typical 17-18 year-old youths from that time period, or any time period really. The story takes its time to establish the characters on their carnival date before the horror goes into overdrive and the acting of the teens is convincing when it does. That's one of the things I like about this movie the most (beyond the carnival atmosphere, that is) &#x96; it's realistic tone. Don't get me wrong, there are things that happen that wouldn't likely happen in real life, like a prop at the Funhouse scaring the youths at precisely the right moment, but generally speaking the tone's very believable, plus there's no goofiness or indications that it's all a joke, as in Crocodile. Both girls are a highlight, particularly Largo Woodruff as Liz. Sylvia Miles appears as the tarot card reader, Madame Zena; she still looked good for being in her late 50s.The freak is played by Wayne Doba who is passionate in his portrayal and extremely credible. Plus the make-up is hideous and memorable. I also liked the depiction of the monster's relationship with his dad, the Funhouse Barker played by Kevin Conway. All-around outstanding job on this front.Unfortunately, the pacing of the film is weak and there are numerous draggy sections, which causes one's mind to wander. This is the only reason I don't rate it higher. The movie would've been more effective if they cut 12-15 minutes of fat, which explains why the video version only runs 80 minutes; that's the version you want to see.The film runs 96 minutes and was shot in North Miami, Florida.GRADE B "},{"Title":"A Tobe Hooper Classic","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper made this film after the success of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974). After an aborted project (Eaten Alive, 1977) and a telefilm (Salem's Lot, 1981). The film shows a sure directorial skill that would fade little by little after his Lifeforce (1985). The film revolves around a group of teenagers who decides to spend the night inside a dark ride (The Funhouse) and witness a murder between two members of the circus. After this they are hunted by the by the deformed killer and his father and... well, the rest is the usual nerve wrecking scenes. This film had a huge mark on me when I watched it in television in my infancy, I remembered it for long time and unfortunately it was rare to show on TV and since I didn't had a VCR I couldn't watch it anywhere, when I got older I imported it on DVD, which is the copy I own. After a gap of some 15 years, the film still has the sinister mood of my recollection. It is sad that Hooper career followed a downward spiral, none of his films has the force of TTCM, though he came close in Funhouse and with Poltergeist (1982). "}{"Title":"There is no escape from the funhouse...","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amy and her friends are going off to a local carnival with a sleazy reputation. It looks fun on the outside but beneath the cheery atmosphere is a very frightening world and the kids are about to find out what is so scary about the funhouse when they decide to be idiots and spend the night inside, encountering a deformed slasher-killer.This slasher film deserves better reviews, it is one my favorites. Although my all-time favorite movie s the 1981 slasher film My Bloody Valentine, this movie is thrilling, entertaining, funny and creepy all in one. I think my favorite character was the pretty minor magician who scared the pants off an audience when he pulled a prank on them. The acing overall wasn't that good but the soundtrack was memorable and the movie does manage to remain shocking. It also shows a side-story with Amy's little brother getting lost at the carnival while sneaking out after dark.This isn't a bad movie, it's worth watching and really fun to see with friends. If the whole point of slashers is to have fun watching them, the Funhouse delivers. "},{"Title":"Fantastic - An Overlooked Gem","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Contains Spoilers!Just got done watching The Funhouse for the second time. There's everything to recommend in this movie great storyline, excellent cinematography and direction, fast pacing (as another reviewer has mentioned), wonderful atmosphere, creepy music, and a great climax/ending.The rating (currently 5.8) really low-balls this film - I'm giving it an 8 because it's so enjoyable, so fun, so well-executed. It's a really underrated and overlooked gem from 1981. Perhaps Tobe Hooper's other films have overshadowed this one.Nevertheless, you should definitely add this to your Halloween scary movie repertoire - but it's also just an anytime watch as well. Spoiler ahead (description of ending/climax)There are many great scenes in this film, but WOW! the climax scene is superb. It takes place underneath the Funhouse, in the dark and creepy gears and pulleys/mechanical room. Great idea by Hooper, it's the creepiest part of the Funhouse - the ugly basement/undercarriage.For 3 or 4 minutes, nothing actually happens. The cute protagonist looks around horrified, with plenty of scary music, lightning, and intense cinematography all coming to a crescendo. Then the film comes to its climax, with the terrifying death of the deformed/mute man. The scene takes up about 6 or 7 minutes - which is quite some time for one scene. But Hooper executes it perfectly, leaving the viewer with a wonderful, satisfying catharsis.You HAVE to see this movie. I think it's awesome.jacobnunnally.blogspot.com8/10 "},{"Title":"Oh, my, my! That IS a gruesome sight.","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A group of teenagers decides to spend the night in the Fun House at the local carnival after it closes, only to be stalked and killed one by one by a frightening masked figure. This premise for Tobe Hooper's The Funhouse is not a terribly unique one, nor are there any real variations from the standard slasher plot line in this movie.That said, it is a good example of 1980's slasher fare, with some over the top acting, a stereotypical storyline, and the inevitable silly/stupid teenagers (catering to the target audience, no doubt).But The Funhouse never takes itself too seriously, and it has a great, colorful setting and an excellent use of light and darkness and a quick pace that make it very entertaining.Certainly as much fun as Poltergeist, though clearly on a much lower budget, The Funhouse is one that I come back to on about an annual basis.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Pay to get in, Pray to get out! An amazing Gem!","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four teenagers get typically high and as a dare decide to stay overnight in a carnival fun-house, whilst engaging in the standard teenage antics they witness one of the carnival workers who is wearing a ''Frankenstein'' mask murder one of his co-workers ''Madame Zelda'' played by (Sylvia Miles who is excellent in her brief appearance) they are subsequently stalked by ''Frankenstein'' who is later revealed to be a deformed Albino! as one of the teens foolishly pilfers a stash of money, as a result the Teens are mercilessly stalked through the labyrinthine Funhouse. 'The Funhouse'' from Tobe 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' Hooper is an amazing gem, which surprisingly has not been remade for todays dumbed down audiences! it has some terrific 2351 Widescreen photography. Fans of '' Tobe Hooper'' should purchase the recent ''Arrow Video'' Blu-Ray edition which is packed with excellent supplement material and an excellent transfer is a must have for fans. "},{"Title":"Those creepy carnies.","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The central theme of Tobe Hooper's The Funhouse seems to be that people who run or work in carnivals are creepy. Sometimes REALLY creepy. And who really knows what sorts of evil characters a carnival might bring into your town. That kind of thing. And working in close proximity to the State Fairgrounds, which I do, I often see these types a little bit too up close and personal for my liking each Labor Day week. The people we see at the carnival in this film bring a new meaning to the word creepy, though. The story here might not be completely original, but it somehow seems fresh. The film boasts decent production values, and a colorful cast of mostly unknowns. Top it off with a great horror film director, and we almost had a classic here.The story details four young people who visit a carnival and stupidly decide that it would be cool to spend the night in the funhouse after things close down. These four have been smoking weed all night, and maybe that was what caused this incredible lack of judgment. With all of the crazy characters they had met by the time they made this decision, one just simply cannot believe anyone would have done this. Oh, well. They decide to stay, and tragedy soon follows. The ornery drunk who runs the funhouse has a mutant retard for a son who kills a woman after a disastrous attempt at sexual intercourse with her for the price of $100. The four kids, hiding in a loft above, witness this and understandably try to leave. Too late. The father comes back and locks them in. Further complicating matters is the fact that one of the kids stole all the money from the old man's strongbox. It's safe to say that these four kids will not be allowed to leave the facility alive. The old man sicks his mutant son on these teens, and the resulting carnage is very frightening, and not overly gory.The film scores big points for atmosphere, acting, and suspense. You really feel like this is a real carnival full of freaks and geeks. You never know what will be around the corner of each tent, or who will jump out at the actors from the periphery. The opening scene is a wonderful homage to both Psycho and Halloween. Maybe even a slight nod to Kubrick's The Killing. I swear the kid's mask in that scene is a dead ringer for that worn by Sterling Hayden during the heist. The film loses points for their concept of the monster. The mutant son has a good back story, but they didn't create him correctly. Actor Wayne Doba is clearly wearing a mask and it just looks too over-the-top. I would have suggested just making his regular face look ugly with makeup instead of creating this ludicrous mask with fangs whatnot. Doba has the movements this character would make down perfectly, but when he shrieks or cries out, you can tell he's doing it through a mask! It just looks and sounds too fake. Maybe you won't mind as much as I did, but I think the physical appearance of that character needed a different concept.Overall, the film is worth the price of admission, though. I'll give it 7 of 10 stars. Kevin Conway as the midway barker and funhouse proprietor gives a particularly strong and creepy performance. If you thought carnies were creepy before, you really will think they're creepy after watching this! The Hound. "},{"Title":"Underrated Early 1980's Slasher","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper, who recently did the unsettling Dance of the Dead episode for Masters of Horror on Showtime, as well as the family classic, Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974), presents a not so pretty picture of carnival life, and a somewhat pathetic-albeit homicidal-monster with a decidedly unhandsome visage, and penchant for mayhem.The opening of the film is a nod to Halloween and Psycho, two other masterworks of the genre, and from there builds into a creepy story revolving around teen lust, sleazy carnival characters, and a 'man-made' monster that has needs like everyone else, but simply cannot satisfy them in more socially acceptable ways. A fascinating subtext running through the story is that it is a variation on the tragedy of Dr. Frankenstein and his monster. In Tobe Hooper's tale, the monster is one born of genetic mutation, cleverly foreshadowed by the Freak Animals Alive tent exhibit, where the fetal brother of the monster floats in a jar as an abominable attraction for the hoi polloi.Indeed, in the film's opening sequence, the Frankenstein monster is carefully shown, first as a poster showing the Glenn Strange characterization (my favorite!), and then as a Mego doll-oh sorry, action figure-carried by the young boy, Joey, whose sister soon curses him because of his bizarre prank that scares the wits out of her. Joey's actions are also another subtext running through the film he dons a mask to become a monster that frightens his sister, and the actual monster wears a Frankenstein mask to become less of a monster, and therefore less frightening to others.It is interesting to note that, unlike the current spate of horror films that feature eye (popping)-candy and little else, in this film, the characters are presented with choices, yet consistently make the wrong ones. And as we all know, in a horror film, when you make the wrong choices, someone, or more likely today everyone, winds up dead. Amy, Buzz, Liz, Ritchie, and Joey consistently make the wrong choices, and suffer the dire consequences. In the tale of Dr. Frankenstein and his monstrous creation, wrong choices also led to death and disaster, but at least here we have the Funhouse! The funhouse is surrounded by the carnival, a seedy, grimy affair filled with seedy and grimy denizens. There is a bag lady that looks very much like Grandmama from the Addams Family spouting god is watching you! a homeless man that wonders around like a zombie, a few bums, the past her prime fortune teller and palm reader (well played by Sylvia Miles), the not so magnificent Marco the Magician, and the barkers (three of them superbly played by Kevin Conway as if he were a natural). Properly toned by John Beal's score and Andrew Lazlo's cinematography, the loud and brightly lit carnival facade hides a darker, more primitive underbelly of murderous anarchy, and its nexus is the funhouse, established by Mr. Hooper's use of two tracking crane shots, one at the beginning and one at the ending of the mayhem, that emanate from the funhouse to encompass its surroundings.Our hapless group of monster fodder soon regrets their decision to stay the night in the funhouse, and Joey soon regrets sneaking out from his bedroom-down the trusty-trellis-by-the-window-to visit the carnival. We also learn that the father of the monster has regrets about letting it live, in a scene that contains a wealth of hinted at backstory, but must share responsibility for its actions because of choices he has made. Dean Koontz, in his novelization of the film, includes this back story.The climactic confrontation in the mechanical belly of the funhouse is suitably horrific, yet uses little gore, and, unlike the requisite sequelization antics of many fright films today, provides a definitive and satisfying closure. Unlike the mindless snuff horror approach to today's films, The Funhouse explores themes and provides a story depth that is worth viewing, along with the thrills and chills. "},{"Title":"It's fun alright..","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper's Funhouse is a surprisingly watchable horror film. Black humour abounds in the beginning, not only with quasi-parody sequences of Psycho & Halloween, but also with the typically nonsense slasher plot, not to mention offbeat sequences that come out of nowhere (for example the man that threatens the kid with a gun on the way to the carnival, what the hell ?). Hooper seems particularly preoccupied with sex in this one, probably having fun over the slasher genre, what with the 4 sex-crazed teenagers (bar Amy, who in the end survives, hehe) deciding to spend the night in the funhouse, or the bag lady insisting that God is watching you, but also with the monster offspring etc.In fact, the sequence where the monster tries to be friendly with Liz is a masterpiece of cynical humour  the crying woman reluctantly offering her services to the sex-crazed man/monster, and in the end back-stabs him. It's only for the better then that Hooper turns to a kind of hallucinated subliminal horror with the last part of the film, which uses the grotesque in toys/clowns/carnivals etc in an imaginative way. And in my opinion, this effort here outclasses his much celebrated Texas Chainsaw Massacre. "},{"Title":"Hooper's last great film","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Possible SpoilersThis is Hooper's last great film. It works best as a companion piece to Chainsaw Massacre sharing and expanding upon many of its chosen themes with rigorous intensity, such as, the idea of malevolent astrology within a fundamentally unreliable world, an emphasis on concealed horror within the image of the terrible house that is associated with the dead weight of the past crushing the young, notions of rural degeneracy that are tied to this, the use of anarchic black humour, class conflict (affluent, permissive white teens who are stalked by a working class monster) in a fragmented society that is on the verge of disintegration, ideas of vegetarianism children are meat, the parallels that he insists on between what is normal/abnormal the repressive patriarchal family unit where mom and dad drink and son and daughter run wild upstairs finds its mirror in the the monstrous all male family and finally the idea of this all coming to an end with an apocalypse.For an 80s horror it is not nearly as reassuring or as conservative as most of the output in that decade. It is also a clever pastiche of Universal monster movies of the 30s and a Hooper's response to John Carpenter's seminal Halloween and the seemingly never ending tide of teenie kill pics that cashed in on its success. Funhouse is a joy to watch and Berridge makes a great 70s-esque final girl who survives more by accident rather than by actively 'taking the monster on'. Compare Laurie from Halloween with Alice From A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 Dream Warriors and you'll see what I a mean. Overall, a brilliant film.  "},{"Title":"Cool monsters and great FX, but otherwise standard fair.","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While oscar-winning artist's Rick Baker's effects are great, and the monsters are very cool and original, the film is otherwise pretty dull and uneventful (even though there are some moments of suspense and some genuinly scary scenes) and never really picks up the pace. Great effects, cool monsters, and decent enough acting, but poor direction, script, music, and lighting. Still worth watching for the creatures, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, all told...","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There was a time, before Six Flags took over the nation, that traveling carnivals were normal to see coming to mid-size towns during the summer. Thus is the setting for The Funhouse. Teenager Amy Parker and her friends Liz, Ritchie, and Buzz have piled into Buzz's muscle car for a night at the carnival - the same carnival were some teenage girls had disappeared a year previous. After getting high and taking in a few rides, the group proceeds to take in the freak of nature tent, a magic show, get their fortunes told, and sneak a peek at a girlie show. Towards the end of the evening, Ritchie gets the bright idea to spend the night in the Funhouse, challenging the others to do the same. The four teens enter the Funhouse and proceed to ditch their ride cars. After the carnival closes, the group of kids starts a make out session in the dark&#133; when they hear a noise. Looking through the floorboards, they see that the Funhouse worker Gunther (made up to look like the Frankenstein monster) is paying for sexual favors from the fortuneteller (Sylvia Miles of Midnight Cowboy). When he jumps the gun so to speak, she berates him and refuses to give his money back. This sends Gunther into a frenzy and he proceeds to strangle her to death. Having witnessed this, the kids decide to try to get the hell out of there. Making their way around the darkened corridors with nothing more than a lighter, the foursome try to find the exit. Ritchie discovers the dead body of the fortuneteller and says he's going to check on her to make sure she is in fact dead. When he returns, he finds Buzz has indeed found the exit, but it is a steel door that has been padlocked. They decide to try and see if the entrance is open. On their way towards the front, they see a light wink on below them. The carnival barker has walked into his office and has discovered that Gunther has killed the fortuneteller. Be it that the barker is in reality Gunther's father, he decides that they will get rid of the body and blame it on the local townsfolk. When Gunther gives back the money he took from the cash box to pay the fortuneteller, the carnival barker discovers that the rest of the money is missing. Enraged, he incites Gunther into beating himself up, to the point where he rips the Frankenstein monster mask off&#133; exposing a horribly deformed person underneath. Shocked by what they see, the kids shrink back from the sight, only to lose the lighter through the floorboards. The clatter makes a noise, and the carnival barker stops his tirade with Gunther when he realizes they are not alone...This is one of those movies I BEGGED my parents to see when it first came out. The commercials for it looked AWESOME. Unfortunately as a whole, it did not totally live up to my expectations once I saw it. For one thing, the Funhouse itself is an impossible structure. The thing has a sub basement in it for Pete's sake. This thing is supposed to be mobile? There is no way this thing traveled with the rest of the carnival. Plus, back in the day, there was some false advertising. Two different commercials had been cut. One of these had footage of the two actors (Cooper Huckabee and Elizabeth Berridge) being chased by Gunther through sets that did not even exist in the movie. I hate when production companies do that, as it misrepresents what is up on the movie screen. Of course, the carnival barker firing up everything in the Funhouse well after midnight must have gone over really well with the nearby carnies trying to get some sleep. Back in the day I believe this was made for 2.5 million dollars. Please keep in mind that was a BIG budget for a horror movie. The money definitely went towards the production design. Technically, it is a good movie. All of the moods are there, and the sets for the Funhouse itself are impressive. The music by composer John Beal is tremendous, and adds a lot to the overall flavor of the movie. Noted makeup artists Rick Baker and Craig Reardon did a credible job with the makeup of the deformed Gunther. Unfortunately there was not a lot of articulation in the prosthetic, and it comes off more like a mask at times. Director Tobe Hooper has had a spotty career that has had more ups and downs than a carnival roller-coaster. He of course is known for The Texas Chainsaw Massacre back in the mid 70s, but since then he has had a hard time matching the feel and effect that his initial foray into terror had. This movie is very sluggish at times and even when the action picks up, the pacing feels like it is going in several different directions. As to the death scenes, they are on a whole pretty unspectacular. Mind you, this was back at the height of the early 80s horror resurgence, so it was odd that with such a story and location that so little was done with it. What this movie has going for it is atmosphere, decent acting and good character development. A tidbit The large bald mechanical clown head seen in the background of a few shots ended up as a mask in Rob Zombie's House of 1,000 Corpses. "}{"Title":"The Funhouse","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four potty-mouth teenagers decide to spend the night in the spooky funhouse located in a carnival notorious for leaving(presumably)a string murders that were left unresolved. While in there, they witness the carnival promoter's freakish son(his monstrous face was created by Rick Baker and company)murder the fortune-teller when she wouldn't put out for him after he paid 100 bucks for sex. Stupidly, one of the group, Richie(Miles Chapin, who eerily resembles the kid who was stuck to a door by Michael Myers with a butcher knife in HALLOWEEN)steals the carnival take-in from the cash-box when the freak runs to tell his pops the crime he committed. With pops(Kevin Conway, in multiple roles as several barkers inviting carnival goers to entertain their exhibits)infuriated not only at his son's mishap, but of someone stealing his cash, he has daddy's little boy hunt the teens down promising to take his son fishing if he kills them. So, the film turns up the suspense a notch as the freak, who wears a Frankenstein monster's mask when sending carnival goers on the funhouse ride, hunts after the teenagers as they try to somehow make it out of the funhouse with escape seeming next to impossible. As they try to make their way out of the blasted funhouse pops barker turns everything on scaring screams and shouting from them so that his freak son can locate their whereabouts. One by one, they fall prey to the barker's son. Can any of them make it out of the funhouse alive?Very stylish horror flick I thought..we see what Hooper could do with money and resources. This flick isn't that gory, however, which may not please some expecting graphic violence. Hooper doesn't really even show much action for the first half-hour or so showing these teens having a good time, allowing the characters room to develop before lowering the boom on them. The film's opening scene, when a kid brother tease-scares his showering sister(the heroine of the film, Liz Berridge, who was quite good, I felt)Tobe pays homage to Universal monsters(posters of the Frankenstein's monster, Dracula & The Wolf Man on the kid's bedroom walls)Halloween & Psycho..he sure tickled my fancy right off the bat paying tribute to these horror staples. I recommend seeing the wide-screen version of the film so that you can appreciate how well made the movie really is thanks to Tobe's impeccable camera-work. I liked the score, too. Fun cameo by Finley as magician Marco the Magnificent, dressed as a vampire. As usual in a Tobe Hooper film, you get undesirables littered within the carnival setting such as a God will punish you bag lady, a hobo with tattered clothes who seems to pop up when others are walking, an old man spying on strippers through the peep hole of a tent, and some hunter who pulls a rifle on Berridge's kid brother whose following behind his sister to the carnival. "},{"Title":"A Fun Ride for Sure.","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is among Tobe Hooper's best work, the other two films being The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Poltergeist. In this stylish slasher movie, two teenage couples go on a double date to a local carnival, despite the fact that two girls were found murdered the year before after the carnival left town. As it gets late and the carnival begins to shut down for the night, the teens decide to spend the night in the funhouse on a dare. While making out, one of the couples notices that they are over a room, and as they peek below they see a man in a Frankenstein costume paying one of the fortune tellers for sex. She refuses, and he ends up ultimately killing her. The teens scramble to get out of the large funhouse in fear, and are chased and attacked by a gruesome, mutated monster type being. Who's going to survive the night in this funhouse?I saw this movie as a young kid and it scared me half to death, but now seeing it years later it isn't quite as frightening, but it's still an imaginative, unique horror movie. A funhouse is a perfect place to set a horror flick, since they are strangely eerie to begin with. The story isn't all too original - it's your typical slasher film with a few spins put on, but the setting is what really makes this movie. The score in the film is strange and creepy, and the set design (particularly the funhouse itself) were done with great taste. And, what better place is there to set a horror film than a carnival? Carnivals are bizarre enough, with all of the oddball people that you encounter there. It's the perfect place to compliment a good horror story because of it's natural strangeness. The ending of the film was abrupt and effective, but very fitting. The final girl escapes, it's morning, and the carnies are opening up everything again, just like any other ordinary day at the carnival. But this poor girl is going to go home by herself, all of her friends dead at the mercy of the carnies.Overall, you have to give Tobe Hooper credit for this one. It's stylish, imaginative, and held my attention the whole way through. The Funhouse is different, but it's one of the more memorable horror films to come from the '80s decade. It may not be an all-time classic like Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Poltergeist, but it's surely one of his better films overall. Definitely recommended if you are a fan of Hooper, or enjoy a good old slasher flick. 8/10. "},{"Title":"The Funhouse","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Distributor Universal Pictures (DVD) Plot The story concerns 4 teenagers who visit a local carnival for a night of fun. They soon discover, however, that there is nothing fun at all. Instead they find terror when the 4 are trapped in the maze of the funhouse. One by one, each victim is taken by a monster who tauntingly stalks them.Audio/Video Pretty good transfer from VHS to DVD. Hardly any dark areas in the movie. Good job Universal.Extras None, unless you count widescreen as an extra.Final Thoughts This is one of the best horror movies of the early 80's. Pretty scary, very good atmosphere....this all adds up to a good slasher flick. Buy the DVD, make some popcorn and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Underrated Classic","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of director Tobe Hooper's first big screen movies. Although, it is no Texas Chainsaw Massacre it holds its own as a fun slasher flick. This movie is in no way like Friday the 13th as some reviewers have said. The movie does not rely on gore like a lot of slasher films of this era, but relies on atmosphere and mood. The carnival itself is a very strange setting as there are many homeless people wandering around and many strange characters in general. You can almost see where Rob Zombie may have got some of his influence for House of a 1000 Corpses as the general feel to the movie is very bizarre. Unfortuantly, this movie is not well recognized and many people think it is one of Tobe Hoopers worst films. But I would have to disagree. I found it entertaining and well done (mainly because the music is well composed). "},{"Title":"A Film For Carnival LOVERS!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"                If you love to visit carnivals and all the thrills, rides and fun, this is the film for YOU!  In this thriller you get to see a youngster try to act like Anthony Perkins in Psycho in the shower scene, only with a rubber blade for a knife.  Two young gals looking for sexy, hot romance and fun with their boy friends decided to stay in the Fun House overnight, which is where the fun really begins.  Elizabeth Berridge(Amy Harper),Break A Leg,'03 and Cooper Huckabee(Buzz),Y.M.I.,'02 get into all kinds of horrible situations.  They even meet a creature that looks like the CRYPT KEEPER from the HBO TV Series, Tales From the Crypt. Sylvia Miles(Madame Zena), gets into the action and tries to sell her body to the Child Monster for $100.00 dollars.   When you view this film, you will definitely lose your COTTON CANDY!!!  "},{"Title":"Another great Tobe Hooper film!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Funhouse is the story of 4 people on a double date to the carnival.  While there they witness the murder of a fortune teller by a very strange man. They are discovered hiding within and soon fall prey to the maniac.  Tobe delivers with a stylistic and dark tale of cat and mouse within a carnival, and aren't we all a little scared of carnies in the first place.  Hooper's eye for style and suspense sell this at times slow, but effective horror flick.  Check it out!   "},{"Title":"An impressive and unforgettable horror film","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A test of courage with disastrous consequences two teenager couples decide to stay overnight in a carnival funhouse. The son of the funhouse operator, who hides his face under a Frankenstein-type mask, seems to be a little surprised about two empty carriages...Later he flies into a rage about Madame Zena, the fortune teller, and kills her. The teenagers witness the murder (from the first floor) and in the following conflict with his father (Kevin Conway) they realize in panic what is under the mask - a beast-like albino, unable to speak. One of the boys is so terrified that he loses his lighter. It falls through the ceiling and suddenly a fatal silence fills the room ...Kevin Conway is really wonderful in the subsequent moments. In a triple role he uses his voice to great effect he plays also the freak-show and the strip-show barker.THE FUNHOUSE is a richly coloured shocker (not without humour) in which the sound creates a good deal of the horror. Many well done scenes make this film unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Fairground freak tops terrified teens.","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A murderous carnival freak hunts four teenagers trapped in a funhouse after they witness the ugly critter killing a fortune teller.Tobe 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' Hooper's 1981 slasher, The Funhouse, is a formulaic and rather predictable affair, which fails to make the most of a promising premise. Despite this, it still manages to be entertaining fun from start to finish, delivering some surprisingly good performances and an impressively hideous monster (courtesy of top movie make-up man Rick Baker).Referencing both Psycho and Halloween, Hooper establishes the stalk 'n' slash vibe from the word go by having teen cutie Amy (Elizabeth Berridge) taking a shower in the opening scene. A masked knife-wielding heavy-breather enters the bathroom and attacks Amy, but is subsequently revealed to be her younger brother Joey playing a joke on his sister. Understandably upset at having her brother disturb her whilst she is soaping up her jubblies, Amy tells him she won't be taking him to the carnival.Amy, her new boyfriend, and another couple drive to the carnival where a night of terror awaits them. Meanwhile, Joey sneaks out and makes his own way to the fair&#133;In my opinion, the first half of the movie is the most effective; Tobe Hooper makes the most of his colourful locale, using the bizarre sideshows, strange attractions, and weird people that make up the travelling carnival to create a decidedly unsettling and sinister atmosphere. He also uses strong primary-coloured lighting to accentuate the unreal and dreamlike nature of the setting (a trick he had previously utilised in his 1977 film, Eaten Alive).Once the bodies start to pile up, however, Hooper fails to make the most of the creepy atmosphere he has so carefully constructed, instead giving us a run-of-the-mill second act, in which Amy and pals desperately try to escape from the funhouse as they are gradually picked off one-by-one by the drooling freak.The labyrinthine setting, whilst impressive, seems far too vast and complex to realistically be part of a travelling carnival, and Hooper fails to use it in an effective manner. With a deformed maniac and a whole building's worth of animated mannequins, hydraulic ghosts and mechanical screaming ghouls at his disposal, you would think that Hooper could rustle up a plethora of extreme scares, but he fails to do so. He also expects the audience to swallow the idea that the axes, swords and other props that the ride's mannequins possess would actually be real&#151;not rubber, not plastic, not wood, but cold sharp steel, to be conveniently used by the frightened teens in their bid to stay alive.Hooper also spends far too much time on following Joey as he mooches around the carnival. Since Joey has no particular involvement in the plight of the teens, his inclusion is redundant and best left on the cutting room floor.The film ends as one might expect, with Amy defeating her foe and staggering outside, the sole survivor of the funhouse.Before settling down to watch this movie, I suggest that you try and forget that Hooper is the man who brought us Leatherface; The Funhouse cannot compare with Texas Chainsaw Massacre, so don't even try. That said, despite its flaws, this is still a pretty decent slasher film and I do recommend it to fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Films of Tobe Hooper Welcome to the fun house!!","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse (1981) was surprisingly well directed. The chills were genuine and the acting was creditable. I was not displeased and I enjoyed it very much. Tobe Hooper delivered the goods on this picture. It's funny how one's opinions can change as they move on in life. When I first saw this movie (twenty years ago) I didn't think that much of it, but now I have a whole new respect for it. However I would like to make a note about the main character, the young innocent brunette. She was very attractive and made a very nice lead (easy on the eyes). This would be Tibe Hooper's last small budget project before he sank his career with Poltergeist. A film that literally cursed his resume for lack of true film credit.I recommend this film if you like old school thrillers. "},{"Title":"Real time boredom","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Inexplicablilty added to the infamous videos nasties banned list in the UK during the 1980's Funhouse ranks as possibly the most boring horror movie of all time. Tobe Hooper dined out for years on the over-hyped Texas Chainsaw Massacre churning out derivative horror garbage like Funhouse during the subsequent years.For a movie with a running time of one hour 35 minutes its about 44 minutes before anything remotely interesting happens. The walking talking clichs who enter the carnival do the attractions and then the viewer is taken round some of the attractions again. Yawn. In the meantime the kid brother of one of the main players, having sneaked out of the house and made his way to the carnival wanders around the funfair trying to find his older siblings. This is also really boring. Hooper has mastered the art of stringing out tedium to the point of infinity with a script that could be summarised on the back of a postage stamp. Even factoring in the age of the film, Funhouse is a clich ridden, poorly acted borefest with a lamentable rubber faced monster. And some people rate this as a masterpiece. Nurse!. "}{"Title":"Nothing scary about this.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Even some of the greats have their bad days.  Spielberg struck out with Hook, Stone with U-Turn and Hooper was out to lunch with this poor effort.  Funhouse takes a typical premise but does nothing with it.  Four teens are out for an evening of fun at a carnival and they end up paying for it with their lives.  It is a great idea to have two guys and two girls spend the night in a funhouse but the execution of it is quite banal.  And that is too bad because it had all the ingredients to be quite scary.What is good about the film is the opening which pragmatically tips it's cap to Carpenter's opening shot in Halloween.  It is a nice touch to see a Halloween mask put over the camera as a little boy, heavy breathing and all, walks slowly into the bathroom where his sister is taking a shower and then pretends to stab her with a plastic knife.  The other decent part in the film is when the first guy dies, he is then hit in the head with an axe by one of his friends.  They thought he was the killer coming around a dark corner and they split his head open with an axe.  These two parts were very well done.  The rest of the film is not.The killing doesn't even start until almost an hour into the film.  And that is fine if the movie and the screenplay in particular would have done a better job of setting it up.  But all we get is some inane scenes of the kids going on carnival rides and smooching.  Nothing forbidden is even remotely mentioned about the funhouse except that a couple of years ago a couple of kids were found dead in a funhouse a few states over.  But then they leave it alone.  I wanted to know more about this funhouse a few states over.  How did the kids die?  Was there a suspect?  Was anyone indicted in the murders?  There was nothing to make me afraid for the kids to enter that house.  And that is where the film fails.  Sure the killer is deformed and ugly and blah blah blah but even he isn't that scary.Funhouse is a disappointment but Hooper is to be forgiven.  He directed TCM and Poltergeist and that is a good enough track record to be exonerated from any wrong doing with this film.4 out of 10**** Just a side note.  Has anyone ever given any thought to Hooper being somewhat of an animal rights activist?  I have.  In Texas Chainsaw Massacre, there was great detail not only verbally but visually to the slaughter of animals.  And this one had a carnival full of deformed animals on display for everyone to gawk at.  I can't put my finger on it but there has to be some sort of connection there.  If anyone else has any theories, please email me.  And if that is the case, then kudos to you Mr. Hooper. "},{"Title":"An excellent and highly underrated slasher from the peak period....","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" We humans all reflect on poor previous experiences and wish that we had chosen a different option, a different set of words or a different solution. It's a common philosophy to imagine what might have been had we reacted to a bad situation in a different way. No matter how successful, happy or influential someone may be, we all carry regrets that weigh heavily upon our shoulders like anchors. Deep inside every one of us is a dreamer that yearns for a chance to relive past experiences armed with the knowledge that we gained the first time around. Although turning back the hands of time is an impossible act, the ability to do so would be beneficial to each and every one of us. This mentality applies in all walks of life, and cinema is no different. Imagine for a moment that after John Carpenter's Halloween set the standard, the genre loosened its restraints and pushed forward to greater heights. Instead of the intoxicating pollution of minimal brained and non budgeted features that plagued cinemas after 1978; what if studios had spent time and money investing in the cycle and pushing new boundaries for its ongoing development? Despite an astoundingly negative reputation, the slasher genre, when handled correctly, can provide exemplary results. Just ask Alfred Hitchcock.In 1981, Tobe Hooper was a director with the world at his feet. Hot on the heels of his cult classic features The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Eaten Alive, the director had been recognised by movie mogul Steven Spielberg and his name had become well respected in Hollywood circles. With the weight of a major studio behind him, Hooper decided to invest his talents in the fashionable slasher genre, which on paper promised to provide a feature that would finally rival Carpenter's classic.Hooper makes no effort to disguise Funhouse's slasher heritage and he launches his entry with a scene that references two of the genre's heavyweights. Whilst showering, our protagonist Amy is stalked via Carpenter-alike steady-cam in an opening that successfully sets the mood for the remaining runtime. The carnival has arrived in town and Amy and three of her teenage friends have decided to go along for the opening night. Despite warnings from her parents, the youngster bows to the pier pressure from her boyfriend and the youngsters arrive to be entertained by the lights and attractions on display. Ritchie has the ambitious idea to spend the night in the Funhouse, believing that the group can make-out and spend time alone without the intervention of their parents. It soon turns out to be a fateful plan, when the teens witness the brutal slaughter of one of the workers. Alone and locked in the carnival until morning, the troupe are stalked by a maniacal assassin with no chance of escape.An endless amount has been written about Tobe Hopper's full from grace. Much like a footballer that scored thirty goals in his first season and just one in the next, the downhill slope for the quality of his work was stark and unrelenting. The Spielberg collaboration on Poltergeist was supposed to launch Hooper as a Hollywood suspense maestro that would rival Hitchcock and Kubrick. Unfortunately the movie started a slope to mediocrity from which his career has never recovered. Generally movie fans look back on The Texas Chainsaw Massacre as the only truly outstanding feature in his catalogue. This record is somewhat inaccurate, because despite the inferiority of the majority of his later work, Funhouse is a decent feature that deserves further recognition. Chainsaw Massacre's strengths were its excessive use of terrifying sound, a skill that Hooper successfully repeats in this follow up. The final scene is an excellent juxtaposition of visual and audible horror and the suspense is harsh and unrelenting. Mixing bright flashes of light and the ear piercing chimes of steel cogs and chains, the director creates an atmosphere of unease that provides an outstanding backdrop to a tense showdown. The movie is helped no end by an excellent performance from the final girl, and the gore is kept minimal, which adds further credit to the director's artistic flair. We humans are obsessed with our image, and Hooper makes an intelligent social commentary as the youngsters glare in amusement at the freaks on display at the carnival. Their brash attitudes are ruthlessly avenged when they realise that they are alone with something they had previously considered to be defenceless against their mockery. Revenge is dished out coldly as the protagonist emerges psychologically warped and drained like the creatures on display at the 'freak show'. Funhouse's subtle ethical theme shows an intelligence largely unseen in the genre. Hooper's stylish direction is complemented by some crisp photography and the breathtaking editing builds impressive tension. Set pieces are skilfully conveyed and the circus freak makes an excellent bogeyman. The leads carry the feature comfortably and Hooper delivers a final that underlines his status and ability. Why Tobe Hooper never became the horror maestro that so many predicted is a mystery. Funhouse proves however that there is more to his catalogue than a Chainsaw Massacre in Texas. By far one of the best of the early eighties slashers, this entry deserves to be highly regarded. On a footnote, Funhouse was bizarrely and inaccurately banned briefly in the United Kingdom as part of the video nasty phase. "},{"Title":"A Standard Early-80's Slasher Movie","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie essentially begins with two teenage couples deciding to visit a nearby traveling carnival and once there they choose to spend the night in the chamber of horrors known as the Funhouse. Although they fully understand that what they are doing is wrong what they don't count on is witnessing a murder and being trapped inside with a deformed, maniacal killer who has been ordered by his father to ensure that none of these witnesses escape alive. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that, as one of the first 80's slasher films, this particular picture wasn't too bad overall. Admittedly, although the features of the monster were a bit ridiculous, the plot pretty much followed the standard format for this specific time-period and the acting was equally basic, there was enough suspense to keep things interesting for the most part. In short, this wasn't a bad movie and because of that I have rated it accordingly. Average. "},{"Title":"The death throws of the magnificent 70s horror flick.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wonderful terror! This movie takes place in the early 80s, still reeking of the raw and real 70s before the politically correct and before hard lessons were learned. Another testament to the master of horror, Tobe Hooper (whom I've mistakenly referred to as Toby Hooper in previous reviews.) This movie makes me yearn for a time when all was new, when horror was truly horror, before we knew what to expect, before we knew any better, before cheap tricks were a solution to the real ones. Take for example scenes with an actual two headed cow, or more accurately one and a half headed. A fetus in a jar sets the tone for this murder ride. There's a hole in the wall where the men can see it all! Something about that red gel lighting really sets the mood for these young class of 1980 kids. Animatronics galore! Carnies and deformities! I give this movie 5 bags of popcorn. For an authentic experience try watching this movie in the parking lot of your local county fair with a candy apple and meat on a stick! "},{"Title":"Merry go round and round... when does it begin?","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Elizabeth Berridge, Elizabeth Berridge, where had I seen her before? It didn't come to me, as I was thinking of probably some other horror film. No, she was in 'Amadeus' as quite the frivolous and sympathetic girl who ended up marrying him (Amadeus). She's an exuberant appearance, even if, here, i didn't care much for her acting.The opening scene is titillating fun, but then things get quite boring quite fast. Two double dates (and separately, a kid brother) stroll around a carnival without much really exciting happening (highlight is William Finley as Marco the Magnificent and bloody tricks and tales); it's colorful, though, and if you like a good carnival... In the last half hour things are finally going wrong and some killing, screaming and running must be done. Hardly a slasher, though; no kills until the last half hour (only the mentioning of earlier murders) and no mystery about who are responsible, even if one of them is wearing a mask. Still, there there's a good effort made to give the story some substance, by giving the killers a background and not making all the carnies a murdering bunch.Still, there's not so much to enjoy; 5 out of 10. No, wait, 6 out of 10; an extra point for Berridge and a few very good, creepy scenes (one with Amy, the other with Liz, both in the ventilation system). "},{"Title":"Very amusing fast-paced and atmospheric thriller!","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four teenage friends consisting of Amy (Elizabeth Berridge), Buzz (Cooper Huckabee), Liz (Largo Woodruff), and Richie (Miles Chapin) go on a double date to a sleazy traveling carnival and decide to spend the night in the haunted fun house. Unfortunately for them, a hideously deformed killer named Gunther Straker (Wayne Doba) who works at the carnival is also in the fun house and is out for blood. Aided by his equally deranged father Conrad (Kevin Conway), the homicidal freak begins stalking the teens one by one and murders them in grisly ways. Meanwhile, Amy's younger brother Joey (Shawn Carson) has snuck out against his father's wishes and is also at the carnival. He witnessed the four friends go into the haunted ride but never saw them come out. Can these innocent teens escape the fun house with their lives? Tobe Hooper has had quite an interesting career. The man directed such masterpieces as The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Poltergeist, and Salem's Lot and is also behind this amusing 1981 horror flick. The Funhouse is a very fun movie but comes nowhere near the previously mentioned Hooper classics. It has a great villain and some great kills but falls a little flat in some areas. The main characters here aren't exactly likable, and I didn't really care whether they lived or died. Seeing them play pranks on people, smoke pot, and act like obnoxious hooligans just made me root for the monster to finish them off. I also didn't care for how some parts seemed to drag on forever when I already knew what was going to happen. I understand this was done to slowly build suspense, but when I predicted nearly ever turn, the payoff wasn't as satisfying. I will say that I absolutely love the setting of the carnival at night. I wish more horror films had this great atmosphere, which made for some very enjoyable scenes. All in all, I think every horror fan should check this movie out for its wonderful scenery, creative death scenes, and highly interesting villain. It does have its flaws, but I'm glad that it's a part of my collection nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Dr. Drew says... 6 out of 10","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse (1981) The Good, the Bad and the Carnies Synopsis Double-daters decide to head to the local carnival for a bit of stoned, mischievous fun. Making the unfortunate decision to sleep in the locked up funhouse, the four young lovers find out the gruesome truth behind the carnies running the show.The Good All-in-all, this is a pretty fun little movie. Is there any resonating quality or completely unique idea to be found here? No, not really. Still, it has a bit of a Scooby-Doo quality to it. Mischievous kids get stuck in a spooky funhouse and they are tip-toeing around with a masked killer on the loose. The only thing missing was Shaggy and Velma. The acting is typical for a film of this nature, but the dialogue isn't overly dreadful and the script is simple and unobtrusive for the most part. The movie doesn't try to be anything more than a romp in a creepy carnival. It also doesn't try to be any other movie. Is it a slasher film? Eh.. kinda? It doesn't feel derivative, for the most part, so you don't feel like you are watching Friday the 13th or Halloween - both made a short time before The Funhouse. It effectively uses the setting as the centerpiece and allows both the victims and the creepy carnival custodians to operate within that framework. Obviously, movies like this aren't a thing to take seriously and Hooper keeps the dialogue light and the tone remains Joker-esque in nature. This movie proves that horror movies can be both dark and fun at the same time.The Bad As the opening credits role, there is a montage of creepy automated puppets that are littered throughout the funhouse. It sets the stage for what you think is going to be a very creepy place. Sadly, the funhouse isn't really all that scary. It's a nice atmosphere for the story of the trapped kids and their would-be attackers, but the funhouse itself is a letdown. The other attractions on the carnival grounds like the (real) two-headed cow and cleft-palate cow are a more jarring sight than anything in the funhouse. The creepy puppets are just kind of in the background for most of the movie set in the funhouse and it feels like a wasted plot point. I also have to admit that the movie became much less scary (although it's not all that scary to begin with) after the deformed killer's true identity was revealed. There was something far creepier about not knowing who or what the Frankenstein-masked weirdo was and I felt that the reveal came too early in the film. The initial reveal is cool, but the end of the movie just wasn't as much fun because of this. It's like, Well, I know how this ends now. And it ends just like you think it does.The Carnies This is a Tobe Hooper directed movie and if anything, Hooper can tell the story of a deranged family better than most. The are a few moments that feel a bit like we are back in a certain grimy, backwoods Texas house, but they are not so overbearing that they become too derivative. He loves his mute, grunting, drooling derelicts now, doesn't he? And you know what? So do we. He effectively piques our interest through a slow reveal of the killer, who initially dons a Frankenstein mask and gloves. Is he a kid? Is he just an emotionally adolescent adult? Is he deformed? Well, slowly you find out and it's worse than you think. Although you have time to think about the killer under the mask, like stated above, the reveal does happen a bit too early in the film and you are left with a chase & slash movie for the unoriginal final act. I can't fail to mention though, behind every crazy killer is a crazy parent... and the apple never falls far from the tree. Gotta love sadistic carnies! "},{"Title":"An atmospheric, claustrophobic, and terrifying slasher film from Tobe Hooper","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper, most infamous for directing the horror masterpiece The Texas Chainsaw Massacre delivers here with this magnificent golden age slasher. 1981, arguably the best year for the slasher genre was filled with excellent entries, this one surely ranking high among them.Hooper uses the already off-kilter setting of a traveling carnival to set the tone for the entire film. The sets are magnificent, and everything is moving. By this, I mean that as opposed to your typical quiet, lurking killer and group of teens trying to remain in the shadows, the funhouse is constantly moving, with lights, the tram car, and the machines in constant motion. The whole thing is chaotic and hysterical (and I don't mean funny), with the four kids in constant panic as soon as they are discovered. Amy, the final girl is particularly great, and she truly shows terror and hopelessness through her acting.The inclusion of a monster made the film even more unique, and the viewer faces a moral dilemma, almost feeling bad for the deformed son and his protective, but deranged father. The creature is still human, paying for sex since he is sexually deprived, and exhibiting emotion over his father's death and when he is scolded. Another interesting aspect of the plot is that there are not only relatively few deaths, but most take place within the final half, and even final quarter of the movie. It takes it's time building up to the last half hour of utmost tension, and it is never boring.The Funhouse is exactly what a solid horror film should be, and then some. The atmosphere is outstanding, and even a seasoned veteran like myself got involved, invested, and chilled. An excellent movie. "},{"Title":"The Funhouse delivers minor scares","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper's The Funhouse failed to make the impact his earlier Texas Chainsaw Massacre did on horror audiences, but still delivered a few solid shocks for viewers in 1981. Much like that movie, It consists of twisted characters and fun-loving youngsters being brutalized by them. However, this time around carnival workers get a bad rap versus backwoods rednecks like in Hooper's 1974 spine-chiller. Seeing The Funhouse now doesn't quite deliver the same jarring surprises it did thirty years ago. The horror genre has seen it all since then. Amy goes against her father's orders and accompanies high school rebel Buzz and her two friends to a traveling carnival. Two kids were murdered the last time it was in town. On a dare, the four teens decide to stay overnight in the carnival's funhouse. They soon find themselves trying to stay alive as they are chased through the locked up ride by a psychotic mutated killer. While The Funhouse might not be as shocking as it was thirty years ago, it still provides some nice scares and creepy deviants that will make your skin crawl. Shout! Factory once again delivers a solid high definition edition of this cult classic for its fans to enjoy. A great picture and plenty of fun extra features outweigh the lack of any stereo audio improvement. http//contributor.yahoo.com/user/849014/eric_shirey.html "},{"Title":"Based on a Book by Dean R. Koontz (Kinda)","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Dean R. Koontz was approached to write the book based on the original story pitched to him and being young and wanting a paycheck he agreed. The book was definitely better than the movie and when the movie was released the book, by his pen name Owen West (by Mr. Koontz's admission, he was Owen out West and needed the money, thus the name Owen West) was basically yanked from the stores due to the fact that the movie was so poorly reviewed. Do yourself a favor and try the book, so much more dark, complex and much more of a back story. The father/barker story is explained, the mother/drinking is explained and the story is more emotional. If only Hollywood could learn to just film the book. I have the same feelings on all of Mr. Koontz's work translated to film. Watchers, Phantoms, Whispers...etc. The closest that a film maker has come is the film version of Intensity. The song If I had a million dollars comes to mind when I watch some of these films comes to mind because I know as a fan of the material, I could do so much better, and you know you could too. "}{"Title":"Good 80's flick","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is an underrated and forgotten 80's horror gem. It's about a group of kids that go to a creepy carnival and find themselves trapped in the funhouse after they witness a murder. The killer happens to be a deformed carnival freak. Funhouse plays out slow (they aren't trapped in the funhouse til 50 mins into the movie), developing it's characters and foreshadowing the horror ahead. Tobe Hooper turns what would have been a standard slasher into a well-crafted and amusing horror thriller. Hooper has the ability to capture tension and the disturbing like no other director of i've seen. The deformed creature's effects were done well, there's some t&a, and the actors are all surprisingly good. It's a good 80's horror flick that gets overlooked too often. Solid rental. "},{"Title":"the fun house another great work from Tobe","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The fun house was created in 1981 and shot on a rather tight budget in Florida. The film has all the makings of your typical slasher film from the period. The film always adheres to Hooper's main horror theme s of freaks, horror houses and inevitable Teenage doom and suspense. The film seems to be in two parts the first part building up the climax. The film is interestingly filmed in most part in a carnival atmosphere. The film explores teenage issues like drug use, peer pressure, sexual curiosity, authority and even stealing. Lighting, mood, darkness of carnival people, music and camera angles and makeup help to shine Tobe s reputation as a successful horror director in the 80 s. I enjoyed the film I took it for what it is a 80 s slasher late night flick. The story was good, effects OK make up etc acting was good and plot well thought out. Not a massively popular title in the video store if you can find it, the fun house does rest in my horror collection 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"He looked much better with the mask on","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS***Atmospheric slasher movie set in a carnival with the killer being a deformed psycho dressed up with a rubber mask looking like the Frankenstein monster. Against her parents advice Amy Harper, Elizabeth Berridge, goes out with her hunky boyfriend Buzz, Cooper Huckabe, to spend the night at the local carnival with her two friends Liz & Richie, Laugo Woodruff & Miles Chapin.The carnival in question has had a habit of people attending it ending up dead, with two young girls being it's latest victims. That's what makes it so challenging for Liz & Co. as well as her little and bratty brother Joey, Shawn Carson, who sneaks out of the house to go there on his own. Amy Buzz Liz & Richie have a good time looking at the freak-show who's attendant is this guy, Wayne Doba, dressed up in a Frankenstein mask and going on a number of rides. The carnival finally closes down but the four young people decide to stay there overnight and dare the fates, like in a hunted house or cemetery, which turned out to be the biggest mistake that they ever made in their young lives.Hiding up on the celling and watching what's going on with Frank, Frankenstein, Jr the two couples are at first amused with him trying to have some hot and heavy action with the carnival fortune teller, who turns tricks on the side, Madame Zena ,Sylvia Miles, that leads to the inexperienced, in having sex, Frank to embarrass himself. Frank who's not that normal to begin with goes haywire attacking Madame Zena brutally murdering her.Frank's father the owner of the freak-show, Kevin Conway, comes into clean up the mess Jr left behind and you get the impression from the talk he has with Frank that he's been doing this very often. In fact Frank Jr was responsible for the two girls who were found murdered at the carnival a year ago. The movie The Funhouse has it's scary moments but it's the spooky atmosphere and creepy acting of both Kevin Conway & Wayne Doba, as Big Daddy & Frank Jr, that really makes it work.What set off Frank Jr more then even his inability to make it with Madame Zena was that the money that he collected from the public at the freak-show was stolen by a greedy and unscrupulous Richie. Going completely nuts Frank Jr rips off his Frankenstein mask, revealing a face that not even a mother can love, with him looking like he was hit right between the eyes with a hatchet.The movie then goes into the usual slasher on the loose scenario with Frank Jr doing in just about everyone in the cast only to get himself french fried and grounded, like in a meat grinder, in the end by a plucky and at the same time hysterical Amy.What makes the movie so much more effective then the average slasher movies is that Frank Jr believe it or not does invoke sympathy from the audience since he's more a victim of birth, that he had no way of controlling, then of circumstances. It's Frank's father who's been covering up his crimes for years who should be held more responsible for them then. Pops could have had his son treated and kept away from an unsuspecting public who would sooner or later, like Amy's friends, fall victim to him. "},{"Title":"The Funhouse is a fun ride!!!","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a terrific and well directed film. The authentic scenery and gritty characteristics highlight this intense disturbing motion picture. From the carnival itself to the seedy people that run the rides and pass through from scene to scene. Seeing this movie, I wanted to be safe at home again. Kevin Conway gives a memorable performance as the Barker. Another highlight is the monster played by Wayne Doba, who's body language gave a great authenticity to his demented character. The Funhouse will keep you glued from beginning to end. If you like the Funhouse, check out House Of 1000 Corpses. It is a definite cross between Texas Chainsaw Masacre and The Funhouse. "},{"Title":"Familiar Themes for Hooper","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Title The Funhouse (1980) Director Tobe Hooper Cast Elizabeth Berrige, Cooper Huckabee, Largo Woodruf, Miles Chapin Tagline Pay to get in, Pray to get out! Review There are not many films out there that can evoke the sort of sleazy, skanky, weird, freaky atmosphere of the Carnival setting. Only a hand full of films have done this pretty well (Something Wicked This Way Comes, Clownhouse, and even Killer Klowns from Outer Space) but here my friends is a perfect example of what a good Carnival movie looks and feels like! Granted, this is not Tobe Hoopers best film ever, I leave that place for Poltergeist and TCM II. But this is not a bad little movie.Funhouse is a slasher film that takes its themes and sticks to them all the way through. Not one moment passes by that you are not reminded that this is a funhouse, a carnival and you are gonna see imagery that constantly reminds you that. Even in the first scenes where we get some shots showing off Amys room filled with horror movie posters like Frankenstein and Dracula we are reminded that this is a horror film, and don't you forget it. It seems to me like Tobe Hooper was just having some good fun with this one! The story is about four teenagers going out on double dates, out of all the places they could go they decide to visit the carnival thats visiting their home town. Off they go, after a while one of them has the bright idea that it might be fun to try and sneak into the funhouse and stay in the carnival for the night. There my friends is where the fun ends for these four teenagers...and sheer terror begins.What I enjoy best about this film is how Tobe Hooper bombards us constantly with carnival imagery, you get your laughing clowns, your tents, your rides, your shows. Also i enjoy very much how the first half of the film just totally immerses us in the carnivals different rides and shows, for example we get the hokey magic show...which has an interesting finale, we get the girly shows, we get the freak show and we get the fortune teller. In each of these rides there's a feeling of foreshadowing, like something evil is lurking about, specially in the fortune teller scenes, also in the scenes with the announcer screaming you'll go in but you'll pray to get out of the funhouse!. Also the girls encounter this old lady in the bathroom, a homeless bum who warns the god is watching you! Well suffice to say that the movie just oozes with foreshadowing and an ominous feeling.In the freak show we focus on another one of the movies main themes which is freaks of nature, disfigured humans and animals. You see one of the carnies who works at the carnival is a deformed creature, son to the owner of the carnival. Tobe Hooper takes advantage of this and gives a good message on what a dysfunctional family is like, and its grizzly results, a favorite subject of his as witnessed in films like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre parts 1 and 2 or Eaten Alive.It seems Hooper enjoys portraying crazy messed up families.The film does have its flaws, because some scenes are way too slow and the pace at one point just doesn't seem to pick up. It slows down to a crawl. But once it picks up it gets very interesting, and like I mentioned before to me the most interesting parts of the movie are those in the first half, where they focus on the carnival itself as an enigmatic and evil character. After the kids get locked inside the Funhouse for the night the movie turns into your regular monster movie. You know, a bunch of people running away from the monster.Speaking of the monster, the creature here was supplied by make up man extraordinary, Rick Baker himself. Its not his best work but hey it gets the job done.Another flaw is that there's this little sub plot involving Amys little brother going on his own to the funhouse, which leads to nowhere. Why was that sub plot there? Beats me.In conclusion, its essentially a monster movie with a surreal carnival setting, with a slow pace, but with enough patience you'll get to the good stuff. Hope you'll have a good time trapped in the funhouse! Rating 3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"An overlooked horror gem.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Arguably the second best directorial effort (after The Texas Chainsaw Massacre) by Tobe Hooper &#150; The Funhouse is an above average horror film that is fun, entertaining, and thrilling. A foursome out on a double date decide to spend the night camped out in the funhouse of a visiting carnival. Later on that evening they witness a murder and then chaos ensues. The awesome looking carnival set design creates a real sinister mood; and as a result, despite being considerably low budget, the movie has a certain edgy appeal. The atmosphere is accentuated by a fantastically thrilling score, which helps to elevate the level of suspense and enhance a few of the shocks. Notable make up effects by Rick Baker and a scenery chewing supporting performance by Sylvia Miles also contribute to the overall success of the film. While ultimately not a very scary movie, there are plenty of thrills and chills to satisfy and is definitely worth watching &#150; a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Creepy Classic!","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is definitely ranked in my top 5 for sheer creepfactor!!! This is a freakish little gem from Tobe Hooper. Of coursethe plot is thin but so what? Who the hell needs a deep plot whenyou have a freaking true to life authentic carnival setting, weirdocarnies, a psycho fortune teller (who also doubles as the carnivalwhore), a drunk carny barker, a mutated son who walks around ina creepy Frankenstein mask and gloves, and of course 4 young,nubile, idiot teens looking for a good time.YEAH BABY!! I suredon't!!!! Man, any true horror fan should love the amazing propsinside this hellish ride of death.It really gives off a surrealatmosphere as these kids find themselves trapped inside the rideafter they're discovered. You can practically smell their fear andpanic as they are stalked one by one by the real life freak, whiletrying to just keep their sanity as the entire funhouse seems tocome alive. I think the production design is the real star of the film.Amazingly cool evil clowns, executioners, cheesy halloweenskeletons and animitronic ragtime piano players all lookinghaunting and decrepit and totally filthy from another age lurkaround every corner while recorded thunder and lightning add tothe fun. Think Scooby Doo on a bad acid trip and you've got the idea.What more can I say, if you dugTexas Chainsaw then I highly recommend settling into this creepylost classic. It has that unpolished vibe that makes you thinkhmmm, this could actually have happened....... "},{"Title":"They wiggle and they dance","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You know the story, teens make a glaring unwise decision and end up in peril. This time it's the traveling carnival complete with creepy funhouse serving as the back drop for said peril. Four teens agree to sneak inside the funhouse and spend the night. OK brilliant!! They witness a murder within the funhouse, committed by the barkers freak son. The son is the deformed product of a sexual liaison between the gruff funhouse barker and a cow?!!? Talk about the plot thickening. If you pay close attention you also learn the monster was a twin, the other child not surviving birth and thus being put on display in a formaldehyde jar and appropriately named Tad. The teens are discovered by the father and son and the terror begins. Despite being a slobbering albino freak-a-zoid (come on and wind him up) the deformed monster son is the only character you feel for. The murder he commits is out of simple mindedness and sexual frustration. It is the father who is really the more sinister villain of the pair and he generates further sympathy for the monster by being quite abusive to him, his son. This movie is fairly maligned and it shouldn't be. It's one of Tobe Hoopers better efforts. People need to realize that The Texas Chainsaw Massacre really isn't as fantastic as they try and paint it. It's a great film but peoples love for it more comes out of the(then)bold subject matter and few strong shocks than the films direction or style. I'd wager if it had come second or third in Hoopers career it'd not be so widely cherished. The Funhouse would be just as strong a film had it been as streamlined as TCM. Its main flaw to me is its runtime, padded early on with needless dialogue and a few scenes that do not add anything to the film. There's also a semi distracting sub plot that could have been ditched. A runtime of about 85 minutes instead of the 90 or so it has would of helped this movie vastly. Still I'd recommend it and say it's a solid 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Actully pretty good.","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    A group of young friends,Amy(Elizabeth Berridge)Buzz(Cooper Huckabee)Liz(Largo Woodruff) And Richie(Miles Chapin) go to a carnival for a night of fun,when they decide to stay in the Funhouse overnight for fun.Soon,They see a man in a Frankenstien costume(Wayne Doba) murder a Fortune teller,And the four friends realize there stuck in The Funhouse,With the murderous monster stalking them...  This movie had an amazing opening scene,And alot of creepy images.The acting was good,The girls were hot,It was pretty tense,And the plot was good.Good direction,Cool end,But I thought it just ended to quick.Pretty cool Murder scenes. "},{"Title":"It stuck with me...","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1981 when I was in high school and have never forgotten it! I find that when I discuss movies that I found to be particularly disturbing, this one always comes up. I would recommend it to anyone with one word of warning. Remember when it was made and don't try to compare the effects with what is possible today. Still, those drippy globs of slobbering spittle gross me out every time I think of them...The plot is simple and direct, but effective. Four teen-aged kids (two couples) attend a creepy carnival that has recently been opened in town. As a prank, they decide to take the last ride through the fun house, get off the ride, and spend the night in the fun house -- presumably to have sex. The idea sounds appealing and all is well until they whiteness a murder and make a string of fatally bad decisions. For the rest, rent the movie.Twenty years later, I still remember this movie as one of the most original and frightening horror films that I have ever seen.Hypnotized by the flickering lights...Craig  "}{"Title":"Awesome Old School Horror","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THE FUNHOUSE is one of my favorite horror movies.  It's a creepy, surreal, atmospheric, stylish, scary and demented nightmare, from Tobe Hooper, who graced us with THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE.Four teens decide on a whim to spend the night inside the funhouse of a sleazy traveling carnival.  Once inside, they bear witness to a murder, then wind up in a cat-and-mouse fight for their lives with a crazed barker and his monstrously mutated offspring.While it was unfairly thrown into the same pile of slasher flicks such as MY BLOODY VALENTINE, THE BURNING and PROM NIGHT, THE FUNHOUSE is a far better movie.  It is deliberately paced, building tension and a sense of unease well before the kids have ventured into the nightmarish labyrinth of the funhouse.A subplot about the little brother of one of the girls following her to the carnival is equally harrowing, and his encounters outside of the carnival prove to be just as bizarre and shocking.Skewed dialog, offbeat performances, terrific music, freakish make-up effects and surreal imagery all make this one of the best horror movies of it's time.  This movie, along with CHAINSAW 1 and 2, was an obvious influence on Rob Zombie's design for HOUSE OF 1,000 CORPSES. Unfortunately, it is also a sad reminder of what Hooper was once capable of delivering.  When one compares such garbage as THE MANGLER, SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION and CROCODILE to this, it leaves your head spinning.  Tobe?  What happened? "},{"Title":"something about the 70's & early to mid 80's horror films","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this is a good one despite what some of the other commentators I have been reading on this site.First of all it is a horror movie so don't go looking for some oscar nominating performances or some phenomenal script, just take it for what it is and don't be so critical of horror movies period,they are just trying to scare that is all-ok!  Now that this is out of the way, let me help you in trying to recommend this movie to you . Out of the numerous horror flicks i have seen ,this is pretty good. Atmosphere and build up of tension make it work.Not a lot of blood but enough to get the point across,(like in the origanal halloween which had practically none)you don't need if it is already scary. Mood and atmosphere makes this movie work. it is definitly a better flick than those friday the 13th or nightmare on elm street series(both originals were desent) but this film is better than those two by a mile. Tobe Hooper has his own touches and doesn't try to copy anyone else or copy another movie, although there is a little tribute to the great John Carpenter at the beggining , this is a Tobe Hopper film. Yes i do recommend this film to anyone who wants to feel frightened or left with an uneasy feeling after you watching a horror film -But that is why we watch isn't it.  "},{"Title":"I Wanna Stay In the Funhouse!","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Excellent!!! BRAVO! BRAVO!! I love this film , totally LOVE it to death! Tobe Hooper rocks my world!  After his 1978 made for TV hit thriller Summer Of Fear , Tobe could only get better - and that - he sure did! This movie is ultimate 80s horror at it's very finest. The players - though not quite stars except for Sylvia Miles (love her) - do a superb job as rotten rebellious teens. This is believeable horror that makes the viewer feel for the players and the situations that they acceptingly put themselves in to. The monster - he's believable too and that's a lot because how many horror flicks are there with a creature character that the viewer actually sees as a creature? A summer Drive - In , worth every penny freakshow that loves for you to be scared of it's freaky characters. Love it!!! My rating 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Atmospheric cult horror classic..","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Seldom seen in the UK since its initial film and video release, THE FUNHOUSE deserves a look. Playing on the old ghost train mentality of old time horror and updating it to play into the fears of the FRIDAY THE 13TH crowd, sufficient shocks and moments of dark humour help to give this a lift above the norm.The best Tobe Hooper big-screen offering after TCM 1 and 2  "},{"Title":"A Fun ride.","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Funhouse is enjoyable for what it is. Four young people go to a carnival, decide to spend the night, witness a murder, and then have to fight for their lives. There are a couple of good shocks. And I love the opening scene where Tobe Hooper pays a homage to both Psycho and Halloween at the same time. Great stuff!Just as a sidenote, even though The Funhouse isn't as good as Hooper's classic The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, there does seem to be some similarities. But I suppose you all can watch these movies yourself and see what you think about that. My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Could be a little bloodier, but still one of Hooper's good oldies","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (***1/2 out of *****)Exceptional horror thriller from the director of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre about a group of kids who witness a murder when they stay overnight in the funhouse of a traveling carnival.  The movie builds up to some very suspenseful stalk-and-murder sequences and features one of the scariest-looking, sub-human killers I've ever seen in a slasher film.  There's very little violence and only minimal background explanation, but that doesn't matter, because this flick's all about the thrills.  What ever happened to the gritty lunacy and mean-spirited horror of Hooper's early films, such as this one?  It's like he took a left turn sometime after TCM 2 and never found his way back (last time I checked, he'd directed a forgettable straight-to-video bit of derivative nonsense about a killer crocodile -- ?)  Sad.  Elizabeth Berridge stars as heroine Amy, Cooper Huckabee is `Buzz' and Sylvia Miles (nominated for Midnight Cowboy), as Madame Zena, gets throttled by the killer wearing a Frankenstein mask.HIGHLIGHT  Poor, pretty Liz (Largo Woodruff) thinks she's in a fix when she falls through a trap door and lands in the dark, labyrinthine fan ducts beneath the funhouse -- and then she hears something mewling and scratching around the corner ahead of her. ... "},{"Title":"He's a killer....but somehow, you can't help but feel sorry for him","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Most movies have either icy, silent villains (Michael Myers) or deranged, wannabee comics (Freddy Kruger)....Funhouse (wonderfully directed by Tobe Hooper of Texas Chainsaw and Poltergiest fame), however, features a killer that you don't know whether to kill him or give him a hug!The monster (brought to life in superb fashion by former mime and sport mascot Wayne Doba) is a severely deformed, white-skinned, red-eyed carnie son of a funhouse barker (played by Kevin Conway from the original Lathe of Heaven). He wants to be loved by girls. In one scene, he attempts to call the barker Father. What's even more shocking than the murders is the barker's reaction to this attempt at family love...OK, he is a killer. He kills out of pain.....that's not justifiable by any means, but in the movie it's true.WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!!!!He kills Madame Zena after she pretty much rejects him.... He kills Liz after she stabs him.... He kills Buzz after seeing his own father dead (killed by Buzz)There is reference that he is a child murderer. The barker mentions two pint-sized girls from Memphis and something that happened in Dallas. Maybe he did something to them or maybe he just didn't fasten the seat belt tight enough for the ride and were thrown out. The movie never says. Then, why the heck do I feel sorry for this guy?????I guess I gotta tip my hat to Hooper for creating a good monster. The Frankenstein mask is no accident. It has symbolism. The Funhouse monster is like the Frankenstein monster......Wants to be loved, but instead ends up killing (Or course, it being a Universal movie may have had something to do with that). Sad for all concerned.The rest of the cast plays their roles well. The plot isn't original, but in this case, I don't care. The monster makes it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"One scary ride!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Funhouse is director Tobe Hooper's best movie, with The Texas Chainsaw Massacre holding its position as a strong second. This atmospheric and inventive horror flick in many ways reminds Texas Chainsaw, by placing ordinary people against extraordinary circumstances, a formula that would be expanded to death (no puns intended!) during the nineties with the likes of Scream and I Know What you Did Last Summer. However, those recent pictures don't even touch the grace of the old ones.The seventies and the early eighties were a profitable and interesting time when Hollywood produced the best. This leads us to The Funhouse.Taking place in a local carnival, two couples decide to spend the night inside the funhouse, making love and smoking pot. As fate would have it, they end up witnessing a crime committed by a horrible deformed and retarded boy. The father comes to his son's aid.For him it's clear that the four teenagers will tell the police about the murder if they get out of the funhouse so, as any desperate father would do to cover his son, he  chooses to hunt the boys down, one by one.Great direction from Hopper, who extracted fear and terror from the claustrophobic and dark funhouse, great acting job by Elizabeth Berridge, in the part of a weak-willed girl at first who gets to discover strength inside herself in order to survive, and by Wayne Doba, enigmatic and memorable as the deformed boy. His creepy character is capable of terrible acts,he's a murderer after all, but at the same time, the way he moves, the way he talks and the form that he is attached to his father, the only one who cares for him, make you fell the pain he hides inside. The Funhouse takes more than one hour to finally deliver the chills (building the tension that will explode later), but when it does, it's like Tobe Hopper has placed us into the Funhouse's cars and then launch them into one hell of a terrifying and scary ride! "},{"Title":"A great movie from the 1980's","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was one of three awesome movies that came out in 1981 (the other two were Halloween II and Hellnight).  The movie starts out a little slow but progresses as it moves into the carnival.  Then it really picks up steam once the four teenagers are in the funhouse for the night.  Watch for the main character, Elizabeth Berridge in her acting debut role as Amy, she does a very impressive job as the lead character.  This is one of Tobe Hoopers best films that he has directed, I give this move 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":" You will die for this!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Elizabeth Berridge is inticing as Amy in this relentless horror movie. The remaining cast is poignant. The costumes are interesting. One of the good films in the genre, The Funhouse will massacre the viewer with laughter. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"hybrid cross between Texas chainsaw and Halloween at the circus","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Much of what can be said about Funhouse has already been so in the reviews above. However,this is one that should catch the attention of any fans of the horror flick genre. This above-average thriller doesn't have a great plot, but is very atmospheric thanks to the carnival sets and stage props that underline the Lon Chaney truth that there's nothing scarier than a clown at midnight. Funhouse clearly utilizes many of the slasher-flick cliches and borrows liberally from both Halloween and Texas Chainsaw massacre. The acting performances are adequate, especially from Elizabeth Berridge. Still there are some questionable elements to the film. Berridge's brother in the film is given numerous scenes wandering around the funhouse, but never really plays a significant role in the stories outcome. Also some of the attack scenes take place in such poorly lit settings that the viewer goes away wandering what really happened to our four hero/heroines. "},{"Title":"Demented & Wild","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just love this little movie--it's not particularly innovative, but the story is compelling in a sordid, urban-legendy kind of way.  Hooper smartly builds the pace slowly; the first hour--which is all exposition, really--is actually a great, noose-tightening tease.  By the time the real horror is unleashed we are begging for cathartic release from the steady tension.  And when that horror comes, it is just demented and wild--I love how all the funhouse automatons suddenly come alive and cackle gleefully while the heroine's best friend just keeps screaming.  Genuine perverse style in that scene--and from then on, the suspense never lets up.  What a fun movie! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This horror movie is marked by an intense few scenes that make the entire movie stand out in the crowd of 1980's slasher flicks.  The pace of the movie is somewhat average - but the atmosphere can give the creeps to anyone.  There is good humor, and an effective capture of the sleazy feel of local carnivals - especially the old freak show type of traveling road show. I rated it a 7 of 10 - indicating that, while perhaps not a classic, it is non-the-less a worthwhile film for any student of splatter movies. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but intriguing","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is your basic run-of-the-mill cheap thrills slasher flick, but the fact that it takes place in a carnival funhouse is enough reason to watch it. The setting adds a lot of chills and eerieness. I've always been spooked when evil hides behind things that are supposed to be funny, good, or for kids, like dolls, clowns, and in this case a carnival funhouse. The fact that people are being stalked in a place that is impossible to escape or to figure out your way around in adds more and thrills than other films of the dead-teenager-slasher film genre. And the picture on the advertisement spooks me even as an adult! The film quality is poor, though. At least on the TV version it is. "},{"Title":"excellent, undervalued horror film","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What's truly horrifying? That's the question posed in THE FUNHOUSE, Tobe Hoopers 1981 offering about two teenage couples who decide to get their thrills by hiding out overnight in a carnival ride. From that eerie opening montage of the funhouse figures emerging from behind sliding panels to the carnival itself, this movie is rich with images. Of course,like any worthwhile horror flick, the business going on in the forefront(the teens being stalked and killed by a grotesquely deformed freak)isn't nearly as hair-raising as the background action. The carnival itself is a monument to human depravity; the lurid freak show exhibits and scuzzy peep show tent with its tired strippers and sweaty patrons holds testament to that. Also, we're treated to the twisted relationship between barker Kevin Conway and his son, one that surely ranks up there with the most unforgettably horrid in horror movie history; you can virtually see the torment on Conway's face over having to care for this monstrosity that is also his flesh and blood. Seldom have the complex, intertwined emotions of love and revulsion been so accurately conveyed. The carny life itself is shown to be one of bleak transience and hopelessness. And that funhouse . . . climbing around in the dark among a bunch of automatons that erratically come to life would be bad enough, even without a monster following you! "},{"Title":"Scary and underappreciated","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Funhouse got terrible reviews when first released, but it's still very good for the type of film it is. The cast is great, with everything photographed in richly saturated color. The basic idea may not be very original, but the seedy carnival atmosphere elevates it considerably. Let's face it--carnivals are scary. You're there at night, surrounded by a travelling society of people from God knows where with God knows what on their minds, with screams and calliope music blasting and bizarre things popping out at you from every turn...ugh! And the monster, played by professional mime Wayne Doba, is one of the most horrifying you'll ever see. The first shot of its shrieking, drooling, hideously deformed face is like a zap with a cattle prod. Even though the material is uneven and the rocky production history sometimes shows, this Tobe Hooper shocker is very solid, effective, and worth seeing.Trivia Dean Koontz wrote a novelization under the pseudonym of Owen West. Most of the cost overruns and scheduling headaches resulted from the transportation of an entire actual carnival from the Midwest to the Ivan Tors Studios in Florida. "},{"Title":"Scary and brilliant!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"         Shock Master Tobe Hooper's 1981 horror film The Funhouse is an another great horror film ever to come out of the '80's that goes along with The Thing(1982),Cat People(1982),The Evil Dead(1983),A Nightmare On Elm Street(1984),The Shining(1980),and Friday the 13th(1980).It tells the story of a group of teenagers who one night go to a lavish carnival where the unexpected is expected and all hell breaks loose when a bizzare monster terrorizes them.Director Hooper brings the best in fine acting like Elizabeth Berridge,who played Mozart's wife in Amadeus,plays the girl.The worst performance in the film is perhaps that of Sylvia Miles who plays a craggy old fortune teller.It looks like she's on drugs while she was making this film.Finally,The monster looks like a mixture of both Nosferatu and something out of a John Carpenter film.It's an odd mixture of comedy,romance,horror,shock,and suspense that makes this film worth watching.A great horror film from the '80's! "},{"Title":"Nothing original, but fun to watch","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    I thought that this movie was your typical haunted house/funhouse type of movie.  Nothing different than movies such as Clownhouse and other movies that deal with carnivals and haunted dwellings.  In the beginning of the movie we see the Halloween rip-off where a sisters little brother plays a trick on his older sister by stabbing her with a fake knife while she takes a shower. Only the sister lived to tell her brother off.  As well as a teenager going out with a boy that her parents don't like and going out on dates to places that are suppose to be forbidden because people have died there in the past.  Nothing original about that plot.  They have a scene about that in almost every horror movie.  And then the teenagers decide to stay the night in the haunted carnival instead of coming home.  How original is that?  How many horror movies have we seen where teenagers spend the night in places such as graveyards, houses and carnivals?  There are parts in the film that seem to fit the movie and are interesting such as when the medium tries to please this retarded beast and when things do not go his way he gets mad at the medium.  Aparently the beast is resonsible for most of the killings and when he doesn't get his way he trows a temper tantrum.  The man who played the father of the beast played a good character, I always admired him in horror movies, even though he did few of them and most of them were bad but he deserved a better part.  The killings done in this movie were almost laughable and why almost at the end of the movie did the girl stand in front of a fan and called out to her father for help when he rescued her brother from snooping in the carnival because he was following his sister? She could have called out in another location.  And why did this movie even have her brother in the carnival?  We saw very little of his part involving the carnival.  There were parts in this movie that didn't even make any sense and that was the downfall of it.  Other than that..... it was a decent little horror movie worth watching.  I'd give it a five. "},{"Title":"Colorful, scary shocker","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A very scary horror flick this is~a group of typical teenagers gather for a night of frolicking at a local carnival and decide to secretly stay the night in the funhouse. Things go a little haywire, and the teens end up witnessing a brutal murder, committed by a carnival barker's grotesquely deformed Albino son. When the father finds out the teens are inside the funhouse, he unleashes his monster-like son into the maze of terrors and they are killed one by one in gruesome ways, there are axings, impalements, stabbings, strangulations, you name it. Elizabeth Berridge is a good, although somewhat wimpy, heroine, and the supporting cast is great. The Monster is very scary. Of course, this isn't as good as TCM, but there are a lot of gory murders, great music, and a creepy red, blue, and green colored atmosphere recalling the giallos and witchcraft films of Dario Argento.  "},{"Title":"Tobe Hooper's best since The Texas Chainsaw Massacre","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Funhouse was a great film. It starts out with four teens who spined the night in a carnival funhouse what they did not plan was that the carerakers's son was a real monster in a Frankenstien mask readly to hack and kill off the teens after not being warned from the bag lady. Also it features William Finley as a Magician, Sliva Miles as a Fourtune Teller and Kevin Conway plays the monster's father. The teens are played by Liz Berriage, Cooper Huckabee, Largo Woodruff and Miles Chapin. No The Funhouse is not as much like Tobe Hooper's resince film The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The Funhouse mostly has Clawing with monster claws, knife stabbing and rope hanging but it is anything someone would ask for a good fright flick. "}{"Title":"Cult Classic - GREAT music!!","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film represents a breakthrough example of the change that took place in the early 1980's in both cinematic and music quality for terror/horror films.  Directed by Tobe Hooper Poltergeist and produced by multiple producers, including Mace Neufeld Patriot Games, Clear & Present Danger the fabulous cinematography and lighting is enhanced tremendously by one of the finest orchestral scores of the period.  Composer John Beal captures the complete essence of a demented carnival funhouse after hours as a pair of teenagers find their prank turned into a night of terror. Find this score and buy it!!! "},{"Title":"Flawed but Entertaining Monster Movie","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse (1981) ** 1/2 (out of 4)A teenage girl sneaks off with three friends to a carnival even though her father warned her that there were issues with this sideshow the previous year. At first the four are having a great time but after witnessing a murder they become the hunted by a mutant.Tobe Hooper's THE FUNHOUSE was released at a time when slashers were taking over the genre and if you look at the poster you'd think that this was going to be another but it's actually not. I think the film had a pretty negative reputation for quite sometime because people were going in expecting something that what they actually got. Technically speaking this is an extremely well-made film that manages to build up a rather nice atmosphere and it certainly has some interesting stuff going for it but there are still some flaws that keep it from being a good picture.It's interesting that Hooper would go for a scare picture even though that's not what people were really wanting in 1981. The film manages to have some very good moments thanks in large part to Hooper giving it a very interesting atmosphere. You can certainly feel the carnival atmosphere as you watch the picture and the screenplay certainly gives us a lot of character development for the four leads. Another good thing the film has going for it is the cinematography and music score. Both of them perfectly capture the shocks of what the film has to offer. For the most part the performances are also good with Elizabeth Berridge making for a good lead and we get some nice support from Sylvia Miles and William Finley.The film has its issues as I said and this includes the fact that nothing really happens until after the hour mark. I'm sure Hooper and company were wanting to build up the atmosphere as they did but I think they should have thrown in some sort of killing to keep people caught up in what's going on. Also, logically, you have to wonder about really being trapped in such a small space. This here is what really keeps the film from being better but there's still a lot to enjoy here. If you're looking for gore then you're going to be disappointed but THE FUNHOUSE is a nice little monster movie. "},{"Title":"bored me more than scared me","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amy Harper has a bratty younger brother Joey. Her father forbids her to go to the carnival which had a couple of bodies found last year. She's on a first date with gas jockey Buzz Dawson. He's a bad boy who insists on going to the carnival. They don't get off on the right foot. He picks up his friends Liz and Richie. Meanwhile, Joey sneaks out to go to the carnival by himself. Richie has the idea to spend the night in the funhouse ride. Joey waits for the group to leave the funhouse. The group witnesses the brutal murder of the psychic.As early slasher movies go, this is not the worst but I wouldn't recommend it. The young lead actors aren't that compelling. To be kind, they are amateurish and annoying. Other the Amy, I don't mind if any of them die. There isn't much of a story. The first half is pretty dull, but the carnival is pretty sleazy and creepy. I do like the amateur creepiness. It feels like an authentic bad small-town traveling carnival. As the kids start running for their lives, the movie gets somewhat better. But the movie is still pretty boring. Director Tobe Hooper has done better before and after this. This is not one of his best. "},{"Title":"It could've been worse but did not strike the same Tobe Hooper chord","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director Tobe Hooper is not one to have many theatrically released films under his belt but for it's his earliest efforts people seem to remember them the most. Most notably would be The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974), but that also means including this one. Although it is not as cleverly crafted nor as strangely terrifying as Mr. Hooper's first outing; it does have some redeemable qualities. The part that works the best to this picture's credit is the idea of which it focuses on. Funhouses are never what they promise, anywhere. The only intent funhouses are made for are to have fun by being creeped out. Nobody really goes there for actual fun and games.Well not according to these characters. Meet Amy (Elizabeth Berridge) a young teen girl looking to have fun with her hotshot boyfriend Buzz (Cooper Huckabee) and two other friends. Together they head out to the local carnival that's running in town and decide to be there snobbish young selves. Adding to that particular attitude is completely ignoring her parents wishes of not attending the carnival since there were some issues with it from the year before. Oh but no harm should come this time, it was all a misunderstanding - sure. Protagonist wise there isn't any particular actor that stands out. Lawrence Block's screenplay is at best average. It has interesting ideas but doesn't bother to conclude them with much closure except for its main plot.Funny thing is that Block only wrote for one other production and that was the failed and now cheap looking Captain America (1990). But perhaps even stranger is that there are various elements to the story that are similar to The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974). Specifically that some characters have the Southern accents, work as a family and do not have normal lives. All very similar to the cannibal family that Leatherface belonged to. The man in charge of this family is The Barker (Kevin Conway - who would play better roles later on his career). Conway is probably the best part when it came to characters but sadly he was underused. Along with Conway were other strange characters that appeared from time to time. An example of this would be of some old preacher woman. And her significance was for?As for the funhouse itself, since that is where our story takes place mostly, it works at times. Some of the vintage props look great because by today they look rather creepy. But there were also other items that felt like something today's funhouses would include too. The best particular scene would be the chase in the basement. That was creepier than the actual funhouse. Andrew Laszlo's cinematography, the guy behind First Blood (1982) got some nice shots of the carnival but once inside the funhouse, nothing was really interesting. John Beal's music was alright occasionally. He did have some creepy tunes but other than that it wasn't very memorable. It's not unwatchable but there are better things to see unless carnivals are truly unsettling to you.The setting can't fail at being creepy because what funhouse isn't? What makes it average though is its non-engaging characters and flimsy writing. "},{"Title":"Hit and Miss","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" To be honest I have watched this movie quite a few times over the last couple of years, and I have tried to love it, it's not a terrible movie it's just somewhere in between.The Plot = Four friends decide to spend the night at the local funhouse after hours; however they accidentally witness a murder of the fortune teller by one of the carnies in a Frankenstein mask. They soon find themselves trapped by the carnie and his father who will kill anyone to protect his monster like child.I remember I was really eager to see this movie a couple of years ago, as I found out that this were directed by Tobe Hooper who directed the terrifying Texas Chainsaw Massacre. But on my first viewing I found this movie really rather average and quite disappointing. Then not long after I discovered that there was a book based on this movie, so I set out to find it and read it, and to be honest I really enjoyed the book, even more so than the movie itself, as it delved more into the characters and put in a twist that doesn't even feature in the movie itself, well anyway the books are always better than the films anyway.But compared to some of Tobe Hoopers other movies he's done over the years this is actually a lot better than nearly all of them. The funhouse itself filled with animatronics clowns and creatures. This part gives off an undeniably menacing vibe and gets the movie off to a decent start. And when the teens are found out by the killers is definitely effect as they are chased around the funhouse. This movie also has a classic feel to it and parodies at the beginning are quite and sets the tone for this movie.But one of the disappointing aspects of this movie are the deaths are rather lack lustre and there's almost no blood which is quite odd the fact that this is supposed to be a slasher movie, instead this movie relay's on old school scares and sheer terror which does work. The special effects are also really good as well, like when the monster/man child takes off his mask and shows his real face, which was horrifying but awesome. But another disappointing aspect is that none of the teen characters were likable or sympathetic enough to root for, but they were decently well acted though.All in all The Funhouse a bit hit and miss for me, it does have a fun creepy setting, but tends to go off pace. "},{"Title":"one of the stupid 'video nasties' list","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ahaa, finally available on an excellent Blu Ray release from the magical Arrow label comes this 'video nasty'. But what the hell, what is it all about, why was it on the 'video nasties' list. We all know that the list of 'video nasties' was a list with mostly boring flicks that had nothing special to offer. But they were on the list because when the boom of VHS happened in the UK the covers were mostly nasty or gory or had sexual pictures. So the list was one big joke. I wont go further into the story but The Funhouse is another perfect example of why it was put on the list. The name Tobe Hooper did ring a bell, he was the director of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974). One that was banned for more than 20 years in the UK but never was put on the nasties list but still, Tobe was a bad man back then. If you watch The Funhouse then you will see that it really is a slow starter. It takes almost more than half this flick before things really go wrong with the children attending the funhouse. But what a great opening sequence this flick had, an ode to old school horrors. The first thing I was surprised of was the juggs shown by 19 year old Elizabeth Berridge. From there on it's classic galore. We see someone picking up a mask just like in Halloween, even the way it was shot reminded me of Halloween (1978), then we see the shower scene, did that ring a bell, yep, Psycho (1960). All that terror is going on while the parents are watching Bride Of Frankenstein (1935) on television. But it goes further. Rick Barker (special effects) even made a mask that looked like the monster in Frankenstein, by which I mean the Universal classic. So far so good but as I said, from there it all falls a bit down. It is even so that I haven't seen any red stuff to mention let's even say gore. The whole flick is created on the atmosphere of the carnival and especially the funhouse. It isn't a slasher but still it's a feed towards the killer. For a Tobe Hooper flick it's well directed and still even as you get through the first half you want to know what will happen with the children. For the time it was made, the heydays of the slashers it was low on everything but the acting saved the flick and it became collectible due the 'video nasties' list.Elisabeth went further to perform in Amadeus two years later and is still busy at this writing. Shawn Carson, (Joey Harper) as a kid went further to another classic Something Wicked This Way Comes (1983) but it was also his last flick. Another name that made it was Cooper Huckabee (Buzz Dawson) who is seen in True Blood as Joe Lee Mickens and is at the moment busy making an exploitation with Quentin Tarantino, the notorious Django Unchained. Others went further uncredited in other horrors like Jeepers Creepers II (Largo Woodruff) and some did went further as a B-actor in major flicks like Kevin Conway.So much is said about The Funhouse but for people who do want the full 'video nasties' list in their collection pick it up, for others who like for example the original House Of Wax (1953) it's also a recommendation. But don't think to pick up a classic.Gore 0/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Pretty decent","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse will never be one of Tobe Hoopers most remembered films, but it is a pretty decent effort for a slasher. It has its fair share of clichs but that's what make slasher films fun, right? The opening scenes are perhaps the best, with a nice little homage to Psycho and Halloween. After that it gets a little boring but the pace picks up again eventually. The funhouse setting is very creepy and effectively isolates the teenagers, and there are a few good death scenes and tense moments.The Funhouse is no high art and is very average compared to Texas Chainsaw Massacre, but if you watch it expecting no more than a regular slasher flick, you should find some enjoyment. All slasher fans should have this in their collection, if only to watch once. "},{"Title":"Mildly diverting, little more","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  **minor spoilers**The Funhouse is a halfway respectable effort from director Tobe Hooper. It's certainly more creative and better made than the vast majority of slasher movies. Still, although it's better than The Mangler, it's light-years away from his tour de force, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Although it has its share of good, scary moments, it's an overall mediocre film. As a diversion for a rainy afternoon, it works, but no one will rank it among the horror greats anytime soon. It takes forever to get going--nearly the entire first half in fact--as the young principles are enjoying a traveling carnival's many delights and freakshow shocks. All well and good, but this is a horror movie. Shouldn't something scary be happening sooner or later. Well, it finally does, as they all sneak in the funhouse to spend the night--an action they will all soon regret, as the carnival's dark secret is revealed.To his credit, Hooper successfully establishes a creepy atmosphere that is strangely appropriate to the setting. Take a look at the way the opening credits are designed, with these seemingly ordinary, yet sinister circus dummies. It's an open secret that most of us have a part of ourselves that mistrust clowns. After all, why would any sane person choose to dress in such garish colors and makeup? The lighting uses a palette of reds, grays, and greens to create a setting that exists in its own little twilight world, not unlike the later Nightmare on Elm Street films. Makeup artist Rick Baker has crafted a fairly convincing monster lurking within, menacing yet oddly sympathetic. Horror buffs will dig the opening spoof of Halloween and Psycho. The ending is a good piece of suspense work.Still, the film's many flaws work against its virtues. TCM might have been a bit slow to start, but in that case, Hooper had done a much better job establishing an uneasy mood to set us up for the more outright scares. Likewise, he tries to do so in this case, but this time, it doesn't quite work. Plus, there's a pointless subplot about the heroine's younger brother, who sneaks out of the house at night to head for the carnival. I was under the impression that this material was added solely to pad out the running time. The character's presence never makes any difference in the resolution of the story, so these scenes are entirely superficial. Finally, the Richie character is a bit annoying, especially since his actions alert the villain to their presence. I was hoping to like The Funhouse. It has a good central concept, a creepy atmosphere, and a few good scares. Kevin Conway does a credible job as the deranged carnival guy, and newcomer Elizabeth Berridge is a strong lead heroine. Yet the magic just isn't there.** (out of ****)Released by Universal Pictures  "},{"Title":"Underrated Little Horror Film","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Funhouse is an underrated little horror film directed by the great Tobe Hooper (the man behind Texas Chainsaw Massacre)and it never really got the credit it deserved.It's certainly quite horrible at times. Some youngsters spend the night in a funhouse and witness a murder committed by some type of half human half monster. The monster then chases them throughout the Funhouse and we get to view some really creepy scenes-the monster itself is one of the ugliest monsters I have ever seen.The Funhouse itself is quite horrible and not the type of place I would want to spend the night in. I found myself wondering what was going to happen next in this film-and that is what a good horror film should be about.I've never looked at a Funhouse in the same way again after viewing this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest horror movies of the 80's","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Being a fan and friend of Tobe Hooper, i viewed this movie knowing i would enjoy it. What i was pleased to find was that, had i not been his fan and friend, i still would've enjoyed this film just as much. It takes a while to get started, but once it does it packs a whallop ride and the coaster doesn't stop until the end credits roll.The cinematography and directing are fantastic, the writing is excellent, and the acting is superb. On a scale of 1 to 10 i give it an 11. "}{"Title":"Run of the mill horror","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I actually read the book of this movie, and so I had high expectations going in as I enjoyed the book.  Unfortunately, it wasn't as scary as I had hoped. The premise was great, but the execution wasn't very scary.  Worth watching only if you like those early '80's Friday the 13th rip-offs. "},{"Title":"Fun indeed!","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is Tobe's best since Texas Chainsaw Massacre! The monster is scary looking! Some scary parts, too! I just loved it when that guy got impaled on that sword! "},{"Title":"The Slow House","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I like finding all kinds of older, more obscure horror movies to watch. This one was what I was looking for. Good ol' late 70's, early 80's fun.The major problem I found was this movie was slow going, throwing all of the action into the last parts. I was actually questioning this to be a monster / horror movie like I was expecting, or a movie that was suppose to make me nostalgic for the old carnivals. At first I was expecting another run-of-the-mill B movie, after watching a shower scene ripped right from Psycho, but after watching it a while, it turned out to be fairly unique ( but a bit slow ) in it's approach.The acting ( for the time ) was good, the set designs ( for the time ) were very good, and the costumes ( for the time ) were decent.Only real technical problem I had with the movie, was the sound. The volume kept changing, background sound effects would suddenly cut, and than loop, and voice audio would sometimes be a bit erratic.Over all, this film is a decent classic late 70's early 80's horror movie. "},{"Title":"Not one of the best of the early 80s slasher flicks, but not bad","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Every year of the 1980s saw the releases of horror films of many kinds. They were a big money maker and just about every young director in Hollywood at the time wanted a piece of the action. Slasher movies were especially popular with young people and the industry just kept churning them out. There really wasn't a whole lot separating one from all the rest, but some really stood out. Many different settings were used, from camp grounds to suburbia. In 1981 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' director Tobe Hooper would return to this particular sub-genre with a carnival set picture. How does it hold up amongst others? Pros Cast does fine. A good, at times chilling score. Moves along at a good pace. A fair amount of humor. Excellent job on the make-up. Some good creepy moments. Director Tobe Hooper does a decent job of keeping us in suspense. At least a couple creative and well-staged death scenes.Cons I'm all for suspense and build up in a horror film, but this one really takes a while to get to the horror part of the story. Plus once we get to it it's not as scary as it could have been. Some padding. Aside from the character of Amy we don't really care about the others.Final thoughts I have to admit I was somewhat letdown by this film, but all things considered it's pretty good of it's type. It's one of those cases of a film that doesn't meet it's full potential. It has all the right ingredients to make a supreme horror/slasher flick, but alas the outcome isn't as good as one might expect. Still worth a look.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"You get more than you pay for at this carnival.","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Two young couples who head out to a travelling carnival one night, decide after closing that they'll stay the night in the funhouse. When inside they happened to witness the worker of the ride, who's dressed up in a Frankenstein costume, kill one of the carnies. Soon they are noticed, and trying to find their way out the locked up funhouse.Even though it somewhat plays out like a roller coaster ride with its up and downs amongst its pacing and jolts. Hooper's slasher item is solid and stylishly done, if typical stalk 'n' slash. Coming off such films like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Eaten Alive and the TV feature Salem's Lot, Hooper was on a roll and The Funhouse was another capable effort. What I really loved about this one was the use of the authentic carnival setting. The off-kilter atmosphere was right on the mark, with a moody and vivid presentation cooked up and lurking within was a dark underbelly. Production designer Morton Rabinowitz did an ace job. Hooper executes the slow burn suspense nicely, and creates a bizarre and creepy ambiance from his well-placed visuals and takes advantage of the novel backdrop. Really Hooper keeps it restraint, and lets the smoothly framed and provocative camera-work of Andrew Laszlo and elaborately creepy music score by John Beal form the film's lasting effect. Writer Larry Block's story goes about things in a rather simple and old-fashioned manner, where the script shows some attention to the characters and settings. There's a neat little Halloween crossed Psycho homage to open up with too. Sure it's slow to kick off with, and the deaths are bloodless and mostly off-screen, but the film reeks with an airy and chilling vibe that's just hard to shake and the location seems to get far more tighter and claustrophobic further along it goes. Rick Baker's make-up effects are very memorable, and will have you drooling. The performances are above average, and they set up some amusing personalities. Kevin Conway steals the show in his tour-de-force performance in three different parts. He commands the screen, and sheds quite an unsettling persona. Wayne Doba psychically sets up his deformed killer character with an eerie, but also emotionally engaging edge. Elizabeth Berridge is fine in the lead role. Sylvia Miles and William Finley show up in fun minor parts. "},{"Title":"This Is Just Awful","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Who could fail to make a good horror movie out of a carnival? It has all the perfect ingredients freaks, sleazy carnies, creepy fun houses...The answer, unfortunately for viewers of The Funhouse, is Tobe Hooper.The film, which follows a group of dim-witted teenagers trapped in a fun house, suffers from bad writing, poor character development, and general unbelievability. For starters, the film goes nowhere for the first forty-five to fifty minutes. If this time had been used for character development, it wouldn't be so bad, but instead it just follows the characters as they meander through the carnival.Furthermore, when things finally get going, none of the characters are worth caring about. Their behavior is too stupid for the viewer to be invested in them, particularly when they just stand around when they should be running.This issue is particularly striking in the case of the heroine. She does little if anything to protect herself. For the viewer to invest themselves in a protagonist, whether it be Jamie Lee Curtis in Halloween or Heather Langenkamp in A Nightmare on Elm Street, they have to make some effort to defend themselves, or at least act independently. Our heroine just stands around screaming.The only thing saving this film from a one star rating is its at times inspired use of atmosphere. The carnival comes across as genuinely sleazy, with shifty carnies and the occasional mad person walking about. Furthermore, the ending is truly eerie. However, this is not enough to save a boring, badly made film. "},{"Title":"fans of the movie won't like this one...","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well...I logged on hoping to find a review of this movie that felt like I did, and it just wasn't there. The vast majority of the reviewers of this film seem to have fond memories of being scared by it when they were younger. Never having seen it before might explain why I found the film so boring and unoriginal. The opening scene, described by many as a homage to Halloween and Psycho, felt more like a ripoff to me; plus I felt bad for poor Elizabeth Berridge (better known as Mozart's wife in Amadeus) who had to bare her breasts within the first 4 minutes of the film, for no other reason than to fulfill the gratuitous boob shot that was required of so many films in this genre. The film itself takes much too long to get going...nothing happens (and I mean NOTHING) within the first hour. By the time deaths finally began to occur I really didn't care. The look of the film is great, the score is interesting (without borrowing a lot from other films), and the killer is interesting as well, but I just couldn't get past one simple fact for a travelling carnival, the funhouse itself is huge, consists of multiple floors and most obviously could never be packed up an d moved to a neighbouring town by the one man who runs it. It looks great Tobe, but a basement on a carnival ride? Enter at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Stylishly Beautiful Slasher with Dull Pilot","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper is a mystery to me. His debut film, Texas CHAINSAW, might be the greatest horror film in modern times, a benchmark in which to compare all horror movies since. So, why is it that he's never really been able to come close to the majesty of that movie? Yes, you can point to POLTERGEIST, but many in filmdom would argue that movie is more Spielberg than Hooper.I would put this movie in a similar category with EATEN ALIVE, his previous film, a movie which I seem to enjoy far more than most. Both movies carry a similar problem, though. They are gorgeously filmed, stylishly lit, artistic slashers with wooden characters, dull plots and poor pacing. Part of that blame lies in the screenwriters, to be sure, but it's as if Hooper spent far too much time worrying about how to shoot his films and not enough wondering if it was a worthwhile film to make in the first place.The movie starts off with an homage to HALLOWEEN, introducing us to the main heroine and her kid brother who will be pivotal to the plot. We could, also, argue here that there is a fine line between paying homage and ripping off. Our final girl has a typical a*hole boyfriend who is taking her to a carnival against her father's wishes, with two stereotypical teens in tow. From here, the movie spends a little bit too much time with the teens exploring the carnival. It badly cries out for something similar to the Hitchhiker scene in TCM to establish a bit of tension that will carry the plot through this portion, something that portends the doom to follow, but it's essentially nothing more than 4 generic teens walking around a carnival. When I say generic, I mean it. There is no personality to here. Nothing to like or dislike. They exist only to die later. I do think Kevin Conway's multiple appearance as a carny barker are good here and help to set somewhat of a tone. There's something inherently creepy, to me, about that poor audio, cheap microphone sound that's used well. The fun starts when the teens decide to spend the evening in the funhouse. This is where Hooper really shines. He uses the spooky qualities of the old school carnival shocks to maximum effect, combined with his always excellent sense of lighting to create a genuinely unsettling funhouse atmosphere.The teens then witness something that will spell out their inevitable doom and our creature is unmasked in a reveal reminiscent of Chaney's PHANTOM OF THE OPERA. The monster makeup is excellent and provides a unique slasher villain. From here, though, the movie just never goes anywhere you want it to go. Hooper sets up these amazing sets and excellent shots and you want so much for him to use this setting to the same max effect that he was able to use the old farmhouse in TCM, but it never gets there. The killings become paint by the numbers, formulaic slasher deaths, all leading up to the inevitability that our final girl will escape and the monster will meet its' demise.It's better than the majority of generic slashers that came out in the wake of HALLOWEEN and Friday THE 13th, but can't quite elevate itself to classic level. "},{"Title":"Good old style horror","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I watched this for the first time today. I wasn't expecting much and was surprised that it still holds up today 32 years after it's release.Unlike many modern day horrors it doesn't fear taking time to set the scene before the action begins. In fact apart from the opening it takes a hell of a long time before the carnage begins. This allows us to get to know the potential victims and also builds an air of tension. As a result of this I'm not sure this will be to the taste of the younger horror fan used to more immediate scares. The acting is solid and the dialogue is about as realistic as you can expect in one of these films. Unsurprisingly the special effects aren't up to much but this is overcome by the genuine tension the films slowly builds up. This is no classic but it is one of the best low budget horror films from the 80's I have seen. Worth a watch for nostalgia fans. "},{"Title":"Decent movie but Uneven at times","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse (1981)I did not remember much from this movie, I loved the start of the movie was ace, I loved how he mocked the start of Halloween and Psycho.Really great fun start to the movie, it's the middle part of the movie, lets the movie down a bit, and it's takes a while for the movie to get going again.i really liked the rest of the movie, I thought that Mask was very decent, I didn't find him that scary but noise he made, make him sound a lot scary.I would have hope for bloody deaths as this was 80's Slasher, overall, the kills was little let down, I liked how the movie came to end, Decent movie but Uneven at times. . 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Intense Ride.","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper directs this intense story of four friends on a double date who go to the local carnival, and decide it would be fun to remain behind and spend the night in the fun house, little dreaming the night of horror that awaits...Film uses many visual references to the classic Universal Studio monsters, especially Frankenstein, which the monster/killer represents, but isn't nearly as much fun. Good makeup F/X, and solid acting by the supporting players can't quite compensate for the grisly story, and generic leading characters(though Elizabeth Berridge is good) who fail to involve the viewer in their plight; result is a horror film that serves as a cautionary tale, but little more. "},{"Title":"An on the money spooky and harrowing early 80's horror outing","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A quartet of teenagers go to a carnival. After witnessing a murder, they find themselves trapped in a funhouse with a hideously disfigured and dangerous humanoid fiend (a remarkably expressive pantomime performance by Wayne Doba). Director Tobe Hooper vividly captures the creepy seaminess of the lurid carnival setting, builds plenty of tension and eerie atmosphere, adds a few nice touches of pitch-black humor, pays affectionate homage to various fright films of yore (for example, the monster wears a rubber Frankenstein mask to cover his grotesquely malformed face), and stages the shocks with real skill and flair. John Beal's smart script neatly explores the themes of family, illusion, perception, voyeurism, and invasion of privacy while cleverly subverting basic genre conventions The kids aren't completely sympathetic because they are responsible for the predicament they find themselves in due to the fact that they stayed in the carnival after it closed, the monster comes across as both tragic and pitiable, and the creature's brutish and domineering father (superbly played by Kevin Conway) emerges as the true hateful villain of the piece. The four young leads do commendable work Foxy buxom brunette Elizabeth Berridge makes for a fetching and appealing damsel in distress as virginal innocent Amy, Cooper Huckabee contributes a likable turn as the decent and handsome Buzz, while both Miles Chapin as the nerdy Richie and Largo Woodruff as teasing trollop Liz are solid in their roles. Popping up in nifty secondary parts are Sylvia Miles as withered old hag fortune teller Madame Zena, Herb Robbins as the friendly carny owner, and William Finley as pathetic drunken magician Marco the Magnificent. Andrew Laszlo's sharp cinematography gives the picture a strikingly stylized garish look. John Beal's robustly ominous score does the spirited spine-tingling trick. A worthy scarefest. "},{"Title":"A horror film made for horror fans, by true horror fans!","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Universal Pictures entrusted their first major horror movie release in quiet some time into the hands of Texas Chainsaw Massacre director TOBE HOOPER, who does a marvellous job of delivering scare after scare in this above average horror film. Two couples decide to spend the night in a seedy carnival fun house (which has a reputation for being the site of the murders of two girls in another town, who's maniac was never caught), while there, they witness the murder of a psychic that they had visited early in the night, while the carnival was open, at the hands of a cleft-headed sideshow freak who hides his deformity behind a Frankenstien mask. On the run, the kids find that they can't escape & then get picked off one by one by the crazed maniac. I had a lot of fun with THE FUNHOUSE (no pun intended) it was quiet a treat to view the film again after having not seen it in many a year & best of all, despite when it was made, the film still holds up very well today & makes for a fun popcorn horror flick. The acting works reasonably well & director Tobe Hooper is able to deliver one of his best directorial efforts in his career. Particularly impressive is how he is able to deliver a gorgeous widescreen colour camera work. You could tell that he had a ball helping put together THE FUNHOUSE, which is probably best described as the equivalent of a ride on a ghost train. The film opens strongly as we see through the eyes of a masked prowler (a nod to HALLOWEEN) entering a girls bedroom to stab her while she takes her clothes off to get in the shower (In a terrific nod to PSYCHO). Universal also doesn't ignore their past horror heritage either, as the lead heroines younger brothers room is filled with classic posters & masks of all the Universal classic movie monsters like the WOLFMAN, Dracula & FRANKENSTIEN & THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTIEN is seen playing on the TV set the parents are watching, before the heroine leaves for the carnival & all of this is just in the first five minutes of the film!. Hooper also really milks the atmosphere for all it's worth, especially in the carnival attraction & fun house itself, with it's reasonably eerie look, with creepy looking dummies & mechanical laughing puppets & statues that adorn the fun house itself, while the carnival itself is decked out with various weirdos of all kinds, to creepy looking old bag ladies, crazed gun toting, possibly homicidal hicks, creepy carnival barkers (three of which are played quiet wonderfully by COLIN FINLAY), weird magicians who's closing act is murdering a girl on stage, with a poker through the heart while trapped in a casket, only for it to turn out to be a fake (a nod to Universal's Dracula, with us even receiving a history lesson on the man the famous vampire was based on), dirty odd ball bums, odd ball fortune tellers, a creepy old man peeking in on naked girls, weird monstrosities in jars & deformed animals in a freak show, in fact minus the kids & parents & the girls younger brother, no one seems to be completely sane & all of this lends to a creepy unsettling feel. The suspense & tension is great, as is the eerie carnival atmosphere & the great, eerie & haunting carnivelsque score by JOHN BEAL which next to the cool soundtrack that throws some eerie sounds from all areas of the screen, makes this one of the best horror soundtracks ever to grace a horror picture. The films kills are relatively bloodless (usually electrocutions & stranglings, not to mention some blood on the creatures claws, hangings & a few bloodless impaling) however & are few & far between, not to mention it takes it's time getting going, so hardcore horror buffs looking for some bloody action will no doubt be disappointed by this fact. But it's never boring & always has something going on to keep you interested in its plot, until the action kicks in. The film only falters when it shows the creature make-up up close, when it really should have been keep half hidden in the shadows, since you can clearly see most of the material used to make the freak make-up is rubber. Highly recommended horror buffs, this FUNHOUSE is definitely terrifying & worth the ticket price if you want to see a really good horror film that sadly doesn't seemingly get made anymore.**** stars "},{"Title":"Nothing special. (Scream factory)","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My interest sparked in this film mainly because I wanted to some of Hoopers other work, I happened to see this at HMV and decided to get it. The scream factory edition has some nice cover art. The quality was good too, but enough about the Blu-ray. The film has an average plot centring around a group of teenagers, and of course they do stupid things. Their only purpose is to be killed, I didn't care for them. The film starts randomly with some messed up kid, and the plot with the boy didn't serve a purpose at all. I could compare the villains to leather face and the cook(Jim Seidow) with how they act. The film is not violent at all, especially compared to the other films at the time(Friday the 13th). The film for the most part is average and boring at times, but by no means a horrible movie, its just an average 80's film.Overall give it a watch if your interested, but I wouldn't recommend the scream factory version, it didn't feel it was worth the twenty-five bucks. "},{"Title":"OK monster movie","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four youths decide to hide out overnight in a carnival funhouse. Big mistake They witness the deranged and hideously disfigured son of a sinister carnival barker strangle the carnival fortune teller. It is just a matter of time before father and son are after the four, as they desperately try to find a way out. Renowned character actor Kevin Conway plays the barker, and the irrepressible Sylvia Miles is the unfortunate fortune teller. The very pretty Elizabeth Berridge made her screen debut here, as one of the trapped kids. What she lacks in acting ability, she more than makes up for with her natural beauty (including a nude shower scene early on). A Tobe Hooper film, Funhouse looks awfully dated today, but it's still worth a look for the early 1980s atmosphere and Ms. Berridge, who is every guys dream of the virginal but willing girl next door. "},{"Title":"A way to pass 90 minutes relatively quickly","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another bizarre entry onto the list of video nasties, one can only assume it was guilty by association. Directed by Tobe Hooper of Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974) fame, whilst that film was not on the nasties list, it certainly impacted in the hearts and minds of any respectable censor. This entry did not spend much time in banned status, as it was released uncut in 1987, and was later reinstated with a 15 certificate in the early part of the noughties. It is very difficult to see why (outside of my own speculation of director association) this film was even considered by the DPP, as it has not one element of horror or gore, or any kind of overtly nasty elements.The narrative involves itself with four teenagers, Amy (Elizzabeth Berridge), Buzz (Cooper Huckabee), Liz (Largo Woodruff) and Richie (Miles Chapin), are on double dates to a local traveling carnival. They decide to stay the night in the funhouse. There they witness the murder of the carnivals fortune teller, by the deformed, retarded son of the owner. After Richie steals some money from the kitty, their presence is signaled. So proceeds a standard stalk-and-slash style climax. Released at a time when there was practically a new slasher film released each week, The Funhouse shares more narrative ideas with The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, than the majority of the slasher films, that were using Halloween (1978) as their template. This film is stylistically similar to Halloween, not using the more gritty, haphazardness of Chain Saw, it's cinematography almost replicating that Carpenter widescreen classiness. But the carnie family are closer to those Texans (replete with it's own Leatherface), than the lone figure so prevalent between 1978 and 1984. The film is pretty low on scares, but does pass by it's 90 minutes relatively quickly. This is not to say it's a terrible film. It certainly is better than much of the sub-genres output. But it's still a shame that Hooper was never able to recapture the excellence of his first feature. Something he has still yet to top.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"She's stoned. When you're stoned, *Charles Manson* is a terrific guy.","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This video nastie was banned in Britain in 1981, but released uncut in 1987. That is the quickest turnaround I have seen, and I suspect it is because it is not really that gruesome.The main attraction to the movie is the last part where the group is discovered and the monster and his dad are chasing them. Then, the background of the fun house makes for a very interesting backdrop to the actions. Screams and killing and a gruesome looking monster make this a fun experience.I had flashbacks to Reefer Madness, as only the good girl comes out unscathed. Those who smoke reefer and have casual sex are doomed to perdition.Elizabeth Berridge gives us a skintastic moment in her shower scene that reprises Psycho. "},{"Title":"6 out of 10","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Four teenagers, Amy Harper, Buzz Klemmet, Richie Atterbury and Liz Duncan, travel to the carnival which has just come to town, for some fun. As the night begins to come to an end, Liz suggests they stay the night in the fun house. They all agree and decide to take the last ride before the attraction shuts down. As they stay in the fun house, the four witness and horrific murder against a psychic reader by a very big man in a Frankenstein mask, also Richie takes some of the money earned by the man who runs the fun house. The owner is furious about the missing money and sends his son, Gunther, who killed the reader, to take care of the thieves. Now the four are locked in the fun house, being stalked and killed one by one, by the FREAK in the Frankenstein mask who really is a horribly deformed and mentally challenged man.Nothing special, but the more thrills and chills you would expect.Rated R for Violence, Nudity and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Good early 80s horror.","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is an entertaining early 80s slasher B movie. Fans of the genre might be disappointed at the lack of gore, but I prefer the 'less is more' approach to horror anyway. Far better to keep people thinking something's going to happen than to deliver it all the time - so long as you can maintain the suspense and provide a payoff at the end. I think Funhouse manages to do this, building up the creepy atmosphere of the funfair for two thirds of the film before things really kick into high gear. The director doesn't cynically assume the audience needs cheap thrills every few minutes to keep their attention. Having said that, a few more chills and thrills than we did get wouldn't have gone astray, which is probably the main reason the film gets a low IMDb rating. Director Tobe Hooper would go onto Poltergeist after this, which made a much bigger effort to keep you on the edge of your seat, even though it too took the time to build up the story.Even so, what we get here is quite entertaining, the acting is competent enough (why haven't we seen more of Elizabeth Berridge?), the lighting is used to good effect, and the special effects are pretty good for the period. The script won't win any awards for originality, but it works fine nonetheless. Overall, one of the decade's better horror films. "},{"Title":"I was an extra in this movie","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I must admit I loved this B horror flick and one of the main reasons is because I was an extra in the film. Most of the people you see on the rides and walking around the carnival are from my high school drama club and community theater group. A few of my friends were stuck on those rides for hours at a time. I see them mostly on the tea cup ride and the ferris wheel. You can barely see the top back of my head behind the actors waiting in the line to buy their tickets to the rides. At one point I had to walk back and forth in front of the Himalaya ride for about 20 takes holding a balloon. I was only 14 years old at the time and had no idea who Tobe Hooper was... of course now I do. We shot at night and I was wearing shorts and a tank top because... well... it was Florida and who knew it would get cool at 3 a.m. and no, we didn't bring jackets. I remember sitting in front of The Funhouse (which was just a front) with that big fat lady up above and people starting piling blankets and sweaters on me because i was shivering so bad. I sat there alone for an hour or so and it was creepy and isolated in the back of the lot. The catering was good, and not something we expected! "}{"Title":"pretty much has everything required for such a flick","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, so we should know that every slasher flick needs to show a naked female (most likely taking a shower). The Funhouse does that (including the shower). And there have to be people who get punished for daring to have sex. Check. And the nasty hick? Checkmate.Yes, this is your average teens-run-from-killer movie. It's only worth seeing as a way to pass time (aren't all slasher movies?), reminding horny teenagers never to get slinky because there's always a hideous monster looking to butcher someone. But despite all this, the movie elicits a certain charm. Probably due to the mixture of old horror memorabilia at the beginning, and then the whole carnival setting. Maybe worth seeing once. But if you're looking for a really innovative slasher film, this ain't it. I guess that we expect a lot from Tobe Hooper due to The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Poltergeist.PS William Finley (the magician) previously played the title role in Brian DePalma's The Phantom of the Paradise, and Sylvia Miles (the fortune teller) appeared in Midnight Cowboy. "},{"Title":"Great 80's Thriller","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love this movie. I know it is not well liked much on review sites, but I really found this movie to be a fun time. By today's standards, granted, it is slow and not as scary, but i have found this movie to be a mood movie. it creates a fun environment with the local carnival that comes to town. Odd characters, and 4 teenagers thinking how much fun it would be to spend the night. This movie really captures a feel to it that many of the older horror flicks had. It creates eeriness with the setting and backdrop. There is some funny scenes as well. naturally, the fortune teller has one of the best scenes when she is mating with the creature, that we haven't seen yet as he hides in a frankenstein like mask. you have to love that. also how the one actor plays various characters....that was a great touch. this movie doesn't jump out and scare you but to me, it has a great feel about it that is eerie and takes a setting that we all know and makes it real creepy. "},{"Title":"Should Have Used Koontz's Version","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is another in a long line of could have been scary flicks from director Tobe Hooper. Much of the film is wasted on the two teenage couples wandering around the carnival checking out the sights. Unfortunately, this does not good viewing make. The film only really kicks into overdrive when the kids get trapped in the Funhouse over night. Once at this point Hooper proves that he still has it and wrings a ton of tension out of the situation. However, it leaves one wishing that the first half of the film was as good. Perhaps if the screenplay had been retooled before filming began this little problem could have been fixed. As it stands, Dean Koontz's novelization of the screenplay has a far cooler opening than the actual film itself complete with a killer baby in a crib that would have predated Frank Henenlotter's Basketcase by a full year. When reading the novelization I pictured this terror tyke much like Henenlotter's twisted Belial Bradley. Still, what we have is what we get as it seems unlikely that anyone will ever remake this film. "},{"Title":"Tobe Hoopers 80's B  movie masterpiece","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" **Contains Spoilers** Tobe Hooper sure can make a good popcorn flick with a low budget. Like the classic horror movie Texas Chainsaw Massacre or smaller projects that don't have a lot of viewing like Motel Hell. Anyway, 4 teenagers spend the night in a carnival fun house, instead of going to the movies like normal people. Witness a murder by a deformed masked man and basically get chased around for an hour until only 1 of the 4 teens remains. Talk about needing therapy for the rest of your life. This movie won't change your life if you see it, but it can kill an hour and a half on rainy day or a Friday night. Good B movie Fluff. 4 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"not scary, but certainly a horror movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I rented this film I thought that I't would be about a killer clown at a carnival (i was judging a film by its cover) but when I watched it, I couldn't pull my eyes from the screen. It is certainly not scary, but definetly a horror flick! "},{"Title":"Formulaic horror outing.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Funhouse is formulaic in the extreme. It isn't a bad film, it isn't a great film. If you are new to the horror genre and this is one of the first titles you watch, it might even provide some decent chills. However, if you are a horror buff and you've seen a lot of films like this, you'll find nothing fresh here, and not too much to make you jump out of your seat either. The disappointment is that director Tobe Hooper usually delivers something a bit meatier, whether it be the gore factor of Texas Chainsaw Massacre, or the subtle chills of Poltergeist.The story is straight-forward old-dark-house stuff, but the novelty is that this is no normal house, but a carnival funhouse. As a dare, four teenagers spend a night in the funhouse but their game turns sour when they witness a murder. Berfore they know it, they are trapped inside and being hunted and killed in various gruesome ways by a deformed mad-man.It's a tolerable film, thanks to its brief and crisp duration-time. The shocks are relatively tame, but occasional genuine jolts are delivered in an efficient manner. The killings are not too imaginative, nor too gory, but they provide the all-important moments of blood spillage. The acting (by a mainly unknown cast, Sylvia Miles excepted) is passable but hardly the stuff of Oscar nominations.The Funhouse is watchable, workmanlike horror cinema. Two days after you've seen it, you'll have probably forgotten it. "},{"Title":"Not  fun","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You've seen this slasher film many times before. A bunch of kids spend the night in a funhouse. One of the girls gets to show off her body in the shower for no reason except the director wanted to see her nude. The kids have boring sex. The kids who have boring sex get knifed by some goon in a mask. The one girl who doesn't have sex does not get knifed by some goon in a mask. Now throw in some puppets with bobbing heads. Why? Who cares. Tobe Hooper, whose only claim to fame is the miserable Texas Chain Saw Massacre, serves up another bomb in Funhouse. The effects are cheesy which is surprising because Rick Baker did them. Funhouse is unwatchable, boring, derivative, predictable, dull, did I mention boring, over talkative, uninteresting and did I mention boring.Funhouse rips off Halloween and Psycho. Did I mention this film is boring? "},{"Title":"Why you shouldn't watch this film....","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film can be summed up in one word - boring! I am in the process of watching all of Tobe Hooper's films minus 3-4 I don't have. Watching these films TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE, SALEMS LOT etc., I notice he doesn't really have a unique style. I am not sure if thats a good thing or a bad thing. It's good his films are all different, but at the same time they don't have a trademark feel to them. I can say however, that most of his films are wrapped up very nicely and presented with magnetic-like visions that makes you want to watch.THE FUNHOUSE was nothing much as far as story goes for me. The kids were all jerks and you didn't care if they died or not really. The main bad guy/killer was nothing but a deformed dumbass who liked women a bit too much. It's true that most scary movies aren't scary, but many of them are as a kid, not this one- it was always boring to me even when I was 7 or 8 years old. I just finished it and watched with an open mind but couldn't help but come here and put it down after seeing all the positive reviews. I wanted to make sure people reading these comments know that not everyone liked it. It didn't even try to scare you and there's tons of loose holes in the plot.Boring, I felt so let down that no one got killed in an interesting way and that it seemed more like a LIFETIME movie than something a horror legend directed. 1 out of 4 stars, nothing whatsoever worth watching it for - oh by the way, not what you would call a spoiler but in fact a WARNING - there's really really really old women dancing naked in this movie - that might be why it was considered a horror. "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overtly spectacular","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Funhouse is a somewhat uneven but still decent enough slasher film.**SPOILERS**Wanting to go out for the night, Amy Harper, (Elizabeth Berridge) her date Buzz Klemmet, (Cooper Huckabee) Liz Duncan, (Largo Woodruff) and Richie Atturbury, (Miles Chapin) decide to go on a double date to a Carnival that has just arrived in town. As they enjoy the night on the town, witnessing all the games and attractions, she doesn't realize her little brother Joey Harper, (Shawn Carson) has snuck inside to follow her. Deciding to stay there after it closes, they accidentally witness one of the carnival workers murder another worker, and are soon found out. Still trapped inside the carnival, they are soon slaughtered one-by-one by the killer. Trying to find a way out of the demented sideshow, they have to get past the killer and the rest of his family.The Good News This is an effectively underrated slasher entry. One of it's most impressive feats is that it gives us a nice carnival atmosphere with some interesting sights. The setting is the best thing about this, as great pains is taken to turn the early part into setup, and this does create a great atmosphere for later on in the film. By taking a trip through the garish freak-show, which includes on exhibit a two-headed cow and a deformed, bottled fetus, the mechanized fun-house creatures, the deformed inbred monster, the creepy surreal barkers and more, the groundwork is laid for some real fun. The attention to detail he gives the carnival at the beginning is amazing, even the stuff that is going on in the background. This is obviously thrilled by the colors, textures and shadows of the carnival and capably turns the place into a menacing and alien environment. Even the carnival workers themselves are weird and seedy. The fun-house itself is a great set. There are loads of evil-looking mannequins brandishing knives and spinning around on the spot. It's all very colorful and really adds to the freakiness factor of the setting and provides an ideal place for a series of stalk 'n' slash moments with it's dimly lit corridors, noises whirring in the background and dummies popping out to scare people. The film's main positive point, though, is the extremely great showdown at the end. There's rarely been a better one in the annals of the slasher genre, starting inside a hall of mirrors and wandering through the back-rooms, down into the bowels of carnival, finally ending up in the machinery room. It's quite impressive and really stands out in the field. The stalking inside the fun-house generates some great tension as well, including a couple crashing through doors and some real surprise pop-ups from the other carnival attractions. The film even includes a few stand-out scenes, where the killer takes off a mask and reveals a real inhuman visage, and a particularly harrowing image where the heroine is calling to her parents through a large, wildly-spinning exhaust fan, but they cannot hear her because she is too far away. With a surprisingly sleazy way of getting events started, this one has a lot to like and becomes a really underrated slasher.The Bad News There really isn't a whole lot wrong with this one. One of it's problems is the slow pace in the beginning. By using the opening as the setup for the walk-through of the carnival, this here takes a large amount of time to get started. There's around an hour of material before the killer is even getting started, and while it builds up atmosphere, this really could've been trimmed down a tad and replace most of the running around.. The sub plot involving Amy's Brother is one of those big reasons, also holds things up and ultimately never comes to anything, despite the build up it is given. It's quite hard to believe that the outcome is really all that deserving, and it in itself is just an awful plot-line that holds up even more time. The film's other big problem is the lack of gore in the kills. For such takes as an ax in the head, a sword in the back, a stabbing and being crushed by hydraulic equipment has so little gore in the film, and it really could've used more. Otherwise, this one here was quite nicely done.The Final Verdict With only a few nagging problems, this really is a quite underrated slasher film with a lot to like about it. It's creepy, frightening and full of intense action, leaving it a film full of entertainment and a full recommendation for the slasher fans in the crowd.Rated R Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity and mild drug use "},{"Title":"Funhouse ain't no fun, if only for Chapin","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I hate a lot nothing happeningness in movies, especially horror films, with not much gore, etc. Sadly Funhouse is one of those movies. It's an under par horror film, and a weak one, but could of been so much more, given the story and it's environment. The slow moving film just has a lot of dry moments. One saving grace of the film, where I thought the small dark haired girl, seen in that other movie, The Beach Girls, was cute, was talented actor, Miles Chapin (The Funny Farm, Get Crazy), the joker of the foursome, who's spirited performance is one of the only reasons to see this. Our foursome, happy and free, decide to stay up in the Funhouse, only they've invaded someone's territory, for the amusement park is owned by a family of weirdos, one sour tarot car reader, who doesn't take kindly to ridicule, or, people interrupting her sessions, like from Chapin's background smirks, that has him trying to suppress his laughter. Honestly Chapin's the best thing about this film, and the tarot card's reader doesn't give them the most warmest of invitations to come back. Personally I'm with her on that one. "}{"Title":"Not Bad Horror Flick!","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper's 1981 horror film stars Elizabeth Berridge, Kevin Conway, Shawn Carson, Cooper Huckabee, Largo Woodruff, Miles Chapin and Sylvia Miles. Berridge plays teenage girl, Amy who goes out on a double date with friends, Buzz (Huckabee), Liz (Woodruff) and Richie (Chapin) at a Carnival while Amy's little brother, Joey (Carson) sneaks out to see what they're up to. Soon, Amy and her friends decide to spend the night at the Carnival inside a Funhouse and witness a murder of a Gypsy woman (Miles). They try to escape but become terrorized by the Funhouse Barber (Conway) and his deformed son (Wayne Dobra). Conway also plays a Magic and Poker Barber. This isn't bad and Conway is great & creepy in it. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Slow -moving and formulaic","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" None of the characters in this film are very likable. So it is hard to root for the inevitable sole survivor.There was really very little character development, or anything else for that matter, in the first half of this film. I suppose it was all spent setting the mood. A fun-house is a great place to set a slasher film, and at least Hooper used that ambiance to reasonably good effect. It had surprisingly little explicit gore, which is okay by me. I wasn't particularly impressed with Elizabeth Berridge's acting in the beginning of the movie, but later on I thought that she did as well as the material allowed. But the novelization of the screenplay by Dean Koontz is much better. I'd say skip the movie. "},{"Title":"Not that good of a movie","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't really care for this movie to much.  It wasn't really scary to me. It's about 4 kids who decide to spend the night inside the funhouse.  Just goes to show you how stupid and irresponible kids are these days.  They see a guy get murdered, one of the kids gets scared and drops his lighter giving themselves away.  One by one they get murdered.  I only saw this movie once and that is all I plan to watch it. 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"OK timekiller, nothing more.","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was somewhat disappointed with this film.  It had a great premise (four smalltown teens spend the night in a traveling carnival's funhouse) and a great director (Tobe Hooper).  I liked what I saw, but I wanted more. There is a funny opening sequence, and I liked the scene with William Finley as a magician, but once the teenagers go inside the funhouse the film because disappointingly predictable and routine.  There are a few echoes of Hooper's previous masterpiece THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE but lacks that film's conviction.  The photography by Andrew Laszlo is effective and makes interesting use of color.  Sylvia Miles has a smallish role as fortune teller.  The acting by the four teen actors is wooden, which hampers the suspense, and pretty soon you don't care who will live or die.  The lead actress Elizabeth Berridge looks a little like Heather Donahue from THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. "},{"Title":"Unspeakably dull","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not entirely certain where all of the high praise for this film comes from, as it is one of the most boring things I've ever seen in my life. Self-indulgent to a fault, it spends too long wasting time with four unlikable supposed protagonists at a carnival that actually seems amusing, not unsettling or eerie at all. Hooper fails utterly to build any suspense whatsoever, and instead opts for making it seem like a lengthy ordeal...and what a lengthy ordeal it is. The film clocks in at just over an hour and a half, but it seems like trying to get through Berlin Alexanderplatz; it's a dull slog in which nothing interesting happens, and even when the monster is unveiled, it's neither shocking nor even mildly engaging.That's the most inexcusable aspect of The Funhouse it's boring and at no point does the direction build any tension. It's not scary. It's not funny. It's not even exciting. It seems almost pretentious in its self-indulgence, but there's absolutely no artistic statement to it, possibly because there's also no art to it. This is as imaginative as paint-by-numbers, and about as unexceptional. If you ever wondered why you haven't heard of The Funhouse, try to sit through it. Unless you're the type of person who really and truly enjoys watching obnoxious people spend an utterly unexceptional evening at a carnival, you won't get much out of this. At best, most viewers will probably be inspired to go out to an actual carnival by this film, because even the worst carnival will be more entertaining than The Funhouse. "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A bunch of kids (2 boys, 2 girls) go to a carnival. While riding through the fun house they decide to get off and poke around. They witness a murder and soon have a monster after them.Ho-hum. It's well-made with great atmosphere but it's just another run of the mill 1980s horror flick. Like most horror movies of that era this is more interested in female nudity than anything else. Within minutes we see a young girl attacked in the shower with a knife. Turns out the knife is rubber and its her younger brother! Pointless scene just to show off the actress nude.However the scenes in the fun house work when they're being stalked by the monster. They're atmospheric and the monster is definitely gruesome. But who is this creature? How did they get him? It's never explained. The book (which was written AFTER the movie was finished) had to come up with an explanation. There's also some good acting here (especially by Cooper Huckabee) but this is basically a pretty forgotten horror film. The book (by Dean Koontz) is much better. Probably only known as one of the last watchable horror films by director Tobe Hooper (who seems to be a one shot wonder after Texas Chainsaw Massacre). You can skip this one. I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Even creepy carnival folk wouldn't watch this movie.","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is based on a book that I read and I must say that the book was so much better because the book had a great storyline, a believable plot line and a great ending. This movie is about four teenagers who decide to spend the night in the fun house after they are done with the carnival. I didn't understand why they wanted to sleep in the fun house. Maybe they were too lazy to drive home and sleep in their own beds.Anyway, they witness a murder and then blah blah blah. They all get murdered. This movie is such a cookie cutter that I could have baked it myself. Then there is this part where the teenagers peep in the tent to see the 'tent girls' and the bad part is that the 'tent girls' are about 70 years old with lots of flab hanging down.The good thing about this movie was the fat lady on top of the fun house who laughs at everyone. She had a good role because all she did was laugh and was probably laughing at how all the actors careers would be diminished after being in this movie.Ha. Ha. Ha. "},{"Title":"Sorry, I'm going negative on this one.","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time (it's 2009!). I am sure it is well-loved by several generations of horror fans, but I will probably not watch it again. I think that out of all the movies I've seen but ended up not caring about, this one had the strongest beginning. I was really into it as the main characters were exploring the sleaziest carnival ever filmed. I was totally transported by the look of the sordid sideshows and lowlife workers--it was all so cheap and trashy, but everyone seemed to be having a lot of fun. This was a fair I'd like to go to! And the suspense built as the kids realized the trouble they were in after witnessing a murder backstage. They were NOT in DisneyWorld here, folks! Then it devolved into a routine chase and I couldn't care less. It was especially disappointing because the lead actress had a really interesting look. She reminded me a little of Anna Faris with her unique facial expressions -- I think I would have focused more on that if I were Tobe Hooper. The deformed villain seemed a little too much like a retread of Leatherface--isolated freak cared for by equally antisocial family member.I enjoyed Carnival of Blood a bit more than Funhouse--it was somewhat similar with its Coney Island 70's atmosphere. Although Carnival looks a little more low budget, it kept my interest longer. "},{"Title":"THE FUNHOUSE (Tobe Hooper, 1981) **1/2","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Director Hooper fared better here than in EATEN ALIVE (1977), which I watched the day before, because it's much closer to the slasher formula and perhaps also because the goings-on in a carnival are intrinsically creepy to begin with.That said, the teen protagonists are, as ever, depicted as either bland or obnoxious &#150; the heroine (Elizabeth Berridge) even has a kid brother who likes to dress up in scary masks (his room is filled with horror-movie paraphernalia) to scare the girl (who looks barely post-puberty herself) out of her wits while she's taking a shower! The latter amounts to an all-too-obvious homage to both HALLOWEEN (1978) and PSYCHO (1960), and the scene is followed by one more &#150; though it seems highly unlikely to me that the average American family of 1981 would gather in the living-room to watch something like BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN (1935) playing on TV&#133; Anyway, the carnival section delivers the goods in both the atmosphere and chills stakes &#150; from animal freak shows to fortune-telling and culminating in a 'House Of Horror'-type ride; the youngsters then commit the typical foolishness associated with slashers by opting to stay behind for the night to make out in The Funhouse &#150; even though this particular carnival troupe (including an underused but effective William Finley as a 'gruesome' magician) had been connected with a murder a couple of years back! Sure enough, they soon witness the slaying of the ageing fortune-teller (Sylvia Miles) they had themselves made fun of by a kid in a Frankenstein costume (the usher to The Funhouse itself) &#150; the result of his feeling slighted when his sexual encounter with the undiscriminating Miles was prematurely terminated! When the teens' presence is detected, the alcoholic Funhouse barker (Kevin Conway) puts the monster boy (who's his own disfigured and uncontrollable offspring and not unlike the Leatherface of Hooper's earlier classic THE Texas CHAIN SAW MASSACRE 1974) on the teenagers' trail; while he naturally wants to protect his son as well as the image of the carnival, Conway's also intent on retrieving the money that was stolen from his coffers by one of our imprudent and, subsequently, ill-fated heroes. For my money, the make-up job done by expert-in-the-field Rick Baker for the monster/killer is one of the most effectively hideous ever devised; the scenes of violence, then, combine Hooper's trademark intensity with a fair smattering of the gore demanded by the subgenre &#150; unsurprisingly, the heroine is the only one to make it out alive&#133;though she's anything but unscathed by the experience. "},{"Title":"A double date to the freak show.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Being scared witless is not much fun, but fun as hell to watch. Director Tobe Hooper offers a modern day horror classic of the 80s. Four friends decide to go to the carnival instead of the movies. Bad choice. The teenagers end up spending the night in the funhouse. The carnival is shut down for the night and the teen intruders think they have a perfect necking spot. In due time they witness a murder and get chased by a deformed man wearing a Frankenstein mask. And they call this the FUNHOUSE! Featured performers are Elizabeth Berridge, Largo Woodruff, Miles Chapin, Kevin Conway and the hideous monster is played excellently by Wayne Doba. This movie sparks interest in the novel by Dean Koontz.  "}{"Title":"boring","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  being a huge horror fan i went to the store and saw The Funhouse on sale for 5$ i am a fan of Tobe Hooper and have been wanting to see this film for a while so i picked it up, and what i got was a very boring movie, The Funhouse starts off with potential but loses it fast, this has to be one of the worst and slowest horror films i ever saw. i almost fell asleep several times through the movie i give The Funhouse 0/10 "},{"Title":"I liked the book better.","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I know many of you are saying, Book, what book?. There was a book, however, it was a book based on the screenplay and was written by Dean Koontz under another name. So basically, a book written simply to cash in on the release of a movie. This case Tobe Hooper's The Funhouse. I read the book before I saw the movie, I didn't even know there was a movie until then and I thought it might be a rather good movie. Unfortunately, Koontz did a bit to well in fleshing out characters and adding plot twists and his book had a little to much depth. Because the actually movie was rather slow moving, not that many people to kill, and the characters were cardboard cutouts found in any horror movie released at the time. So suffice to say I was disappointed, especially how the movie was so empty of any of the really interesting stuff included in the book. So what do we get, some kids stuck in a fun house being stalked by a deformed killer. Very Friday the 13th or any number of horror movies at the time. "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets!","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Let me start by saying that I am a huge fan of late 70's and early 80s horror and slasher flicks. When I found 'The Funhouse', I thought what a treat to find this minor film in the bargain bin at the local video dump. With Tobe Hooper directing, a mutant albino daddy's been keepin' locked in the basement, and a healthy 1981 in the copyright position, I could hardly wait to pop it in. I was actually surprised I had missed it when it was released.Man, was I disappointed - What a weak movie! Almost every scene is predictable and for some ridiculous reason, Tobe chooses to broadcast each upcoming death and then let the scene linger far, far too long. For example, (very minor spoiler) one of the guys somehow gets a noose around his neck and gets pulled out of the scene. No problem &#150; standard slasher fare. But wait &#150; what do his friends do? Do they try to help, do they run from their own doom? No. What they do is just lean toward into this noosed cat and scream at the top of their lungs. Fine. Now, about 30 seconds later, a funhouse car comes around the corner. Gee, I -wonder -who - is -in &#150;the -car? Of course it's the guy who got hitched and when he comes into the light we all see this clear as day. So what does his buddy do? He buries a hatchet in the guy's head! You see, he thought it was a bad guy even though we all saw it was his friend. Still okay so far. Now here's the point - the audience is then subjected to this noosed, hatcheted dude (rope marks are missing from his neck, I might add) sitting there in his Funhouse car of death while his friends lean into him screaming at the top of their lungs. The music is at full blare and the scene is weak.Still okay.Now cut scene...now cut...okay cut. Ummm, can you cut? I'm thinking cutting right about now is good..okay CUT I said! The entire movie is like this. It's almost like they wanted to get maximum dollars for each costume change, prop and each scene. Just silly. "},{"Title":"Great first half, but quickly evolved into another grade-B horror movie","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this on tv a while ago.  I assumed it was going to be bad--it had a pretty ludacrous plot and looked downright stupid.  But I gave it a chance and was greatly surprised.  The first half of this film (excluding the opening scene which was taken from Halloween... COME ON!) had an exceptional mood and tone set for the film.  Tobe Hooper created a great atmosphere, making us feel like we were at the carnival.  The funhouse was great too--a little overdone, but was fun yet creepy.  But once the monster guy started coming, I had to turn the movie off.  It became completely predictable and pointless.  **/**** "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lets go campout inside the funhouse ,it will be cool Yeah right like Id want to sleep on a cold floor with roaches in pitch black darkness and have creepy things making noises too.Same old stupid kids doing really unbelievably stupid things movie. Written by kids probably too esp since the monster looks like a kid with a cheap mask on.Every Friday the 13th type movie has kids knowing they are in terrible danger but they dont care like walking into dark rooms,screaming as loud as you can,acting hysterical or the always reliableWho's there?Hey is that you(insert name) ,stop it your scaring meInsulting to kids if you ask me .Well anyway here we go .. Spoilers - 2 dumb chicks, a blond and a brunette and 2 dumb guys(they both look like pinups for teen beat in the 80's) decide it would be cool to hideout in the funhouse overnight so they jump out of the ride in the middle of the funhouse.Eventually they witness the brutal murder of a fortune teller by one of the side show freaks whom we later find out was the son of the owner(he was mutated at birth).Anyway the fortune teller is basically telling the freak to buzz off ,she isnt interested in having mutant babies so he hacks her up. The kids see this and the monster sees them and the chase is on.First off one of the guys gets hung by a rope around his neck and pulled up into the rafters ,a few moments later that same guy who was just hung shows up riding in one of the funhouse cars(how the hell he got in there is anyones guess),anyway the other kids think its the monster in the car so the other guy buries an axe in his head as he goes by, you dont see the axe go in as the camera cuts away , you simply see a fake axe with fake blood on the guys head,then they all scream like babies and chase the dead guy down the tracks.Then one of the girls falls through a trap door .pretends to side with the monster when shes cornered in an air vent ,stabs him then gets hacked up offscreen , The other guy gets killed offscreen as well ,After he kills the monsters dad by emptying a gun into him coveniently leaving it empty,ugly shows up and then the girl runs away and you hear a shot offscreen and then one of the doors swings around and shows the guy dead on top of a mannequin spinning around ,i guess ugly shot him(i think the director got off on offscreen who the hell did that stuff). Well,She ends up in some kind of basement beneath the funhouse. She gets a few swings at the monster before it falls into an electrical panel and then gets dragged between 2 gears and squished. She walks out of the funhouse and its daytime, the workers dont even look up or notice that she just walked out of the funhouse and the movie ends.Stupid garbage of a movie and im glad it was on free tv when i saw it but i still suffered through it anyway. Avoid this crap . "},{"Title":"This is a Dean R. Koontz knock off.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In watching this movie, I repeatedly flashed back to a novel By Dean Koontz, who wrote this story under the name Owen West. They changed the plot, From 2 haples couples who witness a murder from the original plot of a Brother and sister being in danger from a crazed Carnival worker who seaks vengence on the CHildren of his ex wife who killed thier first son (who he keeps in a jar in the Freak show) to finding the children of his ex wife at the carnival and doing away with them.   Using his second son as his tool of vengeance (the deformed man under the Frankenstine mask at the Fun house, who is also the Fortune tellers son).   If you like this Movie you will LOVE the book The Fun House.    by Dean r. Koontz  /  Owen West "},{"Title":"Not as nasty as a real Video Nasty","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Many horror fans believe that Tobe Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre was merely a happy accident, and this claim is given more weight by the fact that the director hasn't had a single absolute success since. The Funhouse represents another lacklustre effort for Hooper, and if it wasn't for the fact that the DPP made a blunder in 1984 when they confused this film with the alternate title for 'The Last House on Dead-End Street', I very much doubt that it would have been remembered. It does seem like Hooper wanted this film to be considered 'nasty', however, as he implements scenes that see things such as a hideously deformed man paying for sex; but the feel of the film is so childish that it never really achieves this aim. The plot follows four teenagers that decide to go to the local funfair. After taking in the sights, one of them suggests that they stay in the funfair overnight; and this leads to view the carnival's seedy underbelly, and they come a cropper when they find themselves at the mercy of a murderous employee.The film starts out very slowly, as Hooper shows all aspects of the fair. I understand the importance of creating the right atmosphere for the film; but did we really need to see the deformed cow show, the ghost train, the fortune teller, a 'magician' and a whole load of other stuff? As if this wasn't bad enough, once the film does get going properly, it simply descends into the same slasher tedium that was overly popular back in the eighties. The killer is hideously deformed, and the best scene in the movie sees him remove a Halloween mask, only to reveal a face that is actually worse than the mask! However, the make-up effects look cheesy, and seem like an obvious attempt to make the killer memorable...but since it's hardly original, it doesn't really work. It also takes far too long for it to appear that any of the cast are actually in any real danger, and while the ending and build-up to it actually aren't bad, it's brought down by the lack of tension. The cast aren't very memorable, with only the one that dies first standing out and even though this film will always have viewers for its undeserved Video Nasty status, it really isn't very good. "},{"Title":"Seen-it-all before early eighties slasher horror film.","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Two young couples, Amy (Elizabeth Berridge) and her boyfriend Buzz (Cooper Huckabee) plus Liz (Largo Woodruff) and her boyfriend Richie (Miles Chapin) decide to visit a carnival while it's in town. They visit the various lame attractions the carnival has to offer like a magician named Marco the Magnificent (William Finley), a strip show, a fortune teller named Madame Zena (Sylvia Miles), and a freak show complete with two headed cows and deformed babies. Completely out of nowhere total knuckle head Richie suggests that they spend the entire night in the carnivals funhouse, don't ask why. Amy's little brat of a brother Joey (Shawn Carson) visits the carnival on his own, strangely he doesn't interact with anyone else at the carnival and has no significance whatsoever to the overall story, he just generally walks around aimlessly to waste time. Once in the funhouse they hide and get ready for a long night. Then under neath them a light turns on, they appear to be above another room. The friends look on as Madame Zena the fortune teller and the funhouse's attendant (Wayne Doba) who wears a Frankenstein mask enter the room below them. The attendant gives Zena $100 in exchange for her to masturbate him. After he can't get an erection and Zena refuses to give him his money back he strangles her. The friends try and leave the funhouse but all the doors are locked and chained up, they are trapped. They decide to head back to their hiding place, again they look into the room below. The funhouse's Barker (Kevin Conway) who happens to be the attendants dad is also there now. The attendant takes his Frankenstein mask off and reveals that he is a mutant freak. Richie drops his lighter and they are discovered. From then on the friends must survive as they are hunted down one by one.Directed by Tobe Hooper, and according to the IMDb he turned down Steven Spielberg's offer to direct E.T. (1982) because of this film, bad move Tobe, bad move. This adds nothing new to the horror or slasher genre. It's predictable, dull, boring, over talkative and uninteresting. The opening sequence rips off both Halloween (1978) and Psycho (1960) or if you prefer pays homage to them, either way it gave me the feeling that there wasn't going to be an original idea in the whole film, and by the end I thought I was proved right. There's just about next to no gore or violence and an extremely low body count, no one is killed until over half way through the film. The monster itself, created by Rick Baker, is revealed in a very low key fashion. It's obviously just a mask that has no movement at all, the eyes, nose and forehead are static while occasionally it's mouth will open and close a little bit. Personally I thought he looked creepier with the Frankenstein mask on. There is brief nudity at the start as Amy takes a shower. The script by Larry Block is strictly by the numbers, I could easily tell who was going to survive, and that she would stop screaming become tough and resourceful and kill the bad guy at the end. Something else to take into consideration is that this was made after or about the same time as most other early eighties slashers including Halloween, Friday the 13th (1980), the Burning (1981), the Prowler (1981), Hell Night (1981), Just Before Dawn (1981), My Bloody Valentine (1981) and Night School (1981) and I would stick Funhouse right at the bottom of that list. The main problem I had with it is that it's just so devoid of any action, it takes 40 odd minutes for Richie to even suggest they spend the night in the funhouse, and it's one of those film where I got the feeling not much really happened between the start and finish. The only thing the film has going for it is the fact that it's technically very well made and has a polished look about it, otherwise this is a total waste of time. Recommended to insomniacs only. "},{"Title":"Truly mind-numbing","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Tobe Hooper directed this low-budget crud the year before Poltergeist, but his admirers won't find much to rave about here. Group of moronic teens carousing at the local carnival come up with a great idea Let's spend the night in the funhouse! So they stowaway after hours and witness a murder. Only the virginal girl is lucky, while the sexually-loose kids get theirs! Script seems cobbled together from parts of Halloween and Friday the 13th, clich upon clich, with only some interesting carny atmospherics to hold interest. After about an hour, one pauses to ask incidental questions, such as Why are there homeless people wandering around? What's the purpose of the bag lady/prophet? And what's with Hooper's directorial fetish for the mechanical fat lady--who chuckles maniacally while her head bobs? * from **** "},{"Title":"Carnival of yawns","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Tobe Hooper once proved that he had very much talent. Back in 1974, he managed to make a terrifying chiller with almost no budget. Texas Chainsaw Massacre was almost a perfect movie, very atmospheric and primitive...the Funhouse is an attempt to make something similar, only with a completely different setting. It's not at all bad and it more or less delivers what you expect but I can't help thinking Hooper could have done a bit more with it. Even though he makes good use of the creepy carnival settings, the violence and the killings are uninspired. The main characters are annoying ( except for the young Elizabeth Berridge. She's a real sweetie ) and the villains are laughable and they suffer from the typical clichs.---------SPOILERS-------- The plot is classic. Two young couples decide to spend the night in The Funhouse...a spooky attraction on the local carnival. The owners of this funhouse turn out to be real circus-freaks and they youngsters witness a murder. From that moment on, they become the prey of the vicious owners. No surprises or creative aspects in the plot so far but that isn't really necessary in a slasher. All I expect is a bit of nasty gore and innovative killings...and we don't even get that. The highlights of this movie are the puppets and little creatures who're hanging in the funhouse. The make creepy noises and build up the tension pretty well. But when the actual characters have to take over this job, the movie becomes a boring, mediocre product.A real shame about the atmospheric locations and especially a waste of the young talent of Elizabeth Berridge. Still, it belongs to the better films of Tobe Hooper. If you analyse his entire career, you can easily come to the conclusion that he's a very overrated director. True, he deserves all the praise he can get for Texas Chainsaw Massacre but it is his only REALLY good movie. Horror Hotel and Salem's Lot are decent efforts ( and perhaps also the Funhouse belongs to the decent ones ) but Poltergeist and especially his more recent work is laughable.  The Funhouse is worth one watch for the cool puppets and impressive carnival decors...as a horror movie, it can easily be skipped. "}]