[{"Title":"Classic anti-hero","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"89 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Snake Plissken is the classic anti-hero, ala Clint Eastwood's Man-with-no-name.  Plissken is an ex-soldier turned criminal, recruited/blackmailed into rescuing a hostage president from the prison of New York City.  Plissken is a walking ball of anger and a survival machine. He fought for his country but had everything taken from him, so he started taking back.  Now, he has to rescue a man he doesn't care about, if only to survive long enough to take his revenge on Hauk and the government.John Carpenter's film is a masterpiece of dark humor, suspense, and great characters.  The film channels the anger and distrust of the post-Vietnam/Watergate era, as well as the then-current Iranian Hostage crisis.  Plissken represents, in a fashion, the Vietnam vets who did their job, even if they didn't agree with or understand their war, but came back to nothing.  The film's novelization explores these themes better than the movie, but it is hinted at in Hauk's briefing.  It also depicts a fascist police state, one that some would say is not too far from reality.Kurt Russell is excellent in what was a breakout performance for him.  Up to this point, Russell had been stuck in low budget comedies, following the end of his Disney days.  This performance, coupled with another collaboration with Carpenter, Elvis, led to bigger and better roles.  Russell channels Clint Eastwood to give Snake a menacing, if laconic quality.  Much like a real serpent, Snake watches and strikes when he is ready; with speed and impact. Russell is able to say a lot with little dialogue, through his body language and facial expressions.The supporting cast is wonderful.  Adrienne Barbeau is the beautiful, but deadly Maggie.  She is partnered with the intelligent, but slimy Brain. Their's is a symbiotic relationship; each provides something the other needs.  Harry Dean Stanton, a great character actor, presents a Brain that is smart, but ruthless, and more than a bit cowardly. Isaac Hayes is The Duke, ruler of the prison.  Hayes is a bit uneven, as he wasn't an experienced actor (he had at least one movie before this) but he is a charismatic performer and ultra-cool.  Donald Pleasance is the consummate politician, a big man in his controlled environment, but lost in a world outside his; one he had a hand in creating. Ernest Borgnine is tremendous as Cabby, the answer man and link between Snake and the rest of the cast, as well as to the past of New York.  Finally, Lee Van Cleef brings some of that Angel Eyes magic as Hauk, the prison Warden.  Hauk is an ex-soldier and identifies with Snake.  The difference is, Snake rebelled against the system that betrayed him; Hauk joined it.  This was Van Cleef's last good role, before he was saddled with mediocrity in his tv series, the Master, and became the butt of jokes on MST3K.The film moves at a brisk pace and the dark lighting carries the sense of mystery, isolation, and destruction.  Carpenter is able to convincingly hide the fact that he shot this film in St. Louis and LA, and make you believe it is New York.  Although there are gaps in logic and missing information, the pace doesn't let you dwell on it.  There is a constant feeling of the race against time.  If there is any complaint, it's that the budget sometimes holds back some of the action, but characterization makes up for it. Also, the dark lighting is sometimes too dark, and details are obscured.The new special edition dvd brings a treat to long-time fans  the deleted opening bank robbery and capture of Snake Plissken.  Since I had read the novelization before seeing the film, I had long wondered what this sequence had looked like.  Although it does explain why Plissken is on his way to the prison when Hauk intercepts him, it doesn't really work in context with the rest of the film.  The sequence worked well in the book because of Snake's inner monologue and memories of his mission in Leningrad and the loss of his parents to government action.  We understand Snake's hatred of the government and his nihilistic nature.  In the sequence, as shot, we don't really get a sense of who Plissken is; just that he has apparently committed a crime and is on the run.  We don't really get a feel for his relationship with his partner, which affects the emotional impact at the end of the sequence.  Ultimately, the film works better without this footage.A note on the commentary track  Ox Baker was not seven feet tall.  He is probably closer to the 6'6 to 6'7 range, although he was over 300 pounds. His bulk makes him appear larger than he really is, especially in a wrestling ring.One used to wonder what this film would have looked like with a bigger budget.  Carpenter sort of answered that with the sequel, Escape from LA. It was essentially the same film, with better effects and a West Coast sensibility; but, it doesn't hold a candle to the original.  The lower budget caused the cast and crew to be more creative and they succeeded far better here.  It would be good to see Snake again, but in a new environment, with a different plot.  Russell's age could be an asset, as Carpenter could examine an older Snake, who must rely more on cunning than physical skills. "},{"Title":"SF action classic!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"55 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Escape from New York' ties with 'Assault On Precinct 13' as my second favourite John Carpenter movie (#1 being 'The Thing'. Of course.) I find it hard to be objective about this movie. Like 'The Omega Man' you either love it or you don't. Kurt Russell rocks as Snake Plissken, a cross between Roger Zelazny's Hell Tanner and Clint Eastwood's Man With No Name. He is one cool dude. Spaghetti western favourite Lee Van Cleef is well cast as Snake's nemesis, and b-grade fave Tom Atkins ('Maniac Cop') and Carpenter semi-regular Charles Cyphers ('The Fog') are excellent as his sidekicks. The rest of the cast is equally impressive, and includes cult legend Harry Dean Stanton ('Repo Man'), veterans Ernest Borgnine ('The Wild Bunch') and Donald Pleasance ('Halloween'), soul singer Isaac Hayes, and the buxom Adrienne Barbeau ('Two Evil Eyes') to name a few. 'Escape from New York' is an SF action classic from an era when ideas and character were more important than big budget FX. Personally I'd take this over the Star Wars series any day of the week. Beware the sequel though, it's a major disappointment... "},{"Title":"Call me Snake...","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"64 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape From New York is a solid action noir by John Carpenter, although it lacks the punch of Carpenter's other three previous features (The Fog, Halloween, Assault on Precinct 13).  Kurt Russell became famous for his Snake Plissken, and rightfully so, although the character seems to be only a more gritty version of Napoeleon Wilson in Assault.  What makes this film the cult classic it is is Carpenter's very apocalyptic and brash story.  This is a very dark film, and it holds up especially well today when shown against the countless fluff films that Hollywood seems to be churning out.Carpenter made the most out of his meeger budget and created a very convincing New York City.  Not only is the set design fantastic, but so are the typically strong performances.  Russell, Hayes, Barbeau, Pleasence, Stanton, Atkins, Cyphers and Borgnine are all cult legends, and seeing them all work together makes Robert Altman's casts look feeble in comparison.What limits this film from greatness is surprisingly lax direction by Carpenter.  The film is not as tight as it should have been, and really fails to generate any sort of suspense during the action.  Deaths just happen out of nowhere, with little to no build up, which is a shame.  This movie could have really been amazing.  The ending is perfect though, and easily makes up for the film's faults.  See it for Kurt Russell and the great ending and you will come away a happy viewer.  Watch Escape From LA though to see what this movie should have been. "},{"Title":"A rough and enjoyable film built on a great character in Snake and a great performance from Russell","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" On his way to an important conference that will determine the fate of   America, Air Force One is crashed into Manhattan island - leaving the   President and vital information trapped within the single largest   prison in the world. With very little time and no way to mount a full   on attack, Chief Hauk forces the newly captured ex-war hero Snake   Plisskin to launch a covert rescue mission - adding the extra incentive   of timed bombs implanted in his body. Snake, with little other choice,   accepts the mission to save his own neck (literally).    If the remake had any value, hopefully it's value was in bringing a new   audience to the original film and watching it for the first time. The   film opens with that very distinctive electronic theme music that gives   it such a cool feel from the very getgo. This is followed up by a great   rough energy as we are introduced to this future (which is now the   past!). This story continues quite well but, once all the main players   have been introduced, the film falls back on the expected series of   'running away' and fighting. This is not to say that it still isn't   quite fun and cool because it is.    The effects, music and even the use of tapes make this film feel very   old and dated but it actually goes hand in hand with the very rough   feel that Carpenter gave to several of his films at the time (whether   deliberately or budget influenced I don't know). The plot is full of   silly moments and sheer gaps in logic but, if you buy into the mood of   the film, you can get by these and enjoy it - though I define you to   call this a 'great' film, maybe good.    The casting of Kurt Russell is a major thing. He is iconicly cool and   his performance and his character are the two main things that have   kept this film well known down the years. He looks tough and talks   tough and is a great homage to the Clint Eastwood character from the   old westerns (a fact made clearer in the sequel). Cleef is a good foil   for him as he is tough too but lacks screen time for the majority. It is   very clear what Barbeau brings to the party - and the costume selected   for her makes no secret of it! I am a man and I'm not proud of it, but   she is very easy on the eye here - just a shame that that's all I   remember about her performance. Borgnine and Stanton are both good and,   along with Hayes, all serve to increase the cult appeal of the film to   this day.    Overall this is a cult film that looks cheap, has dated effects and a   plot that starts to crumble after the first half. However it is cool   fun with some great tough dialogue. However, beyond all this it is the   iconic character of Snake and the great performance from Russell that   will mean that this film continues to get cool points with new   audiences. "},{"Title":"The name's Plissken.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First things first, Kurt Russel is just plain cool.  That said, on to the review.  Escape From New York is a classic action movie with a great horror cast, including Donald Pleasence, Tom Atkins, Charles Cyphers, and who could forget Buck Flower.  Buck, who has one of the best scenes in the movie (Sure, I'm the president!), is hilarious.  John Carpenter proves that he is a versatile director and can make a hell of a film outside the horror genre.  In Carpenter's classic, Kurt Russell plays the immortal Snake Plissken, New York has become a prison state, and the president has just crash landed there.  Enter Snake Plissken.  Freshly captured and about to be incarcerated in New York, he must save the President (Pleasence, who isn't even American but pulls it off well) from the clutches of Isaac Hayes in order to regain his freedom.  It's all great stuff and you can't stop watching as Snake fights his way from one famous landmark to another (he even has to wrestle Ox Baker).  But it leaves me with one unanswered question  What did happen to Fresno Bob?Note  A couple of the Duke's cronies are credited as Romero and Cronenberg.  Also, Jamie Lee Curtis does the opening computer dialogue. "},{"Title":"A Snake, a Brain, a Cabbie, a Duke and the President Of The USA,","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1997 and Manhattan Island is a walled off prison, during the flight of Air Force One, the president's plane is taken over by a terrorist and the president ejects out in the safety pod. Sadly for him he lands right in the middle of Manhattan Island, when an armed unit lands inside the walls they are told that the president has been taken hostage and they must get out of their prison ASAP. At a loss what to do, the authorities decide to send one man in alone, ex war hero turned criminal, Snake Plissken, not only does he have to contend with surviving the incredibly hostile prison, he also has a time bomb implanted in his body that, should he not get the president out safely within 24 hours, will explode and mean no more Snake Plissken!.Made in 1981 and set in 1997, it's safe to say John Carpenter is not the best predictor of the future around. However his vision of a future where America has thrown all it's criminals on one island, where they create their own society out of harms way, has to rank as an incredibly adroit piece of work. This place is grim and deadly, the flotsam and jetsam of society thrust together in this bleak and desolate place of class separation. What Carpenter has achieved with his usual minimal budget allowance is a smouldering sci-fi classic that may be as daft as they come, but it pulses with cool and cheekily slaps you round the face with its cheeky satirical edginess. I must give kudos at this point to the great production design from Joe Alves, who along with Carpenter has crafted this brilliantly dirty netherworld of crime.Our anti-hero of the piece, Snake Plissken, is superbly played by Kurt Russell, the original choice interestingly was Tommy Lee Jones, but Russell fuels Plissken's mantra to make him one of the eighties coolest grumpy bastards!, and his work here is first class in terms of the films apocalyptic structure. Surroundning Russell is a wealth of quality performers each adding their personal bits to this tick-tock stew, Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasance, Harry Dean Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau and Isaac Hayes all earn their money and flesh out the story to the end.Calling Escape From New York an action picture would be setting first time viewers up for a real let down, what action there is is minimal but highly effective, the machismo flourishes acting more as a point of reference to the pictures time bomb urgency. I like to think of the film as more a sci-fi adventure yarn laced with darkly comic humour, with of course machismo thrown in as a side salad to accentuate the bleakness of it all, wonderful. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Cult monument with a dream cast!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nearly 25 years and an endless amount of viewings later, John Carpenter's Escape from NY still ranks high among the chosen few, quintessential cult films of the 80's. This is, simply put, one of the coolest productions ever with legendary characters, ingenious plot and pitch-black humor. Kurt Russell, with eye patch and nihilistic 'you-don't-like-it-go-to-hell' attitude, plays the role of his life as anti-hero Snake Plissken, recruited by his authority-nemesis Bob Hauk to bring back the American president who crashed with his plane in New York. One problem though; ever since crime rose with 400% in 1987, New York has become one giant and demarcated prison where criminals determine their own civilization. Offered no other choice, Snake infiltrates NY for his mission &#133;and for a personal race against the clock. Especially the first sixty minutes of this movie are terrific, since there constantly is the introduction of new and imaginative characters. Class-A actors play all these utterly cool characters, which makes it even more memorable! Apart from Kurt Russell, Escape from New York also stars icons like Lee Van Cleef (The Good, the Bad and the Ugly), Isaac Hayes (Truck Turner), Donald Pleasance (Halloween) and Harry Dean Stanton (Repo Man). Even the smaller supportive roles are well distributed, with the underrated Tom Atkins as Van Cleef's sidekick and Adrienne Barbeau in a very sexy part. The downfall of America's number one city is atmospherically portrayed and Carpenter's own music score creates an excellent mood of despair. The action sequences are impressively photographed and John Capenter professionally camouflages that his film is, in fact, and independent production. My only slightly negative remark is that the story should have had a better, more explosive climax. Particularly because the first hour is so great, the ending seems quite tame. But, what the hell, this movie is a must for every film lover! In 1996, Carpenter also made Escape from L.A. and even though it's good entertainment, it can't compete with NY. "},{"Title":"The definition of a good B Movie","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"43 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although not as fast-paced or well-lit as its sequel, Escape from LA, this movie works on the level that it is futuristic, without being TOO futuristic, and the main character is likeable, while being tough at the same time. Whether you like Kurt Russell or not, it seems that he was made for the part of Snake Plissken. One of its highest points is its theme song. It really gets your adrenaline going, and that is one of the most important factors of movies. Available on DVD. Sequel, Escape from LA, filmed 15 years after the original also available on DVD. "},{"Title":" Hi  Snake, . . .  I  heard  you  were  dead!","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many fans of Kurt Russell were extremely surprised he emerged from his years as a child actor to evolve into a believable, hard hitting, action hero. True, he was traditionally recognized to many for his whimsical, good-looks and high school persona. Thus when movie-goers saw him in this film, many stood aghast at his mature tenor. This futuristic story begins with the President's plane being high-jacked by rebel extremists and flown into the island city of New York which has been transformed into a maximum prison. The plane with the president (Donald Pleasence) on board crashes into the prison and it falls to the warden/Police Commissioner, one, Bob Hauk, (Lee Van Cleef) to rescue the chief executive. His plan? To send in a new convict, an experienced ex-soldier and special ops veteran, named, Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) with the promise of a presidential pardon if he can return him alive. To insure the clever criminal does not take the opportunity to escape, he is given a lethal injection which can only be removed by the commissioner's medical staff. Thus, begins a timely drama which means life or death for the hero, the president and ultimately the world. The success of this film owes much to the film's other characters like the talkative Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine, terrific acting), Harold ' Brain' Helman (Harry Dean Stanton), his 'squeeze' Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau) and Isaac Hayes, who plays the heavy, The Duke of New York. This a groundbreaking film for Russell and as expected, he carries it to it's rave conclusion with action to spare. **** "},{"Title":"Why This Movie Works and Why It Never Grows Old","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" It would have been easy for John Carpenter to stay in George Romero's shadow or remain a cult figure with more Dark Star-type entertainment. Instead, JC catapulted his name and franchise into history with the release of EFNY. It contains all the classic elements a no-compromise anti-hero (Russell), a cast of misfit cohorts who work both for and against his goals (Borgnine, Barbeau, Stanton), an enemy with real dimensions (Hayes), a fantastic and depressingly realistic setting (Manhattan turned into a prison), and an authority we can both respect (van Cleef) and despise (Pleasance). And all of it works extremely well with a no-nonsense plot and storyline. No part of this is so far-fetched that we can't relate to the situation (and who hasn't pictured NYC in this condition one day?) or sympathize with Russell's character Snake Plissken. The worse thing you could say about this cult favorite is the low-key climax. No, you don't get a major battle or explosions as the finale. What you do get is absolutely true-to-form with the rest of the film Snake walks away after successfully completing his mission (and saving his own skin) and yet can still screw the authority and the society that put him in the situation to begin with...and you find yourself grinning in approval. "}{"Title":"A Classic Made On A Shoestring","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadWatch the documentary that comes with the blu ray. Carpenter had a very tiny budget; slightly more than he had with HALLOWEEN. Look what he did with it? The sets and the script are the stars here along with a great cast. Van Cleef, Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton and the Carpenter regular Donald Plescence who steals the movie. The scene where he machine guns the Duke, reciting back the slogan Duke made him memorize is why Carpenter used him so much in his movies. The film is dark, depressing and creepy. Russell gives a great performance not even pretending to be partly heroic with nothing but contempt for all of 'the establishment.' The scenes in the city are cleverly shot to conceal the fact that they were in a lousy part of St. Louis. Snake is not depicted as a kung fu expert like he would be today. He makes plenty of mistakes, like going down Broadway, and barely escapes. He often has to be bailed out by other people like Maggie, Brain's squeeze and Carpenter's real life girlfriend. She is much better here than in THE FOG where she is on screen too much. Her acting was always a bit shaky. The tyrannical, lying government does not seem too far off from where we are today. Ironically, while made in the late 70s this movie has aged very well and seems more prescient today then when it was released. The film itself is well acted, moves quickly, and is dark, depressing and brooding. Snake is no hero nor does he want to be. Snake was really the template that Riddick was based on. He is not invincible like Riddick yet this is an improvement. Snake is much more realistic less of a cartoon figure. Watch for Ernest Borgnine in a very small role; he was always such a great actor and he captures every scene he is in. If you really want to appreciate what a gem this is watch the big budget overblown awful sequel ESCAPE FROM LA. It shows that money is no guarantor of quality; ironically, Carpenter's smallest movies were the best HALLOWEEN, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK and THEY LIVE. It is a great film; one of his very best. "},{"Title":"The Timeless Cult Adventure of the Badass Anti-Hero Snake Plissken","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1997, Manhattan has been transformed in the New York Maximum Security Penitentiary, where criminals are sent in life sentence. When the Air Force One crashes in Manhattan with the president of the USA (Donald Pleasence) that is traveling to a summit with other leaders, the prison dean Hauk (Lee Van Cleef) proposes a deal to the convicted one-eyed bank robber Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell). If he rescues the president and his tape in less than 23 hours, he would be granted pardon. In order to guarantee full commitment of Snake Plissken, Hauk lures him and injects a lethal capsule in his blood that will dissolve in the scheduled time.Snake Plissken uses a small plane to land one the roof of the World Trade Center. Soon he finds that the tracking device was removed from the president. When he meets the taxi driver Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), he learns that the warlord The Duke (Isaac Hayes) has captured the president. Now Snake Plissken has to team-up with his former partner Brain (Harry Dean Stanton), who has double-crossed him in the past, and his squeeze Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau) to rescue the president and save his own life.Escape from New York is the timeless cult adventure of the badass one- eyed anti-hero Snake Plissken by John Carpenter. It is amazing how this movie has not aged and even after watching it so many times, I do not get tired of it. Kurt Russell has a fantastic shape and is perfect in the role of the tough Snake Plissken. The president dressed with blonde wig and with cosmetics and his rage in the end against The Duke seems to indicate that something else had happened to him besides losing his thumb. The movie has a dream cast and also a wonderful music score. My vote is ten.Title (Brazi) Fuga de Nova York (Escape from New York) "},{"Title":"Plain Average...","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's cult-hit 'Escape from New York' begins tepidly, gathers momentum in the middle, and culminates with some distractions. It's an average cinematic experience, that offers a solid idea, a fascinating, stylish protagonist, but suffers from below-the-mark writing.'Escape from New York' takes place in a dystopian 1997, the near future in a crime-ridden United States that has converted Manhattan Island in New York City into a maximum security prison, where Ex-soldier and legendary fugitive 'Snake' Plissken played marvelously by Kurt Russell, is given 24 hours to find the President of the United States, who has been captured by inmates after Air Force One crashed on the island.As said, the idea is truly super and there are genuinely some entertaining scenes. But the writing at most places, lacks the bite. Also, the inconsistent pacing leaves you unsatisfied. Carpenter's direction is sharp & note-worthy as ever, but his writing is far from his standards.Kurt Russell has truly embodied 'Snake' Plissken in here, and he's marvelous from start to end. He stands out throughout, even when the writing lets him down. Without doubt, a cult-character and a cult-performance! On the whole, though not bad at all, this sci-fi flick could've been better for sure. Nonetheless, watch it for Russell's memorable take on 'Snake' Plissken. "},{"Title":" B movie that crossed the line to being a huge success","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Movie is filled with stereo types from beginning to end.... as well as a hard to believe story even when it first came out.. this is however an entertaining movie filled with lots of action and adventure.... it also shows the Good guys are not always Good and the Bad Guys are not always Bad but that the extremists of this world always bring the downfall of everyone... "},{"Title":"Grungy, Dated But Entertaining","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Grungy and 'entertaining are two words that perhaps might best describe this John Carpenter-directed box-office success from 1981. Kurt Russell made himself into a macho movie star by putting a patch over his eye and playing Snake Plissken. His job is to get into New York City ,which in the distant year of 1997 was turned into a maximum security prison, and rescue the President of the U.S. who had crashed there.The whole atmosphere of this is sleazy except for one character a cab driver, played by Ernest Borgnine. Adrienne Barbeau is in here strictly to be eye candy. The grungy characters even included the President of the United States in a very unrealistic portrayal by Donald Pleasance.This was somewhat cool when it came out but the special-effects are so bad the film is laughable right now. It almost looks a like a B sci-fi film from the '50s. The Manhattan skyline is a cardboard cutout! Oh, well, the story is still very interesting, so if you can overlook things it's still an enjoyable 99 minutes. "},{"Title":"Classic Old Fashioned Cinematic Look At The Future","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1988 America experiences a surge in criminal violence that leads to Manhatten being turned in to one massive prison . In 1997 Airforce One is hijacked and crashes in to the prison . Newly convicted prisoner Snake Plissken is given a be given deal - if he can rescue the president he'll be given an amnesty but only has 22 hours to do so . If the mission fails the world may very well be heading towards World War 3 Earlier tonight I watched AEON FLUX , a film that some could claim is style over substance . I certainly didn't see any substance in that film and if you saw any style let me know what scene it appeared in . ESCAPE FROM NY is entirely different from FLUX . It's directed by John Carpenter who also did the electronic score and opened to moderate business on its released and later became a cult film . It's easy to see why . The camera work might be relatively static but this with hindsight compared to film making in the 21st century is a blessing since the visuals don't overwhelm the storytelling The story itself from real life events that over took this fictional scenario where in 1997 the cold war looks like hotting up big time but I doubt if Mikhail Gorbachev was sitting down at a table thinking ending the cold war would invalidate John Carpenter's vision of the future but that said a Marxist Leninist spouting rhetoric about workers and imperialist pigs does date the film Thankfully the film isn't really interested in politics and concentrates on keeping the audience excited which is does a good job at as Snake finds constant barriers in his way as he tries to find the missing president knowing that the clock is ticking away . Some of the action scenes aren't entirely plausible such as a machine pistol having an unrealistic capacity and despite being a not unlikable anti-hero in the vein of New Hollywood Kurt Russell plays Snake Plissken far too much like Clint Eastwood would have . Has anyone watched Russell's performance and not mentioned Eastwood ? Regardless of this ESCAPE FROM NY is a very enjoyable action thriller set in the future "},{"Title":"Cult film that does not stand test of time","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit, I was expecting a lot more here, and as such I was disappointed. This movie does not measure up even to cult status, with a gruff, almost non-existent acting job by Russell, stupid bad guys, and terrible dialog. This would not even be a solid indie by todays standards. There are other sci-fi cult films from this period that translate well to modern day (ie, Road Warrior, also from 81'), this one does not IMO. Carpenter had a solid premise, but it gets lost with a insufficient budget, and bad acting. I cant understand why Snake became such a iconic character off this movie alone. I have not seen Escape from LA as of yet, but it would have to really be great to make up for the lackluster EFNY. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York (1981) **** (out of 4) John Carpenter's cult classic is one of the greatest B movies ever made thanks in large part to Kurt Russell's terrific performance as the one and only Snake Plissken. Set in the future, the President of the United States (Donald Pleasence) crashes inside Manhattan Island, which has been turned into a prison. The Duke of New York (Isaac Hayes) takes him hostage so the government sends in the criminal Snake Plissken (Russell) to get him out alive. It's hard to believe this film was shot for $5 million but it certainly gets every penny out of the dollar. Russell's performance is clearly the highlight of the film and he carries the movie due to the performances, which gives Snake the perfect personality of a great anti-hero. The supporting cast does a wonderful job including Lee van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau, Tom Atkins and Charles Cyphers. The film has a great atmosphere and Carpenter's score perfectly sets the mood. Clearly one of the most fun movies of the decade. "},{"Title":"There was an accident. About an hour ago, a small jet went down inside New York City. The President was on board.   President of what?","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this dark dystopian sci-fi adventure, ultimate tough guy Snake Plissken is sent on a mission to enter New York, a city now turned into the world's largest penitentiary with a huge retaining wall, to rescue the President from a group of the roughest and most violent criminals imaginable. Sounds awesome, right? Escape From New York has all the right elements to make something awesome. The premise, the characters, the settings, and the overall essence of the film are indeed awesome. However, in the hands of John Carpenter, the film moves at a slow and brooding pace. It's the same creepy, methodic style that makes his other movies - Halloween, The Fog, Christine, The Thing &#x96; so effective. For this movie, I never felt that it works as well as it should the film creeps along so much in the dark that all sense of action and excitement is dampened. When action does hit &#x96; a few pedestrian scenes where bad guys throw rocks and sticks, beat and rape a few people, throw Snake into a death match arena, and then finally chase the heroes across a mined bridge &#x96; it's all pretty lightweight, lacking in particularly deep impact or thrills. I can't help but to think that, in the hands of guys like John McTiernan or Paul Verhoeven, Escape From NY could be the awesomest, pulpiest, and most badass movie out there. As it is, it's mildly cool, but it never fully capitalizes off of its own potential.The story this film tells is pretty neat, filled with some far-out sci-fi concepts (ideas that would be replicated in plenty of other films, most blatant of which is Doomdsay). The actual plot is pretty standard; it gives you just enough to the story and characters to understand what's going on and to kick off the big adventure, but there's not much depth or exploration offered beyond the surface-level expositions. Characters are pretty flat and lifeless all around, except for Snake Plissken, who is the epitome of cool, with his moody, dangerous, devil-may-care attitude. His character is not only a great antihero, but also a massive influence on other popular characters (remember Solid Snake from Metal Gear Solid?). The only problem is, you never really learn much about Snake beyond that surface level; he is as one-dimensional as everybody else. There are moments where I also wonder if this movie tries to pick at some social themes regarding American society and culture; after all, this is one of America's biggest and most popular cities turned into a total hellhole, and it's the American President caught up in the middle of the chaos. There are times when it seems like the film is underscoring the ugly undercurrent of social corruption and decay, but these themes never really materialize into anything tangible.This film uses rather pedestrian photography, in a manner not much different than Halloween. The camera moves and angles are interesting at times, but the shots are so long that they appear pretty indistinctive. Lighting is very dark throughout, for appropriate effect. Editing is good. Acting is generally okay Kurt Russell is the man throughout, opposite Lee Van Cleef and Isaac Hayes, who also try their best to be tough. Ernest Borgnine provides a little bit of goofiness to the mix, and Adrienne Barbeau adds a little bit of sex appeal. Harry Dean Stanton isn't given much to do, and his role is ultimately forgettable. And, Donald Pleasence is pretty much himself. Writing is okay; there are a few amusing lines. This movie uses sets, props, and costumes that show some limitations, but get the job done very well. John Carpenter's music score is pretty darn cool.Escape From New York has its share of coolness, but it could be cooler yet. It's not terribly exciting, but it is mildly interesting and mildly satisfying. Given its popularity, the film is a must-see for fans of dark and violent dystopian sci-fi.3.5/5 (Entertainment Pretty Good | Story Average | Film Pretty Good) "},{"Title":"Breaking out is impossible, breaking in is insane","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" How can somebody escape from not seeing this 1981 gritty and grim sci-fiction movie? It's one of the best John Carpenter's films of all times. Carpenter took the real-life pathologies that assailed New York in the '70s, like crime, decadence, drugs, blackouts, riots, economic turmoil, and punk rock, extrapolated to create this dire scenario. Carpenter wrote the film in the mid-1970s as a reaction to the Watergate scandal and it's shows as Escape From New York's political themes are well-grounded than its sequel Escape from LA which was full of satire, so New York seem a bit more grounded in reality than LA. It's story is a compelling but relentlessly sour and pessimistic action flick whose only levity comes from the inherent dark humor. Escape From New York's is the story about two societies. One is the far right fascist state that has created a prison island on Manhattan to imprisoned those who don't see their way, it's lead by a future US dystopia president (Donald Pleasence) whom plane was taken over by terrorist over the air space over the island. The plane crashes into Manhattan, but the President makes it to an escape pod and survives. The President finds himself in a world of the far left, an anarchy state, where a leader known as the Duke of New York (Isaac Hayes) takes him hostage, and order the government the right to leave Manhattan immediately or they will kill him. Police Commissioner Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef) is forced to send a special force soldiers turned criminal Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) to rescue him. The movie is amazing, with its limitations to the point that a video game director from Japan Hideo Kojima saw it as an influence on his work, The Metal Gear series starting a character Solid Snake, strongly based on Snake Plissken. There is a bit of a mystery to Snake due his character having no redeeming social value. It's clearly paying homage to the Man with No name from the Sergio Leone's movies, and maybe the reason why Lee Van Cleef was hired to play the Police Commissoner. Snake Plissken is pretty much one of the ultimate movie anti-hero rebel. Snake doesn't represent America, it represents humanity and the passion for freedom from the ''prison'' that modern America (and generally the people in power) have created, by destroying a key item in the end. It's the direct message from Carpenter against the capitalist system. An powerful message. Rather than, escapism in the Hollywood sense and made this a thrill-ride, Carpenter instead shot on a low budget, using a burnt-out St. Louis standing in for ghost-town NYC to makes it painfully plain that this alternative Manhattan is really not a nice place to visit and you wouldn't want to live there. A solid movie to watch if you felt escaping "}{"Title":"Oudated and a bit too campy but for a movie from the 1980's it's pretty good","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a cult classic to some movie buffs and inspired a some other movie characters including video game characters as well. One video that comes to mind straight off the bat is Metal Gear Solid the character Solid Snake is inspired by Snake Plissken who is the main protagonist and a bit of a anti-hero in this movie. This movie is probably Kurt Russell's big break in some ways and plays a character that sticks with him even today. This movie is outdated and not just because the special effects but it's just a really slow-paced action movie in today's standards. The plot is this in year 1988 crime rates go out of hand and thus the government decides to barricade and isolate the people of New York and no one is allowed to leave and those that enter aren't allowed to leave either. The movie takes place in 1997 and New York is now a isolated slum filled with bunch of homeless and crazy people or both and some of them are savage criminals in a ravaged wasted city. The president gets kidnapped and that is when Snake Plissken comes in, he has no other option but to go to New York and rescue the president or die trying. Despite the low budget this movie has some creativity going for it when it comes to the anarchic atmosphere and actions of the characters. So despite the linear story it mysterious and dark atmosphere that screams shady used in a effective manner makes it worth a watch even today. This movie can get really campy at times but for a movie made in 1980's it's not too shabby.7/10 "},{"Title":"Escape from New York (1981)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's 80's classic is still pretty damn superb. It gives us an awesome antihero, one that's cool without trying too hard. SUch a character is essential here, as the film deals with a man forced to do something against his will. Pride is at stake and not just the life of the president. In some ways it looks at how those we'd consider to be heroes wont always spring into action. The plot is also well paced and delicately set out. The film is certainly lacking in character development as absolutely no one is developed. This is a story about the situation presented to us. This does help the film avoid schmaltzy melodrama, or misguided politics. It's a shooterific action piece with enough ideas to keep you interested. "},{"Title":"It's too bad more people probably can't appreciate this movie","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York is one of those cult classics that probably become harder and harder for people to appreciate as time goes by. Partly that's because its descendants and imitators have grown more and more cartoonish over the years. Partly that's because it represents a sort of cinema storytelling that's been subsumed by cultural and economic changes. Partly its because John Carpenter was so excited to have a decent budget to work with that he was damn sure it was all going to get shown on screen, even if it tended to slow the action down to a crawl. But if you're not a member of today's ADHD movie going audience, this is still a pretty cool flick.In the far flung future of 1997, New York City has been transformed into a giant prison surrounded by a 50 foot high concrete wall. For years, prisoners have been dumped inside and left to fend for themselves while the U.S. Police Force stands guard on the perimeter. The unavoidable complaints of the ACLU apparently don't bother anyone, but the crash of Air Force One inside the city does. Police Commissioner Hauck (Lee Van Cleef) mounts a rescue mission, only to find the President (Donald Pleasance) has been taken prisoner by the Duke of New York (Isaac Hayes).Unable to launch a direct assault without risking the President's life, Hauck send legendary outlaw Snake Plissken (Kurt Russel) into the prison to retrieve the President and a tape cassette of nuclear secrets. If Snake doesn't get the job done in 22 hours so the President can address a summit meeting with Russia and China, tiny explosives in his neck will go off and kill him. With the help of an old partner who now calls himself Brain (Harry Dean Stanton), Brain's girlfriend (Adrienne Barbeau) and a cabbie (Ernest Borgnine) who's way too happy-go-lucky for a guy who's been living inside a violent hellhole of murder and deprivation, Snake has to battle his way through sewer crazies, the Duke's army of thugs and pro wrestler Ox Baker to save himself, the President and the United States. Of course, Snake isn't really all that interested in saving those last two.As I mentioned, there are three basic problems with Escape From New York and only one of them has anything to do with the movie itself.First, even though this is a sci-fi, dystopic action film, it was made at a time when even these sorts of dramas were expected to adhere as close to reality as possible. So, Snake Plissken isn't some superhuman killing machine who slaughters scores of people while making clever quips and sprinting headlong from one kinetic madhouse of violence to another. He mainly sneaks around superior forces and has only one really big fight scene. The whole thing is rather restrained by modern standards, especially for such an over the top premise.Secondly, this film reflects and projects 1970's attitudes about urban decay and societal disintegration that don't resonate all that well after decades of gentrification and falling crime rates. Oddly enough, some viewers might still respond to the surface politics of the story, but I don't believe it can truly connect in a deeper, instinctual way as it could in the early 80s.Thirdly, director John Carpenter wanted every single person who watched Escape From New York to notice the wonderful and expansive scenery that he could afford when he made it. You can understand why a guy from the world of low budget filmmaking would get caught up in that, but the advances in special effects have eliminated how impressive such scenes would have been to people who had never seen that sort of thing in this sort of movie. Now, it only seems like the camera lingers for an excessively long time on the desolate appearance of the Big Apple circa 1997.On the positive side, this film is a lot like Highlander. Even with its flaws, it creates an incredibly interesting reality populated with compelling characters. If it had been made a few years later when the infrastructure of geek culture was more established, this thing might have spawned an immediate series of sequels and a long running TV show, instead of a big budget sequel too long delayed to have any relevance to the cultural zeitgeist.Snake Plissken is cool. The police state world he inhabits is cool. A story that ends with the hero nihilistically throwing away society's last chance at survival is cool. Unfortunately, Escape From New York is probably a little too dated for a lot of folks to appreciate how cool it is. "},{"Title":"You must know that Snake is not dead","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is 1997 and New York is now a prison, when the president's plane crashes into the island Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef) the police commissioner, must get the president out of the island in 24 hours so the president can be in an important meeting for the peace of the world. Hauk left the mission in Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), an ex war-hero, with the promise that he would left Snake without any accusation. To make sure that Snake rescue the president, Hauk implant in him two capsules that will explode within 22 hours.That is the main plot of this sci-fi cult classic of John Carpenter, and for me is one of my favourite stories in sci-films ever. The idea of New York as a prison is nothing but original and really good, and the visual part of this film is really cool; lots of films in this days will die for an environment like the one that Carpenter creates.The cast is great, Kurt Russell makes one of his best performances ever for one of the best characters in sci-fi films Snake. And with the participation of Lee Van Cleef (The Good, the bad and the ugly), Isaac Hayes as The Duke and the great Harry Dean Stanton (Paris Texas) as Brain makes this as a amazing cast that is the perfect complement for the great story of Carpenter.So this is nothing but an exciting film, now a true cult classic and Carpenter teach us that you don't need the biggest budget to make one of the best sci-fi/action films ever because this film budget is $7,000,000 so is nothing if we compare to Hollywood latest films.Conclusion i highly recommend this cult classic and you must know that Snake is not dead, prove to that is that 26 years later he is still one of the best characters ever. In the end of the film (which i love) we can see a resume of the personality of Snake and why he is not the classic hero.DVD i have a single edition that doesn't contain bonus material so i wish that soon an special edition came in the Region 4.PS i hear that is coming a remake of this film, i hope this respect the essence of the original and at least Carpenter will be the producer. I like to imagine a director like Robert Rodriguez making this remake. "},{"Title":"not a masterpiece,but a pretty good film","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" after just watching this movie,i am of two minds about it.on the one hand,i think the filmmakers were pretty bang on in their view of what a post apocalyptic world might look like,or at least New York and surrounding areas.i thought Kurt Russel was a perfect choice for the hero,or rather anti-hero,in this case.he was very convincing as a loner/outlaw,for lack of better terms.i did find it amusing that the movie,made in 1980,shows us a future world in the year 1997.of course,that year has come and gone,and the real world has had(up to this point)little in common with the world depicted on screen.this is not a criticism,merely an observation.i found the movie somewhat compelling,yet also slow at the same time.most of the movie is pure drama,with a bit of action,and some humour thrown in.i liked the rough edge the movie had.it seemed unpolished,which is good in this case.i did not find the movie to be a masterpiece or anything profound,which is what i was hoping and expecting.i remember seeing bits of the movie a long long time ago,and recall being blown away.but that was then,this is now.tastes change over time.having said that,i enjoyed the movie more than not.Overall,i'd give Escape From New York an 8/10 "},{"Title":"An 80's classic.","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter has this real gift for being able to make really good movies with small budgets. This movie is a fine example. Carpenter manages to overcome the $6 million budget (then a large amount for a Carpenter film) and manages to create a film with some cool sets, fine visual effects (assisited by James Cameron) and lots of atmosphere. Carpenter's films have always relied on atmosphere and mood and this movie is no exception. The dark look and feel of the movie really set the proper mood. I'm also impressed at how none of the characters, especially Snake, are completely good or completely bad. There are shades of grey in everyone. Something lacking in too many movies nowadays.With this movie Carpenter managed to create one of the finest sci-fi/action films of the 80's. Too bad the same can't be said of the sequel. "},{"Title":"Good atmospfere and soundtrack","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think the Escape from New York is a fine movie...although the story is far out (but it's Sci-Fi, so it's supposed to be that) you get involved in the atmospfere of the movie. It also has a great dark soundtrack...very inspired simple music. (simple in a good way)  "},{"Title":"Cerebral....sort of like an episode of Masterpiece Theatre.","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, I'll admit it...my summary is completely ridiculous! Escape From New York is anything but cerebral or sophisticated. Instead, it's a rather absurd little sci-fi film that actually manages to be awfully entertaining despite being utterly ridiculous. Much of this is because the film takes itself so very seriously--and this heightens the campy atmosphere and makes the film a lot of fun.This John Carpenter film is set in the near future. Lawlessness has taken hold until society has come up with a strange solution--to turn Manhattan Island into a giant prison. This 'prison' is really just a dumping ground--a dumping ground where there are no guards and no rules--just a weird self-created society of scum.When a terrorist hijacks Air Force One and crashes it into this city, the President is able to use an escape pod--but he lands in the middle of this hellish city. For some odd reason, instead of sending in the Marines or the Navy Seals, they send in one man--'Snake' Plissken (Kurt Russell). Plissken is ridiculously overplayed by Russell--and that adds to the fun. I am pretty sure he didn't take himself very seriously and the viewer certainly can't! Plissken is sort of like Rambo and Clint Eastwood (Russell REALLY had the Eastwood voice down pat)--but even more indestructible! Now Plissken is NOT the hero type. He himself is a convicted criminal but he's also a war hero. To convince him to take the assignment, they not only promise him his freedom but his life. You see, this is because they implanted a nanoprobe into him that will kill him if the assignment isn't completed in 24 hours! Can he do it? What do you think? As I said above, Plissken is played in such an overly serious and over-the-top manner that the film is really a hoot to watch. Also, the film is very original even if it is silly. A few other things I loved were the faux computer graphics (done amazingly well considering everything--see the IMDb trivia for more on this), the scene towards the end of the President having his revenge on 'The Duke' and the incredible soundtrack (by Carpenter himself). All in all, a dumb but incredibly cool guilty pleasure. And sometimes you just have to let your brain relax and watch something mindlessly fun. "},{"Title":"Freedom Fighter","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rebels are always my favorite type of hero because their people that don't go with the flow they simply want to do their own thing and don't want anyone to tell them otherwise. But also that they are willing to defend themselves against what seems unfair and unjust. This is my third favorite movie from my favorite movie director John Carpenter and one of my favorite movies in general.Everything about the movie is just great. I really like how dark the futuristic setting is, even though there isn't a great deal of depth uncovered you know enough to get a feeling of a society that has turned it's back on it's own principles it once stood by. The fact that New York has been made into a maximum security prison is irony of this since New York is considered the heart of America, a place where great things occurred and were achieved, and anything was possible. But I just really like the look of New York, the model, set pieces, use of lighting and use of an old abandoned town was great and it was all done on a low budget. It's just a prime example of a budget used the right way no matter what range it goes as long as heart and effort is put into it. The world of the city prison is really dark and dangerous it's someplace you don't want to live in.The action is good it's not wall to wall but that's a good thing because it made the film a little realistic plus this film is more of a suspense thriller. My favorite sequence is the gladiatorial fight against the giant, I just like how the fight didn't look too much like a well choreographed martial arts battle but an actual fight.And of course the best things were the suspense, I really liked the dark moody atmosphere the darkness and the ruin of the city really give you the sense of isolation and constant danger, there could be a gang of killers hiding within the shadows. The music is superb, as usual John Carpenter best fortays is music, the theme song is one of my favorite themes ever. His score creates moodiness some places as well as excitement in others.Supporting characters are good, Snakes allies are likable though unreliable. Cabbie played by the late Ernest Borgnine is funny he's helpful but at the same time a bit of a coward. Brain by Harry Dean Stanton is true to his name a thinker/schemer and Maggie by Adrienne Barbeau whom is hot as usual but she's tough. Both sort of have a bronze and brains dynamic, Brain is the one that always has a plan and leads while Maggie is sort of a bodyguard for him since it seems like she's the one with some fighting capabilities.The main villain the Duke played by the late Issac Hayes is great and yeah I like his music, I like how he's menacing he a man in charge but also he's fun at the same time because he's got some really got really good lines or just simply how he delivers them.But of course the best thing about the movie for me is the character Snake Plisken played brilliantly by one of my favorite actors Kurt Rusell. Snake is my favorite fictional hero of all time, I really love the voice he has it's sort of a Clint Eastwood like tone. Snake is tough as nails both verbally and physically. There's not a great deal of depth to his character but I think that's a good thing because it give him sort of a mystique value. I love the fact that he's a guy that has a problem with authority, isn't really looking to be a hero but mainly just wants to keep to himself, and doesn't take crap from anyone or even give a crap about certain problems. But he's a hero because he does what is right or at least what he's meant to do whether he wants to or not, because there is no one else. I highly emphasize with him because I too have a problem with authority, I don't like being told what to do, and I like keeping to myself. To me Snake is America, America was founded and created by rebels like him.Escape from New York is escapist fun.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Kurt Russell is unforgettable","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1981, New York's Times Square was filled with pawn shops, strip joints, peep shows, drug addicts, and prostitutes. It seems worlds away from the Disney stages and suburban mall feel that has taken its place. For nearly fifteen years between 1965 and 1980, Americans watched the hearts of their largest cities degenerate into havens for the miserable, misbegotten, and mislead. Great theaters fell into disrepair or were torn down. Unique specialty shops disappeared. The major department stores that at one time drew people from hundreds of miles away were sold off for real estate speculators. Small wonder we didn't expect that trend to continue.Writers/Directors John Carpenter and Nick Castle wrote a pessimistic future for New York. That one day, instead of trying to fix the mess, society would throw up its hands and walk away. We'd burn our bridges behind us, wall off the place and make it a large penal colony. Carpenter and Castle couldn't see that one factor prevented that scenario from ever taking place &#x96; Wall Street had too much invested in its infrastructure to write off leaving their investment behind, which was then and is even more today, considerable. Therefore, the premise is not only dated but goofy. Still, the movie delivers on different levels that can be satisfying even without implausibility of its premise.Escape from New York actually takes place in the 1990's and unlike the more plausible but equally pessimistic Blade Runner the entire island of Manhattan becomes a huge prison. Through some mishap of fate, the president's jet, Air Force One, goes down and the president escapes via a special survivor's pod that ends up inside the futuristic colony (picture New York City even more run down than it was in 1981). Enter the comic book superhero and sexy cross-over anti-hero Snake Plissken, played to sneering perfection by a youthful, slim and muscular Kurt Russell. Once a Disney goody-two-shoes, Russell cast that image aside the moment he strode onto the set with his eye patch slightly askew and a cigarette dangling from under his long blond locks. Sent in after the president with a built-in self-destruct timer, Snake must deliver the president or suffer a terminal end to his assignment. A great supporting cast helps this low-budget sci-fi thriller such as Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasence, Isaac Hayes, Harry Dean Stanton, and Adrienne Barbeau (at her voluptuous peak).Carpenter never really directed a large budget film until Halloween which made millions in its first release. After that, he directed several hits, including Starman and The Thing both which had respectable box office. As strangely out of date as the film is in regards to predicting the future, it works as a storytelling device in creating a film that has suspense, action, drama, and some wonderful characters worth watching. Escape from New York eventually achieved cult status in the sci-fi con world, and if you can forget the opening premise, is entertaining fare for those who love dark comic book anti-heroes like Snake Plissken, more or less a precursor to Batman. Russell so impressed audiences at the time that he could never completely shake the persona he had created. For those of us who became fans of Russell from that point on imagined the tattoo of a snake on his front that ended&#x85; well, you know where it ended. I always thought Goldie Hawn was the luckiest Hollywood bride during the decade that followed that film, partnered with a man's man, whatever that is. Years later, Russell reprised the same role for the even more fantastic but slightly more humorous Escape from LA also directed by John Carpenter.If you've never seen Escape from New York, watch the supporting cast for some surprising levels of excellence. If you haven't seen Escape from New York in a while, I suggest it's time for a second, third, or fourth look. "}{"Title":"A Sci-FI/Action Classic. One of Carpenter's best.","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York is a Sci-FI/Action classic and is one of my favorite movies of all time and along with The Road Warrior set the standard for post-apocalyptic movies.Set in a futuristic 1997,New York has become a prison for the entire country where you get but don't come out. The president's(Donald Pleasence)plane has been hijacked and crashed into a building,and although he survives The President has been kidnapped inside the prison by a terrorist-like organization. A former war hero Snake Plissken(Kurt Russell) has been hired to go inside the prison and get the president out within 24 hours,putting Plissken in a hellish journey.Escape From New York is a great film that works so well because the great story,the character Snake Plissken and direction. The story of EFNY is original and imaginative having the idea of having the entire city of New York be a prison for the entire country and it's great and well done. The future in the film is dark and bleak and unforgettable and even though you're free in the New York prison for the entire country you can't get out because the prison is guarded and water is dangerous. Like any post-apocalyptic film the film has an over the top comic book style and the characters,action and style are pushed to the limit. Carpenter is a master of making films that were made on a low budget but at times look like they cost a lot more and EFNY is no exception. With 6-7 million dollar budget,EFNY looks like it costs 50 million dollars.The Action in the film for a small budget is well done and executed with skill,one of my favorite Action scenes in the film being the Wrestling scene which is well-directed. As a Wrestling fan,I loved that Carpenter put this scene in,which is one of the best and hardcore Wrestling scenes in film history. Great scene. EFNY is a film that will have glued to the screen from beginning to end and at 98 minutes the film moves at a fast pace. As a viewer you can relate to Snake and wondering will he survive? Will Snake get out of the prison in 24 hours? It's an a dangerous,suspense filled adventure that puts the viewer in a since of dread and fear,but at the same time you are in the moment. Snake Plissken is such a great character because he's tough,human and complex. Snake is character we all wish we were like,a character who is tough but can also get out of dangerous situations and Snake in the city of New York which is an entire prison gets in many dangerous situations. Snake like Carpenter's other anti-hero's are loners,outcasts and outsiders in society that don't play well with others and are tough and are pretty much similar to Western characters. Snake is truly at the top of Carpenter's great anti-hero's including Jack Burton(Big Trouble In Little China),R.J MacReady(The Thing),John Nada(They Live),Napoleon Wilson(Assault On Precinct 13),Jack Crow(Vampires)John Trent(In the Mouth Of Madness)and James Desolation Williams(Ghosts Of Mars). They're all like Snake,tough and outspoken individuals. Carpenter loves the Western genre and EFNY is in many ways a futuristic western and Snake is a lone cowboy. Instead of cowboys, dust,dirt,outlaws,lawmen and tumbleweeds it dirty streets,burned-out buildings,crazed criminals and corrupt,futuristic lawmen. The script by John Carpenter and Nick Castle is well-written and memorable filled with great lines and characters and dark humor. The ending of the film is excellent cap-off to the film and is cynical,yet funny at the same time and one of the things that makes this movie classic and iconic.Kurt Russell is excellent as Snake Plissken one of my favorite movie characters of all time. Russell plays Snake to a hilt,wearing a eye patch and sporting a Clint Eastwood voice not giving a damn about the law,the president or anyone in general,Plissken is THE definition of an antihero. This is Russell's best and most iconic role and one of the reasons Kurt Russell is one of my favorite actors. Lee Van Cleef is wonderful as Hauk the man who runs the prison. Van Cleef's scenes with Russell are great and the two have a great chemistry together. Donald Pleasence is great as the president,playing scared and nervous well in the film. Ernest Borgnine does a fine job as Cabbie bringing most of the film's humor. Harry Dean Stanton is amazing as Brain a man who is smart and can figure things out quickly. Adrienne Barbeau is fantastic and sexy as Maggie,Brain's girlfriend,squeeze and bodyguard who will protect Brain at all costs. Issac Hayes is outstanding as the villain The Duke Of New York bringing a larger than life character with the soulful voice and presence he brought to his music. Tom Atkins(Rehme),Frank Doubleday(Romero),Season Hubley(Girl In Chock Full O'Nuts)and Charles Cyphers(Secretary Of State)do good jobs as well.The direction by John Carpenter is excellent because's he's always moving the camera and never slowing down and the fact the film mostly takes place at night adds to the film's suspense and tension. The action scenes are well-done and timed and the film moves at a wonderful fast pace. Like I said before,Carpenter makes low budget films look like they have a bigger budget and greater than they are and EFNY is no exception. Great job,John.The score by Carpenter and Alan Howarth is wonderful and adds to the tone of the film and the Escape From New York theme is one of my all time favorite movie theme songs. One of Carpenter's best scores.In final word,Escape From New York is a classic that will stand the test of time and will not be forgotten,from it's great beginning to it's cynical yet funny ending. John Carpenter and Kurt Russell at their best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Snake Saves The Free World","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the things I like about Escape From New York is the fact that the lead character is named Snake. It was a snake who tricked mankind out of paradise and in John Carpenter's world a snake is what saves the free world's leader.Of course the free world ain't all that free any more. In Escape From New York crime has risen to astronomic proportions, so much so that the entire island of Manhattan is now one big prison surrounded by the National Police Force. We now have one of those, I assume this is what the Federal Bureau of Investigation has morphed into. And the USA is at war, with who they don't say. But the enemies of the new American way of life have seized Air Force One and crash it in a suicide move worthy of what we see from the Middle East. But President Donald Pleasance, who looks a whole lot like Peter Sellers's president from Dr. Strangelove. He escapes in a pod that crashes on the prison island of Manhattan.What to do, but rescue Pleasance. And the guy that police chief Lee Van Cleef has in mind is Snake Plissken, former war hero, now career criminal with a Rooster Cogburn patch and played by Kurt Russell. To make sure that Russell doesn't double-cross him, Van Cleef implants a couple of mini bombs in his veins, just enough for him to bleed out when detonated in seconds. And they will detonate 22 hours from the point implantation. The rest of the film is Russell's rescue of President Pleasance who is being held by the head of the criminal society that has grown up in Manhattan headed by Isaac Hayes. Russell gets some help and some betrayal from folks like Adrienne Barbeau, Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton and Season Hubley. To see who does what, watch the film.Escape From New York is a fun science fiction film that's attained a cult status of sorts. Certainly the world has not quite developed as John Carpenter envisioned it for 1997.Or has it? "},{"Title":"John Carpenter is a great director!","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" WARNING *spoilers* Escape From New York is one of my favorite films ever. The plot is so creative the way John Carpenter has took this film. It's about a cocky-looking man named Snake Plisken. He is sent on a mission to save the president after a plane crash. The Manhatten area is a prison area with no escape. Because a huge wall covers around the whole thing.But while Snake looks for the president, he notices a bunch of crazy people walking around and trying to kill Snake. It's an interesting film really. Then he meets up with Brain and Maggie and they help him. But Snake also wants to meet the Duke of New York. (A number one).Snake gets hurt by the Duke and fights against a big man. But then Brain took the president while the Duke hasn't noticed. Until someone seen Brain take him away. So Snake, Harold, and Maggie all try to save the president by waiting by the end of some wall. So then The Duke and Snake have to fight to the death. Until the president kills him.The whole film is really a thriller of a film. It is an interesting film. The streets are trashed, and crazy people walking around. Strange things are going on in this film. But the way John Carpenter has directed this is great. He made this film very creative the way the film is. It's a great 80's film! I recommend it if anyone likes some thriller/action films. "},{"Title":"Call him Snake","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's Escape from New York begins with a statement that in 1988 crime in the United States increased 400 percent. It is never explained why crime increased so drastically, but the importance of the statement is only to establish that Manhattan Island has been converted to a maximum security prison.The film's story takes place in a hypothetical 1997 and concerns the efforts of one Snake Plissken, a former war hero and convicted bank robber coerced into rescuing the President of the United States after Airforce One crashes on Manhattan Island. Not surprisingly, conditions within the prison are harsh and the film excellently creates a dingy, run-down setting with decaying buildings, dark lighting and even some rats. The score is unmistakably a product of the 1980s and is mostly effective but sometimes over-the-top. The theme from the start and end credits is strangely catchy. The costumes are also memorable, with the outlandish costumes of the prisoners contrasting nicely with the imposing costumes of the police force guarding the prison.This film strongly benefits from its cast. Kurt Russell leads the cast as Snake Plissken, the anti-social, anti-establishment, semi-celebrity anti-hero that is made memorable despite speaking in short lines in low tones. Lee Van Cleef, known as a villain from Westerns, is a perfect choice to play the police commissioner that oversees Snake's efforts. Ernest Borgnine is likewise memorable as the affable, energetic cab driver that allies with Snake. Donald Pleasence is well-cast as the President of the United States and Isaac Hayes is too as the self-styled Duke of New York.The film's story remains interesting with the different turns Snake has to take to seek the President. This is in part because the script is focused and doesn't meander. Carpenter does indulge in one very horror-like scene, but it does not detract from the film's dystopian storyline. "},{"Title":"A Cult memorial...","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" First time i saw John Carpenter's Escape from New York,i found it truly attractive.a film of a talented Director.with so many memorial moments.The Story is set in 1997.when the crime rate in U.S.A in raised to 400/5herefor New York city is been turned to a big prison,but there's laws in there.there's no guard to keep the prisoners.the city is been surrounded with high walls & the criminals live with each other.one day,a libertine group settles the president and throws him into the city to experience the life of criminals in New York.the Police Commissioner Bob Hauk(Lee Van Cleef)hires a big hit-man criminal named Snake Plissken(Kurt Russell)to enter the doom city to find president(Donald Pleasence).it is very dangerous in there.cause the city is under the control of savage people.Snake Meets so many people on his way of survival.like Cabbie(Ernest Borgnine),Brain(Harry Dean Stanton)& Maggie(Adrienne Barbeau).he should face the number 1 man in New york.The DukeIsaac Hayesthat has taken president as a hostage...This movie attracts you from start to end.the snake character is so amazing.Kurt Russell is astonishing.he steals every moment in the film.talks like the unnamed Clint Eastwood character.every one plays of his roles well.except Donald Pleasence that doesn't suit the role of president.John Carpenter is well known for his Horror movies like The Fog,Halloween,The Fog & so many others.but he is a very talented director and he can work at about so many genres more and Escape from New York is the proof.what more can say?A Cult Memorial... "},{"Title":"New York-if You Could Make it Here,You can Make it Anywhere","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" You've gotta give this pic props just for the concept alone New York City walled off as the only maximum security prison in the USA. Who would come up with an idea like that? John Carpenter, that's who. This follows up on the thematic elements of his earlier Assault on Precinct 13(76) in terms of crime spiraling out of control. This takes it to another level, the future of 1997 (since it's no longer 'the future' now, we can look at it as an alternate history). Then we have the iconic character of Snake Plissken (Russell), who appears to have stepped out of some classic pulp men's adventure story with science fiction overtones. Russell imitates the equally-classic Clint Eastwood delivery for tough characters, but Eastwood never looked so anti-establishment. Everything about the Plissken figure spells out 'outlaw' or just iconoclast. Basically, if you need someone to pull off a 'mission impossible' type of deal, this is the guy you go to. Why? Because he follows his own rules, makes up his own rules and, at the same time, doesn't follow any rules. This was also spelled out in an earlier made-for-TV movie called The Challenge(1970); you don't necessarily send in the best soldier to accomplish the mission. You send the guy who will break all the rules.In this case, the mission is a real corker the President (Pleasence) of the U.S. ends up inside the one place where no one else can get him out of - NYC. Military or Secret Service isn't going to work for something like this; it's all a matter of expediency, too. The Prez is needed for an important conference, of world-shaking matters. Carpenter assembled a dream cast to bring his story to fruition. Besides Russell, who turned out to be the ideal choice for Plissken, and Pleasence, who is excellent as usual, Carpenter nabbed Van Cleef is his last great role, as an intimidating top cop; Borgnine as the prototypical cab driver; Stanton as the amusing and sly Brain; then-wife Barbeau as femme fatale; and Hayes as the King, er, Duke of New York. Mention should also be made of actor Doubleday in the bizarre Romero role. These colorful characters dance and spar with each other on the dark streets of a more-than-gritty New York City. With a limited budget, and actually filming in another city, Carpenter, his cinematographer Cundey and his set designer managed to convey the dystopian ambiance of a once-great big city, now in ruin and lorded over by pure anarchy.Like The Road Warrior(81)(aka Mad Max 2), Escape From New York was heavily influential on the science fiction sub-genre of post holocaust adventure. The Plissken character himself seems to have been copied in many of the later sci-fi imitations of squalid future landscapes. They probably waited too long for its own sequel, Escape From L.A. in '96, which was an amusing retread of the original. "},{"Title":"A Great B Movie","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from NY is full of action and excitement, but about halfway through you realize it isn't going anywhere, and you're basically watching a live-action cartoon.  When you watch a cab be blown in half, and four out of five passengers walk away like they're on a Sunday stroll, you're not sure if you're watching a parody or a serious action flick.  And apparently, Carpenter isn't really sure either.  The action sequences are so-so, and they are surprisingly involving.  Even Plissken's fight with the gladiator bad-guy is curiously uninvolving.  Basically, it's interesting on the surface, but not a movie you want to pay much attention to.  The actors are all interesting to watch, but they're not really given much to do. "},{"Title":"SNAKE RULES","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  He's the best anti-hero in the history of cinema and ALWAYS has the last laugh. He just doesn't care. All Americans wish they could feel this way but Snake...he's just conscience free. The only person he looks out for or cares about is himself. And he's an ex-soldier too. The action scenes in this film are few and far between but it has a strange feel to it. It's gritty film-making. Much better than the cheesy(but still good) sequel. Check this out whenever you can. "},{"Title":"Taut, dangerous rescue of a high profile hostage.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter takes part in the script writing, conducts the pacesetting score and directs this action thriller. In the late 90s, Manhattan Island of New York is a maximum security national prison. The President of the United States(Donald Pleasence)is forced to crash land inside the prison walls. Lee Van Cleef plays the head of the military  that guards the prison walls and chooses the perfect man to rescue the President from the criminals that now run their own island world. Former honored war hero Snake Plissken(Kurt Russell)turned criminal/bank robber is offered a full pardon and release upon getting the President to safety.This is not the greatest action movie you will ever see, but I doubt if you could forget it after watching it. Pretty intense when it needs to be and enough conflict and action to keep your interest. The fantastic score really inflicts the pace and action. Russell is not over powering as Snake, but comes across cool and in charge. I really liked his Clint Eastwood type whispering reply...Call me Snake. And oh yes, the line Get a new President. Russell's macho swagger and ruthless attitude defines Snake perfectly. Van Cleef clever and calm, could have called his part in over a cell phone. Pleasence to me is an odd choice to play the leader of the free world.Visually watching the hero land a glider on top of the World Trade Center is now pretty awesome in the light of what has recently happened(September 11, 2001). Ernest Borgnine has a notable, but small role as the energetic cab driver. Look out for Issac Hayes...The Duke of New York. Adrienne Barbeau and Season Hubley are little more than decoration. The whole cast makes this film look effortless and it is worth yours. Call me, Snake. "},{"Title":"Frustratingly mediocre","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before 1981 and Escape from New York, John Carpenter had already scored huge hits and all time classics with Dark Star, Assault on Prescient 13 and Halloween. Why on earth he didn't opt for higher budgets is anyone's guess, because Escape from New York squanders a brilliant premise on shortages of budget, imagination and action. Kurt Russell impersonates Clint Eastwood as Snake Plissken a convicted criminal who is sent into New York in 1997, which is now America's one and only maximum security prison, to rescue the President (Pleasence) whose plane has crashed. The film plays like a futuristic western, with Lee Van Cleef overseeing the operation from the control room, making the film's roots in Sergio Leone apparent. To be fair to Carpenter, he manages a lot on the $6 million budget a great, dark look to the film, a panoramic cityscape, good special effects, impressive sets, a couple of effective action sequences, a script laced with black humour as well a great main theme. As a whole these elements make the film reasonably enjoyable. However it simply isn't enough. The film never fulfils its ingenious premise by not making use of Snake's time limit to complete the mission until the very end and as a result it spends a long time just not going anywhere. There's not enough action and the bad guys are a bunch of lacklustre convicts, lead by Isaac Hayes. Carpenter fans may lap it up as B-movie hokum, but for the rest of us, this should have been a serious slice of action cinema. 5/10 "}{"Title":"One of the better action movies ever","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"25 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Normally I'm not too much a fan of action movies and John Carpenter has never been on my list of favorite directors. In my opinion he only made one good movie, except for this one of course, and that's Halloween. But as I already said before, even though I'm normally not a fan of this kind of movies or of the man's work, I must say that I'm glad to make an exception when it comes to this movie. Escape from New York may well be seen as one of the better action movies of all times and even after 25 years it still gives me a good time when watching it.Due to huge crime rates in 1997, the US government has changed New York into a maximum security prison where the toughest criminals are put away for life. All the bridges have been mined, a huge wall has been built around the city and a large police force army is stationed near the statue of liberty. Inside this prison it's the survival of the fittest. There are no rules or regulations, except for those made up by the prisoners themselves, making this one of the most dangerous places to be in. When Air Force One, with the President on board, is taken over by a terrorist and crashed into a building, the President is able to escape by ejecting in a pod. But he has landed in the middle of New York and someone needs to get him out of there soon. That's where Snake Plissken comes in. He's an ex-soldier and a new prisoner who is asked to save the President and to find a tape with some important information. In return his sentence will be canceled and Plissken will be a free man again. He agrees, but to make sure that he will return on time, they inject him with a small but powerful explosive that will only be destroyed if his mission is successful. So now he does not only have to take care of the President and try to stay alive in between all those criminals, he also has a lot of time pressure...I must say that this movie reminded me a lot of the Australian Mad Max-movies, especially the second one. In case you are wondering if that is a good or a bad thing I liked those movies and yes I like this one as well. Despite the fact that it was made in 1981, this movie still feels quite futuristic. OK, we know that 1997 wasn't like this, but that doesn't really matter this time. If they had set the date to 2097, this would still have been the same movie and then we wouldn't have know that this was impossible. And the fact that some details show the real age of the movie isn't a bad thing either. Take for instance the computers. They used a lot of flashing lights and stuff like that, but those are only some small details which shouldn't spoil your fun. The acting in this movie is OK as well. This may well have been one of Kurt Russell's best performances and I really loved Ernest Borgnine as Cabbie. I even appreciated Lee Van Cleef in this movie, despite the fact that I'm normally not a fan of the man. I guess I must say that all actors did a good job. As a conclusion I would like to say that a good and still futuristic looking story, some good acting, several interesting action scenes,... make this movie more than just worth a watch. I really like it and that's why I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"A classic film John Carpenter's the best  Action Sci-Fi flick","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York is a 1981 American dystopian action film co-written, co-scored, and directed by John Carpenter.A classic film. Escape From New York (1981) Is also one of my favorite classic Action Sci-Fi John Carpenter movies. It was also the first movie I ever saw from John Carpenter as a child and It I still the best movie in my opinion. I love this movie to death I own it on Blu-ray tough it doesn't have great video quality like it should have I still love it to death. Kurt Russell is Snake Plissken period! Also Lee Van Cleef Is also in it from a Few Dollars More and The Good, The Bad and The Ugly I just love those Western movies to death. Adrienne Barbeau from The Fog is also in it and she is the beautiful, but deadly Maggie.The plot is set more in the future American by the late 90's. In 1997, when the US President crashes into Manhattan, now a giant maximum security prison, a convicted bank robber is sent in for a rescue. In a world ravaged by crime, the entire island of Manhattan has been converted into a prison which houses the world's most brutal inmates. And when the President of the United States crash lands inside, only one man can bring him back Snake Plissken, a notorious outlaw and former Special Forces war hero who, in exchange for a full pardon, descends into the decayed city and wages a blistering war against the captors. But time is short in 24 hours, an explosive charge planted inside Snake's body will end the mission -- and his life -- unless he succeeds.You've got Kurt Russell, wearing a freaking eye patch and toting a massive assault rifle, squatting in the middle of a fire. You know, just taking it easy, popping a squat while the city burns around him. Non-plussed. Chillaxed. In the background, Lady Liberty's decapitated head lies in the middle of the street, her copper-green eyes staring vacantly up into a crowded, off-kilter skyline. What the hell happened, I wondered. I'd have to wait for Cloverfield to find out, because, as it turns out, that nifty piece of poster art&#x97;while summing up the film's nothing is sacred attitude and permanently establishing Kurt Russell as an icon of badass - has no relation to the film's plot. When I finally managed to see the movie, I kept waiting for Lady Liberty's head to get blown off, but it never happened. I was a little disappointed. And in a way, that's still how I feel about Escape From New York. The premise is a near-perfect action movie set-up, and the world that John Carpenter creates has so much potential for edge-of- your-seat storytelling, but the end result doesn't fully deliver on its promise. But that's not to say that it doesn't have its moments of undiluted awesomeness. Long proclaimed as an action film cult classic, there's surprisingly little action in Escape From New York, at least, not of the Michael Bay, in your face, two explosions per minute variety, the kind to which today's Rockstar-infused audiences are acclimated. Watching the film now, nearly thirty years after it hit theaters in 1981, EFNY seems curiously slow-paced. Snake limps through the city, occasionally bopping a guy in the face, occasionally busting a cap.The film is John Carpenter best work I have seen, there are some other films I don't like, Escape From New York (1981) is one of the best cult classic films from John carpenter and Kurt Russell. Kurt Russell's iconic character of all time Snake Plissken is his best roles of all time on the screen, I have ever seen. I also love the sequel to death the same as I love this film. Snake Plissken is an ex-soldier turned criminal, recruited/blackmailed into rescuing a hostage president from the prison of New York City. Lee Van Cleef as Bob Hauk New York Police Commissioner did a great job portraying one of the most memorable characters. I wish he would return in the sequel but he couldn't because 8.later the actor died. Rest in peace Lee.I love main theme music from John Carpenter and Alan Howarth and I enjoy some action scenes performed from Kurt Russell in the film.I love this film to death and It is my favorite action science fiction flick of all time I love it. 10/10 Grade A+ Studio MGM Home Entertainment Starring Kurt Russell,Lee Van Cleef,Ernest Borgnine,Donald Pleasence,Isaac Hayes, Harry Dean Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau and Tom Atkins Director John Carpenter Producers Larry J. Franco, Debra Hill Screenplay John Carpenter Nick Castle Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 49 Mins. Budget $6.000.000 Box Office $25.244.700 "},{"Title":"You are the Duke of New York! You're A # 1!","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second historic teaming of filmmaker John Carpenter and actor Kurt Russell (after the made for TV movie 'Elvis'), Escape from New York is slick entertainment. It's a futuristic actioner that can boast some believably decrepit environments, a typically simple but effective Carpenter music score, and a top notch cast led by Russell in a performance of quiet cool.Taking place in the future year of 1997 (it's amusing, as it always is, to watch this kind of thing when the time period in the movie is now well into the past), it shows us how the island of Manhattan has been turned into a maximum security prison. An enormous wall surrounds the island, and the bridges are mined. Russell plays Snake Plissken, a war hero turned antisocial criminal on his way to prison for bank robbery. Meanwhile, revolutionaries take control of Air Force One and crash land inside Manhattan. Now the head honcho of the prison, Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef), offers Snake a deal retrieve the President (Donald Pleasence) and earn his freedom. The catch? He has to pull off the mission within 24 hours, so the President can make it to a critical summit meeting.Carpenter works with many talented collaborators in front of and behind the camera. The cast also includes Isaac Hayes as a cool but not that menacing villain, Harry Dean Stanton as the aptly named Brain, Ernest Borgnine as the jovial Cabbie, Carpenter's then wife Adrienne Barbeau as Brains' girlfriend Maggie, Kurts' ex Season Hubley as a punk girl whom Snake runs into, Tom Atkins as Rehme (a nod to Avco Embassy boss Bob Rehme), and Charles Cyphers as the Secretary of State. There's a number of familiar faces in small parts, too Frank Doubleday, John Diehl, Nancy Stephens, Bob Minor, Carmen Filpi, George 'Buck' Flower. Carpenters' producer Debra Hill and Jamie Lee Curtis both make voice only contributions. Production designer Joe Alves (Jaws) and Carpenters' frequent cinematographer Dean Cundey help to create a striking look for the movie.The special effects are generally good for the budget available to Carpenter and company. While some of the visuals may seem dated now to modern viewers, they work just fine for the time when this was made. These effects were handled by the people at New World, including none other than James Cameron.Since the action takes place during the course of a single night, there is a fair amount of urgency to the set-up, and pacing is consistent enough to hold ones' attention. One highlight is seeing Snake being forced to fight a thug inside a wrestling ring (said thug is played by the late Ox Baker).The ending is quite satisfying, with Snake finding a means of symbolically extending a middle finger to the uncaring authority figures whom he holds in contempt.Written by Carpenter and Nick Castle, who'd previously acted for the director in the horror classic Halloween (where Castle played The Shape), and followed by the belated sequel Escape from L.A. 15 years later.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Action packed classic","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York is the second collaboration between writer/director John Carpenter and actor Kurt Russell. This film and the one they did next, The Thing are in my opinion the strongest films of the five times they worked together, as well as my personal favorites. In this dark, dystopian science fiction/action flick, the government is a fascist police state and the island of Manhattan is a walled off prison and once you come in, you don't come out. The president, played by Donald Pleasance was in a plane that was shot down while flying above the island and is held hostage. The outlaw Snake Plisken(Kurt Russell) is an ex war hero and the hardest man on Earth. He is sent by The Man to retrive the dumb ass president and his cassette tape that is needed for his speech in 22 hours for a summit meeting with The Soviet Union and China. This dark and subversive classic is set up much like a western and Kurt approaches his character much like Clint Eastwood would have done. Also police chief Hauk is played by legend Lee Van Cleef and The Wild Bunch star Ernest Borgnine appears as Cabbie as well. Character actor Harry Dean Stanton is The Brain and Carpenter's very talented wife at the time, Adrienne Barbeau is Brain's squeeze and has a huge rack. Kurt's wife at that time, Season Hubley is also cast, only as a cameo, but a memorable one that I totally approve of. Super cool cat Isaac Hayes is The Duke Of New York our main villain and bad ass that has the president hostage and runs the show in NY. John Carpenter also crafted one of his signature scores that is dark and ominous and creates great ambiance for the film. Although this film was made for little money it was a very influential and original for its time and John Carpenter is a genius for putting it all together and Kurt did an outstanding job in carrying the film as well. The social commentary is still relevant today, especially in the post 9/11 world where The United States is engaged in constant war, police are unaccountable for misconduct and there are more people in prison here than anywhere else in the world. I hope this film does not get remade, but even if Justin Bieber is cast as Snake Plisken, this film will hold up. "},{"Title":"The president of what?","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1997 the President (Donald Pleasence) is being held hostage in Manhattan, which is now a walled-off prison. Only one man can get him out Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), the baddest of the badasses. Snake has 24 hours to rescue the President but to do that he will have to face the Duke. Who is the Duke? The Duke of New York, A-Number-1, the Big Man, that's who! John Carpenter's anti-hero classic is among his best films and almost certainly is the most fun. Great cast, headlined by Russell as the Eastwoodesque hero Snake Plissken. Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton, and Boom Boom Barbeau are all excellent, as well. Carpenter's direction is first-rate and his terrific score is second only to his iconic Halloween theme. The special effects are fun and the usage of St. Louis locations for Manhattan is surprisingly effective. A wonderful movie that is a certified popcorn classic. Lots of memorable lines and scenes. A movie you can watch repeatedly and never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"Had the potential for greater honours","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 'badass' action lead before 'Die Hard's' John McClane and 'Lethal Weapon's' Martin Riggs and post-Clint Eastwood, Snake Plissken is the subtle yet threatening action hero. But that alone could not make 'Escape from New York' the exciting race against time that it was supposed to be, even if director John Carpenter's conceptual basis behind the film creates as much intrigue as it does. The storyline progression is not as good as expected despite a premise which could have involved something more daring rather than more linear. In spite of this linearity, it was by no means a laborious watch. Touted as a 'futuristic' sci-fi based in the late 90s, the sets and cinematography still gave a very 80s feel which undermined the film's futuristic ambitions, as hard as it might have been with the technology at the time. The action, or inadequacy of it, was the most underwhelming aspect; Plissken's stealth exploits don't count as action. Nonetheless, the world within the film is made believable through the wide array of well played supporting characters from the 'means to an end' attitude police commissioner played by Lee Van Cleef to the intimidating 'Duke of New York' (Isaac Hayes) and his cronies. Decent, but only scratched the surface of something which had the potential to be a mainstream action classic rather than a concealed cult film. "},{"Title":"Not enjoyable, but interesting !","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is no enjoyable movie. Look at it. Kurt Russell as Snake Plissken spent all the time imitating poorly Clint Eastwood's man-with-no-name; the reference book of his anti-heroic character (though I thought he was more like Steven Seagal; with the same whispering voice and dead performance !). I didn't find anything different in Russell's character, except his eye patch and filthy talk sometimes. Isaac Hayes was more pathetic. OH MY GOD, here's the most trivial evil guy ever appeared on screen. He had none to do, or to say, but winking by his eye hysterically (Was he mute ?). Again, I didn't find anything different in his character, except his Cadillac with chandeliers on it ! Adrienne Barbeau wasn't better off; she did nothing but supplying the movie with some cleavage, and fondling her gun's barrel naughtily !There is no actual dialog, because there are no roles. The conversations of Russell and Lee Van Cleef were tasteless, with no particularities or even one-liners, so when Van Cleef told Russell at last We'd make a good couple I didn't know what the heck he was talking about !! At the climax, the weakest character around &#x96; the American president &#x96; was the one who saved Plissken, and the day, by shooting down the bad guy; so does Anti-hero here mean No-hero ?!! The tape's content was never revealed or understood. The lead's moral speech to the president at the end seemed out of place, forced and leaning on thin air; since the people who died in the road of freeing and saving the president weren't people in the first place; they were cardboard characters with no real patriotism or any clearness.The bore is powerful, especially when the action is nonexistent. Frankly, and shockingly, this is an action movie without any action. And when there is any, it's done too weak it's embarrassing (the fistfight at the train station for example). Carpenter just filled it with dark streets, wrecked buildings, many thugs, and that's it. The editing is heavy-handed, with not much to meditate on (let alone that we're supposed to be in an ACTION ?!!). Carpenter's music was the worst music you can dance to in a 70s disco. Indistinct was its main mark. And when he put it on the so-called action scenes it increased their bad campiness !I liked the main ambition as a thriller / action / sci-fi, with you have only 24 hours to finish the task, otherwise you'll be killed. I liked the taste of it as a kind of futuristic western with melancholic world. And I liked some of the cinematography; it was elegantly dirty at most of the time. It did draw my attention while using the Steadicam (the shot of going out Brain's home). But overall, all of what I liked was pure colors for a very good painting I didn't enjoy, rather see ! For instance did the Steadicam serve the action ?, or &#x96; ha ha beforehand &#x96; the story ?! Nevertheless, it ranked as a big hit at its time. It was produced by $ 6 million to earn $ 50 million; that's more than 8 times its budget, which &#x96; in a way &#x96; makes it more successful than Titanic. So despite that it artistically doesn't have it, sure it has another thing; some secret appeal to it, which did make it interesting to the audiences of 1981. Firstly, its formula  cool looking Anti-hero + apocalyptic dark future + no law + tortured but humiliated American president (proved to be something always cool for the American viewers) + rescuing on the nick of time. Apparently all of that, as merely the plot's skeleton, worked. Plus, maybe at the moment the Americans needed Snake Plissken as a mix of so cold soldier-to-criminal man with no name, peevish anti-authority Dirty Harry, with touches of being a war machine like in-the-future Rambo which this movie is a prophecy of (Rambo would show up firstly in First Blood &#x96; 1982 to be a real Vietnam vet, not a shadow of it). That mix was an appropriate son of the missed up America of the 1970s, and a good reaction towards its heavy scandals and defeats; like Watergate, Vietnam,.. (btw, Carpenter wrote the script in the mid-'70s as a reaction to the Watergate scandal). Although deep down inside Plissken is a good guy, but with having very personal moral codes, and being against the system that betrayed him. So when he does the forced official mission successfully, he doesn't forget to serve his own, almost nihilist, goals. He's a black point in the government's white image, yet a light black point in his so black version of the same image. Ahh, the 1970s was cruel, and needed as &#x96; or more &#x96; cruel lead I presume. Also, it has what we can call apparent subliminal messages  America is desolate and ruinous, being run by craven clerk. Its streets are full of loose crime while the possible heroes are the ones in jail. But ultimately, the satiric substance wasn't solid, and the surface B movie wasn't good either. So yes, (Escape from New York) is one of the most successful movies John Carpenter ever made, and one of his worst too. The best part is that he went to remedying it while remaking it through the sequel (Escape from L.A. &#x96; 1996) which had almost all of its antecedent's plot points, characters, and end, yet done way Way WAY better. The thing is while being more enjoyable, (..from L.A.) was less interesting, passing as another violent actioner, without any original formula, clickable lead or satire. For many people it clicked at its time, but **for me** **now** this is pale and dated fun. Rating it highly, along with enjoying it, can be exclusively American I believe. "},{"Title":"One Of Carpenter & Russell's Best!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell, Lee Van Cleef, Donald Pleasence, Isaac Hayes, Adrienne Barbeau, Ernest Borgnine and Harry Dean Stanton star in John Carpenter's 1981 action film. This is set in the post-apocalyptic future in 1997 where New York has become a dark place. One night, the President (Pleasence) is on his Air Force One jet that's hijacked and crashes. The police force and command center learn that the President ejected and was kidnapped by a gang lead by the Duke (Hayes). Command leader, Bob Hauk (Van Cleef) sends criminal war hero, Snake Plissken (Russell) to rescue him, but only has a limited amount of time. Snake also has help from Cabbie (Borgnine), Maggie (Barbeau) and Brain (Stanton). Russell is terrific as Snake and does a great Clint Eastwood impersonation. The rest of the cast is great too and Carpenter & Alan Howarth's score is excellent as usual. This is one of Carpenter & Russell's best I recommend. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi Adventurous/Action movie with the Authentic Feel of John Carpenter !!!!!","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie contains a plot which is something we don't usually expect from John Carpenter who is the master in handling thrillers which is bench marked as Classics of that particular Genre. First of all since the movie plot happens in the future (i.e., 1997) as per the story the Art work is fantastic and the details are mind blowing . The technical expertise which have been utilized in the movie is something which is not even present in the movies with handled the same plot in the succeeding years.Kurt Russel acting is decent and his looks is awesome in the movie. Surely he has given life to the character which needs tough attitude. Since the background score has been handled by John Carpenter himself i felt the feel of HALLOWEEN at times which is unavoidable.) The Screenplay could have been much more racier as per the requirement of the plot. On a whole i sure the movie will suit the requirements of all the viewers who expects an off-beat action adventure with a blend of Sci-Fi touch. My vote  7 out of 10.Watch out and Enjoy!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Carpenter's classic.","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A pure early 80s action-SF classic film, directed by John Carpenter. Sweet. It was a good idea for the time. And Carpenter and, of course Kurt Russell created one of the most memorable bad-ass action heroes - Snake Plissken. Well, you can easily say that SF element here is just for some kind of... decorative nature, because the plot is set in 1997, in New York that is actually one big prison. While the action elements are pretty usual here, a normal action genre entry. Well, in my eyes, the movie succeeded, although I expected more generic concreteness.This is one of those, if not one of first save the president, time race action films. Kurt Russell, who was in the tough guy element, with husky, quiet voice, just like Clint Eastwood in Dirty Harry, but Snake Plissken has bigger weapons. He is one of those anti-hero icons of the 80s and that's what we like about this film. Long live Kurt Russell! Lee Van Cleef, a western star, here comes pretty solid as a supporting villain, to send Snake to save president, played by always brilliant Donald Pleasence. Of course Snake got some help from Brain (played by excellent Harry Dean Stanton) and his girl Maggie (played by talented and smoking hot Adrienne Barbeau). There's also a Cabbie, played by cool Ernest Borgnine, he was great. While the leading bad guy is The Duke, call him that, played by that cool deep voiced singer Issac Hayes, loved the Duke.Everything else about this film, well, that's just Carpenter's trademark. Dark camera, strange thugs, dark 80s music composed by him. And that's all pretty good in the film, well that's just Carpenter. This is a real treat for all moviegoers and Carpenter fans. Watch it! "}{"Title":"Great Carpenter film","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Due to a higher does of adrenaline, and a larger handful of pyrotechnics, and gunfire I think a lot of critics prefer Escape from L.A. over New York, but not I. This is my Favorite John Carpenter movie. Eerie evocative, yet slick and psychedelic, sometimes even suspenseful. Written in 1980, Carpenter and his partner in crime Dedra Hill set the film in 1997, but the year doesn't matter, just so long as we are aware that it is a future and a time of darkness. Manhattan Island has now become a hellhole where the government dumps criminals and thugs the way the British empire dumped their prisoners in Australia two hundred years ago. No prisoner has ever escaped Manhattan except one, Snake Plisken, one of America's most dangerous criminals. Today is going to be his lucky day (maybe). The Us government gives him a chance to get off. He must infiltrate Manhattan and rescue the president who is being held captive there, he has nineteen hours.Carpenter has a great eye and an equally great ear. What I mean by that latter, is his knowledge of music. His movies have interesting electronic scores which always fit the tone perfectly. The music is never glamorous or operatic like modern summer blockbusters, it is simple and uses the' less is more' principle of art creation. When I say Carpenter has a great eye, I am referring to his mise-en-scene. By balancing all the right elements, he can make New York look absolutely haunting, like a concrete ghost town. It is even more impressive when considering the limited size of the budget. Make no mistake, Escape from New York is a great example of Low-Budget filmaking if approached the right way. Of course it is not perfect, but no film is. "},{"Title":"Are ya gonna kill me now, Snake? ... I'm too tired. Maybe later.","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of director and co-writer John Carpenter's best-sustained pieces of counterculture pop-trash, an adventure with enough plot for three pictures, and yet pared down in the final act to a snatch-&-grab which is completely satisfying. In 1997, nearly ten years after the U.S. crime rate has risen to astronomical proportions, a walled-up Manhattan Island has been deemed the world's prison center; after the President ejects himself from a hijacked Air Force One and ends up amongst the nasty, scurrilous gangs, master criminal Snake Plissken is assigned to rescue him. The catch he has less than 24 hours to do it. Although the effects and computer graphics are badly dated, Carpenter's film blessedly moves instead of preaching...and surprises by not making Kurt Russell's Plisskin an indestructible hero (already wearing a patch over one eye, like a pirate, the guy gets a real beating). Interestingly cast, and with good performances here and there (particularly from Harry Dean Stanton as nerdy Brain, who has connections with icy-cool villain Isaac Hayes, and tough, bosomy Adrienne Barbeau as Brain's fiercely loyal girlfriend). Russell is so low-keyed he barely flinches when he gets hit in the leg with an arrow, and Donald Pleasance as the President doesn't even try to disguise his British accent, but the cast works uniformly well together, overcoming the deficiencies with the budget and the exhausting opening set-up. Followed by a sequel in 1996. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Somewhat disappointing but Russell is very cool","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a hugely popular cult flick but it is beset with problems. The obviously low budget hurts the film. Eg There are very few convicts shown even though we're told that Manhattan has been converted into a federal prison. The acting is generally mediocre. However Kurt Russell gives his finest Eastwood impersonation. He is coolness personified and never seems scared even in the face of overwhelming odds. Lee Van Cleef and Donald Pleasence are decent. The action is again weak and there's surprisingly little tension. Ultimately, it's cheesy fun but very overrated.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of John Carpenter, there's a reason why this is a cult classic today.","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The world has changed into a dark and cruel world by 1988, every year the crime rates went higher. Now most major cities has become an maximum security prison. Now in 1997, New York City has become an top security prison. Since some of the most dangerous criminals in the world are sent there for live, although there's some good people find themselves stuck in that prison. When an Air Force One crash landed in the middle of the city, while the President of the United States (Donald Pleasence) escaped from a pod but the president finds himself quickly kidnapped by criminals. The New York Special Police needs a man, who knows his way around the city and without getting caught. Bob Hawk (Lee Van Cleef) sends a former Special Forces turned Career Criminal (Kurt Russell) named Snake Plissken. They asked him to find the president in 24 hours or less, if he succeed to become a free man or die. But once, Snake finds himself in the city. He finds the mission more difficult than he thought and he's running against time.Directed by John Carpenter (Assault on Precient 13, The Fog, Halloween) made an entertaining, dark, futuristic Sci-Fi adventure with plenty of action and dark comedy. Russell is terrific as the anti-hero Snake Plissken. Which that character remind one of the most popular cult figures of the movies of filmmakerCarpenter. Oscar-WinnerErnest Borgnine, Oscar-WinnerIssac Hayes, Harry Dean Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau, Season Hubley, Frank Doubleday, Tom Atkins and Charles Cyphers in memorable supporting roles as well. For ambitious low-budget project, this feature is well produced. Since the special effects still looks good with great model work and excellent matte paintings. Which it's one of the best looking movies in the 1980's. Escape from L.A., i felt the special effects has dated much more than this picture.From the Two Disc DVD Special Edition Set.The first DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. Disc 1 includes the original Laserdisc commentary track by directorCarpenter and actorRussell. Which it is certainly one of the most enjoyable commentaries around. There's an new commentary track also by the late Debra Hill (The Dead Zone, The Fisher King, World Trade Center) and production designer Joe Alves (Jaws 1 & 2, Close Encounters of the Third Kind). Disc 2 includes an new featurette with the cast & crew, the long awaited Deleted Scene with optional commentary by Carpenter & Russell, Photo Gallery and more. Although the special features in Disc 2 are good but they are disappointing short. I wish the featurette was much more longer. All those special features from Disc 2 could have been fitted in disc 1 for sure.Escape from New York is still great looking movie for all over the years. Because the intriguing premise still works, there's great character moments from the cast, the visual style is outstanding and the music from John Carpenter and Alan Howarth is memorable. The sequel Escape from L.A. is watchable but it's much campy version of the original. Now there's rumors of the upcoming remake of the original with Josh Brolin being a possible lead role for Snake Plissken. Since the three previous Carpenter remakes were not so successful in storytelling or at the box office (The Fog remake was the worst). I think Escape from New York is Carpenter's third best movie. My favorite from Carpenter is Halloween and The Thing. I just wish Carpenter would make a movie soon, it's been too long since Ghosts of Mars. If you haven't seen it but heard of this for many years. See it now, you won't regret it. Written by Carpenter and Nick Castle (The Boy Who Could Fly, Dennis the Menace, Mr. Wrong). Listen closely to Jamie Lee Curtis' narration in the opening sequence. Panavision (**** /*****). "},{"Title":"It's the survival of the human race, Plissken. Something you don't give a sh*t about.","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter has a habit of making unique horror movies out of nowhere. Escape from New York is no exception.This movie reminds me of Resident Evil Apocalypse in some ways. People trapped in city by army with some kind of race of mutants running around wild. But don't get me wrong, they are barely even in the same league. Nothing compares to horror classics like Carpenter's.Snake Plissken is sent in New York, which is now a prison itself, to retrieve the president (Donald Pleasance) whose plane crashed in the city due to hijackers. Snake is sent by Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef), commissioner of the police force that guards New York. Snake must survive the city's maniac, criminal inhabitants, retrieve the president alive, and make it out before a world convention starts without him.Snake runs into some interesting character's, like The Duke of New York (Isaac Hayes), who wants to use the president as a hostage to leave the city/prison. He also meets Brain (Harry Dean Stanton), who supplies the Duke with oil and fuel for his cars and whatnot, and Brain's girl, Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau). He also meets Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), who shows Snake all around the city and is his personal tour guide.This movie is underrated I think. It wasn't perfect, but more deserving than a 7.0 (6/13/08) 8/10 "},{"Title":"A mini-gem from one of the masters of suspense","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" By 1981 John Carpenter had already carved his name into movie history. He also proved himself a fine horror director. But before his 1978 hit 'Halloween' he had done one really good action film called 'Assault on Precinct 13,' and 5 years later gave us this one. It was my dad who introduced me to 'Escape From New York' many years ago and I've never forgotten how blown away I was by it. Today it's still one of my favorites of Mr. Carpenter's work and no film similar to it, including the decent sequel 'Escape From L.A.,' has surpassed it.Pros A cool concept. As usual John Carpenter composes a nice score with an unforgettable main theme. A terrific cast of genre veterans and movie legends. After a bit of a slow start, the pace movies along fine. Writer/director Carpenter does a great job of creating suspense and tension. 'Halloween I & II' cinematographer Dean Cundey does an exceptional job here. Some good action scenes. Carpenter and star Kurt Russell created one of the most memorable anti-heroes in recent memory.Cons Certain things haven't aged well. The low budget shows at times, especially in some of the production design. Though played by great actors, most of the side characters are weakly written making it hard to get more attached.Final thoughts Leave it to John Carpenter to make a riveting action flick. Sure it's not the best of the genre, but in a time where films made with love and care aren't as frequent as back then it's a fine example of grade A entertainment.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Not as great an action film as I'd have hoped but great atmosphere and tension through-out","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning In a futuristic New York, the capital city has been turned into a gigantic maximum security prison where some of the most dangerous and violent criminals have been left to rot. But when some rebel fighters threaten to shoot the president's plane down, it is forced to crashland there, only for the president to be taken hostage by some of the criminals who rule the land. So the authorities send in Snake Plisskin (Kurt Russell) an imprisoned soldier, to rescue him, but they trick him into thinking they've given him a vaccine, only to find it's a device that will kill him if he doesn't complete his mission in 24 hours.It's amazing all the classics and 'cult' classics I've never got round to watching but until last night Escape From New York was another one of these. Now I've finally seen it I'm glad I have, as I can mostly see why it was rated so much. As a sci-fi action film it was ahead of it's time, with a style, look and feel that was to shape the way some future action films were to pen out.It's meant to be an action film, but the first half really relies more on a neat atmosphere and sense of tension than any thrilling adventure, typical Carpenter really. Things heat up a bit more in the second half, though and the film certainly created one of action's most iconic characters, Snake Plisskin, the blue khakied, black vested, eye-patch wearing hard-ass with his gravelly voice and anti-authority attitude. It's the role Russell will most likely best be remembered for, and it's clear to see why. Joining him is a lively supporting cast, including Donald Pleasance, fresh from Carpenter's previous Halloween, as the president, Ernest Borgnine as a chirpy cab driver always on hand to help, Shaft warbler Isaac Hayes as the villain, as well as other supporting turns from Harry Dean Stanton and Lee Van Cleef.It's showing it's age now, but this is still an action film any true lover of the genre would be well advised to see if they haven't done so already. **** "},{"Title":"You're the Duke of New York!... A number one!","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This will one day be a classic film, that came at maybe the height of John Carpenter's career, just before The Thing and Starman. The premise is one of the most original and exciting ideas ever, even if it is a little unrealistic and almost comic book-like. SPOILERS New York in the future, at least back then, is a maximum security prison. It has a wall all the way around Manhattan, helicopter patrols, armed guard towers, and land-mined roadways. Air Force One is hijacked and crashes in the city... the President is captured. Enter Snake Plissken (Kurt Russel). One of the original anti-heroes, and maybe the best. He cares about no one other than himself, and he is forced into going into New York to save the President, in exchange for his own life. END OF SPOILERSAlong the way, Snake meets many interesting characters, all played well in a very solid supporting cast, including Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasance, Adrienne Barbeau, and Harry Dean Stanton. The actions scenes are well shot for a low budget. New York as a semi-dystopian society is convincing, and the music - especially the opening theme - is great. The film is also well-paced, with many memorable one liners and fight sequences. Kurt Russel and John Carpenter together created one of the great fictional characters of all time, placed in an engaging and highly entertaining situation. The character of Snake Plissken also inspired the characters Solid Snake and Big Boss for the series of games, Metal Gear. The film is at least very good on its own, but it deserves even further appreciation just for that. Call me Snake. "},{"Title":"Exciting and spectacular rescue into a Manhattan become in top-security prison","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" We are in the year 1997,the Air Force One is hijacked by a band of revolutionaries and the President(Donald PleasenceHalloween)is dropped into a capsule crashing in a nearly deserted Manhattan which is an island turned into a maximum security jail and finds itself under siege by violent gangs. A previous war hero named Snake Plissken(Kurt Russell) gone rebel must effect a daring recapture and bring up the President in twenty four hours but an interior device(installed by Lee Van Cleef and Tom Atkins)blowing up him.Snake must to recovery him and facing off villains like the Duke(Isaac Hayes Shaft's musician).He's only helped by a sympathetic cab-man(Ernest BorgnineDirty dozen),an action women(Adrienne Barbeau and Season Hubley,at the time Kurt Russell's wife) and a veteran(Harry Dean StantonParis,Texas).The film is a comic book plenty of action,fun,adventures,thriller and susprise-filled entertainment.Magnificent plethora of characters with exceptional performances by its entire cast.Kurt Russell as tough and valiant renegade is terrific.Lee Van Cleef was hired by Carpenter and Debra Hill(the producer) for their admiration on spaghetti Western's heroes roles.Adrienne Barbeau (at the time Carpenter's wife)is gorgeous,her role(such as in The Fog)were written specifically with her in mind.The picture contains an imaginative and memorable production design by Joe Alves(Jaws).Colorful cinematography by Dean Cundey.John Carpenter also made the eerie and atmospheric music score such as he did in Halloween.The movie likely satisfy action enthusiastic and Kurt Russell fans .It's followed by an inferior sequel by the same actor and director  Escape from L.A.. Rating Better than average,good and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"See Snake. See Snake Run. See Snake Escape.","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Safe to say a lot of us (not all) but a lot,when we were younger decided at one time to get into a movie we weren't permitted to see because of it's rating. 3 years before PG-13,Escape From New York was a movie just about any teen-age boy would want to go to. It had great action,cool looking good guys & bad guys and hey,Adrienne Barbeau! Unfortunately,it was rated R for language,violence and partail nudity. I happened to be 13 at the time & my oldest brother while 17 got away with saying he was 18. I still couldn't join my two brothers & their friends,so I had to see Arthur w/Dudley Moore (or did I?) I was escorted to that movie but when I peeked out the door,I made an Escape to New York!Anyhow,my review. Since then,despite the success of this film,it's been labeled a cult classic and it's now marking it's 25th anniversary as we speak. It's rather funny now to hear in 1998 crime went up over 200% or such. Although fictional,it seemed like a scary prospect but once Snake received his reluctant mission,I forgot about all that.There's certainly enough reviews here describing the plot about Snake going in to the maximum security prison that New York City has become,to save the President of The United States. So I'll just say from the moment he lands,the race is on and the nail biting begins! Kurt Russel never looked so tough on screen before and he plays it just right,not over the top,which could have been laughable.Supporting players Ernest Borgnine,Adrienne Barbeau,Lee Van Cleef (in quite a subdued part for him),Issac Hayes & Donald Pleasance all play their parts wonderfully. The mood of the world has turned dark and gloomy and the attitudes of the actors reflect that. Always funny to me though will be when Snake meets up with a Billy Idol looking punk and the guy hisses at him! The setting is so dark that,at the time,I jumped every time Snake did when something came at him from the shadows.So,I'll end by saying,it doesn't matter if you buy this,rent it or whatever,just see it for the actors & the action. Even for a storyline that now seems like it couldn't happen in this post 9/11 world. Hopefully,it's safe to say the world will never get that far gone,but back then,it sure seemed plausible. Then again you never know! PunkI heard you we're dead SnakeYou and everyone else! (END) "}{"Title":"Pack extra socks, for the ones your wearing are sure to be blown off","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back when oooh what if (insert kick-ass idea) movies were still allowed to be made. This one being oooh what if the city of new york became one big prison and Isaac Hayes had a full size disco ball IN his car? John Carpenter not only came up with great original concepts, but offered perfect execution to seal the deal. Sure somebody else could have made a movie revolving around the same concept, and sure it would be slightly enjoyable regardless on account of it being hard to make a poor movie with such an awesome, simple idea, but it is Carpenters direction and commentary that make Escape from New York and many of his other works Must See movies.If you, or anybody you know haven't seen Escape from New York, you don't care about movies- throw away your DVD player, or oh dear... your VCR ( tisk tisk) If you want to keep your video playback devices, drop whatever it is your doing on the floor (that means you, guy feeding his baby) and RUN, (don't Jog, or Speedwalk), RUN out to RENT it, NO, TO BUY IT! If you don't own this movie, I'm taking away your family, and will ship them off to the prison island of Manhattan where they will be forced to listen to swing music in the backseat of Ernest Borgnine's cab for all of eternity.What are you doing still reading this? You should be gone. Shoo, monkey! SHOO! "},{"Title":"Carpenter's Best","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter did amazing things with little money and a lot of imagination. Escape From New York crosses almost as many genres as Dawn of The Dead. It's an odyssey, a comic book, a western (in the East), a black comedy, an operatic nightmare, a sci-fi cautionary tale, an audience movie... It's a showcase for underutilized talent. Utterly creepy, funny, bleak and suspenseful with rich characters, memorable dialog and stimulating visuals. Oh, and that wonderful cast! That wonderful score! This gem will never truly get the praise that it deserves. Also, are there any doubts as to where James Cameron got the inspiration for his tech-noir look for The Terminator? Sure, we all know Jim worked on this movie, as we know from whence Carpenter drew many of HIS inspirations. But there's nothing wrong with giving credit where it's due. Notable standouts Harry Dean Stanton's delivery of the greeting, Gentlemen. Mr. President., as he walks into a room of the Duke's filthy, thrift-store attired goons and the camera pans over to the president adorned with a blonde wig. Frank Doubleday as Romero. (What a classic entrance/introduction!) He looks like the Heat Miser from that Christmas TV special but solidly establishes the inmates as horrific androgynous, diseased cannibals. Ernest Borgnine, successfully topping his portrayal of Mr. Rogo from The Poseidon Adventure with his performance as Cabbie; simultaneously hilarious and tragic. "},{"Title":"low budget but exciting","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a low budget movie but it's still very good. Kurt Russel goes a little overboard trying to be the tough guy, but don't be fooled he is an excellent actor. The best part is the ending, Snake may not be a very educated person but he's not stupid and he does the right thing at the end. The look and feel of this film is quite real since they filmed in a real city that had been destroyed by a fire. Lee Van Cleef is the perfect choice to play the man in charge of the Police Force. The film that followed this one, Escape from LA, was a disappointment to me. It cost a lot more to make and had some special effects that were OK it but was not as realistic. "},{"Title":"Another fascinating ride from Carpenter and Russell","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Escape From New York'is a movie that never loses it's charm no matter how many times you see.The movie is another great result of Carpenter and Russell collaboration and even twenty five years after it's release many people(including me)consider this movie as a milestone both in action and science fiction genres and it definitely deserves it's reputation as a cult classic.The movie has a dynamic direction,a unique atmosphere,a very well written screenplay with great dialogues and characters,a fascinating score and a great cast led by Kurt Russell as Snake Plissken.Russell is outstanding as ex special forces officer turned criminal S.D.Plissken and with the help of some of the best written one liners,he makes the character unforgettable for the audience like nobody can.What a magnificent actor he is!Besides Russell,Carpenter built a top notch supporting cast including Lee Van Cleef,Ernest Borgnine,Isaac Hayes,Harry Dean Stanton,Adrienne Barbeau,Donald Pleasence with some Carpenter regulars like underrated Tom Atkins and Charles Cyphers.'Escape From New York'is a terrific movie from a master filmmaker.Once you see it,you'll never be the same! "},{"Title":"They Don't Make Em' Like This Anymore","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you haven't seen John Carpenter's 1981 film Escape from New York, you're missing out. This is Carpenter at his best mixing sci-fi, cult, western and always his famous political commentary. Made in 81', EFNY takes place in 1997, and New York is a crime haven reserved for only the most infamous of criminals. Kurt Russell plays Snake Plissken, a former war hero turned criminal. Plissken is caught attempting to rob the Federal Reserve and is blackmailed by Bob Hauke (Lee Van Kleef) to go into New York and find the U.S. President (Donald Pleasance) who is being held hostage. This film also includes memorable performances by Ernest Borgnine (Cabby), and Isaac Hayes, (The Duke). If you like fun, old fashioned edgy film-making, this is for you. "},{"Title":"Right, Harold, I'm lyin'. So why don't I have a little fun and keep looking by myself.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell is Snake Plissken, one eyed loner criminal, former US Soldier looking out for only one guy - himself. He gets arrested and is on his way to a life long sentence in New York of an alternate 1997 for various crimianl acts, but on the eve of his imprisonment Air Force One is taken down by an obnoxious bitch rebel and crashes in the New York island prison. Snake is then recruited by cop Lee Van Cleef to rescue the president (Donald Pleasance!) and retrieve a tape that has the future of humanity on it - or suffer the consequences. En route to rescuing the president, Snake faces off with the Duke of New York (Isaac Hayes), Brain (Harry Dean Stanton), Brain's girl Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau), various thugs and meets Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine). Will Snake survive? You'll have to watch and find out.Very entertaining B-movie with sturdy performance from Russell, great atmosphere by director John Carpenter and great matte photography by pre-Terminator director James Cameron. Season Hubley, Kurt Russell's then wife, appears as the blond girl in the Chock Full O'Nuts store and former Jason actor Ted White appears somewhere in the film performing dangerous stunts. "},{"Title":"Finland calling","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York has always been one of my favorites. I would class it as a B movie, but a good one. Kurt Russel is a young handsome anti hero, who doesn't care about anyone or anything. He has that youthful rebellion and mystery about him needed for his role. He is a criminal caught making a bank robbery and perhaps has a hardened soul, but Carpenter has still managed make him a likable rogue. Snake is forced to be a hero. The only thing that makes him take the job offered to him is because he is forced to save his own life in the process. The dark landscape and the nightmarish atmosphere adds to the suspense. I was quite young when this movie first came out and it did get my blood pumping then. Many years later (and many scary movies later) the affect has somewhat lessened, but the movie structurally is still as good as it ever was. It has stood the time where many movies haven't. I bought the DVD just last week and was disappointed. The original 99 minutes was reduced to 94 minutes, which means that a lot of the gritty stuff was removed by the Swedish\Finnsih film board. The uncut version was fast paced and somewhat gory.I really detest it, when someone chops up a good movie, specially when all the juicy bits get taken out. "},{"Title":"Great director-actor collaboration","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 1997, crime has jumped 400%. Manhattan is a maximum-security prison with armed guards and a 50-foot concrete wall surrounding its perimeter, essentially quarantining the criminal element. Kurt Russell, Carpenter's oft-used lone hero, plays decorated war vet Snake Plissken, whose robbery of a federal depository has landed him in the big house for life. Meanwhile, the president's (Donald Pleasance) plane has crashed within the prison walls and he needs to deliver a speech on nuclear fusion to an international roundtable within the next 24 hours or else the planet is doomed. So Plissken, who has a widespread rep as a bad ass mercenary-for-hire, in exchange for immunity, agrees to rescue the president and bring him out of Manhattan. Escape seems to float on this engaging premise, buoyed by cool offhand satirical remarks about what war and duplicitous leadership can do to one's principles&#x97;I don't give a fuc& about your war or your president sums it up quite nicely&#x97;plus memorable production design, dank lighting, and wide shots of the New York skyline (once again, Carpenter + Panavision = magic) to evoke mundane, realistic anomie.Although the ideology is probably under-emphasized&#x97;we can presume that the world is run by nuclear energy, which speaks to an ecological precautionary tale that never fully materializes&#x97;I think what should be inferred is what's visible on the surface for one, how the police state has reduced citizens to scurrying about under search lights like sewer rats, the state's inseparability of lawbreaker from law-abider. The more I see, the more I appreciate Carpenter's visual approach, particularly his way of filling the frame with coalescing suspicious and heroic characters, which highlights a moral complexity and willingness to interrogate traditional ideas of right and wrong. "},{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kurt Russell turns in a great, low-key performance in this terrific action film which looks better than ever on the latest DVD release.It's a very dark film, visually but still holds up after all these years.Ernest Borgnine plays one of his better roles as Cabbie and director John Carpenter is in top form here.The effects are pretty good considering the budget and the time period and the story is up to par for a sci-fi flick. I looked forward to the sequel which was okay but not as good as the original despite the bigger budget. Maybe they will make an updated version since this film has attained cult status. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Before Blade Runner came this,","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before Blade Runner came this, a story of deception and chaos written, scored, and directed by John Carpenter, the first of five of his films on this list. Bleak, surprise surprise, looking at the last two films, but this is more action packed, and funny, and in Snake Plisskin, has one of the greatest cult anti-heroes of cinema. Surprisingly clever for an action movie, with characters that we feel may have depth, but never show it. That did not make sense, but it's true. Kurt Russell is an underrated actor, and here, gives one of his most memorable performances. Most of his partnerships with Carpenter have been a success, this one included, and the character of Snake is given the perfect playground in New York. Although he is given the task of rescuing the President, he doesn't care about politics, his country, or war, he simply wants freedom. The city looks terrific, and the rest of the impressive cast, all shine. The sequel wasn't too great though. "}{"Title":"Midnite Classic!","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter...when he is at top form, what else can be said! Completely entertaining with a high-concept too boot. This is one of those films. From top to bottom an excellent Sci-Fi B-Budget Bonanza. Lucas eat your heart out. What Carpenter does with 1/10th the budget of one of your pieces of trash is simply outstanding. Escape From New York is a cultural artifact that even Harold Bloom would recommend. This thing belongs in the Guggenheim. Mathew Barney who? Carpenter proves again that the independent spirit CAN contribute films of quality that the mainstream public will consume like Chicken Mcnuggets. Carpenter is more important to filmaking than Orson Welles or Fellini. Add this one to the canon boys!  "},{"Title":"Good Style/Suspense","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pretty Good  Movie from John Carpenter in terms of style. The plot keeps the suspense rolling. The only draw back seems that the movie is seems too short and not enough action scenes and more talk. Would have loved more fights ,gun battles or explosions. Also the special effects are pretty lame like the one with the plane, using miniature models for  the crash scenes. But cool overall because Kurt Russell does a real good job playing Snake one of his best performances ever. But movie seems similar in plot/context to the Rambo movies with less gore. But like the Rambo movies would have loved a sequel. "},{"Title":"Snake Plissken? I heard you were dead.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Those were the days! The days of great action movies, and cold as ice heroes. John Carpenter had yet to turn sour, and Kurt Russell was in his prime.This is one of my favorites. The characters and story go together perfectly. The cast that was assembled for this movie is one of a kind. Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton and Adrienne Barbeau are all great. There's even Isaac Hayes in there for a little nod to the 70's.Above all, this is one of those rare action features that has a great story to drive it. I won't bother to recount the plot here because I'm assuming most people have already seen this one. For those of you who haven't seen this one before.... Shame on you! Go see it now.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Maybe later, too tired","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look, this is no academy award winning, legendary acting, amazing dialogue movie...this is just what it is.  What it is, is a showcase for THE best hardass, super cool, anti-hero character ever in film...SNAKE PLISSSSSSSKEN.Bottom line is, I never...ever...remember a better done cool guy than this character.  His lines throughout the film are fantastic with the best being you gonna kill me now snake...maybe later, too tired.I would probably think that women hate it (my ex did), but I'm not sure there is a better guy movie out there other than maybe The Warriors. "},{"Title":"One of the best comic book style action movies","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie, great action, great characters, I love it.  It certainly resembles Big Trouble In Little China in several ways.  Kurt Russell is awesome as Snake Plisken(in one of his best roles), who is the prisoner who is chosen to rescue the President when Air Force crashes in New York City in exchange for a full parole.  The music is also very cool, it will stay with you a long time after you see the film.  Overall Escape From New York is a very fun action movie.  *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Excellent idea for a film!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought the idea behind this film and story line were absolutely fantastic, I love the idea of a huge prison existing where the prisoners are on their own to survive and must live amongst themselves.  Great idea!The only real complaints I have about this film is the cheesy lines throughout the film, Kurt Russell's stupid whisper voice, and the music.  For most of the film Kurt Russell did an excellent job, but there were a few scenes where I couldn't stand the way he talked.  As for the music, I'm unsure whether the blame lies with the fact that this film was made in the early 1980's or if it resides with John Carpenter's choice of music (I don't like the music in just about any of his films).All of that aside, I thought the film was very good and definitely one of John Carpenter's best.  John needs to stick to movies like this, I think it's safe to say that it's movies like this that fans appreciate.  Anyhow, if you are a fan of John Carpenter, then you MUST see this film.  If you're a fan of futuristic action/adventure films, then you also MUST check this out.  I hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"The Pit of Human Despair a.k.a. New York City that John Carpenter has created in his epic vision Escape from New York is not just a work of fiction or an object of his imagination, but a glimpse","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from New York may be told in a somewhat by-the-numbers fashion but is a lot more than that.  Upon closer examination of the films story and characters, you will see that it is showing us a frightening depiction of what America could have become had not our society improved.  It's completely ironic that we would have ended up choosing New York City (and later Los Angeles in the sequel), which in this country are landmark cities, as the last place to house America's worst criminals.  With all of the problems currently facing our society, is this what things could have eventually come to?Escape from New York is set in the future, in the year 1997.  We learn that Manhattan Island has become a giant maximum-security prison.  It is completely surrounded on all sides by a fifty-foot containment wall that has soldiers patrolling it at all times.  All roads and waterways that lead off of the island are mined.  The prison itself is kept under constant watch from security headquarters, which is stationed at nearby Liberty Island.  Everyone in the prison follows one simple rule once you go in, you don't come out.  When Air Force One, which we should all know is the president's airplane, is hijacked and crash lands inside the prison, the security officials in charge blackmail a hardened but highly decorated war hero who is currently on his way to the island to serve a life sentence for a daring robbery.  His mission is to infiltrate the prison and safely escort the president and the tape recording in his possession off of the island.  To ensure that the convict doesn't try to escape, two micro-charges are injected into his arteries that if he doesn't get the president back within twenty-two hours, will explode.  If he does succeed, the charges will be deactivated and all crimes he has been convicted of will be fully pardoned.  And so the adventure begins...From here we really don't know what to expect of this film and that's good.  You'd probably be expecting to hear car horns or the sounds of a city that is alive and full of people.  When we first see New York, it looks a lot like a ghost town, meaning as in dead.  The city is crawling with rapists, thieves and murderers.  Things in the city have become so bad, that some groups of people, most notably the crazies who are a group of underground subway-dwellers, have had to resort to cannibalism to survive.  The new New York is not a prison at all, but more of an asylum for the worst of the worst.  People here are basically living out death sentences, as that is the equivalent of saying these people are serving out life sentences.  It is really nice that the prison gives you the option of being executed on site, rather than dying somewhere inside the prison where you'll probably end up becoming someone's lunch.  Which would you prefer?Snake Plissken, played here by Kurt Russell, was an excellent choice to play a reluctant hero.  He plays his role very good.  Singer Isaac Hayes makes a great villain here with his role as The Duke of New York.  He is very good too.  It amazes me though about how a man such as himself could have come to power and become the most feared man in new New York.Escape from New York is an excellent film that has received a much deserved cult following.  This John Carpenter film is easily one of his best and I really like it.  "},{"Title":"Kurt Russel diserves the title of #1 BADASS because of this movie","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I own this film on dvd not a very good one but the movie makes up for that! if you havn't seen this movie' skip the renal store and go straight to your local movie etc. shop, great film. EXCELLENT DIRECTOR, AND UNFORGITABLE CATCHFRASES!  "},{"Title":"There's Something About This Flick","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's something about this movie that I've loved since I was a little kid. I know it's not a great film in terms of writing and acting (although Kurt is the ultimate badass as Snake), but this is one of John Carpenter's most stylish and atmospheric films; the kind his fans love him for. It's got an intriguing plot, the opening shots showing the city skyline off in the distance are very impressive, and the special effects as a whole surpass the film's relatively small budget.As usual, Carpenter did yet another memorable score for this one. It blends in perfectly with the mood of the film, and helps to pull you in.The combination of interesting visuals, a compelling story and Kurt's awesome performance make this a film I can watch over and over. I've seen it probably 25 times since I was a kid, and I'll never get sick of it.I wish John Carpenter would regain the vision and style he showed in early films like this one. Now he throws everything that made him great out the window and tries to makes these kick ass action pictures that just don't work. Namely Escape From L.A. (the worst sequel ever), Vampires and Ghosts of Mars. "},{"Title":"Not Exactly An A-Number One Movie, But Darn Close","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Set in the dark future of 1997 . . .Okay, so John Carpenter's post-apocalyptic vision of the future didn't exactly come true, but Escape From New York still holds up as a darn fine low-budget sci-fi/action flick.  Snake Plissken (as played by Kurt Russell) is still one of the coolest anti-heroes ever to grace the silver screen, and the story still contains some great scenes and dialogue . . . so who cares if parts of it look like low-budget cheese?  As long as you can appreciate great low-budget cheese, you'll be fine.Escape From New York is set in the supposedly dark future of 1997, where the island of Manhattan, completely overrun with criminals and terrorists, has been walled off and turned into a Federal prison colony by the United States government.  The most vicious and ruthless criminals in America aren't sent to regular prisons anymore . . . they're simply dropped into the walled confines of Manhattan, where they face the choice of being killed by the other criminals living on the island or being killed by government sharpshooters if they try to climb the walls and escape the prison colony.  So, New York has been transformed into a lawless hellhole where murderers rule the streets, and from which escape is impossible . . . and exactly where Air Force One has just crash-landed, with the President of the United States (Donald Pleasance) aboard.  To rescue the President -- and the President's unknown but valuable cargo -- military man Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef) decides to send the best man for the job into the heart of this lawless hellhole.  That man is Snake Plissken (Russell), an ex-soldier and former war hero who no longer takes orders from any man -- but who faces execution unless he can bring the President back from New York alive . . ..Escape From New York features a terrific plot as its foundation and a great cast for support. It's the details, though, where the film starts to slip.  Some of the details -- both in terms of story and production -- are quite good, others . . . well, they'll make you wince.  Director (and script co-writer) John Carpenter is smart enough to keep things simple and to keep everything moving along at a rapid pace; whenever things start moving into the realms of the laughably stupid, something new and cool happens onscreen to wipe that stupidity away.  It's a story painted with very broad and vivid strokes; everything seems very cool and makes sense as long as you don't dwell on the details.  Carpenter also takes what advantages he can from his low budget and low production values -- almost everything is filmed in the dark, and a lot is filmed indoors; also, everything (props, costumes, etc.) are deliberately given a cheap and dirty look, rather than attempting to make things look good with no money.  Not only do these moves let Escape From New York look as good as it possibly can, but it also fits the feel of the gritty, dark future that already permeates the film.The characters in Escape From New York, though, are what really make the film shine.  Donald Pleasance is perfectly cast -- and perfectly scummy -- as the President, who is little more than a weasel in a three-piece suit.  It's great to watch Pleasance strut around pompously in the beginning of the film -- hey, after all, he's the President of the United States -- and then eventually be reduced to a pathetic, animal-like, gun-wielding thug, no better than any other criminal trapped within the walls of Manhattan.  Ernest Borgnine serves up some welcome comic relief as the cheerful Cabbie, who's possibly the only happy person still living in New York.  Isaac Hayes, of all people, turns out to be very good as the A-Number One Duke of New York; he's not exactly what you'd expect from a movie villain, but he definitely makes the part distinctly his own.  Lee Van Cleef is great as the no-nonsense Bob Hauk; he plays Hauk in a low-key but menacing manner that stands out nicely against the over-the-top performances put in by nearly every other actor.  But Escape From New York is really Snake Plissken's movie, and Kurt Russell is THE reason that Snake Plissken is one of the best movie anti-heroes of all time.  Partly borrowing from Clint Eastwood's Man With No Name character, Snake Plissken is a man who's going to do whatever he feels is right or necessary, and orders be damned.  He doesn't say much -- he usually lets his guns or his fists speak for him -- but when he does speak, he doesn't mince words.  It's interesting to note that nearly every other character in Escape From New York is a liar of some sort with selfish hidden agendas . . . not Snake.  He always speaks his mind, he nearly always speaks the truth, and ironically, he's the most dangerous character in the movie.  Kudos to Kurt Russell for making Snake Plissken one of the best sci-fi/action characters of all time.  For Snake Plissken alone, it's a genuine pleasure to watch Escape From New York.Director John Carpenter will probably never be appreciated for what he is -- the master of the modern B-movie.  Along with Halloween and They Live, the film Escape From New York stands as one of the greatest modern B-movies ever made.  Carpenter's films often look like they have the budget of a high school musical production, but they usually at least manage to be original and entertaining . . . which is something more than a lot of recent $100 million dollar so-called blockbusters can claim.  (Forget the production values; I'll watch Escape From New York over the soulless, spectacularly unoriginal Tomb Raider any day of the week.)  Escape From New York might not be one of the slickest or best-produced action films ever made -- but it is one of the coolest action films, and certainly one of the most memorable ones.  It might seem cheesy in places, or a little raw and crude in others . . . but it's got heart, and it's got guts, and in the end, that's what really matters.  A great action flick, and one of the best B movies ever made.  Grade A-.  "}{"Title":"Just a whole lot of fun","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has an original concept, a good cast, and an entertaining execution. It's not a great film but it's just plain and simple a lot of fun. Snake does indeed kick ass, though for the perfection of coolness watch Dirty Harry. It is far better than it's sequel, which is actually pretty damn funny. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A film about New York that was not filmed in it.","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Only one scene of this film was filmed in New York. The scene is a sequence in which a character named REMY walks down off of a heavily guarded Statue Of Liberty and into a command shack. When he walks through the shack and comes out the other side they are now filming at a dam in VAN NUYS, CALIFORNIA. In fact, 99 percent of the film was filmed in Van Nuys and St. Louis, Missouri....this was done for cost reasons. NEW YORK CITY was way too expensive for this movie to be shot and St. Louis featured several sections of town that look like New York. ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK, was done on a small budget of 7 million dollars and was Carpenter's first union film. Missing from the film is a 10 minute opening sequence featuring the robbery of the US FEDERAL RESERVE. This was cut from the film because it was thought to slow the film down. This movie is one of those rare, original concepts Hollywood cranks out every now and then. At the end of the film, it is implied there may be a sequel....however, the sequel we got wasn't that good. They should have stuck with what was proposed in the end of this film instead of doing ESCAPE FROM L.A. "},{"Title":"Carpenter at his best.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carpenter does it again in this futuristic movie about New York being a maximum security prison.  A great supporting cast is present, as is Kurt Russell in the movie that made him a star.  For its time the F/X are good, but seem dated now.  The story is great and moves at a good pace.  The best thing about the movie is its bleak ending.  See the movie, you'll have fun...RATING = 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"John Carpenter Classic","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter creates one of the most original movie and an iconic fantasy world. 'Escape from New York' is a cult classic.It's the future 1997, Manhattan has been turned into a maximum security prison. The President had to do an emergency ejection, but lands inside the prison. Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is coerced into bringing the President and his cargo out. Once inside, Snake gets help from Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), and Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau).This was about the beginning of the end of the '70s crime ridden NY paranoia. The style is no longer realism but rather surreal. It is the best of campy adventure. Kurt Russell creates an iconic character. Don't come in expecting realism. Come in expecting a fun time. "},{"Title":"A good sci-fi action - especially when considering the year of release","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of course, later 1980ies and more recent decades have seen better elaborated movies, mainly due to much more enhanced technological possibilities. Nevertheless, Escape from New York is not embarrassing to watch even at present as focusing on future allowed exploiting significant features of that period as less as possible. The venue - depleted New York governed by the scum of society - seems realistic, Kurt Russell as Snake Plissken is convincing; the rest of the cast is strong as well and includes some catchy performances (e.g., Ernest Borgnine as Cabbie and Frank Doubleday as Romero). The plot has some shortcomings, but it is no profound movie for art's sake anyway, so they do not become annoying. Thus, the movie can be recommended to younger generations as well. "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenter's best films from the early 80's","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter has to be one of the best sci-fi horror helmers who's made so many great cult favourites. This one is one of them. Escape From New York may be quite dated but it still packs a punch! Kurt Russell's potrail as Snake Plissken, the war-hero turned criminal is great. John Crapenter's score is so good (got the remastered CD) and the apocalyptic tone & style of a ruined New York is one of the great things about this film. It doesn't even feel low-budget this film and watching this film in widescreen feels so good (one of the reasons why it doesn't feel low-budget). Rating 10/10, a classic sci-fi film directed by John Carpenter which can't be missed out on and can't be updated or remade. John Carpenter's films don't need to be updated or remade. "},{"Title":"Another fine movie from John Carpenter...","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York, despite the claims of high octane action and edge-of-your-seat-suspense (at least according to the back of the DVD case I bought this afternoon) is actually a bit lacking in the action and suspense department. It's strange that a director so good at suspense couldn't get more excitement out of the lead character's impending death, but it just isn't there... and the brief action scenes are few and far between. Also, Carpenter's dull musical score doesn't match up well with what's happening on screen. His simplistic scores worked in Assault on Precinct 13 and Halloween, but it's totally of place here. However, the movie makes up for these shortcomings just by being so damn tough. The cool noir atmosphere is very menacing, and Kurt Russell does a perfect job with his role, looking like he's about to rip someone's head off at any moment. The rest of the cast shines as well (it's one of the best casts in movie history!).Even with the lack of high octane action, this is a dark, rough, and downright cool film that is definitely worth watching. 8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"great low budget movie","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is not for those wishing to see an explosion every minute.  It is for those who want the action to compliment the storyline, not the other way around.  Some of the comments against this movie seem unfair.  One based a lower rating on the fact that it reminded them too much of Blade Runner.  Considering Escape from NY came first, it is not fair to consider this movie the copy.  And secondly, people seem to forget what NY City was like in the 70s.  It almost went bankrupt.  Yes, the entire city.  So, when this movie was conceived, NY was an acceptable choice for the plot.  If you can accept ANY island being turned into a prison, NY was as good a choice as any.  People seem to be judging this based on the thriving NY City of the 80s, 90s and today.  Again, this is unfair.  Bottom line is this movie is not for everyone.  It does get a little slow in parts.  But if you can get through the lags, you will be rewarded with a darn good story. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films and Snake Plissken is my all-time favorite film character.Kurt Russell has achieved international cult-hero status in this role, deservedly so. If you can't dig Snake Plissken, man, you can't dig anything! "},{"Title":"Like fine wine this gets better with age!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpneter's cult classic Escape From New York, is set in a dystopia 1997! New York city has been transformed into a virtual maximum security prison where some of the most degenerate and deadly criminals have been left to languish. But when a gang of freedom fighters hijack air force one and subsequently crash land there, it's an eerie precursor of events of 911, the president played convincingly by Donald Pleasance is taken hostage by some of the criminals who rule the roost. So the authorities who are led by iconic spaghetti western actor Lee Van Cleef send in Snake Plisskin (Kurt Russell) a once highly decorated soldier who s now imprisoned after a string of thefts, is coerced in to rescue him, but they trick him into thinking they've given him a vaccine, which results in a very clever plot twist which it's a device which will kill him if he doesn't complete his mission in 24 hours. Escape From New York is a surprisingly made action classic it makes great use of Steadicam shots which in-itself is a classic carpenter trademark. the film is best seen in it's 2351 aspect ratio the usual TV showing in pan and scan butcher the composition. "}{"Title":"The one true great escape...","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The projected date for Manhattan island becoming a prison has been and gone, and this should serve as a lesson to all budding directors to never be specific with dates. However, in spite of this dating, Escape From New York seems to get more relevant with age, especially in this day of constant terror alerts. The entire film gives one a sense of future-shock that seems to get more intense with every viewing.Kurt Russell was an excellent choice for Snake Plissken. He doesn't look like your stereotypical action hero, which heightens the feeling of the everyday man being hounded and persecuted for exercising certain freedoms he used to take for granted. The whole concept of a United States police force is indeed a frightening one, especially given the world's current atmosphere of one militaristic nation deciding to police the entire world.The entire film screams its low budget from the get go. The composite shot of the glider falling from the World Trade Centre looks so fake that it elicits howls of laughter, and the cassette players make it obvious that the filmmakers couldn't afford to use props that were less dated. I believe I actually stopped using cassette tapes for any purpose around the year that the film is supposedly set in. The doomsday supposition that crime rates will only continue to rise as time goes on also comes off as somewhat comical after the last ten years.As in almost any Carpenter film, the music hits a spectacular high note. Although it sounds a lot like the soundtrack for one of the video games on the Commodore 64, it works because it sets exactly the right mood. The collective beeps of the synthesiser, along with the thudding bass drum and the click of what sounds like a really padded cymbal, give the opening and closing themes a resonance that makes them memorable independent of the film.This is one of Donald Pleasance's more memorable roles, and he plays it absolutely straight-faced, with not a hint of guile. In fact, the serious attitude of the entire production makes it difficult to discern whether the film was actually meant to be a satire. It wasn't advertised as anything other than an action film in the 1980s. However, one can't help but wonder if the scenes where we see that the New Yorkers can rig a car to run on steam, but can't get the lights to work, represent what John Carpenter thinks of the titular city's people.I gave Escape From New York a ten out of ten. It makes me grateful for formats like DVD-Video, as it is a relic of the days when it took some creativity to make a film, and deserves to be preserved. It belongs in an elite class of films that give a lasting record of how the average human being saw themselves at the time. "},{"Title":"Far better Sci-Fi movies available from the period","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not sure how John Carpenter gets the credit he does and pretty shocked to see an average review here of 7/10. I think you get an extra 3-4 stars just be putting My Name Here presents TitleName on every movie you do.I really enjoy sci-fi and in particular post apocalyptic still themes. Quite a few posts review this as a B movie, but it had a decent budget and known cast and don't think it was designed to be a B movie.Personally I only enjoyed The Thing from Carpenter and was really disappointed with Escape from NY.Kurt Russel was absolutely terrible and fumbled around from scene to scene muttering 1 corny line at a time.The characters were weak and poorly directed. The sets were great and you could see that a great effort went into the construction.Considering that movies like Alien, Mad Max & Mad Max 2 etc came from the same period and didn't feature cheesy dialog and poor acting I think there are better choices from the period. "},{"Title":"An interesting idea destroyed by the director","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter makes excruciatingly bad films. He has no idea how to tell a story, or how to create suspense. All he has in Escape from New York is the budget to deliver an impressive setting. However, he has nothing with which to fill it. Unfortunately, the popcorn crowd has little discrimination with which to tell the difference. Carpenter is another of those fakes who has never studied scripting, or forgot everything he ever learned. In a movie script, (OMG here we go again) the hero has to be likable Kurt Russell is as unpleasant as possible without actually unzipping his pants and taking a p*** on the camera lens. There is simply nothing quirky, individual or interesting about him, except that he is very rude to authority, something that no doubt endears him to the least amiable of the back row. The kind of people who kick the back of your seat and chew loudly. The creation of suspense is even harder than creating a likable hero. It involves pacing, suggestion, hidden prompts, deferred rewards and a dozen other things, all utterly unknown to Mr Carpenter. No further comment is warranted. "},{"Title":"Call me Snake.","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York has a clean, crisp premise that is relayed to the viewer quickly and without fuss. With nothing but a small budget, the model makers and production designers have managed to convey a sense of a much larger and decayed city in their future dystopia vision. The neon green wireframe models do an excellent job of expressing the scale of this widespread, near-empty wasteland from all angles. There are two distinct worlds here. In one, crime has become so prevalent and widespread that offenders have simply been dumped onto Manhattan and fenced off the area to leave the criminals to themselves. Naturally, they create their own society removed from the rest of the world with their own rules, and like many dystopias, assimilate within the remnants of the environment, stacking cars as walls and hosting their own little theatre productions and gladiatorial battles. There is even an aged taxi driver who continues on his routes as if nothing has changed. And beyond the walls, the sleek, modernised world of the police officers in charge of infiltrating New York and rescuing the President. The cinematographer has fun shooting Lee Van Cleef in the many blinking and flickering coloured lights of their tech. In between the two is Kurt Russell's Snake Plissken, who immediately signals his type by his namesake. With his dark, edgy eyepatch and wiry, muscled body he is more action figure than character (some have expressed his anti-hero qualities, but his characterisation is much too thin for anything resembling that). Like the no-name western heroes before him, he enters without a stake in the game, kills without much remorse, and as the film wraps up walks off into the distance, once again cold and indifferent. The plot is about what we can expect from a John Carpenter action B-movie - the lone soldier is given a time limit and launched into a dead zone to fend for himself. In a James Bond-esque briefing sequence, the movie gives the audience all the information we really need to know, and shows off all the fancy gadgets they've equipped Snake (most of which he does not use). The plan is simple and thrilling enough; to fly over the top of the city and land on its highest point, the World Trade centre. And from there Russell navigates his way through the decay - this is a setting where goons will literally burst out of the rotting ground to open fire. The shambles of a electrical system helps too, adding a murky, atmospheric quality to each set. Together with the pulsing, electronic score the feeling created makes us want to get out of the city immediately, but also want to stay a little longer, if only to see Kurt Russell ice another criminal. "},{"Title":"Really Not A Great Film, But Wasn't Bad Either","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York is directed by John Carpenter and stars Kurt Russell as Snake Plissken, a criminal living in a futuristic world in 1997. Keep in mind, this film came out in 1981, so at the time, 1997 was futuristic. In this future, the United States government has completely walled up the city of Manhattan, and all criminals have been sent there, with no way out. There are no established laws, except that nobody is allowed to escape. Snake Plissken is a military man gone felon that was sentenced to this dystopian New York due to his heist of the federal reserve. When Air Force One, the plane with the President on board, goes down in the middle of Manhattan, Snake is recruited (more like forced) to bring the President back to safety within a specific amount of time. In return, he will be forgiven of all crimes committed, and will live the life of a free man.1980's action cheese. Three little words describe about 90% of this film. However, that's not exactly a bad thing. It's good to see a cheesy movie, such as Predator (1987), or Commando (1985), unless it's tone doesn't fit the style in which the movie was made in, which Escape From New York is a good example of. Not that the movie is bad, it's just something that I wouldn't personally plan on watching again, and I love cheesy movies. There are good qualities, but there are also bad qualities, which somewhat even out each other.The first bad thing that stood out to me about the film is the score. The score follows the early 1980's trend of just containing electronic beeps, or tuned sounds rising and falling back down again. This type of score was very common in the early 80's, and didn't do justice for any film, especially with all of the movies coming out that had amazing, original scores like Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) or Back to the Future (1985). I don't like to compare films too often, but scores are a bit different, and when comparing a single keyboard and a computer to an entire orchestra, it's pretty easy to see why the latter has scores that are still common and loved today, while nobody downloads the score for Escape From New York. This particular score works very well in some scenes, especially when the script, the actors, and the camera work is building suspense, but during an action scene, it just fails.On the contrary the plot for this film is a really good one. The plot for this movie is very simple, and that's all a good movie ever has for a foundation. An easy to follow plot. This simplicity works especially well in an action film, because the filmmakers aren't trying to cram in plot details within the action scenes, so the film doesn't drag down at all. Escape From New York clocks in at about an hour and a half, and only about 5-10 minutes of it is exposition. Due to this, the script had a lot of time for action, which lets up on the director, and the actors, majorly.The direction in this movie does most of the talking. John Carpenter is a great director, and he really shows it in this movie. Although the movie may not be perfect, or even that great, the camera work is the exact opposite. Carpenter displays his beautiful gift for film all throughout the movie, and knows when to use different camera angles. I've no complaints with the direction; it's great.The acting is also really good. The only real part that anyone pays attention to is Snake, and Kurt Russell does a great job as this cold criminal. He cares about no one else, yet will do whatever it takes to make things his way. Russell is very iconic as this role, and I couldn't see anyone replacing him. I'm glad the filmmakers made this casting choice, because it really paid off. Although they may not matter too much, the other characters were cast well. I agreed with most of the casting choices, however weak their character may have been.Now, the biggest problem Escape From New York has lies with the editing. The editing of this film, particularly the sound, is bad. There are honestly moments in which a gun will be fired, and no sound effects will go with it. Or, a character will fall onto the hood of a car, yet there's no noise at all. There are also parts in which somebody will get hurt, and the weapon of their death is never seen doing any harm to them at all, which makes the editing look very poor. If I had to grade this movie on the editing alone, it would scrape in at a 4 out of 10. However, I'm not, and the editing can be overlooked by the great things mentioned above.In conclusion, Escape From New York was a mindless action movie, but I can't say it was fun to watch. I wouldn't pay to see it again, and there were points in which I wasn't really enjoying myself while watching it. However, it still is a pretty decent movie, and there are respectable things about it, namely the straightforward plot, the great acting, and the excellent direction delivered from Carpenter. "},{"Title":"Call me....... Snake...... my name's Plissken.","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" **** May contain strong spoilers ****This is a review made by StoneDraim... and that means that if you want to read a probably different kind of review, keep reading....This is my personal experience, my personal point of view/perspective and my personal opinion... and my opinion is just one of like 7 billions in this world.Futuristic dystopia. President at large. Crimes everywhere. The worlds most vast prison; an entire island.The elements that the specific synthesizer music creates is very evocative. The pulses within the music tend to get me on edge. It is like something is soon going to happen.... and at the same time an alarm to show that something is wrong. Brings the thoughts to another motion picture.... The Thing. Also starring Kurt Russell. Evil lurks somewhere.... at some time.... get ready....... The motion picture about an almost apocalyptic future is highly entertaining.... such as Running Man. Theme songs such as in this motion picture only existed then and there, and that is a sad thing. In the same manner than Michael Mann sets the mood for pictures like Manhunter, this piece of art creates a good flick with help by the modern (of its time) sounds and music. Almost like an video game, with the touch and twist of a music video.I really understand and grasp why this film has become an classic. There, in 1981, the entire production were of high class. The story follows through and keeps it interesting all the time. Could have called it slow paced and tense.... maybe it is just those things. Anarchy in a future island prison lays out the solemn history of the characters, showing the main characters how to survive at the same time as time is running out.A masterpiece speaking of creating an atmosphere that reached out there and still to this day reaches out and make the followers create new things out of this one.And....last and maybe the best part; the music....the soundtrack. Three letters WOW!Over to the movie as a product - The production  Nice and dark. Enough to create the environment of an anarchistic prison. Once again; the music....oh, my....! - The actors  Kurt Russell. Lee Van Cleef. Ernest Borgnine. Isaac Hayes. All brings their characters to life... Good work! Snake Plissken.... THE Snake. - The story  Of its time; just plain and simple marvellous! - Entertainment  Keeping me on edge. What is happening....? Will they escape? Will the one eyed crusader lead them to a safe-house? - Age  15. Raw and a couple of nasty kills and scenes.7,9 out of 10. (The final rate is based most on my own entertainment of the movie.)(Short elucidation of the rating 8 Excellent and a solid production 7 Well made movie. Proper entertainment.) "},{"Title":"The rules are simple - once you go in, you don't come out.","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah yes, Snake Plissken. No matter how much time goes by I can always remember the name of the main protagonist in Escape From New York. I don't know that Kurt Russell would have been my first choice to portray the infamous Snake, but he sure goes at it with gusto, and that huge cobra tattoo on his stomach really adds to the flavor of the character. Throw in the eye patch as a bonus and you have a real bad-ass anti-hero.What really made the picture for me was the wrestling ring appearance of one of the all time great mat villains, Ox Baker. Can you imagine meeting up with this guy in an alley someplace? I don't recall hearing his name Slag in the story but it seems perfectly appropriate. A slag-heap of a man in a slag-heap of a city that becomes a prison for all the misfit criminals in the country.There's a great supporting cast here with the likes of Lee Van Cleef, Harry Dean Stanton and Adrienne Barbeau. This doesn't seem like the kind of picture Donald Pleasance would have wound up in but he holds his own among the derelicts of a dystopian Manhattan in the way distant future of 1997 from the film's vantage point. I guess it's a relief that we haven't descended to this type of anarchy in the twenty second century yet but there are days when it seems like we're getting close. Too bad about The Brain (Stanton) and Maggie (Barbeau), they should have made it to the end of the picture. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I made an effort to sit and watch the movie, but I couldn't. It's just too boring.I can't understand how John Carpenter makes a masterpiece like The Thing and then makes terrible movies such as Escape from New York, 'They Live, etc. I know many people regard these movies as masterpieces and classics.Escape from New York has a nice style (looks like Duke Nukem was VERY influenced by it), but the movie is terrible - it's boring, it moves nowhere and it looks like a B-movie (in the bad way).Except for The Thing, I can't recall one movie by Carpenter which I actually liked. I only recall that the Cigarette Burns episode was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review Escape from New York","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York is a solid and memorable independent action film that shot Kurt Russell to stardom, who plays the now-classic anti- hero Snake Plissken. This is probably the quintessential cult film of the 80's, with an extraordinary premise you'd only find in a B movie and one of the coolest collection of characters ever put on screen. Russell's anarchist eyepatch-wearing lead is joined by Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasence, Isaac Hayes, Adrienne Barbeau, Adrienne Barbeau's cleavage, Harry Dean Stanton and Tom Atkins. These guys play utterly cool and inventive characters that, had Escape been made today, there would surely be the subject of countless spinoffs and sequels. The story involves the military sending in Snake to rescue the president of the US from New York, which in the future of 1997 (hold your laughter) has been turned into a prison island where criminals are thrown into and left to do as they please. As you can expect, this leads to Snake confronting a vast amount of deranged and wacky characters. It's a grim and deadly place (much like New York now!) with the very worst humanity has to offer thrust in a claustrophobic environment. Despite the bleakness, a cheeky satirical edge and healthy amount of dark humour is present throughout, and the runtime (just over an hour and a half, like most Carpenter films) leaves you wanting more from a film with lines like I don't give a damn about you or your president. The machismo nature of the characters, especially Snake and The Duke, make your biceps and balls grow just by watching them. Best Scene Which to choose? For me it'll be when The Duke arrives (in a car with chandeliers!) accompanied by Carpenter's hip score. That man just doesn't get enough credit for his jams. "},{"Title":"A Look Into A Futuristic New York As Told In The Year 1981.","Date":"31 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York Has got to one of the best cult films from the 20th Century. Those who find this movie weird, I guess the reason is because it's dated or your not a hardcore John Carpenter fan. I really like EFNY, to this day, yes it's dated; but that's because it came out in 1981 and who knew what 1997 would hold. If the dates 1988 and 1997 were not included, younger viewers; and others might enjoy it more. To me it's a cult classic, up there with the original Star Wars trilogy, JAWS, and E.T.. The story begins with Snake Plisskin being taken into custody to the Manhattan Maximum Security Prison. In 1997 since to crime rate grew to 400 % all of Manhattan Island is a Maximum Security Prison for the U.S.. Plisskin is an ex-special forces officer, who was convicted of a bank robbery. His character Snake is the ultimate bas A##. Once in you do not come out, the head of the prison is Hauk( Lee Van Cleef). Hauk discovers that Air Force 1 has been hi-jacked and Hauk needs help finding the President inside NYC.. Hauk calls in Snake Plisskin( Kurt Russel), after hearing the distress signal. Hauk gives Snake an offer, to go in and retrieve the President( Donald Pleasance). If he is successful he will receive a full pardon; but Hauk has a catch. When Snake gets ready to leave Hauk fits him with a tracker, and puts two capsules into his system. Plisskin has 22 hours to complete his mission; and there is no way for him to escape. In 1997 NYC looks like a demilitarized zone. Snake has to move swiftly, and carefully due to the crazies that live outside. These are people who have become lost and now work for the Duke of New York(Isaac Hays). Once Snake is in he gets help from Cabbie(Ernest Borgnine), Brain( Harry Dean Stanton, and Maggie( Adrienne Barbeau). To save the President he will need there help, and he will have tough trials while he faces The Duke of New York and his minions. He has 22 hours to complete the mission, and bring the President back safely.The reason why I liked this movie is it's futuristic approach, and when you see it for the first time at age 8 in 81, it stays with you forever. This film is action packed and Snake Plisskin is the true anti-hero you cheer on from beginning to end. I also liked the excellent cast they all meshed well, and some have worked with Carpenter before. The movie unites old school actors with new school, a great cast indeed. As I watched the movie I put myself in the shoes of Plisskin. A total thrill ride from the beginning to the end for the viewer.I love John Carpenter films and even though this is more sci-fi than horror, it has style. Watching this movie and looking at some of the parts makes me wonder what the future has in store for us. Meaning if our crime rate where to ever hit that high would we be prepared, would our big cities fall apart; and would humanity live like savages. It makes me wonder, maybe you too? BTW a remake of Escape From New York is in development as of 2014/2015. If it is green lighted I can't wait to see what it holds. I'm sure the time line will be spaced father apart; like 30 years into the future, story line might be the same with some differences. I think it would be great to remake it, but will it hold up to the original? THX, Kris L. CocKayne "}{"Title":"Early 80s action gold","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" An action cult classic and one of the most memorable Kurt Russell roles, Escape from New York is an influential movie for its genre and still holds up well over thirty years later.The story goes that in the mystical year of 1997 we live in the crime-torn horrors of the future and have turned Manhattan into one huge prison island. You know, like we often do with our most valuable pieces of real estate. But now the President has crash landed into the prison and it's up to one man, one Snake Plissken (Russell), to pull him out of there before it's too late.The film mainly shines because of its style and its main character. It was made in 1981, but already you can see all the staples of the 80s. Dark, urban settings, lots and lots of shooting, wild yelling, tribal gangsters, antiheroes and grey morality all around. Escape from New York has since then influenced whole generations of film makers, and for a good reason. It's a very tight package, even if the story is rather straightforward and the supporting cast is not the strongest.Russell, however, is very strong in his role. His character has become one of the role models of antiheroes and once again for a good reason. He's tormented, mean and lean, stone cold, born badass yet in the end he's filling to see the job through, to do the right thing, no matter how reluctantly.Escape from New York is a blast of fun and style. One of the must see 80s action films and a great introduction to Kurt Russell. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Long live Snake Plissken.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's 'Escape From New York' came out in 1981. I was born in 1981. This is not a coincidence. Ever since my dad showed me 'Escape From New York', I wanted to don an eye patch, stick it to authority, and save the human race, just like Plissken does, but I knew I'd never be as cool as Plissken ever was.The thing about 'Escape From New York' is that Kurt Russell's character Snake is such a bad-ass, that's it's super rare find a hero that stand for good of the common man and also acts like he doesn't care about anything. This is one of John Carpenter's finest films and was smack dab in the middle of his greatest movies, in between 'Halloween' and 'The Thing', which are two of my favorites of all time. Carpenter didn't have access to the modern technology of CG back in 1981, so he relied on a great team to construct miniature models of New York City, along with matte paintings that are ultra realistic.These practical effects provide that good old nostalgic feeling for us kids of the 80s, because more often than not, movies today only use computer generated effects, which in my opinion, take you out of the film all together. All these aspects come together to conjure up a damn near perfect and highly entertaining film in my opinion. A film that after more than three decades, still holds up today.It's a hell of a story too. A highly decorated US soldier and recent bank robber Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is taken out of prison in a futuristic 1997 where the world is mostly a post apocalyptic scene to rescue the President of the United States (Donald Pleaseance), after his Air Force One Place is hijacked and crashes into a building. If that weren't enough, he has to navigate the war-torn streets of New York City while avoiding crazy murderers and rapists who are all out to kill him. Luckily he does find a little bit of help with an old cab driver known as Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), Brain (Harry Dean Stanton), and Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau), as they try to find the President who is being tortured and held hostage by The Duke (Isaac Hayes) and his insane minions.'Escape From New York' is the ultimate bad-ass movie. It never slows down and each character is so particular and fun, that each one has become iconic. There's just something about this film where anytime it's on, you can't help but watch, and now that this Blu-ray Collector's edition is out, you'll be able to watch the best video and audio presentation thus far of this movie. I have a feeling like in another three decades, 'Escape From New York' will be just as good, if not better. Long live Snake Plissken. "},{"Title":"Still holds up because it's actually more realistic and grounded than most dystopic sci-fi film","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Escape from New York, it's 1997 and a major war between the United States and the Soviet Union is concluding. The entire island of Manhattan has been converted into a giant maximum security prison. When Air Force One is hijacked and crashes into the island, the president (Donald Pleasence) is taken hostage by a group of inmates. Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), a former Special Forces soldier turned criminal, is recruited to retrieve the president in exchange for his own freedom.The thing that impressed me upon re-watching Escape from New York on Blu-ray was the practical effects, models, and background paintings utilized. In the age of CGI, they still look realistic and make you feel like you're watching something that's actually happening in front of you. You feel as if you've been dropped with Snake into the middle of the Rotten Apple.Escape from New York is rated R for violence and gore, profanity, smoking, nudity, and frightening and intense sequences. A girl is seen topless in a rather darkly lit sequence that lasts barely five seconds. The rest of the offending content is rather tame by today's standards. I'm sure there are not many out there who haven't seen Escape from New York in one form or another over the past 35 years. Besides the fact that it's set in the future 18 years ago, the movie still holds up because it's actually more realistic and grounded than most dystopic sci-fi films. Instead of the flying cars and advanced technology viewed in movies like Blade Runner, we see believable and relevant settings that could transpire in the next decade or so. "},{"Title":"Snake, call me Snake.","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very good action adventure film from John Carpenter. The Atmosphere, New York with that dark, desolate and almost spooky atmosphere where roam all kinds of claims and deplorable beings, though some friendly like Ernest Borgnine, I found terrific and maintained. A Kurt Russell fits like a glove the role of the Anti-hero Snake Pliskeen a total Comics hero. Of those that are never forgotten. Magnificent. The action, suspense at certain times, the children, the fight against this kind of Zangief ...... in short, it seemed as much fun and enjoyable. Great movie I recommend to all who want to enjoy the series  B, more authentic, carefree and classic. "},{"Title":"An American Anti-Hero","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Western anti-hero is an icon of American literature. He&#x97;and it's always a he&#x97;is a solitary man, rather gruff, with a mordant sense of humor. He knows how to use a gun. His moral sense is skewed, but in his heart, he's willing to sacrifice himself for the greater good. He's often the answer when the government just ain't up to snuff. Roland of Gilead, Rooster Cogburn, and the Man with No Name have brought the American anti-hero to life. Escape from New York's Snake Plissken, played with growling panache by Kurt Russell, is a memorable variation on this theme.Snake Plissken wears a black eye-patch and tight-fitting clothes. His long unwashed hair and grizzled face bespeak a his nonchalance about the world. He does crime, and because of that, he's being sent to New York, a city that now serves as America's maximum security prison. But his country first needs him for a mission that only a man of his caliber can perform. He needs to save the President of the United States, who has ironically been trapped in the imprisoned city of his own making.Escape from New York is arguably a bad movie. The plot is improbable. The sets are so dark that you strain to see the action. And the action scenes are paltry, involving a few punches and bursts of gunfire. Nevertheless, Escape from New York creates a world and characters that are deeply memorable. This is a New York permeated by darkness and crime. In this world, crazed prisoners crawl out of sewers at night and men perform bawdy musicals in dilapidated theaters. A loose hierarchy of criminals, crowned by a villainous Duke, triumphs over the city's population.Snake Plissken enters this world and fulfills his mission, albeit for his own selfish and cynical reasons. Ultimately, though, he does what is right because the President just ain't a good man. That's an American anti-hero. "},{"Title":"Kurt Russell channels his inner Clint Eastwood in 1981's cult classic, Escape From New York","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unleashed into theaters in the summer of 1981, Escape from New York is a true cult classic. It's a film of heightened originality and it is brought to you from the brilliant mind of director John Carpenter. Inspired by his reaction to the 1970's Watergate scandal (I'm not sure how this movie and Watergate are connected but it doesn't matter), this film depicts a dangerous criminal (Kurt Russell) racing against time to rescue the President of the United States (as well as retrieving a secret government cassette tape with messages on it). The worst part is that the President's plane goes down in Manhattan which in the future is the country's only maximum security prison. As antihero, former war soldier, and badly unshaven convict, Kurt Russell commands the screen as iconic screen legend, Snake Plissken. Doing a sort of younger Clint Eastwood impersonation, he still manages to make the character totally his own. He's helped out by an oddball cast consisting of Oscar winner Ernest Borgnine as a cab driver (huh?), music sensation Isaac Hayes as the antagonistic Duke of New York, and Halloween alum Donald Pleasence as, the President (the flick doesn't give his name). Escape benefits from being quirky, action packed, and full of great one-liners courtesy of Russell. Yes, the film's special effects are easily outdated, but it's not about the effects per se. It's about Carpenter's terrific direction. He does an adequate job of filming with hardly any light (the shots of light he does use are soft and gleaming which look eerie as can be) and his synthesizer soundtrack (which he composed by the way) is tops all around (the opening title music is awesome, no joke). And as in most of his films (including the one I'm reviewing), he is methodical in character build up and setting up scenes for monster payoffs. Overall, this is a neat and satisfying futuristic sci-fi thriller. It will no doubt command multiple viewings. Be on alert though for its inferior sequel Escape from L.A. Skip it unless you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Great Cult Fun","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1997, when the US President (Donald Pleasence) crashes into Manhattan, now a giant maximum security prison, a convicted bank robber (Kurt Russell) is sent in for a rescue.If you love seeing a classic science fiction film with plenty of John Carpenter regulars, including Tom Atkins, Adrienne Barbeau and more... this is your film. Vastly superior to its sequel, this outlandish plot actually has some semblance of reality from the time this film was made to 2009, the prison population of the United States more than tripled. We have not created specific cities for criminals yet, but it makes a certain level of sense (and may not be far off from how Australia was started).The story is really just all kinds of fun, though, and I am not the least bit surprised that it has gained cult status. Most of Carpenter's films have, but this one may be even bigger than his others as far as a broad appeal. "},{"Title":"The names Plisskin....","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future crime is out of control within the United States. New York City has become a maximum security prison for most of the countries most violent and ruthless offenders. When the president crashes in this violent cesspool, drastic actions must be taken. Enter Snake Plisskin, hard edged, gruff and talented. An ex decorated solider and convicted armed robber Coerced into saving the president and his cargo from New York, if he can survive....A cult classic and one of my favorite films. Mildly trodden with a down beat and and an over all dark gritty film. This film throughout the years has become a cult classic and a highly popular film. Tense with a bit of dark humor, brilliantly acted with its niche in what some would consider with B-movie type aspects. Plisskin one of the great anti- heroes of his generation has only garnered one sequel, but nothing in comparison to the original. Simply in story but what makes this film stand apart is its pacing and its atmosphere, one in which deliverers with what the film maker intended to, a dark gritty action film that for its time held nothing back and assaulted the viewer into utter cinematic submission. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's Apocalypse","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" For some reason I had always filed this movie away as a throw-away piece of 80s action cinema and not worth my time. I don't know why, because John Carpenter has a proved track record of making art out of pulp. Maybe it's the fact that the film stars Kurt Russell, who I've never been able to take seriously.But then I just got around to actually watching it, only to discover that it's kind of a kick-ass movie and deserves to be treated much more seriously than I had originally given it credit for. Carpenter, as usual, does much with what's obviously a limited budget, and the gritty scrappiness of the movie actually adds to its apocalyptic atmosphere. The premise is as high-concept as they come, and while the film has not changed my opinion of Kurt Russell as an actor, it did at least confirm for me that he's serviceable enough when matched with the right role.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Such a good movie.","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" ESCAPE FROM NEW YORKA cult classic&#x85; that I had not seen before yesterday.New York has been blocked off and turned into a giant prison. The presidents plane has crashed inside the compound and he has been held hostage. The government has promised a convict a clean slate if he gets the president out in 22 hours. Snake must make his way around New York, find the president and escape without getting the president killed or getting killed himself.This film was made in the 80's&#x85; and you can really tell. It has that amazing 80's feel to it. The sound effects are so bad, but great at the same time. When Snake is fighting people it is funny. When he hits someone, the sound that the punch makes it classic 80's. The effects are not great, but again&#x85; that just adds to the atmosphere to the movie. Great soundtrack too.The movie stars Kurt Russell as Snake. He plays this part with such attitude, and it doesn't really suit him. Especially with his deep gravelly voice that he puts on. But after watching him for over 30 minutes in this character you get used to it. Other cast members were Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasence & Isaac Hayes. The casting was brilliant. I like all of these actors, especially the legendary Ernest Borgnine. I had the pleasure of meeting Ernest before he passed away, and he was such a nice friendly man. The acting throughout was not brilliant, but then back in the 80's, especially for action films, the acting was never important. It was all about the cheese. I love cheesy action films and this was definitely that.There was quite a lot of violence in it and some gory scenes, but nothing too bad. I was a little bit surprised to see a head on a stick in one scene, but it was awesome. There are some great, creepy characters too.The story is great. I love the idea of the president being kidnapped and a criminal having to save the day. Snake is not really a likable character which is what makes this film different. The hero is not really a hero. He is only doing it for selfish reasons and that is a good spin on the story.I have not seen Escape from L.A., but after watching this I will be looking out for it. I am looking forward to seeing it.I will give this film 7 out of 10.Snake? I thought you were dead!For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "}{"Title":"Sci-Punk Noir","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the Director's better Movies. It is a completely Cynical and Dark atmosphere that relays its intent on the Audience with an effectiveness that only a talented B-Movie Director could concoct. The ability to take Comic-Book Stories and Characters, dress them up, and announce the whole thing as gritty, sleazy Fun. Style personified.The Film is oozing with Style. From the Haunting, but typical, thumping of the Synthesizer, not one scene in the Daylight (Dawn at best), Thrift Store Chic Costumes, a Larger than Life Anti-Hero, and assorted Street Dregs, mixed with the Classical Chestnut do this thing and you are Pardoned, it all comes together with simplistic, but Colorful Sets and Graphics and bit of the ol' Ultraviolence.It is Sci-Punk Noir and the Talented Creators both in front of and behind the Camera make for an Amalgamated Apocalyptic Fan Favorite Film. "},{"Title":"Future Is Now Past.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter directed this exciting action yarn that stars Kurt Russell(excellent performance) as Snake Plissken, a wanted criminal and amoral mercenary(think a modern Man With No Name) that is captured by authorities, but offered a pardon if he will undertake an important mission rescue the president, who has crash-landed Air Force One into the penal colony of futuristic(1997) Manhattan, which has been sealed off from the rest of the country after the crime rate skyrockets. The president(played by Donald Pleasance) is being held by a powerful gang as a bargaining ploy, and Snake must rescue him, and retrieve an important document related to a speech he was going to give. After gliding in, he has a limited amount of time to find the president, before a poison kills him(he will be given the antidote upon successful completion of the rescue.)Well-designed and entertaining film has a good cast(Adrienne Barbeau, Ernest Borgnine, and Lee Van Cleef among them). Well worth watching, and a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Call me Snake.","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of Carpenter's best movies EVER. This one leans more toward the science fiction and action genres, but you can definitely feel the Carpenter of it. The distinct use of shadows and clever use of sound definitely brings you back to his horror works. Not to mention, it's one of his self-scored films, though Alan Howarth is the constant co-composer people always seem to leave out. Any who, fantastic score with some very dark and ominous moments.The cast just reeks of Carpenter, how awesome. The very tempting Adrienne Barbeau stars, and Donald Pleascence as our cowardly President. As if that wasn't enough, you also get Harry Dean Stanton as Brain. Carpenter also pays tribute to his love of spaghetti westerns by casting (applause starts) Lee Van Cleef! Lee Van Cleef plays his character with the same slyness as Angel Eyes back in '66, truly sealing the deal as one of my favorite cast ever. And the ever bad-ass Kurt Russell is Snake Plissken, the virtual Man with No Name. He's one of the quintessential anti-hero figures in cinema if you ask me, leading up to the very impressive and clever ending where Snake throws aside world peace without the blink of an eye, it's great. The film definitely portrays a dystopia and the cinematography captures this quite well. There are also many shots of well-built miniatures and nicely executed matte shots. Done before the era of CGI, one has to marvel at the timeless feel of it all.The film is darkly lit, nihilistic, hard-hitting and fast-paced, all mixed together so well I never tire of it. A true Carpenter classic. I'm aware of a possible re-make; all I can say is Jeremy Renner, not Gerald Butler. Oh, and before I forget You are THE Duke of New York! You are A Number One! "},{"Title":"postmodern blinks","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carpenter has a very special talent to give his films a mood, an environment, the taste of a specific world. That mood is almost always associated to a very strong sense of place. Many of his films are physically located within some recognizable area, related or not to our real world and if so, always twisted in some cinematic (visual) way.I believe he always starts the conception of each film with this idea of place and mood. Than he builds a story that allows him to explore that mood, usually something trivial and unimportant, existing to support his cinematic vision.Here we have it. Manhattan, one of the most recognizable places in film world. Twisted to become an assumed apocalyptic world. (the fact that Plissken enters it by plane, landing on top of the WTC is an unintentional irony, 20 years before the attacks).He uses Kurt Russell, someone who can be trusted to the kind of role he has physically self- aware, stylish, deliberately empty. He is a nice guy, because he plays this parts with a second layer of self-reference, a blink to the audiences, always he's playing a role which he knows can't be taken serious, and we get that, we know we are watching a guy acting a role while he makes fun of it. This something Bruce Willis or George Clooney are also capable of doing. It's fun that 25 years later Russell would participate in a Tarantino film that references with a similar sense of irony these films already not serious, and the ones before this one. Russell participated in the 2 layers of irony. That's good.But Van Cleef is even better. He was a supporting actor in first generation westerns. He lived to become a main actor in 2 of Leone's ironic genius westerns. And here he still has the opportunity to enter a new stage of film irony, playing a character who manipulates and observes this western of a solitary hero fighting low moral for self-benefit. 3 layers in film world, he was in them 3. That's remarkable.After this, Carpenter gives us all sorts of visual treats, to enrich the bizarre feel of this world. This is a worthy experience, a kind of Blade Runner without anything serious to say. It doesn't change you, but it's worth the ride.My opinion 4/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Snake Plissken one of the iconic movie characters","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake Plissken alongside characters like Dirty Harry, Hans Gruber, Ferris Bueller and names such as that is one of the great characters in movie history. If you had to name Kurt Russell's most signature role this would probably be it, with Jack Burton from Big Trouble in Little China being right behind.Escape from New York can be described as a cult classic which involves danger, action, suspense and even a bit of humor.In a post apocalyptic future the entire city of New York has been turned into a prison. The President has been kidnapped and taken into New York and the only person they can find to get him out of there is Snake Plissken a former war hero and now outlaw. "},{"Title":"If you don't mind a campy movie then you'll probably enjoy this film.","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not going to get into the plot much as the page devoted to this title does a good job of explaining that. I will however explain just why this movie is so darned enjoyable.The shining star of this film is Kurt Russel as Snake Plissken. He's the employment of an anti-hero if there ever was one. He's an unwilling man on a mission with a lot of attitude. He's not afraid to play dirty in order to survive yet he's still got a sideways ere of morality about him. Kurt plays this role perfectly and really make's this film worth watching.Isaac Hayes is enjoyable as the Duke of New York, and Donald Pleasance does a great job as the President. They serve their parts in the film pretty well.If you're into the negative utopia genre at all I highly recommend you watch this film. Same goes for those that enjoy a good anti-hero.The atmosphere in this movie is pretty corny by today's standards but there's still just something cool about it. I'd hate to live in the U.S in the film but man does it make a cool film.In short; this movie is definitely worth watching if you can get past how corny it is. "},{"Title":"Escape From New York Review","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York is a movie with a solid premise, that's unfortunately almost entirely lost because of the bad acting, terrible script, and special effects that really haven't withstood the test of time. Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), is an ex-army bank robber who's sent to New York City, which has been turned into a maximum security prison because of the startling rise in crime within the US. Once the President is captured within the walls of the facility, it is up to Snake to rescue him and return him to safety. As I said, the set-up is solid and intriguing. Unfortunately, I still have several problems with this movie. One major issue is that the acting doesn't nearly hold up to the potential of the premise. The actors don't convey true feelings of terror, even though they are faced with a dire situation. A major part of this problem is due to the god-awful script, which essentially consists of witty one-liners, cheesy emotion, and the attitude problem of a snarly teenager. I wasn't invested in the story because of this, nor did I have feelings for the characters, and didn't even care when anything happened to them . So the acting and script are unbearable. Another thing that really brings down the caliber of this movie is the special effects. Now I understand that this was a Summer Blockbuster in its time, and during the early 80's the amount of special effects in this movie must have been amazing. Even so, watching this movie about 30 years later is practically excruciating. The planes during the flight sequences are rarely shown, and when they are they truly look ridiculous. All of the explosions look just plain dumb in the dark and grainy way the film is shot, and don't bring any wow moments to the table. While I don't have much good to say about the film, I can say that John Carpenter's direction is as good as ever, and he really creates a spooky mood to go along with the sci-fi premise. He can also direct a good action sequence, and all the fighting that's done without the terrible special effects is good enough. Overall, this is a merely passable action classic, that ultimately fails due to the terrible script and performances, as well as FX that are laughable in this day and age. I honestly can't recommend it in the least, unless you're into low-quality special effects and stupid dialog, or you're just a child of the 80's looking for a good old sense of nostalgia. "},{"Title":"Escape from Kurt Russell","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I like movies from the 80's and I like action movies from the 80's but I hate this movie. I was so boring and I found myself not caring about anything that was going on. The story was so stupid it seemed like a child or Kurt Russell thought it up. Now I know there are some fans of the Escape from popular big city series but it is just not my movie.Some of the problems with the movie are that the main character played by Kurt Russell is such a d-bag he tries to do his raspy bad-ass voice and it sounds terrible and to top that off his character never does anything cool like kick the crap out of 20 guys at once or even say a kick-ass line. Then the way he looks whats with the eye patch that they never explain how he got it or why I should give a damn. Another problem the villains trying to escape the prison OK there bad but there is no reason I should hate them or anything they really are just there.Now there are some good parts to the movie like the setting is cool the whole island a prison thats something interesting. Also the soundtrack is great I like the old 80's Sci-fi music.Overall I do regret seeing this film it's not worth renting or seeing for free it's not complete waste of time but I don't see anything here to make someone walk away saying that was a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Dark, Bleak, Yet very entertaining!!!!!!","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing the commercial for this movie when it premiered in theaters. I was about 8 and i knew i had to see it. i had to wait a year for it to premier on cable to see it and for it to show on a Fri or sat night. After watching it from beginning to end, i knew I loved this movie and it has since been my all time fav film. Despite its low filming budget for a movie like this, it pulls it off with great actors, and very deceiving visual effects. I also like the dark tone of the alternate future that this movie portrays. I believe a scenario like this could actually happen if crime in this country were to get very out of control. I strongly recommend it! they rarely make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Okay Futuristic Actioneer","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director John Carpenter didn't fare as luckily with Escape from New York as he did with Halloween. Although it didn't generate as many sequels, knock-offs, and a remake as Halloween spawned, this futuristic tough-guy thriller inspired a sequel. According to Box Office.Mojo, the low-budgeted Escape from New York coined $50 million worldwide on a mere seven-million dollar investment so it qualifies as a colossal hit. Carpenter manages to get every cent on film. The scenes in New York City appear realistic enough in what constituted a juvenile delinquent hellhole lighted with fires that cast ominous shadows. Interestingly, nobody but Carpenter saw Kurt Russell as integral to the lead role as Snake Plissken. The studio preferred Charles Bronson, but Carpenter rejected him as too old. Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Isaac Hayes, Donald Pleasance, Adrienne Barbeau, and Harry Dean Stanton co-star. The action is hard and gritty and Carpenter stages the violence with reasonable aplomb. Carpenter's work as music composer, along with Alan Howarth, surpasses his work as director. The opening Escape from New York theme is classic stuff! Clocking in at 99 minutes, this Dirty Dozen type genre film never wears out its welcome. The best parts are the opening twenty minutes and the concluding twenty minutes. Knowing that gigantic wrestler Ox Baker wasn't trying to throw his punches, but connect them with Russell makes their memorable in the arena as they clobber each other with clubs more realistic. The snake tattoo that Snake wears and his eye-patch look thoroughly believable and Snake's refrain Call me Snake bolsters Russell's performance. Van Cleef contributes an intimidating mongoose performance.Escape from New York opens with some expository narrative that Carpenter said they decided to incorporate to give audiences a leg up on the setting and background of the story. Graphics accompany the following narration In 1988, the crime rate in the United States rises four hundred percent. The once great city of New York becomes the one maximum security prison for the entire country. A fifty-foot containment wall is erected along the New Jersey shoreline, across the Harlem River, and down along the Brooklyn shoreline. It completely surrounds Manhattan Island. All bridges and waterways are mined. The United States Police Force, like an army, is encamped around the island. There are no guards inside the prison, only prisoners and the worlds they have made. The rules are simple once you go in, you don't come out. Basically, World War III is coming to a close and the anonymous President (Donald Pleasance of Halloween) is flying in Air Force One when a terrorist masquerading as a stewardess hijacks it and broadcasts Tell this to the workers when they ask where their leader went. We, the soldiers of The National Liberation Front of America, in the name of the workers and all the oppressed of this imperialist country, have struck a fatal blow to the fascist police state. What better revolutionary example than to let their president perish in the inhuman dungeon of his own imperialist prison. Police Commissioner Hauk (Lee Van Cleef of For Few Dollars More) discusses a plan with the Vice President to send in a hardened criminal facing a life sentence in Manhattan to rescue the chief executive. He chooses a former war hero, Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), because he had flown an ultra-quiet glider called the Gullfire during the war in Leningrad. Hauk offers the reluctant Plissken amnesty for all his crimes if he will rescue the President. Kurt Russell looks suitably tough as Plissken with a raspy voice, a black eye-patch, and a beard. You see, Snake had been arrested for trying to rob a Federal Bank. Snake doesn't exactly leap at the offer and Hauk explains that time is of the essence. The President was scheduled to appear at the critical Hartford Summit to deliver an audio cassette that had a message on it about nuclear fusion. It is essential that the President appears with that message.Plissken agrees to fly the Gullfire and bring out the President, but the suspicious Hauk takes special precautions to ensure Snake's loyalty. He explains how he will keep Snake from flying the other way once he is airborne.  Two microscopic capsules lodged in your arteries. They're already starting to dissolve. In 22 hours, the cores will completely dissolve. Inside the cores are a heat-sensing charge. Not a large explosion, about the size of a pinhead, just big enough to open up both of your arteries. I'd say you'd be dead in 10-15 seconds... Snake flies the Gullfire into Manhattan and lands narrowly atop the World Trade Center. One more foot and the Gullfire and he would plunge to the streets. He locates the wreckage of Air Force One and consults the tracking device that receives signals from the President's electronic wrist bracelet. Eventually, Snake tracks down the signal, only to discover that a drunk (George 'Buck' Flower) is wearing it instead of the Chief Executive. Snake is taken on a tour of the city by Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), who has been cruising the city streets in his cab for 30 years. Snake learns from the 'Brain' (Harry Dean Stanton) that the Duke of New York (Isaac Hayes) has captured the President. Snake tries to rescue the President, but neither are free for long. Snake takes an arrow in the leg and is forced to fight a giant (Ox Baker) in an arena with clubs. Snake defeats the giant and gathers 'Brain,' the President, and Maggie and they make a break for the 69th Street Bridge. Earlier, the Duke had planned to lead his army of convicts and storm the bridge. The Duke needed the 'Brain' because he had a diagram of where all the land mines where placed.Escape from New York is an above-average but threadbare thriller. "}{"Title":"Snake Plissken - an All-Time Classic character in a merely solid 80s action flick.","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake Plissken was such a good character creation that he actually deserved a better movie than Escape from New York, not that ENY sucks, it's just that Plissken is potentially an 'All-Time Classic' character, while the film he appears in is merely a solid 80s flick.Snake is a mulleted, eye-patched, tattooed, super-cool whispering assassin. The problem is in this film he has an inferior platform on which to display his wares.Put another way, if Stallone came up with Plissken we'd be getting ready for Snake 7 where a geriatric Stallone must kill more people against his will&#x85; yet again. Stallone knows how to milk a character, all Carpenter got out of Plissken was a solid first film and a lousy sequel.Anyway in this particular film Manhattan Island is walled off from society, the inhabitants being dangerous criminals trapped inside with no hope of release &#x96; they are there until they die or are killed by the other more nasty inhabitants.Snake himself is due to be inserted into this death trap, where escape is met with instant death from all sides and staying put is met by constant threat by all in-sides. Only on this fateful day the President of the United States himself crash lands within the walls and is taken, along with vital information that only he knows that is required to save the world &#x96; or something &#x96; we are never explicitly told.Snake is taken aside and informed that if can locate and save the Prez within 24 hours he will be given an unconditional release, if not his head will explode...So after a slow build Whispering Snake takes a glider and lands on one of the World Trade Center towers (costly prison), once in he must avoid roaming gangs of guys whose look is best described as homeless-punk-pirate, and random acts of violence perpetrated by guys with funny John Carpenter-film names The Brain (whose girlfriend is more cleavage than woman!), The Duke (Isaac Hayes in the most innocently racist car I can think of), Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine) etc&#x85; What follows is quite straightforward, Snake must work out who will actually help him and who means him harm, and with time running out how exactly to find the Prez and get him out safely.The film is entertaining but harmless.One thing about John Carpenter films the man can take $12 and make it look like he spent $17. That is indeed meant as a compliment, but even when comparatively cashed up it seems Carpenter was never given much to work with. The costuming all looks wacky and way out in a Mad Max 3 way, when you would thing that in reality the inmates would spend a little more time looking deliberately disheveled and be a little more concerned with their day to day wellbeing &#x96; but I guess this isn't reality anyway, so perhaps guys dressed like homeless-punk-pirates is just as appropriate. Also the background all looks suitably cool and authentic, but it's just all a little shiny and clean, at times coming off like a video game. During the film I kept thinking of the original Left 4 Dead game.I dunno, I think Big Trouble in Little China was more fun &#x96; and better &#x96; and that The Thing was infinitely better and a genre classic, so perhaps Escape from New York really only suffers from comparison. It is indeed better than many other 80s flicks and is still fondly remembered (thanks to Snake mostly), so that's a plus, I just think it could have been so much better.All that aside though you put those four films up and add Halloween to the mix and it is inarguable that Carpenter had a most enviable track record in the 80s.Final Rating &#x96; 7 / 10. Hasn't dated well over time, but Plissken remains a classic character deserving of a better film to appear in. Watch it for him &#x96; just don't tell him you thought he was dead &#x96; everyone does that. "},{"Title":"Post apocalyptic mine field","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would love to know who first patented the idea of the future as a dystopian hellhole. The future in my mind looks pretty much like it does now except we're all older and we have better TV sets. That doesn't make for great cinema, but the hellhole sure does. I love movies where the future means that governments have failed, evil dictators rule, there is trash in the street and the gangs have mutated and turned cities into warzones. Meanwhile, there is no food but apparently no short supply of bullets and gasoline. Escape from New York is just that kind of movie. It is an action picture with a novel concept The year is 1997, crime in America has risen by 400% and the government has decided to turn the island of Manhattan into one giant prison, enclosed by a 50 foot retaining wall. America is nearing the end of World War III against The Soviets and our President is on the way to a meeting with China and Russia when he is kidnapped by revolutionaries.That's all in the film's first five minutes and could have made a great movie all by itself. The rest of the movie consists of lone wolf Snake Plisskin (Kurt Russell) being initiated to rescue the Chief Executive. The motivation He's been injected with a microchip that will kill him if he doesn't complete the task in 12 hours. That means we get to see Plisskin running through the hellish streets of Manhattan, duking it out with freakoid gang members to save his own skin. Along the way he runs into a wimpy cab driver (Ernest Borgnine), a revolutionary named Brain (Harry Dean Stanton) and his girlfriend Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau). The opposition is a sleazy pimp (Isaac Hayes) who apparently runs the street gangs.Escape from New York is a dumb action movie but never a boring one. Director John Carpenter's goal, apparently, was the make the movie fun by making it as ridiculous as possible, especially a moment when Snake &#x96; who has about 90 minutes to complete his mission &#x96; is forced into a gladiator-type ring with a giant behemoth. *** (of four) "},{"Title":"Call me Snake","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dated it may now be, but Escape still provides solid entertainment. The setting not only looks cool, but it provides great atmosphere.The streets of a ruined New York populated only by criminals and loonies gives proceedings an eerie feeling.Kurt Russell makes for a mean action hero, in a role that finally helped him shrug off his Disney days. The setup for the future world is intriguing. A US that has become a right-wing police state, the city of New York used to dump America's criminal elements. The first half of the film is easily the strongest, building suspense and atmosphere. The second half, though enjoyable, resorts to routine action theatrics, wasting the setting somewhat as it merely becomes a pinball backdrop for the action. Still, a must-have in any 80s sci-fi and/or action collection. "},{"Title":"Video Discussions Escape From New York","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" WARNING MAJOR SPOILERS. Please do not read this or watch the video link unless you've seen Escape From New York. Otherwise, enjoy.http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=AomWRTqpzS8ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK John Carpenter's Escape From New York is hands-down one of the greatest and most influential cult films in the history of cinema. It certainly has a lot of things working in its favor. It was directed by the great John Carpenter during, what is arguably, the most successful creative stretch of his career. It stars Kurt Russell, who before this film was an up coming young actor with a number of Disney films to his credit. However, after this film, he quickly graduated to leading-man status and cemented his legacy as an icon of cult cinema. And as for the film itself, it takes the rather audacious premise of having New York become a no-man's land-style prison island, and while staying true to it's B-Movie origins, the film really is a critique on the various ideologies that create and define the American experience.The film begins with a brief narration, establishing that, in the near future, the crime rate has grown to such a rapid extent, that the government decided to turn Manhattan into a giant prison. The president of the United States is on board AirForce One, heading to a three-way peace summit between The U.S., China, and the Soviet Union. The plane has been hijacked by a group of left-wing domestic terrorists, and soon crashes down into the Manhattan Island Penitentiary. Meanwhile, former war-hero turned outlaw Snake Plisskin has been apprehended as is set to be exiled to the prison island. As government officials soon learn that the president is alive and being held hostage, the chief of the United States Police Force, Bob Hauk, played by legendary Spaghetti Western icon Lee Van Cleef, decides to enact a rescue mission. He recruits Snake, promising him a full pardon for all crimes he has committed in return for safely rescuing the President. To ensure Snake's compliance with the mission, Hauk has him injected with microscopic explosive devices that will kill him in 24 hours, which is the time limit he has for rescuing the President before the three-way peace summit is over. Snake has no choice but to complete the mission or die.The world that Carpenter creates here and the characters that inhabit it are all motivated through political ideology, which has been taken to extremes on both ends of the spectrum. What we have essentially is fascism versus anarchism. The U.S. government is a police state and has gone to far right extremes in order to deal with the growing crime rate. Rehabilitation and reintegration have apparently fallen to the wayside in favor of throwing all of the nation's criminals and undesirables onto an island and letting them rot. This theme of fascism was taken into even more extremes with Escape From L.A., which explicitly portrayed the U.S. President as a fascist and totalitarian leader. While the President in Escape From New York is more of a McGuffin than a fully realized character, he is portrayed as weak and cowardly, emphasizing the precarious situation that American society is in, which is on the verge of a complete breakdown.FOR MORE, CLICK ON THE LINKhttp//www.youtube.com/watch?v=AomWRTqpzS8 "},{"Title":"New York City - The world's biggest prison.","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My rating ranges from a 5 to 6. John Carpenter is a master director/writer/film score composer. Carpenter's greatest introduction has to be with Halloween (1978). He then would go on to make The Fog, Big Trouble in Little China,and The Village of The Damned, to name a few. But here Carpenter made an interesting film for him because is doesn't really deal with any horror film-type elements.In the year 1986, the United States' crime rate has doubled 400 % ! So by 1988, New York City, the world's second largest city, is turned into the United States' new universal prison. But things suddenly go wrong when the president (Donald Pleasance) is on his way to an international convention to make a speech in a helicopter crash lands inside of New York. The president is then taken as a hostage. In order to get him out of there the wardens in charge of New York City send in a ruthless and tough prisoner by the name of Snake Plisskin (Kurt Russell). But, there's a catch, since they don't trust a criminal, they inject a shot or microchip (I can't remember !) with a timer that will ultimately kill him if he does not get the president out in a certain time frame of 6 hours. In the city he meets and friends different criminals who aid him in finding the president. They also have to dodge The Duke (Issac Hayes) from stopping them. The Duke is the entire city/prison's leader, you could say. He is holding the president hostage.Escape From New York for me looked good, but I was a bit disappointed in how the film resulted. I felt that the search for the president was a bit too long and then towards then end the film quickly amps up in order to finish the story. I think they could've added so many cool action sequences like crazy shoot outs and fight scenes. The fighting match he was in during the movie was pretty good, but should've kept a faster pace. Escape From New York will keep most people entertained and is a pretty good movie that kept me entertained along the way and ends in a pretty good joke that'll make you smile. "},{"Title":"Cult classic action film that lands in the horror genre.","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake Plissken is the kind of guy that makes you actually thank cinema for his existence. He has the bad-ass attitude of Clint Eastwood. Well, he only cares about his own law. He believes his country has taken everything away from him, but his patriotism is still intact because in his opinion, government is absolute crap and corruption.This is what I would call John Carpenter's urban masterpiece. We find action and more action through black humor, suspense, and a dynamic direction. The social criticism by John Carpenter shows us a fascist politic and a government that is more worried in reprehending rather than readapting. In this New York everything gets solved through mafias and corruption through a setting of illegality. But to be honest, only action matters! This is a cult film in all of it's glory. We get memorable characters. Snake is a historical nowadays because of his attitude, his violent moods, his cool dialogs, and the way that he doesn't cares about anything. Snake doesn't like anyone. This is possible through Kurt Russell's excellent acting. Other characters like Cabbie (played by the great Ernest Borgnine), Brain (the always functional Harry Dean Stanton), Maggie (the sexy Adrienne Barbue, whose cleave makes men drool), Hauk (superbly played by Lee Van Cleef), the mythical Tom Atkins (in a secondary role), and the weird and spooky Romero played by a guy who would later inspire Evil Ed in Fright Night (in my opinion). Donald Pleasence delivers some good black humor and cool action sequences.Special mention for the late Isaac Hayes who gives life to The Duke. His part is absolutely memorable. And generates one of the most bad-ass introductions ever in cinema.The fact that I cared about all the characters made me hate the scrip writers who doesn't know a thing about the meaning of a team. They all get offed in bad fashion and very quick.Carpenter's Direction is explosive. I mean, at any point you forget you are watching an action film even though the master applies his unique style (inspired by Horror) in such scenes like the living dead that come out of the sewers, the freak Romero character, and the tension that he could only create. A solid work.The atmosphere of the city was great. Every single detail was perfectly taken care of. It is a world that you would like to enter and explore like a sandbox freely. The setting looks perfect for a video game. Although I think the settings could be more explored.The violence is adequate and in excess. The Greek-roman fight was not that impressive, just blah. The escape in the bridge could've delivered more explosions and blood. We still get stabbings, wounds caused by shot guns, and kick-ass explosions.We should not forget that this is a B-Movie. Because of that, it looks ridiculous in some moments. For example, in the clothing, editing, scenarios, dialogs. But those elements give it a Sui generis style. Yes, even because of that, it's still better that many actual action movies.The soundtrack is so 80's it will make you smile. Great rhythm. And, did it make you think about Halloween at some point? Yes, of course.The Cinematography and Art Direction give it a touch of mysticism and surrealism. It looks classy at it's own way. I mean, a visually sinister world, dark, but stylish and detailed. It probably inspired the settings of the Terminator movies and the acclaimed video game Fallout 3. Just my opinion.Completely recommended for those who enjoy action and horror in this cult classic. It won't disappoint you. "},{"Title":"New York is ruined","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The year is 1997.And remember, this was the future in 1981.World War III is almost over.Manhattan Island in New York City has been converted into a maximum security prison.The president's plane has crashed on the island and has been captured by the inmates.Ex-soldier and fugitive Snake Plissken has to find the guy in 24 hours and bring him home.Escape from New York is a John Carpenter movie.Kurt Russell is super cool as the anti-hero Snake Plissken.Lee van Cleef is magnificent as Hauk.It's always great to see Ernest Borgnine in any role.In this movie he does top-notch job as Cabbie.Donald Pleasence plays the President and he does it with style.Isaac Hayes is terrific as The Duke.Russell's wife of the time, Season Hubley, is great as Girl in Chock Full O'Nuts.Harry Dean Stanton is excellent as Brain.And so is Adrienne Barbeau (Carpenter's wife of the time) as Maggie.Jamie Lee Curtis is heard in the movie.The movie's world is a very dark place which is a common place in a sci-fi film.You have to like Snake Plissken's character.You don't want to mess with this guy.If you try, you'll be sorry.Now this movie represents nostalgia.There's still World Trade Center standing and everything looks so 80's.This movie is some good cult material that is worth checking out.The sequel came in 1996.A remake may be happening in 2013. "},{"Title":"I thought you were dead","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York is a tie with Terminator as my favourite film of the early 80's the basic plot is in 1997 New York has become a prison full of convicts and no one else and I must say with a $6,000,000 budget they did a good job anyway the president is kidnapped with a very important tape (there is a war going on) and they send in Snake Pliskin to fly a plane and land on top of the World Trade Center and is on the mission to find the president in this 2 hour movie. The reason why I gave it a 9 was because of the low budget and still making it good and the movie is still great on a $6mil budget. I haven't seen the sequel I will watch the remake next year I think I might watch them both when the time comeson behalf of the American People I give You The future "},{"Title":"Hard-Boiled and Great Apocalyptic Cyberpunk Action; One of Carpenters Best.","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter is a filmmaker who knows how to make gritty, tense, action-packed entertainment, and the spectacular apocalyptic Cyberpunk action film Escape from New York (1981) is doubtlessly one of his greatest achievements, and arguably one of the coolest, most influential cult gems of the 80s. Along with the fantastic Australian Mad Max franchise, Escape from New York basically created the popularity of apocalyptic action films in the 80s - the many films inspired by Mad Max being set in post-apocalyptic wastelands, those inspired by Escape from NY being set in anarchic urban settings. As Mad Max (especially in the greatest part Mad Max 2 - The Road Warrior), Kurt Russel's Escape from NY protagonist Snake Plissken is the epitome of an anti-hero.Carpenter creates a brilliant futuristic scenario in future Manhattan, which, in 1997, is a max security prison. Fully inhabited by convicts, and without influence from the outer world, Manhattan has obtained its own anarchic structures and society. All inhabitants have been sentenced to life imprisonment - once in Manhattan, there is no going back. World War III is near the end. When terrorist make the plane of the US President (Donald Pleasence) crash into Manhattan shortly before a peace conference, he is immediately taken hostage by the inhabitants. US Police force commissioner Hauck (Lee Van Cleef) offers the super-tough convict and former special forces soldier Snake Plissken (Kurt Russel) a chance for a pardon. Plissken has to enter Manhattan and return with the living president within 24 hours. Should he succeed, he will get a full pardon. Should he fail, microscopic explosives he has been injected with will go off and tear his arteries apart...Loosely based on Clint Eastwood's 'Man With No Name' in Sergio Leone's brilliant Dollar-Trilogy, Snake Plissken must be one of the coolest and most iconic anti-hero characters of American cinema and Russel was the perfect man to play him. The super-tough bad-ass who sports an eye-patch and a snake-tattoo on his stomach (for some reason it was moved to his arm on the poster) has a constant 'f*** the world' attitude and solely fights for his own freedom. The rest of the cast includes a variety of GREAT actors Lee Van Cleef, Donald Pleasence, Isaac Hayes (who plays the 'Duke' an underworld kingpin and boss of Manhattan), Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton, as well as Carpenter's then-wife Adrienne Barbeau (as a sexy and lethal prostitute) all are fantastic in their roles. Van Cleef (one of my favorite actors) doubtlessly had his greatest moments in Spaghetti Westerns such as Sergio Sollima's La Resa Dei Conti (The Big Gundown) and Sergio Leone's masterpieces For A Few Dollars More (1965) and (above all) The Good, the Bad and The Ugly (1966). This is probably the most notable non-Western film he was ever part of. Donald Plesence (another favorite actor of mine) is great as the hypocrite President, and Isacc Hayes is equally fantastic as the supremely bad-ass 'Duke'.Escape from New York is a hard-boiled, violent and action-packed film that is great in terms of action, effects, acting, etc, but personally I bear the opinion that the most fantastic thing about the film is the brilliant scenario of an entire futuristic prison city. The film is wonderfully shot, cinematography and settings are simply awesome and Carpenter's own score is, as always, memorable and tension-increasing. Escape from New York is, simply put, as entertaining as it gets, and an absolute must-see for all fans of cult-cinema, sci-fi and hard-boiled action. A remake is planned for 2011, which of course will be utter crap like the entire rotten overload of terrible remakes of classic films that Hollywood is torturing us with. Watch this fantastic original and have a blast - over and over again. One of Carpenters best. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me say that I did not see this movie as a child, therefore there is no nostalgia factor influencing my review. I saw this in my 20's and it quickly became one of my all time top ten favorites. This is a truly unique film. It is pure popcorn fantasy and not to be taken too seriously, yet it has an undeniable edge. John Carpenter does not try to make the best action film ever here, but he gives us a solid film that copies no others. This movie is Kurt Russell's finest hour. He gives us an immortal character-Snake Plissken. One of the best anti-heroes to grace the screen, Snake is shrewd, tough, independent, and quite simply bad-ass to the nth degree. Two words-eye patch. His mission? To save the President, whose airplane has crashed in Manhattan which is now a Prison. Should I even have to tell you more? With a premise this ridiculous you know that it's got to be good, especially considering John Carpenter's talents. So, suspend all disbelief and just enjoy! Keep an eye out for a great turn by Lee Van Cleef and some character shadings from the always dependable Harry Dean Stanton. Adrienne Barbeau, Ernest Borgnine, Isaac Hayes and Donald Pleasance round out the rest of the cast nicely. This film was made between Halloween and The Thing, which puts it in Carpenter's master canon of films-his Golden period if you will-and his use of music, sets, and mood is excellent here. If you want to see a guy with an eye patch searching for the President in a burned out New York war-zone then this is the movie for you! A true cult classic!!! "}{"Title":"A Cult Classic!!!","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Snake Plissken rocks!!! One of John Carpenter's best films. A visually stimulating film with a fantastic supporting cast. Kurt Russell rocks as Snake. One of his best roles. Far superior than the sequel, Escape from LA. Very good special effects for that time period. Brain, the Duke of New York, Cabbie are all memorable characters. Lee Van Cleef was also excellent. What also really worked with this film is the soundtrack. Very cool music to go along with the action. This film was great from beginning to end. The deleted bank robbery scene is also really good. A must see for all sci-fi fans!!! Long live Snake Plissken!! "},{"Title":"An atmosphere that can't be matched","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a dark time of cinema history where it seemed that the industry was transcending into a more colorful and happy era rose film legend John Carpenter to re-invent the concept of atmosphere in a movie. Fresh from making his film debut with the humble Assault from Precinct 13 and having raised himself to fame with Halloween, Carpenter continued his streak of genius (which only truly stopped in the mid 90's) by releasing the science fiction masterpiece, Escape from New York.Now don't get me wrong, 1981 was a great year for any film lover. Raiders of the Lost Ark, Tootsie and Gandhi can be considered as some of the best films in each of their genre. However, a certain void in the genre of science fiction was visible. With Blade Runner two years away and the Terminator being just a grain of sand in James Cameron's mind, the science fiction genre lacked the definitive film for that year. A film which alone could stand as a proud representative of a subject that can be explore to infinity.General conception would say that the obvious film that filled the void was&#x85; Mad Max 2? Yeah&#x85;that doesn't sound right to me either. You see what I'm trying to explain? Escape from New York hit the perfect release year since it had no real blockbuster threats preventing it from attracting a main stream audience and consequently became one of the cult classics of the genre.But enough about history! Let's get down to the story in 1988 the crime rates in New York City had raised by 400%. This forces the government to turn Manhattan into a prison by building giant walls around the island and keeping the open waters under heavy surveillance by guards. There's only one rule that must be respected when entering the Manhattan prison once you get in, you can never get out. Soon after the prologue, we cut the year 1997. Enter Snake Plissken, a buff commando like Kurt Russell with an eye patch and not a care for the world. Snake has been sentenced to time in Manhattan for the crime of credit card robbery (I know this sounds ridiculous but in the 80's it made total sense). Fortunately, Snake is called upon by the bad..eh&#x85;I mean Lee Van Cleef, the chief of the prison because the presidents plane has crashed in New York and the president (still alive of course) has been captured. If Snake manages to rescue him, his crime is pardoned.Escape from New York is one of the better examples of a show, don't tell movie. The possibilities that the setting of a Manhattan running wild helped Carpenter to write his script using nothing but his own creativity. Although no light sabers are visible in the movie, E.f.N establishes itself as a futuristic movie through the classic use of Orwell's Utopic society. The film does a brilliant job of showing how little differences there are between the power hungry Duke of New York who wants to not only be the ruler of the city but wants the prison to up rise and crush the enemy and the President of the United States, who wants to maintain peace and order at a time of conflict through the use of force and threat.The dialog is short and snappy; leaving a lot of silences for the audience to contemplate the big dark chaos that is New York. The film is not at all ambiguous and as a consequence, manages to convey a great tech-noir style which still up to this day is not only affective but also very cool.This review could go on forever but to make things short, Escape from New York is a film which achieves at everything it goes for and at the same time, remains to be one of the most entertaining and deepest movies of the science fiction genre, constructing as one re-watches the film, a more detailed brain image of its main theme New York as a prison.9 stars out of 10Bloody Brilliant "},{"Title":"A big block of cheese","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone tells the plot, so to reduce redundancy, I'll skip that part in this the review.After escaping from Michael Myers and the Fog, director/co-writer John Carpenter now set his aims on New York City in this action movie. The pace is slow and the action is essentially nonexistent, but it compensates for what it lacks in traditional entertainment with pure cheese.Here, the anti-fascist stewardess overacts to the extreme, the term Air Force One blinks on the display for no reason, we see a cabbie enjoy a drag show, there's a campy henchman or three, the president is put into drag, Brain somehow has a map from a guy that didn't escape, there's an implant that will explode in *exactly* 24 hours unless subjected to X-rays (one can only wonder how they tested it), well... the list goes on.To say this is inferior to Halloween and even the Fog would be correct. But for what it lacks in the work of a skillful director (displayed in Carpenter's previous films), it gains in pure cinematic ineptitude. In other words, it's so bad that it's good. "},{"Title":"B-Movie Schlock...","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...but it's good schlock. Escape from New York is possibly John Carpenter's most well know film, along side Halloween. It was a popular hit at the time, and helped make Kurt Russell into a star. Escape from New York has now become a cult hit for younger generations and film fans (especially fans of B-Movies).In 1997 America ends up having a problem with raising levels of crime, and in the middle of a war with the Soviet Union and China. To solve the crime problem New York has become the largest prison in the world, where no one can get in or out. New York itself becomes a lawless city where anything goes. Whilst flying to Hartford, Air Force One is hijacked by a left-wing terrorist, and crashes it in the middle of the prison city. The President (Donald Pleasence) manages to escape, but ends up getting captured by some of the prisoners. There threaten to kill the president if there is any military attempt to free him. The Government need to free him in 24 hours to keep the prospect of peace alive. The warden of the prison (Lee Van Cleef) comes up with one opinion, to send in special-forces veteran/convicted criminal 'Snake' Plissken (Kurt Russell). He describes himself as 'not giving a sh*t', but gets talked in the mission. It becomes a race against time for Snake to save the President from very hostile forces led by the Duke of New York (Issac Hayes) (a possibly subtle reference to the novel A Clockwork Orange?).The plot is pretty thin, but with a film like this, plot isn't the most important think. This is a film about the set pieces, and there some good action based ones. It is also about the characters, John Carpenter setting out to make memorable ones. Snake Plissken is a cool character, with Kurt Russell obviously bases his performance on Clint Eastwood's characters The Man With No Name and Harry Callahan. His so-called uncaring attitude is what makes him an appealing character. We also have another master of cool, Issac Hayes to help with blaxploitation type character always fun to see. To add balance to the film is Donald Pleasence, the man famous for being the best Blofied and staring in The Great Escape. He is a talented actor, gave the film a bit of galvanise. However the big question is why did the president of the United State have an English accent? I liked the aspect seeing how New York would have delayed, with many people turning against each other, falling into anarchy. There are hints The Warriors and A Clockwork Orange in this film.There are some logically questions to the film's own internal reality, but you have to pull them aside to enjoy the film. The obvious would be why didn't the military just go into the city straight, or why was New York turned into a prison, and where did the citizens go? But that's just nitpicking.A worthy film for B-Movie fans. "},{"Title":"Wears its attitude on its sleeve","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York boasts John Carpenter's most iconic character (and the perfect actor to play him) and to this day, that's one hell of a draw; the guy's right up there with The Man with No Name. And Snake Plissken is such a middle finger to authority that you can't help but sense the streak of distrust running through this movie. But this is why I so love it even with the sci-fi/action premise (and a brilliantly realized hellscape of urban decay) there's just something demented about all of this. It's cult, b-movie, madhouse all thrown into a fondue pot . . . and melted down into a thoroughly entertaining meal.Also, Isaac Hayes in a Cadillac with chandeliers.And Adrienne Barbeau.9/10 "},{"Title":"film is very comic book","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot-1981, Escape from New York, Manhatten island becomes a walled-in high security prison. The US president is kidnapped on his way to a important world summit conference by terrorists and crash lands in New York prison. Special forces Plisskenm is sent in to rescue the president on a strict time schedule.*Special Stars- Kurt Russle plays 'Snake' Plissken. Adrienne Barbeau plays the sex kitten. Issac Hayes plays The Duke. Ernie Borgnine plays Cabbie.*Theme- The lone experienced individual anti-hero will win every time.*Based on- The Hercules Greek legends *Trivia/location/goofs- John Carpenter directs. Main prison security headquarters cement pillbox location was in the Sepulveda flood control dam and spillway in Encino, Calif.*Emotion- Science fiction, more than any other genre demands that the story be presented well enough to allow the viewer to 'suspend belief' or the film flops. The future in this film must seem credible, but this film is very comic book, sadly. For w film that was supposed to give us a bleak and scary New York prison, 'Taxi Driver' gave us a better feel for a really scary NY city. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, funny, cool, and Kurt Russel with an eye-patch. A true Carpenter classic.","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thrilling, funny, cool, and Kurt Russel with an eye-patch. How can this movie go wrong! Now it's not the most deep film I've seen, but it has an intriguing look for the future (even though it takes place in 1997), thrilling scenes, and an excellent cast, not to mention some dark humor.Kurt Russel isn't an actor I've liked much before, but now I do. He fits perfect in the role as the self-serving, no-caring, antihero Snake Plissken. He is sent into a modern day Manhattan which has been converted into a prison Island, to retrieve the president of the USA, who's plane has crashed in the center of the city. Plissken has exactly 22 hours to retrieve him, or two micro bombs in his neck will explode. He will also win his freedom if he makes it back alive. This movie has been called the film that made eye-patches cool again and Snake truly is an enigmatic and acute character.This movie is a thrilling Sci-Fi classic that is a must see for both Sci-Fi, Carpenter and Kurt Russel fans. "},{"Title":"Heard you were dead.","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1997. New York is one big maximum-security prison. There are only guards on the outside, preventing escape. Getting out is impossible. And until now, no one's tried to break *in*. This post-apocalyptic, dystopian future world is masterfully brought to the big screen by Carpenter. The atmosphere is built up expertly, very bleak and relentless. This has well-done dark comedy. Dialog is well-written and delivered impeccably. The plot is interesting and develops fairly nicely throughout. Pacing is fast, and this is an tension-packed ride that only just exactly lets you relax. The acting and casting is spot-on, all the way. Russell is endlessly memorable and quotable, as he almost invariably is in John's films. The music is well-composed. This has cool and exciting action, though not the greatest the director has done. In general he's done better elsewhere, with the execution of the alternate time-line this takes place in(with the script coming as a close second) being arguably the best thing about this. It all looks really good, and the effects are well-done. This gives us about what we expect from JC, especially as far as the brooding tone goes. The cinematography and editing are skillful, and this holds plenty of his infamous foreboding shots. There is infrequent strong language and a moderate amount of bloody violence, as well as some potentially disturbing content. The DVD holds a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to fans of those who made it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"On the loose...","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kurt Russell stars as Snake Plissken, a bad ass loner who is given a chance for freedom in exchange for him rescuing the President from the prison population that has become a prison in the 21st century, However it's a do or die mission as Snake has been injected with a poison that will kill him if he doesn't find the president in time. If Death Wish was the companion piece to Dirty Harry, than Escape From New York was the companion piece to Mad Max (Or The Road Warrior, your choice.) and as such it's a classic. I sadly didn't get to see this in theaters (I was 8 when it came out) but this was easily one of the ones I rented the most. Indeed I've seen this movie on DVD, almost as much as on VHS, it really is that compulsively watchable. Kurt Russell is a great anti-hero, and effortlessly pulls of the action element. The supporting cast which includes Lee Van Cleef, Donald Pleasance,Isaac Hayes, Ernest Borgnine,Harry Dean Stanton, Tom Atkins and Adrienne Barbeau who all give great performances. The one to give most credit to, is John Carpenter who directs with a daunting mood, a film noir atmosphere and indeed a message. The action is edgy, the pace is relentless and the film is so exciting. This is classic science fiction and I can't think of a more defining film of the genre.**** Out Of 4-(Excellent, Must See!) "},{"Title":"Call me Snake","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This would be a nice assignment for creative writing classes, make up a name for an action hero. John Carpenter saw the light one day, Snake Plissken! I don't know every name in the world, but as far as my knowledge goes that's the coolest name around. The futuristic style of this movie and the wooden tough guy shooting people remind me a lot of The Terminator, and it's difficult to say which one is better. This one is earlier, I can give it that. As I could already see in Assault On Precinct 13, straight-forward action is what John Carpenter does best, his horror entries well, there's always a lot of craftsmanship involved in them but generally I don't care that much. Only downside to this otherwise great movie is that at one point Carpenter was so uninspired he made this thing called Escape From LA which is so similar to this one(it's essentially the same movie, just without creativity) I can't even tell which scene is in which movie half the time. Not that this is my biggest worry in the world, but it's annoying. To end on a positive note, the guy's name is Snake Plissken! "}{"Title":"A Supberb Modern Classic  with a great cast    ***** out of *****","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Escape From New York' is set in the near future (well... 1997), In a crime-ridden United States that has turned Manhattan Island in New York City into a Maximum Security Prison, Former Soldier and Legendary Fugitive 'Snake' Plissken (Kurt Russell) is given just 24 hours to find the President of the United States (Donald Pleasance)who has been captured by the inmates after 'Air Force One' crashes on the Island.Review- Escape from NY is one of the best films of all time, which has been often imitated but never bettered or even equalled, The cast is top notch with stars such as Lee Van Cleef,Donald Pleasence, Issac Hayes, Harry Dean Stanton & Ernest Borgnine. it is by far Russell's best film and he fits the role of 'Snake' with ease, a role he wasn't first or even second choice to play, The studio at the time preferred Charles Bronson or Tommy Lee Jones as at the time Russell was deemed too lightweight after numerous forgettable Disney Flicks, thankfully though Carpenter refused and Russell was cast. 'Escape' was a huge hit, it opened in 1981 to positive reviews and made $25.2M on it's original release and $50M Worldwide on a budget of only $6M.This among various other modern classics such as 'Assault On Precinct 13 (1976), Halloween (1978), The Fog (1980) and The Thing (1982) solidified Carpenter's reputation as one of the best Filmmakers of all time, it's sad that in the years since he's become synonymous with trash, inferior sequels & remakes, including an unnecessary sequel to this 15 years later in 'Escape from L.A' (1996) because at the time Carpenter was having a tough time after numerous flops, and sadly, L.A. was no different, it was panned on it's original release for being inferior and it tanked taking only half it's budget.I'm sad to report that a Remake of New York is on it's way in the foreseeable future, which was to star bland actor Gerard Butler before he dropped out, my advice...DON'T BOTHER, think of new ideas John - stop tarnishing your Originals with trashy PG-13 sequels!***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"very amusing with some great dialogue","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this after a recent repeat viewing of 'Assault on Precinct 13', it is clear that this suffers more than the earlier film from lack of a decent budget. Carpenter manages well enough but as this is far more ambitious it inevitably wobbles now and again. Also, I fear that here, we are so reliant on Kurt Russell in the lead. He is very good but for all the support efforts this is not the ensemble piece that is the earlier siege movie. Nevertheless this moves along well enough and the action sequences are efficiently carried through. Another problem for me is that we never really get fully behind Russell and his mission and in truth he is only committed through self interest, so we are never on the edge of our seat for the life of podgy Pleasence playing the President. Positively, the film never drags, is very amusing with some great dialogue and Russell maintains that snarl throughout. "},{"Title":"Call me Snake!","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter could once be counted among the most exciting, invigorating names in Hollywood. Every film he made was a classic of its genre. Whether it be action, science-fiction or horror. His career has slowed down considerably in recent years, but back in the late 70s and early 80s, there was no stopping him. Escape From New York was a huge success, and is one of John Carpenter's best films. It was one of the first to attempt to meld the whole action genre onto a SF backdrop. And its something that John Carpenter achieves with considerable finesse.Carpenter has always seemed like a man who refuses to play by the rules. Which is why the heroes of his films are often wild-cards trusted by neither side of the wars they wind up flung into. So it makes sense that Carpenter would draw upon the rules of the Ancient West when creating Escape From New York, because its the perfect aesthetic for this conceit.The idea behind the film is a great one. In 1997, Manhattan Island has been converted into a maximum security prison. Prisoners from all across the Western Seaboard are put here with no chance of a reprieve. All bridges and waterways off the Island are mined. There are no guards. No wardens. And no escape. Until Air Force One is hijacked while flying over Manhattan, and The President is taken prisoner. So the Prison Commissioner sends in Snake Plissken, a former war hero and current convicted criminal, on a mission to find the President and bring him back alive. If he doesn't, he'll die in 24 hours thanks to a bomb implanted in his head.Escape From New York is one of my favourite films of John Carpenter's. The Thing takes the No 1 spot, but Escape From New York is a close runner-up. It has so many fine things about it. Carpenter's direction is smooth, and polished. It has probably the best score he's ever composed for his own films. And it has a terrific cast. Maybe the best you're ever likely to find in a John Carpenter film.The first half is particularly impressive. The way Carpenter's direction allows the film to glide from one stylish set-piece to the next. The President's capture. Meeting Snake. Heading into New York. Exploring the dark, eerie streets of Manhattan. All helped along by Carpenter's music that throbs and ebbs away in the background. The first 40 minutes feel more like 10.Escape From New York was made on a 7 million dollar budget, but it has the look and feel of a much more expensive film. 7 million is not a lot of money to work with, especially when making an action film, but John Carpenter has always had a knack for crafting superb films from shoestring budgets. This is no exception. The dark photography helps to make the Island of Manhattan a much more ominous place, and the sinister urgency of the music helps as well. There are also some excellent special effects work from none other than James Cameron, three years before he hit big with The Terminator. Snake's glider flight over Manhattan is quite a sight. Its spectacular without ever drawing attention to itself as a special effect.In the role of Snake Plissken, John Carpenter defied the wishes of the studio by casting Kurt Russell. You can understand their scepticism. Russell was only known for teen comedies with Disney, so the idea of making him the star of an action vehicle sounds a recipe for disaster. But he's a perfect Snake. A black eye-patch, khaki pants and assault rifle make him an intimidating sight. Snake often seems like the new sheriff in town, ready to clean up Manhattan. Russell must have had Clint Eastwood in mind when playing Snake, what with his sneering eye and quiet rasp of a voice. Kurt Russell always reserves his best performances for John Carpenter, and this is by far the best.Russell has plenty of excellent backup too. The Clint Eastwood analogy seems even more apt when we have Spaghetti Western veteran Lee Van Cleef in the film too. His beady-eyed Prison Commissioner is an amusing contrast to Snake's sneery-eyed defiance. The film really lights up whenever they're paired together. Donald Pleasance is an amusingly squeamish President. Its especially funny to see him when he's back in his comfort zone. His cowardice replaced by self-importance. He's a true politician. Harry Dean Stanton and especially Adrienne Barbeau offer up welcome support, even if they're not particularly well developed by Carpenter. And Ernest Borgnine brings a bit of warmth as Cabbie. His death is quite affecting at the end.Some of the action scenes are held back by the film's low budget. Some are a little too low-key, and I'm not sure the film needed the wrestling match. It seems a bit out of step with the rest of it. But Carpenter's direction is so slick that you may not even notice these flaws. Escape From New York is still one of the best of its kind. "},{"Title":"Snake is a rather cool character, but I wish the movie had more to it.","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like this movie all right, the movie has a bunch of stars in it...granted most of them are those type found in a smaller budgeted movie. This movie also features one of the coolest characters ever featured in a John Carpenter movie Snake. He is the highlight of the movie and one has to wonder how he would handle Michael Myers eh? The movie has the president's plane crashing in New York and he is needed out of said location. New York in this movie has become some sort of maximum security facility. Well they authorities have a very infamous criminal Snake and they decide to use him to retrieve the president. Well he is not very cooperative, but he finally decides to help...mainly because they but explosive charges in his neck. Well he enters New York by some sort of glider and the mission almost immediately goes wrong. Thankfully, Snake is able to find unlikely allies in this twisted New York. Granted they are mainly trying to help in the hopes of also escaping New York. So what is wrong with the movie that I gave it a six and not something higher? Needs more action in for one...for a movie like this you would expect fewer dead spots than what you get. Also, I thought the whole Duke of New York was a bit overdone and over the top. Still, it ends rather good and for the most part it is an okay movie. The music is what one would expect in a John Carpenter movie, good. The cast is top notch add a few gun fights and minus a couple of the talky scenes and this movie would really rock. "},{"Title":"Did anyone see the hand on the elevator door?","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've searched the goofs on this and other sites and read most but not all of the comments, but did anyone see the hand on the elevator in the scene when Snake landed on the top of the WTC. He powered up the elevator and got on, when the elevator door closed, you can see on the right side of the door, a hand pushing it shut. Am I the only one that has seen this? This was a great movie for its time. Unfortunately Escape from L. A. was a joke compared to this one. Even so, it was fun to watch because of the characters. John Carpenter and Kurt Russel have done a lot of good work together. The Thing was most excellent. Notice the similarity in the background music in all of the Carpenter/Russel movies. "},{"Title":"Just Call me Plissken","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've watched this flick a few times. It appeals in a vague way to the feeling that many people, particularly in North America, have about politicians. The American president is portrayed as a sniveling little twerp and Plisskin is every teenagers' dream of a tough but true anti-hero. The head crook in the Manhattan prison island strikes me as not a great deal different from the thugs on the outside and perhaps that is the point. Some of the characters like Cabby are sympathetic although I wonder what he must have done to be condemned to this place. Borgnine played a similar role as the simpleton in the original Flight of the Phoenix. Others in the cast are of no great consequence unless you're into the kind of realism ie. juvenile bloodletting, that fueled most B pictures since the mid seventies. Russell shows a little bit of development in the last scene when he rejects the moniker of Snake. And I really liked the tape swapping part at the end. I give this a fair-to-middling 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Escape from New York = Classic Cult Movie","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" The short and intense conversation between Lee Van (Hauk) Cleef and Kurt Snake Plissken Russel is exactly as much as the movie needs. The whispering Kurt does not speak if its not necessary, neither does Lee. The background soundtrack (Carpenter style, basically the same as in Assault on precinct 13 from 1976) adds an dimension to the movie.Another favorite actor is Ernest Borgnine. His Cabbie character is perfect for the movie and his performance is fantastic.I really hope that all youngsters takes a look at this classic movie, especially as Isaac Hayes, who is the perfect Duke of New York, today probably more known for the kids as chef in South Park and possibly as Tolok in Stargate SG-1. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a great vision of the future in a Mad Max like universe. The idea is, what if one of our greatest cities became a prison. The story starts where the President(Donald Pleasence) lands in New York(which is now a prison) after his plain Air Force One is attacked. The President is soon taken captive by The Duke(Issac Hayes) and his Hench men. In order to go in undetected, they ask former marine turned criminal named Snake Plissken(Kurt Russell) they say if he does this he will receive a pardon, Snake is a real bad ass, but takes the job anyway. Snake is unwittingly poisoned and has 19 hours to live, Will Snake make it out before it's too late. John Carpender is such a great visionary, all his film are proof of that. Kurt Russell is great as the anti hero Snake Plissken, he really brought the bad ass hero to a another level. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Cult Films Ever","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the greatest cult films ever from one of the greatest cult film directors ever. While the story might seem like it's been done before it, like Pulp Fiction, is presented to us in a new and original way.The basic story is that in the year 1997 a disgraced war hero, Snake Plissken, is sent to New York City which is now a maximum security prison for the criminals of the country where they are forced to survive for themselves. Terrorists hijack the President's plane and crash land it into the heart of New York. The President makes it in an escape pod but is now a prisoner of the duke of New York. Snake is given the option to go in and get the President and be pardoned or serve his sentence. He goes for the first and of course complications arise and he's not told about the fine print of the deal. Still the action scenes are great and there are some real great memorable performances in here.Kurt Russell is great as a futuristic man with no name (Clint Eastwood in the Dollar's trilogy) and John Carpenter has co-written and directed yet another masterpiece with this film. Recommended for anybody looking for a good action movie, a cult film, or just some good entertainment of Russell doing an Eastwood imitation. "},{"Title":"The Duke of B-Movies","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York - tribute to Italian type of Western.Because we have free-styled kind of scenario ( but typical western fable) and same kind of direction(with influence of different genressci-fi,trash,thriller...).Besides there are beautiful old-school actorsLee Van Cleef(one of the favorite Sergio Leone's actors),Ernest Borgnine(Wild Bunch one of the best American westerns ever),Donald Pleasence(!). There is rip-off from summary Klaus Kinski's mad character of bad guy - pretentious punk-blond(assistant of The Duke in the movie). Film have the easy funny style of late spaghetti-westerns.Little bitter,ironic - this movie real present for epicure viewer.Remembered music of John Carpenter. "}{"Title":"Snake Pliskin...I thought you were dead.","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" An instant underground classic, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK was a stylish and exciting futuristic action drama centered on a prisoner named Snake Plisken (Kurt Russell) who has been assigned to rescue the kidnapped President of the United States on a very tight timetable. Russell created his most memorable character in Snake and makes this film thoroughly enjoyable from start to finish. Russell receives solid support from Isaac Hayes, Lee Van Cleef, Donald Pleasance, Adrienne Barbeau (wife of director John Carpenter), and Ernest Borgnine, providing unexpected comic relief as a cab driver. If you've never seen this sleeper, you're in for a treat. A real roller coaster ride that's totally engrossing and so much fun. "},{"Title":"Call me Snake...","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, If you're a fan John Carpenter, you will adore this movie ! The whole film is based on the character Snake Plissken (brillantly played by American actor Kurt Russell) in the settings of a apocalyptic New York city. This film-noir action adventure film will make you want to watch it over and over again !! The storyline is great, The dialog is not to cheesy nor exaggerated, the main music theme is really cool, and the rhythm of the movie is progressive. You will simply love the attitude of anti-hero Snake Plissken...this character has been yet underrated !! So as the movie !! I suggest this movie to all the sci-fi action thriller fans ! If you've seen the sequel 'Escape from L.A' and been disappointed, do not worry,'Escape from New York will make you forget everything about the sequel. "},{"Title":"A great  action epic....an achievement!!!!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York is one of the very few films with a minimized budget that was much better than I thought. Since you have a lot of horrid movies with the word Escape in the title and has the appearance of a high school art project from hell. EFNY has the film noir darkness of what a sci-fi adventure should be. Because nothing is more eerie than a huge darkened city covered by ruin and inhabited by the criminally insane. The plot explains itself very well The United States is under martial law and large cities infested by high crime rates are converted into penal colonies. Simple. This John Carpenter yarn is clearly campy and creepy-ass sci-fi action done right....all the way down to the character costuming. However, isn't Air Force One supposed to be a Boeing 747 Jumbo Jet? No big budget special effects(although some sets appear cheap and tacky), no fillers, no bull! Something that is missing in Escape from L.A., though the sequel shows how the city became a prison and it has 3-D computer graphics which would've made EFNY a great movie made even better. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" May contain spoilersEscape From New York and The Thing are probably John Carpenter's best films and Escape is one of the best in the genre. The plot idea is clever. New York is turned into a maximum security penitentiary. Air Force One, with the president on board, is hijacked and crashes into the city. Ex-soldier now prisoner Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is offered a full parole if he goes in and rescues the president.The film has a solid cast of actors. Kurt Russell is perfect as the ultra cynical ex-soldier turned prisoner. The role is a warm-up for MacReady in Carpenter's The Thing. Ernest Borgnine as jolly Cabbie is really good. Donald Pleasance as the President is his usual self. The look on his face at the end of the film is priceless. Adrienne Barbeau is nice to look at as the buxom Maggie. Harry Dean Stanton as the Brain is almost as good as he was in Alien. Funk composer Isaac Hayes as the Duke of New York riding around in his Cadillac with chandeliers is a hoot. Lee Van Cleef is perfect as the knife-faced police commissioner.Escape From New York contains some great lines. A few examples Cleef I thought you were going to kill me. Snake I'm too tired. Maybe later.Cleef The president was on that plane. Snake The president of what?And every time someone meets Snake they say, I thought you were dead.The FX are clever and Carpenter makes the film look like it had a much larger budget, something he is good at doing. The music score is good. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Snake biting its own tail","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Often movies with low budgets but artistically well directed with a leader protagonist get their first places in the top ten of their genre. A first thought goes to the Carpenter's description of the future in 1981. It's not hidden in Carpenter's opera the effort to win over the dark times that politic and economy world make in the name of a (ghost) democracy . So Escape from New York is a modern adventure in a new middle age , where the strongest men are the only survivors . A Knight in Exile , Snake , gets this mission only because forced , he wouldn't even sell himself to save a fly , figure to save the President , President of what? , but then only worth is to keep himself in life , not others just himself . Concept pretty released in the final scene , when Snake spits some Jazz music over a peace worldwide conference that might help the human destiny . A Director John Carpenter , who is not new in the making stories of the hero without guilt and fear , made a great job by creating a perfect Anti-Hero , Snake , in an arena where the evil fights against evil and the only matter from each side is to reach freedom , in a world where you may name freedom just nothing . "},{"Title":"Very original premise, Manhattan has become the maximum security prison.","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching this movie originally over 20 years ago, and still find it enjoyable entertainment for the mind. I love the movie's premise, that in 1988 the whole island of Manhattan was made into a maximum security prison, with a 50 foot wall all around, across the waterways. Only the most hardened criminals went there, and there was no return! As the movie begins in 1997, we see two on a raft trying to escape, a helicopter blasts them dead. Next, a radical group takes control of Air Force One, and the President (Donald Pleasence) handcuffs a briefcase to his arm and gets away in an escape pod, into Manhattan. The movie is about trying to get him out and the contents of the briefcase to safety. The key character is Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell).SPOILERS FOLLOW. A rescue team gets into Manhattan quickly by helicopter, but encounter a creep who has the Prsident's cut off finger in a towel, ring still on, and tells them to leave or they will kill the President. So they leave quickly. Snake Plissken is the next prisoner being processed (You have the option to be terminated and cremated at this point.) and is given an incentive -- go in, bring the President out in 24 hours or less, and receive a full pardon. To be sure he doesn't skip out, they insert two capsules into his carotid arteries, which would explode in 22 hours unless he comes back to have them neutralize the capsules.Snake is fitted with a glider that he lands onto one of the WTC buildings (no longer there since 9/11). He needs to go about his business undetected so that the President will not be killed. The imaginative part of the movie is the depiction of the new civilization, if I can use that word, that has formed in the remains of the city by these criminals. Some live in the subways and drainage systems, hardly ever surfacing. Others have taken over certain parts of the city. Old cars have been scavenged and made to operate. Even a process to make fuel. Ultimately Snake, being the smartest and most hardened criminal there, accomplishes his mission, the important tape is recovered. "},{"Title":"The quintessential action movie, still plays well over 20 years later!","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The quintessential action movie, still plays well over 20 years later! Kurt Russell's fist anti-hero is a must see, an excellent movie, dark gritty and stylish. The music is apt, a little haunting, fits the movie better than most of today's movies over-volumed, overused scores. Directed by John Carpenter, this movie actually uses music, sound-effects and dialogue to tell a story --go figure. Supporting cast is great, Isaac Hayes (for all the young'n, the voice of Chief in South Park) is great, an over the top villain. Adrienne Barbeau, is well, Adrienne Barbeau, tough, gorgeous and beautiful .... eyes.. The special-effects even hold up well, the movie is so distinctively and stylishly filmed, they still look great. Without a doubt a 'CLASSIC', a fun movie to watch, kickback and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Midnite Classic!","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter...when he is at top form, what else can be said! Completely entertaining with a high-concept too boot. This is one of those films. From top to bottom an excellent Sci-Fi B-Budget Bonanza. Lucas eat your heart out. What Carpenter does with 1/10th the budget of one of your pieces of trash is simply outstanding. Escape From New York is a cultural artifact that even Harold Bloom would recommend. This thing belongs in the Guggenheim. Mathew Barney who? Carpenter proves again that the independent spirit CAN contribute films of quality that the mainstream public will consume like Chicken Mcnuggets. Carpenter is more important to filmaking than Orson Welles or Fellini. Add this one to the canon boys!  "},{"Title":"B movie, B grade","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Last night I watched Escape From New York. John Carpenter seems to be hit (The Thing) and miss (Ghosts of Mars) in the most extreme sense of the word. This is one of his hits.First off this is not a movie that will change you in any way, or challenge your political beliefs, yadda yadda, but it is an extremely well done action movie. Kurt Russell is the baddass to end all baddasses as Snake Plisskin. The fact that Carpenter was able to come up with such a bizarre idea and actually pull it off seems to be a testimant to his dedication. For those of you unfamiliar with the story, New York is turned into a maximum security prison for the hell of it. No guards on the inside, just prisoners living out their lives. Once you go in, you don't come out. Sadly Air Force One crashes into a building and the president is lost somewhere in a city of theives, rapists and murderers. That's where Snake comes in. Decorated war hero gone wrong, he is sent in to retrieve the president within 24 hours. What's interesting is the pseudo counter-cultureness of Snake. He doesn't give a s**t about much of anything,  saying things like I don't care about your war, in that totally bad ass voice. Carpenter also didn't have a huge budget, which means we spend more time with the charactors and less with the special effects which is almost always good. For an action movie there is a lot of subtleness, another plus. Overall it's not a perfect movie, there's tons of little stupid things that for some reason bother me, but hey, its a b movie when you break it down. and for a b movie, it does a damn good job. It doesn't pretend to be something its not, its a big dumb action movie. Except it's not that dumb, because if you really take a good look at each individual you will find that there is more than meets the eye. Eh, enough blabbing, I'm hungry. If anyone has any comments feel free to email me.  "},{"Title":"snake plissken is the best","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i love this character.  it is kurt's all time favourite character.  he does things that you and i won't do.  the attitude he has is the attitude that we all need to have.  the works is so good in this flick.  lee van cleef kicked ass in this movie.  he is a badass.  just remember, call me snake. "}{"Title":"Straight foward action","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a straight foward action movie that still holds up well. The plot is simple but good. Set in the near future, Russell is an ex-army hero turned criminal. The President has his plane shot down over Manhatten which is now a prision, where criminals are dumped to fend for themselves. Russell is given a chance for redemntion by saving the president.The action is straight foward, not too over the top or Guy gets shot at by 500 machine guns, dodges every bullett and kilss them all. Snake is one mean, bad dude but he's not Superman.If you want to watch a pretty decent action movie that doesn't get to over teh top, this may be a good choice, don't look for any Oscar worthy performances, overdone special effects, or dramtic story line. But, grap the popcorn, put your brain in neutral and cheer for Snake the anti-hero.  "},{"Title":"Chock Full O Nuts","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is really dated---and now somewhat eerie as so much action takes place on top of, inside, and at the base of the World Trade Center.  In 1981, the year 1997 seemed so far away, and back then the concept of New York City becoming a maximum security prison, well.....it was science fiction, right?  This movie has a cult following and when I was a kid, it was a movie I really liked (it's not nearly as violent as many PG-13 action movies of today).  See  Kurt Russell, with eye patch to boot, doing his best Clint Eastwood impression.  See  Lee Van Cleef, doing another bad guy, although technically on the right side of the law and adding rough language to his lines.  See  SEASON HUBLEY, who must have been some sort of big star, since she got the AND SEASON HUBLEY credit at the beginning of the film, in the scene that gave Chock Full O Nuts a new meaning.  See Isaac Hayes, before I'm Gonna Git You Sucka and the renewed interest in Shaft watered him down a bit.  All in all, not a bad movie but not a keeper, either.  But a lot better than the requisite (and somewhat needless) sequel, Escape from L.A. "},{"Title":"a little disappointing","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I finally watched this movie and I must say I was a little disappointed.  Not that I thought it was a bad movie, just that I did'nt think it was as good as everybody says.  The problem I had was the pacing was slow throughout a lot of the movie, especially the first 40 minutes or so.  Also, aside from the ending chase on the bridge, the action sequences were not very exciting, which is a shame.What I like about it was the cast was very good.  Kurt Russell was good in what I think was his first tough guy role.  I also thought Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton, Lee Van Cleef, and Isaac Hayes were all good in their roles as well.  Overall, I think this movie is overrated, but it has some enjoyable moments mainly thanks to a good cast. 3/5 "},{"Title":"Cool score.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the music in this film.  I've heard a lot of people complain about it, but I think it's wonderful, one of the best scores ever.  But then again, John Carpenter always has a damn good score.  I just watched this movie for the first time in years, along with the sequel, and I'll say that it was GODDAMN AMAZING!!  This movie is definitely one of John Carpenter's best, and that says a lot, because most of his films are damn good.  Escape from L.A. was OKAY, but nothing special, and too much of a re-hash.  But this film is great.  And I got it for 4 bucks too on DVD! "},{"Title":"Why do people like this so much?","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie isn't bad and it has a great score... but why is so overrated?  Kurt Russell is cool and it has Tom Atkins who is like the best actor of all time(Night of the Creeps) but this movie is boring.  Someone said it was an adrenaline pumping action movie but what the hell were they watching?  This wasn't a very good action movie.  It was good for a B movie and it's nowhere near Carpenter's best.  The Thing, Halloween, Christine, In the Mouth of Madness, Prince of Darkness, Big Trouble in Little China... well all of these movies are better. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fun little film that you can sit and enjoy for the simple pleasure of it, and not be overwhelmed by overhyped special effects that distract from the story or look of the film.  Kurt Russell was awesome in this film, proving thathe is one of Hollywood's leading action men.Snake rules! "},{"Title":"A scintillating cheese feast","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the greatest so bad it's good movie ever made.  I took it seriously when I was in my early teen years and first saw it, and loved it.  I had a friend with the movie poster in his room and I desperately envied him.  This movie seemed so dark and gritty and hard-hitting when I was 14.When I grew up and saw it again, I found that unlike 99% of the stuff I'd thought was good when I was 14 years old, I actually still liked this movie almost as much as I originally did, but for completely different reasons.  A huge, scary, pimpy-looking black man driving a Cadillac with chandeliers on the hood?  Who makes the President of the United States say, You're the Duke of New York, You're A-Number-One?  What could possibly surpass this in the annals of film history?  I think that all previous cinematic efforts all the way back to Thomas Edison were just a build-up for this triumphant moment, a seething maelstrom of cheese that vaporizes the very soul of the viewer, leaving nothing but a listless, nihilistic shell waiting for death, as any subjective experience past this point has no meaning; it is completely annihilated by the revelation of film greatness that is Escape From New York. "},{"Title":"coolest action hero ever","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from New York is probably the first modern action movie, and still stands up pretty well. Not quite up to todays CGI effects, but the main character Snake Pliskin played by Kurt Russell is probably the coolest action hero (or anti-hero) ever. Up until this role Russell was probably best known for his Disney movies and it was a great casting job that totally changed Russells image. I can't say enough good about this film. If you like your action gritty and your hero's to be dripping with attitude you'll love Snake.  "},{"Title":"A Classic!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh Man i watched this yesterday on tv after seeing it 20years before in the cinema! This Movie is absolutely underrated. Snake is one of the first damn cool Actionheros in Moviehistory. Kurt Russel is perfect, carpenter did a great Score as ever. This movie will never suck, absolutely great!!-walk on- Holzi "},{"Title":"Snake Plissken---I heard you were dead","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a silly movie but it is also one of the great all-time cult movies.  The premise is preposterous---New York City is now a massive, maximum security prison and Air Force One has crashed in it.  The President, carrying top secret information which will stop WWIII, is captured by The Duke of New York.  The powerful US government cannot go in and get him by force (who knows why?) and therefore a bargain is struck with Snake Plissken, a former commando who is en route to be an inmate in NYC. Plissken takes a glider into NYC and lands on the top of the World Trade Center and from there has numerous nocturnal adventures, encountering an ever more bizarre collection of criminals as he tries to find the President---oh, by the way, Snake has had injected in him mini-bombs which will explode and kill him if he's not out in 24 hrs!Despite the preposterous premise, the acting is pretty good.  Kurt Russell is great as Snake and Harry Dean Stanton, Ernest Borgnine and singer Isaac Hayes all have good turns.  Lee Van Cleef is the silliest though as security officer Hauk who cons Plissken into the mission to begin with.  Here's Van Cleef, the tough prison officer and he's sporting a precious earring in his left ear?!   Still, this movie is great fun and has all sorts of crazy scenes. Its cult following virtually demanded a sequel which came out years later, Escape from L.A. which wasn't nearly as good.  But Escape from New York (and The Thing) definitely obliterated Kurt Russell's cutsie-boy Disney child actor image.  Good for him! "}{"Title":"Dull.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"   I thought I was watching a rejected `MSTK3000' movie when I saw this. Whether the `special effects' were avant-garde in that period of time, the movie was VERY dark and hard to see, unless this was an edit, as the only version I remember seeing was on network television. One of the tackiest, most overrated Hollywood science fiction movies ever made. "},{"Title":"Great cult movie","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You should not take this movie serious. The time has run away from this movie indeed but forget that when you see this. All I can say is that this is John Carpenter's best movie. And Kurt Russel coolest role. I think that Kurt has done only two cool guys in all of his movies. As Snake Plissken in Escape from New York and as MacReady in The Thing. And the music keeps haunting me forever. It's so great! I love it! I can't express myself how good the music is. Overall If you haven't seen this so what are you waiting for? Go see it! And buy the soundtrack too!  "},{"Title":"ahead of it's time a look at a paramilitary police future","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ESCAPE FROM  NEW YORK is set in a world which is racked by terroism and set to the backdrop of a United States embroiled in a third world war with the USSR and China. In america the police have gone totally paramilitary and patrol U.S. skies like the air cavalry in Vietnam in helicopter gunships. With a broad epic backdrop this film is the story of a war hero with a special forces background who is recruited to rescue the president whose plane has gone down over manhattan island penitentary thanks to terrorism. The criminal opts to do the rescue mission for a presidential pardon and a new life. Done on 7 million dollars and released in 1981, the film looks like the producers spent 25 million on the film. By far the best of the AVCO/EMBASSY movies; this film flourishes in a good original story which is also semi spoof in a comedy of errors light. ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK meshes military, action, western and post apocalypse generes fluently for a visually pleasing story with a scope and scale not hindered by the budget. The film has gone on to be one of the most popular cult classics ever made and is usually seen in syndication or cable tv alot. "},{"Title":"An action film with an ACTOR in the lead...","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Couple the idea of New York as a maximum security prison with Kurt Russell's hard-bitten performance as one-eyed outlaw Snake Plissken and you've got another one of John Carpenter's contemporary classics. Nobody gets out of New York alive, it would seem; even the President of the United States... unless Plissken can haul his fat out of the fire. En route to the Chief Executive (President of what? Plissken asks at one point), there are downed planes and starving crazies who live in the sewers and old acquaintances hiding out in libraries and The Duke of New York (Isaac Hayes), whose army of ne'er do wells must be contended with. All within the allotted time Plissken is literally a ticking time bomb, thanks to duplicitous Lee Van Cleef as the commander of the United States Police Force. For all its dark doings, however, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK is also infused with an often subtle black humor that helps keep it from devolving into the kind of lackluster action film that features stars who can't act; Russell as Plissken is also- surprise- vulnerable, and thence more real, than most action leads. One can't help but sympathize with his character. (And one can't help but think back to ELVIS, the amazing boob-tube biography directed by Carpenter with Russell in the lead like ELVIS, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK delivers on an emotional level. One can't ask for more than that.)       "},{"Title":"Call Me Snake","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my favorite action cult movie. It was just cool. Kurt Russell playing the number on bad ass of the future (or the past, according to my calander). Escape From New York has a quality that most of the action movies of the same time didn't have, originality! This was a very creative plot, and it also had one of the coolest characters leading the way!What made Snake such a good hero was that he wasn't a hero at all. He didn't give a damn about any of the people he got involved with, and that includes the president. He did all of this to save himself, and I think it is a lot more fun to see an action star who is more concerned with his own well being to those round him. You may think I'm weird, or sick, but keep in mind, it's just a movie.Some of the effects may have been crappy, and the acting wasn't top notch, but what you do have in this movie is a reluctant hero with a lot of fire power searching New York City to find the president and make it back to the United States (New York is now considered a prison)before he is dies from a virus that he was planted with by the people who sent him out. O kay, just ignore that and watch this awesome cult action movie. It is my favorite John Carpenter and Kurt Russell movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Silly fun","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape From New York has several gaps in logic, but it's still a fun movie to watch.  Almost the entire movie takes place at night, which does get a little tiresome on the eyes after awhile.  However, there is plenty of suspenseful action, and Kurt Russell is memorable as the ex-soldier turned bank robber Snake Plisken. "},{"Title":"Action packed thriller","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all when you start the movie your like wait a minute... could Manhattan island really turn into a maximum security prison? That was mainly in 1981-1987. But What if something like that did happen. How would the president get out? Cause now probably no one would go in there where all the prisoners can roam around free. Thats just crazy. any way, the movie is great even today and especially if you've been in New York and can recognize some of the buildings. It is a Great action packed thriller that most action fans, Kurt Russell fans, or Sci - Fi fans would enjoy.  "},{"Title":"John Carpenter at his best!","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film shows John Carpenter's film direction at it's best.  Carpenter wrote this script after his house was robbed, and it shows.  This dark view of a future world was meant to show where things were heading at the time with the crime rate rising as we were heading into the 1980's.  Carpenter as always wrote a solid script, this time with help from his old film school buddy Nick Castle, who also was the original horror icon Michael Myers in John Carpenter's Halloween.This film stars a great all-star John Carpenter cast of Kurt Russell, Donald Pleasence, Lee Van Cleef, Harry Dean Stanton, Charles Cyphers and Carpenter's Ex-Wife Adrienne Barbeau.Great plot with great character makes this one of John Carpenter's best films, it is a shame they had to cut out the start of the movie when it was put in theaters in 1981, where Snake Plissken and his partner do the robbery and later, Snake's partner gets killed, and Snake gets caught by the United States Police Force.Also a great score by Carpenter and Alan Howarth, this film is not to be missed by any fan of John Carpenter, sci-fi, horror or film in general.  "},{"Title":"You're the Duke of New York...you're A-Number-1....","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe no one else mentioned what was by far the best scene of this movie--and one of the great scenes in movies--near the end where Donald Pleasance, playing the President, finally about to make his escape, and now armed with a machine gun, turns it on his former captor/tormentor, played by Isaac Hayes. As Pleasance riddles Hayes with bullets at close range, he shouts back to him Hayes' own boastful refrain (Hayes would continually boast of this prowess to Pleasance, saying I'm the Duke of New York, I A-Number-One, all the while keeping the President, PLeasance, in line with force). PLeasance showed the depth of his talent during this scene as he let his satisfaction show in an understated way, his voice trailing off to a soft, satisfied murmur as he continued to blast Hayes's now dead body with bullets---...you're A-Number-One....Chilling. But not that great a movie outside that one scene.  "},{"Title":"The significance of the ending....WARNING major spoilers.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the end of the film HAUK gives PLISKEN a whopper of a proposition...why not join up with the american police state corps? Plisken declines and replies I'll think about it. then gives Hauk the wrong tape and makes a fool of the far right/left uncaring PRESIDENT. The ending is reminiscent of a TWILIGHT ZONE punchline TAILHOOK. The President thinking he has the peace tape for the conference on WW3 instead gets the POP CULTURE AMERICAN BANDSTAND TAPE. Snake lights up a smoke removes the tape and walks off tearing it up...in the end he doesn't give a F--k about WW 3 or mankind. He remembers the people who dies and we must recall he asks the president about them before he makes his decision whether to redeem him or destroy him with the audio tape. The President is early 1970's-80's callous so Plisken screws him. This scene reveals something...a great scene revelaing character in TOM ATKINS as REMY and Plisken...after all the call me snake macho BS underneath it all he cares about the people like Maggie and Brain who got wasted trying to save the President...for ill gotten gain or not they still died. We also learn something in this PROLOGUE, Plisken is a man of honor and a hero in the spaghetti western vein, yet is a human being. I liked his form of revenge. It is fitting in this great action/ social commentary allegory film the final scene is one of humanity and irony. "}{"Title":"Where's Roger Corman when you need him?","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Playing up American's Reagan-era paranoia, this film hit the collective unconscious by singling out New York, which at the time was not the fun tourist attraction it is today. Combining the average American's view of prison life, New York City, and criminal behavior was a true stroke of genius on Carpenter's part. Maybe that's why this film is sort of disappointing. In many ways, it refuses to exploit the Manhattan prison and its prisoners to its Corman-esque limits. Besides the Crazies (who never seem all that crazy to me), most of the inmates act quite rationally and, dare I say, believably. If Corman had a whack at this, Ernest Borgnine's happy-go-lucky cab driver would be rotating on a spit in the first 20 minutes. How can John Carpenter come up with such an exploitive concept, and then not follow through in its execution? It's always a subject of debate whether Snake Plissken is to be taken seriously. I think he works either way, but I'm partial to the camp end of the spectrum. The real problem here is, it seems, Carpenter took *himself* a little too seriously and thus results in a film that seems to pull its punches from the get-go.  "},{"Title":"A smart, incredible adventure.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"     Best known for directing the classic independent horror film Halloween, director John Carpenter works wonders in another movie that I absolutely enjoyed - Escape From New York.   Escape From New York is an exciting tale of Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), a former war hero who is now a criminal with a Eastwood-like accent and is ordered by Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef), the calm, but stubborn U.S. Police Commissioner to go into New York City, now the country's only maximum security prison and rescue the President (Donald Pleasence) in twenty-four hours.  Some of the scenes in this movie are terrific such as Snake eluding the Crazies, Snake finds Brain (Harry Dean Stanton), an old friend of his who betrayed him in a robbery, and the car chase across the 69th Street bridge that is mined.   Kurt Russell gives a near perfect performance as Snake and the film gets solid supporting performances from Cleef, Stanton, Pleasence, Ernest Borgnine as the last cab driver in the Big Apple, Adrianne Barbeau, Issac Hayes as the vicious Duke, and Frank Doubleday as Romero, who manages to steal some scenes in the movie with his freaky appearence and Jack Nicholson-like laugh.              The story that was written by Carpenter and Nick Castle is smart and very well detailed.  Also, Carpenter makes a terrific musical score that pays off in some of the key scenes.  Dean Cundey's cinematography of the prison is beautifully shot including the scene where Plissken flies into New York.   Escape From New York is one of my two favorite John Carpenter films (Halloween being the other.  It's smart from beginning to end.    "},{"Title":"John Carpenter and Kurt Russell= great films","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape From New York is a classic film with a great actor Kurt Russell and my fav director John Carpenter. the president played by the great Donald Pleasence is aboard the air force one, but a female terrorist crashes the plane but the president escapes from the pod, New york city is now a maximum prison, and is full of gangs, with the president missing former war hero and now criminal Snake Plissken is being sent to find the president, he has only 24 hours to do it and if he finds him he goes free. Escape From New York can be a bit slow but for the most part it's very fun. it's my second fav Carpenter film after Halloween. i give Escape From New York 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of J.C.'s finest","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of John Carpenter's earliest films, Escape from New York was a daring undertaking when it was created and isn't often fully appreciated today. His dark view of the future of humanity, and his humiliating criticism of the U.S. president and authority in general, were not readily accepted when this film was released.Kurt Russell is the out-for-self anti-hero, who's heroics come from self interest rather than a love for his fellow man. Carpenter, who always tries to incorporate western themes into his movies, modeled Snake's character after Clint Eastwood's nameless gunslinger from Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns, and its interesting to watch Kurt Russell translate the role to a futuristic setting. Ironically, Lee Van Cleef, who played Angel Eyes in the Good the Bad and the Ugly, plays a role that is equally antagonistic towards Snake in Escape from NY. Its probably no coincedence either, as Carpenter has been known to pay homages to the film makers who influenced him.The setting is New York, an island prison of the future. Snake is basically a gunslinger, and due to some unfortunate business, has to do certain deeds against his will. The odds are stacked against him like nobodys business.So maybe some of the action sequences aren't totally plausible, scenes that might make you say Hey, theres no way he coulda lived through that! This sort of criticism wasn't meant for ACTION movies. So if you feel like putting your brain cells to rest for a while, and enjoy bleak futuristic pictures, urban violence, and indestructable tough guy anti-heroes, heres a movie you don't wanna sleep on. I gave it a 9.  "},{"Title":"Carpenter's finest","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Before I saw this gem, I always thought that HALLOWEEN was Carpenter's greatest achievement. Then I finally got to gaze upon this film and have a new respect for Carpenter and his work. !!!SPOILERS!!! We begin in the year 1988 when Manhattan has become a maximum security prison where all criminals are deported to. Flash forward to 1997 when the president is on his way over seas and someone comes to sabatoge his plane. He lands in the heart of the prison and is captured by the island's leader The Duke. A criminal by the name of Snake Plissken is sent to save him and if he succeeds, he will be released from jail. He teams up with an old friend and scream queen Adrianne Barbeau to find the gang who took the president. To do this they must fight through killers, gangs, bums, ect. to get to the main fortress and free the president. Exciting, suspenseful, great story, acting, and music score. ***** out of *****. (Also, read my review of the sequel.) "},{"Title":"Bizarre, out-dated, unrealistic, but interesting and a good story","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first of the two Snake Plissken movies (The second is Escape From L.A.) this is an interesting, but strange view of the future in 1997, which is now, ironically, the past.  Manhattan has become a massive prison filled with inmates but no guards and the prisoners run their own lives inside.  This is completely unrealistic, but an interesting scenario.  The president crashes his plane accidentally into the prison island and is held hostage by The Duke of New York.  Ex-fighter pilot Snake Plissken is sent in to retrieve the President and his important tape, which will be broadcast to Russia and China about politics, which he was carrying.  Snake is led on a bizarre trip through Manhattan where he is attacked, battled by gladiators, and bombarded by bricks.  The movie is fascinating but downright weird and is definitely a must-see for Sci-Fi fans. "},{"Title":"Blows it's sequel away","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watching EFNY again, I cannot believe how cool it is compared to later JC films (especially the God-awful EFLA).  The energy and originality is equal to his earlier efforts (Assault on Precinct 13 and Dark Star). Granted, there are some eye-brow rasing moments where the film gets a little too silly, but all in all, the film moves, and Snake is cool!Also, check out the Director's Version, just to see the cut footage from the beginning of the film (How Snake Got Busted) and some comments from James Cameron on his SFX work for the film. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but a million times better than its sequel...","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though produced on a fairly low budget, Escape manages to provide action, suspense and characters you actually care about. Kurt Russell's Eastwood-like character, Snake Plissken is brilliantly done, as is spaghetti-western star Lee Van Cleef's Bob Hauk. I read in interviews that the filmmakers looked upon this movie as more of a joke; if that's the case they didn't really succeed. Had this film a slightly bigger budget and a more serious attitude (like Walter Hill's fantastic, The Warriors), this could have been considered one of the best of the pessimistic, mankind-is-doomed-in-the-future movies, rather than just a very good b-movie. "},{"Title":"A manic action classic","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Carpenter's Escape From New York quite certainly deserves its status as a manic action classic.  Complete with early visual work by Jim (James) Cameron, it's an exciting, fun film. Carpenter can be excused if his film is somewhat slight; for sure, Escape From New York is no masterpiece.  Some of the visuals tend to be a bit laughable, and even the action sequences aren't carried out in the best possible manner.  Still, Carpenter was able to put together a film that is watchable again and again.  Of course, I always wanted to be Snake Plissken when I was a kid, so perhaps I'm somewhat biased. "},{"Title":"Typical 8o's/Carpenter film","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" New York, now separated from the United States, has become a maximum security prison where they keep prisoners and let them form their own civilization within. When the president's jet crashes into Manhattan, a convicted bank robber is sent in to extract the president and his reward is total immunity. Kurt Russell plays the protagonist, Snake Plissken, a macho tough guy who has committed crimes and is presumed dead by the prisoners within New York. Kurt Russell acted well but the character didn't really require any great acting. Earnest Borgnine plays Cabbie, a man who drives a cab around New York, he's very fun to watch and makes the bumpy ride a bit more enjoyable. I didn't quite like the film. It was a typical 8o's/Carpenter film with cheesy dialog and a very unconvincing premise with unrelatable characters. However, these types of films are just meant for enjoyment and a bit of a laugh so if you don't mind those types of films, you'd probably like this. This film is something like modern filmmaker Robert Rodriquez would do. This film isn't supposed to be taken seriously and although I didn't like, doesn't mean I didn't like it ;) . It's just a fun way to pass 100 minutes. And believe me, some things are very over-the-top and bad enough to laugh at. If I have one good thing I truly enjoyed was the special effects and the sets and the like. They were very well done, especially for a film which released in 1981. "}{"Title":"John Carpenter gets Kurt Russell in the Big Apple","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future year of 1997, New York City's crime-ridden Manhattan island has become a prison. They simply built a wall around it and declared it a maximum security prison. The natural separation from surrounding land helped, geographically. This is explained in a prologue. That's one of the best parts of the movie; after we receive the set-up, narrative gets less interesting. Director John Carpenter and the crew show off their incredible Manhattan. Dark, dangerous, often deserted-looking, and very naughty...Our hero is beautifully trussed, er, tressed Kurt Russell (as Snake Plissken). With perfect hair, costume, eye-patch, beard and swagger, Mr. Russell has never looked better on film. Also note naturally beautiful Adrienne Barbeau (as Maggie) is present, in a tight low-cut garment that hugs her form. The main story involves US Air Force One being hijacked, and the President of The United States crash-landing in Manhattan's dangerous prison environment. Soldier-turned-inmate Russell must rescue him...***** Escape from New York (5/23/81) John Carpenter ~ Kurt Russell, Adrienne Barbeau, Harry Dean Stanton, Ernest Borgnine "},{"Title":"As good today as it was when it came out","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am pushing 50 years old and this movie holds today as well as it did back in 1981. The story of people being oppressed by a police state and martial law is as old as time but Carpenter took it to a new place with great images and a haunting score.There is one thing everyone talks about and that is the cassette tape. I agree that some explanation about it being so important would have been a great idea but I overlooked it because the rest of the film was so well done.Another thing that is interesting about the movie even though no one could have known back then is the use of the World Trade Center. It gives me chills to watch that part now as if I am watching something unfold in a parallel universe. "},{"Title":"fantastic atmosphere","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from new york really good movie.Snake Plissken and the new york.perfect harmony. Best apocalyptic movie I have ever seen .But action going is slowly. This movie is best of john carpenter. Escape from Los Angeles is a trash. much money and bad movie. But ghost of mars is a worst movie of John Carpenter. I think he lost his imagination.Whatever snake likes fogy weather. He goes incredible mission. and he success. After this movie many replica made follow . And now somebody will remake this perfect film. They must be crazy or they have much money. Nobody can make escape from new york remake. Even john carpenter and Kurt Russell. This is a cult movie. Thats all. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Future Hokum!!!","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape From New York might appear dated as far as its choice of mobile phones are concerned but this film is still a classic 27 years later.Kurt Russell is great as the snake and to have Lee Van Cleef in any movie means there is a good chance that it will eventually become a classic.Watching the Special Edition I did notice some lucky coincidences that help Snake along on his quest. Like the taxi turning up from nowhere to aid an escape or a certain cassette miraculous appearing in Cabbies pocket! Yet this is just nit picking. Escape From New York is a classic and I am sure it will continue to be for everyone one with imagination. "},{"Title":"8 reasons why Escape From New York is a Masterpiece.","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My favourite scenes in Escape From New York.1. The camera slowly rising over the Security Wall to reveal a very bleak and darkly New York Skyline to John Carpenter and Alan Howarth's brooding soundtrack.2. Air Force One hijacked and flown into a New York building (Very Very disturbing when watching this in 2006, you know why).3. Snake Plissken's interview with Lee Van Cleef's Security Commander. A brilliant Eastwood performance by Kurt Russell brings back the glory days of Van Cleef's sparring with the man with no name in For A Few Dollars More and The Good The Bad And The Ugly. Excellent.4. Plissken's flight into New York by Glider Plane is superb, as is the soundtrack for this sequence. Again it felt strange seeing his glider approaching The World Trade Center. That such a towering structure no longer exists is just depressing.5. The Duke's car....LOL every time i see it when we are introduced to him. The soundtrack beat in this sequence is fantastic.6. The ring match between the 7 foot wrestler and Plissken is really good, but could have been better staged, like the way the Arena scenes in Gladiator were filmed. Despite this, its still good.7. The final race over the mined 69th street Bridge is excellent and rather moving, when characters you've warmed to over the last hour start getting killed. Snake's struggle over the Security wall the first time you see Escape From New York will have you on the edge of your seat. Also When Snake tries to get Maggie to move after what has happened to Brain, i found this sequence to be lingering in my mind long after the ending. Great stuff.8. The ending. Its both funny and very very cool. "},{"Title":"The Cinema of John Carpenter Escape from New York.","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Escape from New York (1981) was one of the best films that John Carpenter has ever directed. A low budget science fiction action film that's still cool today. Kurt Russell also earns a life time man card for breathing life into one of the greatest anti-heroes to ever grace their presence upon the silver screen. During the eighties, John Carpenter produced several classic films. A few of them are highly underrated and they have been dismissed by the critics and viewing public.The film takes place in The Future. Manhattan Island has become a federal prison for undesirables. The United States has become a conservative country and has been on the brink of war with it's enemies. During a hairy negotiation period, the President's plane was hijacked by a group of left-wing radicals. But the plane was knocked out of commission and the President's(Donald Pleasance) escape pod has landed inside the walls of New York Federal Prison. The government is desperate and they'll do anything to try and save the world from a nuclear meltdown. Prison officials have designated a new convict Snake Plisken (Kurt Russell) to take the deadly assignment. A reluctant Snake takes the assignment but he's given something by the warden (Lee Van Cleef) that'll force him to co-operate.After hang gliding inside the prison. Snake uses a transmitter that's supposed to lead him to the President's body. But all he finds is a drunk who's wearing the President's transmitter. Whilst searching the city, Snake finds a few allies (Harry Dean Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau, Ernest Borgnine) who'll help him for a promise of release. We learn that most of the convicts are followers of a mad man who calls himself The Duke (Issac Hayes). But he's captured by the Duke and is brutalized by a nasty man (Ox Baker) before he has to suck it up and kill the dude. Snake fights his way out of New York Penal Colony. He survives with the President, but at what cost? His friends are dead and the President shrugs them off and addressed the nation and the world. With the President is a brief case that has a message on an audio cassette that'll save the world. The President and his men look for the tape but they can't find it (That was the whole purpose of the mission, not to rescue the President but the find the tape). While they continue to search for it, Snake pulls the cassette from his pocket and yanks out the precious ribbon and rips it to shreds. The fate of the World lied with it. A somber Snake walks off into the darkness of night.Awesome! If you ever wanted to see a cool nihilistic action film, then look no further. John Carpenter would later create an even more depressing film with his remake of THE THING.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"all action films aren't created in the same way","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know; maybe it's just me, but I prefer to see an ambitious, original idea that falls short rather than a successful formula, even if it's formula done well. Bleak, cynical & deadpan, EFNY is still refreshing, even today, compared to all these cheesy, ultra slick action movies made today. Who says all action films have to be like Die Hard or Armageddon? You don't have to fill every minute of a film with explosions, noise & action. And unfortunately, today's action films are completely overdone, marred with goofiness, dumb dialogue (yipee-kay-yay, motherf*cker? ugh. dumb,dumb,dumb....) & god awful soundtracks. Sometimes less is more. EFNY, with its exaggerated prolonged silences & odd gestures, feels more like Sergio Leone meets film noir, grade B style. An action film can still be an action film & have other qualities & nuances.Sure, the budget was limited,  but Carpenter manages to create an eerie & atmospheric vision of New York. And extremely nasty, as it would be if New York was a prison. There's a very real sense of dread & urgency about the film, even in its own , quiet way. Not from the cookie cutter school of action films, EFNY occupies its own special niche . Cartoony, you say? And the Matrix isn't? Remember, the word here is ESCAPIST. This is fantasy film-making. Criticizing EFNY for being a cartoon is only stating the obvious.  "},{"Title":"Good in its own time, but now it feels outdated...","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can understand why a lot of fellows say this is a one of the best action movies, maybe because they watched this when they were younger or kids and it made a good impression on their minds. Well I remember watching this movie when I was a kid, and yes of course I enjoyed it, but never like other action movies I have in high regard like Predator, Commando or Aliens. So I watched Escape From New York again, and sorry dear fans but this is a really boring movie. The plot and the background of the story are not bad, a lot of potential here, but the development and the action is just slow and dry. Snake is a good character, i really think so, but this movie didn't age very well. "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenter's best!","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future, Manhattan Island has become a prison island where criminals rule and no guards. The President (Donald Pleasance) crash lands inside where he is kidnapped by ruthless thugs led by the Duke (Issac Hayes), the military sends out a former war hero and outlaw known as Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) to find him inside. Although it may seem easy, he has been implanted with a explosive device which would explode in 24 hours if he fails but if he succeeds in rescuing the president then the device will die.A unique and action-packed cult sci-fi action thriller from the maker of The Thing (1982) and Halloween John Carpenter is one of the 80's best cult movies and one of Sci-fi's best movies. Russell is perfection playing the anti-hero Snake who became sort of a cult figure much like his Jack Burton character in Big Trouble in Little China, the film also co-stars Adrienne Barbeau, Ernest Borgnine, Lee Van cleef, Tom Atkins and Harry Deadn Stanton. The acting is very good and the action is thrilling, i also love the production quality of this movie to make it look like a realistic post-apocalyptic New York City and the score by Carpenter is soaring as well.The film is futuristic fun for any fan of Sci-fi and action movies, a true must see and one of the best movies John Carpenter has made.Also recommended Escape from L.A., Battle Royale, The Running Man, Blade Runner, Akira, Mad Max, The Road Warrior, The Island (2005), The Fifth Element, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Aliens, Die Hard, Death Race 2000, Rats A Night of Terror, Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, The Warriors and Transformers (2007). "},{"Title":"a hybrid of punk, spaghetti western, and futuristic action picture","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's Escape from New York is, up there with Assault on Precinct 13 one of his real 'cult' films, however with a larger budget and stars. And it was a box-office success, but people don't go to it as quickly as they might Halloween or The Thing. It's an action film, but at times there's very little action, with wide-angle lenses pitting Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) in the streets of Manhattan like he was a gunslinger. It is then, in turn, a tip-of-the-hat to Leone's films, as not only Russell does a good, cool, if not brilliant, kind of channeling-Eastwood-performance, but also Lee Van Cleef co-stars in a big role. It's also a futuristic movie, but in a future with only sparks of technology, with much of the story rooted amid the 'crazies', a band of underground criminals and degenerates that have a run over the city. It even has a pinch of black-exploitation via the casting of Isaac Hayes as 'The Duke', the bad-ass antagonist. It combines all of this to make for a movie that takes an 'A' budget and a few old-time character actors all for one thing- attitude.Snake Plissken isn't as mythic and mysterious as Eastwood's 'Man-with-no-name', and at times one wonders if he's more supposed to be like a super-hero than an anti-hero. But it is a character that can keep this story, which is extremely B-movie style (save the president before the world ends, you're the only one, don't mess it up, that kind of story), moving along without too much interference. It's actually so simple a story, and the events that happen in the film so relatively simple (though the last half hour has a couple of genre-style surprises it needs the elevation of the style to make it more than just curiously average fare. This style, again on loan from westerns and widescreen sci-fi stories, doesn't interfere with the story, but gives it a slightly bigger scope. It's also fascinating how little of the music Carpenter uses for the film- the sweet, electronic theme of the film the exception- to just up the thrills by either on-the-set noises (of the ambiance of the dark Manhattan corners and 'bumps' in the night), or little touches of unconventional music. I wonder if Carpenter, in general, had influence on movies that would follow in the years after this with the use of music like this.I liked Escape from New York, and liked it for what it was (and a hilarious ending indeed), though it's not necessarily any 'great' movie. It's the kind of flick I would love to catch again with a bunch of friends with some beers, maybe playing drinking games with how many times someone says the near catch phrase of the picture- Snake...I thought you were dead. A- "}{"Title":"Carpenters are supposed to build...","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carpenter's early work up until the 90s showed promise, but I can't say I recommend him based on two reasons.1) Because of the production values, they are often ridiculous to watch.  Only 'The Thing' gets my kudos for having swaying the budget the best.  The others look like what they are, cheap.2) Most of the time he has VERY interesting ideas, but too often they get buried in the search for entertainment.  Kubrick had interesting ideas, but he weaved them together for the audience to learn from.Henceforth, I'd rank Carpenter's dominant work as such 'Thing', 'They Live', 'Big Trouble', 'Fog', 'Escape from NY', and 'Halloween'.With 'Escape from New York' we know nothing about the future except what's been seen in comic books.  New York itself is bent into an adolescent fantasy so it can't rise to anything better.  In that respect, Carpenter failed.  He isn't scary, only superficial and simple.  He's on the level of Romero.Overall, more than disappointing.  'Escape' needs to get bigger and bolder.  I bet if Fincher remade it then it would become a classic.  As for Carpenter, I hope he understands that he needs to make a base for his work, otherwise he'll be forgotten a lot sooner than he expects.  1.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Not So Great Escape","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowadays there are plenty of ways to leave NY, whether by plane, train, or automobile. But in this grim little movie starring Kurt Russell all of Manhattan has been turned into a rather large prison. In which thereisnoescape.Anyway. Kurt does his best as always, running around, punchin' people, being your typical anti-hero. He has been sent to the Big Apple in order to rescue the President, who was trapped within the confines of the city. The President is played by none other than, Donald Pleasence, of Halloween and James Bond fame, in which he played a bizarre psychiatrist, and Blofeld, respectively. However I shall always remember him in his greatest role, Cobras, in the horrible movie Pumaman. Which I don't believe was released here, but Mystery Science Theater 3000 riffed the poor little devil anyway.Anyway. Slightly above average acting is undone by stupid plot, and some really freakish characters. Special effects aren't too bad considering the nasty backwater age this movie was made (the '80's).Oh I almost forgot, Ernest Borgnine was in it too!I'm not sure if that's a selling point or not, but he's in it, whether you like it or not. "},{"Title":"Too much cheese and camp","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very, very cheesy and campy, which really doesn't work for me in action flicks. Kurt Russell delivers an iconic performance, and the idea is very cool, but something gets lost in the translation and the final result is rather disappointing. It's quite short, and not a whole lot of note happens; most of the characters are only barely introduced, and so I felt no attachment to any of them, whether positive or negative. The production design is cool but obviously hampered by the budget, and the action scenes are kinda lame. The supporting cast looks good on paper but don't really add a whole lot, as this is clearly Russell's show. Still, it's classic in it's own way and has some interesting ideas, but is very dated and quite flawed. I'll actually be interested in seeing what the remake can do with it. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this one.","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit that I saw this on TV (TNT is showing it a lot lately), so I might have missed a few things that got cut out, but this one didn't impress me at all.  First off, the entire premise is ridiculous.  For instance, why would the United States Police Force transform an island with some of the highest real estate in the country (Manhattan) into a prison?  And, unfortunately, not much develops in the way of the action of the movie.  I was at least expecting some interesting underworld groups to be exposed in the prison New York, but instead, it's basically a bunch of shots of old buildings with a few prisoners running around in tattered clothing.  In fact, you only see about 50 prisoners at any time, which is a ridiculously low number to warrant the transformation of an entire city into a prison. I haven't seen the sequel Escape from L.A., but this movie has lessened my desire to do so. "},{"Title":"Good but could've been better; overrated","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmm, this one really had potential. Not that I feel it's a bad movie, because it's not. Merely, I've known since my youth that this was regarded as THE quintessential Kurt Russel movie, and was the birth of a character so warmly received that he even was the basis and namesake for one of video game's most popular characters (from Metal Gear for those not in the know). Right from the getgo, I was interested. I liked the idea of a state-wide penal system, where there is no law except for those with the power to enforce it. That would be The Duke (Isaac Hayes, in an inspired choice), who may have captured the crashed president who has crucial summit information. The cops don't want to get their hands dirty, so they send in Snake Plissken, because he's a former military specialist and simply because he's available. I loved Snake like I thought I would. Players of said game will instantly recognize the influence A self-preserving, mercenary attitude, rugged good looks, and an unmistakable hush in every word spoken. While Russel is my favorite actor and has tremendous power to his louder tones, he somehow pulls off this character's quietness just as well. It's not a Clint Eastwood ripoff, but I'd say there are shades of good 'ol Dirty Harry in there just the same. After meeting the enigmatic character, who doesn't give a f*** about your war OR your president, we watch as he enters NY in a plane that lands upon the Twin Towers, which is actually difficult to watch in today's times. Snake then works down into the city, and here's where I think the movie slows considerably. For one thing, we meet several characters that have very little development who try to assist and/or hinder Snake, and although I respect that he deals with each of them with the same incompassion, it's not very fun watching people interact with Snake that neither of us really care about. We soon meet the Duke, who is interesting enough but has little to do other than be threatening. The scenes go from the streets to some deserted buildings to a strange, sort of pointless gladiator match, and then the finale which I found to be anticlimactic. Jeez though, I really love Snake and wish he had more to do or say. Instead he's strictly business, which makes for a cool and intriguing character but not one with much to do. I wanted to love the movie as much as I did Snake, but instead I found it to be kind of a slow chase movie populated with people less interesting than the protagonist, and he himself has virtually no character development or background information. The slinky Romero character was a treat to watch, but he wasn't in there as much as some of Snake's cohorts.  And although I won't spoil it for you, I found the ending perplexing because while it stays true to Snake's character, it rendered the whole concept of the film a little pointless. All in all I liked it okay, but not enough to strongly recommend to anyone other than true genre fans or Russel fans like myself. "},{"Title":"Cheesy","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those films that is awesome in concept yet falls flat on the screen. It is definitely a cult classic but is too corny to make it much else. Kurt Russell was decent as the title role and Donald Pleasance is always great (though he didn't have that much screen time in this which sucked). Don sounds so much like Alec Guiness it's crazy. While I usually don't say this I think this is actually a film that may benefit from a remake because with a new writer and some CGI it could probably go a long way. This was an okay movie, but nothing to write home about.Final WordMovies  No, unless I could go back to when it first came out.DVD Purchase  Nah, didn't catch my attention enough.Rental  Yes, it was a good movie to see only once.  "},{"Title":"Dull ..... Awful ..... Unbearable .....","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dear John Carpenter,your film was crap. Your background score was worse than the film. The score almost put me to sleep during the title sequence itself. Sinister sounding but tuneless beats played at regular intervals is not music, OK?Snake Plissken was an interesting creation. He did mouth some amusing dialogs. Kurt Russell did a great job I guess. But the rest of the cast was wasted completely. You made Lee Van Cliff look like a middle class uncle. The great Ernest Borgnine was a goofy taxi driver in a b-movie. That role could have been played by anyone. Donald Pleasance played a token one dimensional evil US president. Harry Dean Stanton had that ridiculous costume on and he seemed to sleepwalk through his role.Some of the visuals were interesting. I mean, you were obviously aiming for a very consistent visual style throughout the film. But the awful acting and costumes made the film very hard to watch. Also, the film did not have a single action scene worth remembering.This was worse than In the Mouth of Madness.Best Regards, Pimpin.(1/10) "},{"Title":"shallow, disappointing trash","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this when I was seventeen. I was probably completely stoned, as I couldn't remember the first thing about it. I've stuck with it religiously despite the commercials.Let's get down to brass tacks. This is simply awful. All the characters seem to have had far too much testosterone for breakfast. All they do is posture You're from Special Forces team X? Well, I'm from Navy SEALs team Y, you pussy! Despite the fact that the Manhattan federal prison colony is peopled by folks who can't spell their own names, they all know Snake Plissken like he personally owes them money. As for Russell, putatively starring as the notorious Snake Plissken, he waltzes through the movie, half-interested and utterly unconvincing in the role.I have seen many, many escape and tough guy vs. tough guy movies. This one is about as abominable as it gets. "},{"Title":"Boasting one of the most iconic characters ever in Snake Plissken, dark '80s sci-fi classic","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This almost forgotten film reveals a near-visionary workmanship, a low-budget film heavy on atmosphere and playful of character. A generally gripping action film, the film can also be read as a percipient satire of a society irreparably split along lines of class and race. New York is the ghost town and Van Cleef the corrupt sheriff in Escape from New York's thinly disguised postmodern Western, with ex-soldier Russell as the anti-establishment hero who won't cotton to anyone's code but his own. An enthralling, if sometimes inadvertently cheesy adventure yarn, an intriguing window into the fears and anxieties of the early Reagan years.It's a toughly told, very tall tale, one of the best escape films. Followed by a cult classic sequel ESCAPE FROM L.A. "},{"Title":"It's 1997 and The Big Apple is rotten to the core.","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ex-war hero turned criminal Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) has less than 24 hours to rescue the President of the USA (Donald Pleasance) from the prison hell that is Manhattan Island, after which the small explosive charges that have been planted in his neck will rupture his arteries.Escape from New York, a typically early-80s dystopian vision of the near future, has an undeniably cool concept, a great cast (that includes Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton, Isaac Hayes and Adrienne Barbeau's breasts), a memorable anti-hero, Russell doing his best Clint Eastwood impersonation, and a decent director in John Carpenter, who had already proved himself more than capable of producing a classic with Assault on Precinct 13 and Halloween.Despite these quality ingredients, though, the magic just doesn't work as well as perhaps it should, and the film, although often very impressive to look at thanks to excellent set design and Dean Cundey's marvellous cinematography, fails to generate much in the way genuine excitement.The blame for this must be attributed to Carpenter's measured approach, which effectively mirrors Plissken's unflappable demeanour, but results in less than scintillating action scenes. Thanks to this overly leisurely pace, which is further accentuated by Carpenter's emotionless synth score, Escape from New York lacks the much needed sense of urgency that should have been generated by Snake's desperate situation.For once, this is a film I'd actually like to see get the remake treatment. 6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "}{"Title":"Great premise, poor execution","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I decided to watch Escape from New York, there were a few good reasons; The setting's awesome one of the world's largest metropolis' is in ruins, turned into a huge prison. I don't know about you, but I always dreamed of spending a day in a humongous city, devoid of peace and order, full of scum ready to get their asses kicked. There's simply something in the idea of survival in an urban hell that is appealing and gives you great ingredients for a good story. Snake Plissken looks like one tough bad-ass at least when he's not speaking. I mean the eye patch, the stubble beard, the gloriously violent past, the general dirty look Snake's a picture of a bad-ass pirate, only cooler, because of all the gun-toting. But as I mentioned earlier, the way he speaks disturbed me. It was a little forced and cheesy, as if Kurt Russel tried to emulate Clint Eastwood's legendary attitude, and failed.So where does John Carpenter fail in this movie? He's got an awesome premise, a decent actor in the shoes of the perfect anti-hero, what can go wrong? Well nearly everything; The guy is simply unable to use his material well. I'll pass over the cheesiness of the soundtrack, since it didn't sound that out of place back in the 80s' sci-fi and action flicks. But there are absolutely no suspense, tension, F*** YEAH moments, etc. when you feel there should be. We're introduced to a world of pure visual genius and general awesomeness for the first 15 or so minutes (it's amazing, all the things you can do with lights and shadows. Pay attention to those 15 minutes if you happen to watch the film again) and then it's your usual, boring string of events movie. I wouldn't care if those events were presented in an interesting way. I mean just take a look at what the hell James Cameron has achieved in the prologue of Terminator 2 the sight of a burning swing, plus a couple of instruments playing in the background, and drama ensures. THAT is cinema; Being able to dramatize a goddamn playground toy. Whereas in Escape from NY, I was unable to even feel a few nerves tingling at the sight of two bad-asses about to split each others' skull in half. Yep. The swing wins, John. Man it's so depressing. This movie could've been awesome at the hands of an action movie expert like James Cameron, but I can't blame him. He was only background painter at the time. Oh well. I gotta admit, though, the ending made me laugh for a long time. Awesomest ending ever.So as you can see, I was very disappointed with Carpenter's work here, but...When I think of all the amazing people this film has inspired, (William Gibson, JJ Abrams, Hideo Kojima, among others...) it kinda makes the time I watched this average movie worthwhile. Plus you don't get to see that kind of anti-hero with attitude that much anymore. "},{"Title":"The potential of Carpenter's cool, dark-future style film isn't fully realized","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's Escape From New York probably set the tone for dark 80s sci-fi actioners, painting that grim and barbaric picture of humanity in the future, in this case when crime has risen so much that Manhattan had to be sealed up and turned into a giant prison. Though action should probably be the least emphasized of all those words. Carpenter seems to avoid action sequences of any kind, particularly explosions, with only occasional fights and gun shootouts. Escape from NY is more a dark, deeply-imagined style film that grinds along like a horror film rather than gliding along on adrenaline.Carpenter's film takes place in 1997, when Manhattan has long been a prison. When Airforce One crashes inside the city and the president is missing, the US Police Force calls on a signature Carpenter anti-hero, Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), a former military pilot with an eye patch and a chip-on-his-shoulder attitude about everything, to get him out. Plissken is one of those enigmatic heroes who you never get to know but like because he's a bad ass and because the man is trying to keep him down (Lee Van Cleef). Snake is not a terrific anti- hero as far as films go, but he carries a uniqueness about him that is easy to like. Russell plays the character pretty stoic which works for the way he's written.This is a rather grim film, with strange, pitiful characters that you never come to know or like. It's more bizarre than anything else, feeling like a horror film that's not scary or suspenseful in the way it's told and shot with all the darkness. I suppose that's not a surprise coming so soon for Carpenter after Halloween. Maybe I come from too much of a modern action-happy perspective, but this film could have benefited from some serious explosions or intense fight scenes--some excitement. It just mulls along, staying satisfied with just being interesting with no desire to pick up the suspense with slight exception at the end.The creative concept here is rich for a great action flick, but I think even as a dark futuristic film, the concept is mostly unrealized. There's great potential to create compelling characters living in a city that's been left to them as a prison and the organizing principle of chaos that leads their lives, but Carpenter pushes to just get you through the film and have your anti- hero reluctantly give his all to save the day. So it's cool and interesting, but never really takes flight. "},{"Title":"Interesting premise, well-played anti-hero, but somewhat lacking in action and thrills","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the start of Escape from New York, we are told how the crime rate in the U.S. increases 400% in 1988 (7 years in the future at the time of the film's release), prompting the entire island of Manhattan to become a maximum security prison, complete with a 50-foot wall surrounding the island, mines along the bridges that connect Manhattan to the outside world, and prison security headquartered, ironically, at the Statue of Liberty. Prisoners who attempt to escape are, of course, shot (or, more accurately, bombed) and those who are entering have the option to ask the guard for a termination and cremation. The film opens with some great scenes of this bleak, dystopian future, where the U.S. has become a total police state. It reminded me of the opening to another classic 1980's dystopian sci-fi hit, Blade Runner, which came out a year after Escape from New York. I really wish we could have stuck with these scenes for a little while longer or maybe even made them the basis of an entire movie. John Carpenter grabbed my interest early in the film, showing me a world that I wished he had explored more during the movie.But, the needs of the plot compel us to move along. Air Force One, hijacked by some revolutionary group that we never hear from again, crash lands on Manhattan Island and now the President of the United States is being held hostage by its psychotic prisoners. (Insert New Yorker joke here.) The only rescue mission that has any possibility of succeeding is to secretly send in a lone commando, who must extricate the President within 24 hours or some major talks between the world superpowers will break down.Here, we meet Snake Plissken, well-played by Kurt Russell, an ex-commando-turned-felon who was on his way to becoming the newest New Yorker, but instead is asked (or, rather forced) to take on this mission by Police Commissioner Bob Hauk (played by Lee Van Cleef). Plissken is quite a character. Here is a true anti-hero, a man who cares nothing for the people he serves or the fate of the world. (Really, why should he care? We only entered this world 15 minutes ago and we already wouldn't want to help the powers-that-be who have made the world so bleak.) Kurt Russell does a fine job of showing us that Plissken is not a hero in the guise of a cold-blooded felon (as is usually the case with action movie heroes). Plissken is a felon through-and-through but, by reason of circumstance, he has been forced to save the day in a world not really worth saving. (Why Hauk had to pick Plissken and not one of his myriad deputies is not clear, but do we care?)Once Plissken gets to Manhattan, the world we had seen earlier changes into a different kind of world, a kind of urban jungle hell, complete with the living dead in the form of Manhattan's heartless prisoners. It's an interesting world, but not developed as much as the one we saw at the beginning of the film and therefore not as fascinating. I was looking for more telltale signs of this being New York City, and we see some, but it feels inadequate. We also meet various characters, including a big-time boss (Isaac Hayes), one of his henchmen (Harry Dean Stanton), and (since this is, after all, a movie that takes place in New York) a cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), all of whom don't really get developed that much and so we don't really care about them as much. Bleak future and character development aside, we're in this movie for the action. Unfortunately, we don't get enough of that either. The action scenes that are there are good, but they feel thrown together with minor threads of plot connecting them. I was hoping for a lot more. Also, there is one scene later in the movie involving Plissken duking it out with a pro wrestler that I would have cut out altogether. At the end of the film, some events occur that show Plissken's character quite well, but also left me asking questions about what would happen next, questions I wished I hadn't been left with.Escape from New York had the potential to be a much better movie than it is. As it stands, it is not a bad movie. Rather, it's one that tried to do too much and ended up not doing enough justice to what it wanted to do. What it does do, it does well. It just doesn't do enough. "},{"Title":"Escape From the Ordinary","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had heard about this film for what seems to be forever. Having caught the end of Escape from L.A. on TV one day, I felt that maybe it was right for me to see Escpae from New York. Well time went by and I still hadn't picked up a copy of this film. After finding out that this was in the Wal-Mart five dollar bin, I quickly decided that I should purchase it. I was excited to see what all the fuss was about or is about. Because the film still has a cult following, and after watching it I can see why. I happen to admire John Carpenter's work to a degree. I don't necessarily think that he is a good director but a decent one at best. He has a tendency to miss all the details. But when your working in the science fiction/horror genre, why bother with the details. This clearly shows throughout his body of work, with the most promising film being The Thing. That film grabbed me, and forced me on the edge of my seat. Unfortunately this film did not. Instead what it did do was give me an inside into what this film is about and why it is so popular. I think people like it because of what it says about authority in general. That a rebel, being Snake Plisken, will save the world by rescuing the president, in a apocalyptic New York City. The world in which John Carpenter has created did have me begging for a longer running time, but hey you get what you get. At first I thought this film was going to be a great film but then I clearly saw it for what it is, a good B film and nothing more. Fun, entertaining, and stupid. (But in a good way). The look of the film seemed to bother me the most, it has that bad 80's flat look to it. Where every metallic object in the world shines light off of its reflective surface. The dark landscape was lackluster in design, but the characters that occupied it were interesting. Thats what I really mean by I wanted to know more about the world in which Snake Plisken does his deeds in. The story was pretty straight forward, nothing to complex, and nothing to simple. Like I said before a solid B film and nothing more. Yes, I may be a little hard on the film by giving it five stars out of ten but hey a B movie doesn't go above seven in my book. Believe me I give most movies a low rating, below the average. Occasionally a few notches above if it is well done, but hey its when audience don't recognize them. Which seems like most of the time, (The Thin Red Line, in particular). This movie drifts somewhere between the fine line of good versus evil, and this time evil versus pure evil. Which makes for an interesting twist. But honestly we have seen all of this before, from time and memorial. "},{"Title":"Russell was great","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Trying to get in the mood for Grindhouse, I got a chance to visit this cult classic with Kurt Russel as a bada** going in to rescue the President.Now, I have to say this film has a great cast Jamie Lee Curtis (Narrator/Computer Voice), Lee Van Cleef (164 films!), Ernest Borgnine (189 films!), Donald Pleasence (206 films!!), Isaac Hayes (Chef from South Park), Adrienne Barbeau (Wasn't she OJ's girlfriend at one time?), Harry Dean Stanton (163 films and Big Love). That alone makes it worth watching.Russell was great and you could see great potential. I am hoping that potential comes to fruition this week in Grindhouse. We'll see. "},{"Title":"Call me Snake","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's epic low budget sci-fi action thriller that is Escape from New York, it's one of the best sci-fi movies I've seen and it's one of my favourites. The cast is great with Kurt Russel, Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasence, Isaac Hayes, Season Hubley, Harry Dean Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau, Tom Atkins and Charles Cyphers. The plot is fresh too with having New York becoming a maximum security prison where once you are sent in you can never come out since the police force now like an army surround the outer walls.But when the President lands in New York the police send an outlaw named Snake to go in and rescue the President and the tape within 24 hours as they inject small charges into his neck forcing him to do the mission.The music is another thing I like about this movie with the opening theme and the tension music. Esacpe from New York is a classic sci-fi movie that's worth checking out. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Decent film that's pure action and could have been much better","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dear Readers, The only John Carpenter film I've ever watch and wanted to watch was Escape from New York. The film shows an impressive and warped view of the future that only John Carpenter can deliver. Kurt Russell is awesome as Snake Plissken while Donald Plescance is wimpy as heck as the President of the United States and Issac Hayes is great as the Duke of New York.While flying over New York City Penitentiary Island, Air Force One crashes and the president is captured along with a tape that will solve the world's energy crisis. The Duke of New York demands that all the denizens of New York be released and the President will be returned. Instead of sending in their own men, the Security force of New York sends in an ex-war-veteran-turned-bounty-hunter, Snake Plissken. To make sure he cooperates, Plissken is injected with explosives into his neck arteries that will detonate in 24 hours, killing Snake instantly.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"I want that soundtrack!!!!","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Does anybody know where i can get information on how to play the intro song?Overall i liked the film. Snake Blisken is the classic anti-hero, and is a constant character in John Carpenter's film. I like this. It's one way of making sure you identify with a character before you begin the the true drama of the film. I mean all of us have a little Bad-a$$ in us, or at least a part that thinks it might be cool. It contains clever writing that is a good continuation of the character set up in previous Carpenter films, like Assault on precinct 13(i want the soundtrack to that too).Technically, i think the soundtrack is actually very good for it's time. The cinematography is quite dark, and that effects you understanding of the film. Though in essence, it is just a good Sci-fi action adventure. "},{"Title":"a very good movie","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was about six years old I remember watching escape from L.A. and I really liked it (I wasn't aware that it was a sequel until recently). So I decided to rent the DVD of escape from new york the other day, at first when I was watching it i thought... Is this a joke? The movie was weird and I didn't get much of what was going on and who the hell these guys where. So I watched it again later and payed close attention and listened to everything, And it now ends up to be in my top 10 movies! New york, crime escalates 400 percent in the future of 1988 (lol). New york is turned into a giant prison where 3 million criminals live. The barriers around stop the people inside from coming out and has maximum security 24/7. When you go in you can't get out. The prisoners live in the world that they have created for themselves. This movie is then set in the future of 1997 where new york is still a maximum security prison. But air force one (the presidents plane) is flying over new york it is hijacked by a crazy cult member and is crashed into a building there. The president gets out into the escape pod just before it crashes carrying an important tape with him. A war hero and now a criminal Snake Plissken is sent in to recover the president and get him out of the now very dangerous new york city. He has no choice because he is implanted with tiny bombs that will blow his arteries up in 22 hours unless he gets back in time with the president and tape, when he gets back they will cure him. So he is on a race against time to escape from new york and recover the lost goods.The thing that makes this film good is because it was made with only 5 million dollars and has an excellent dark atmosphere and plot that complicates through the movie. It show's that you don't need lot's of money to do a good film. All you need is imagination. Some aspects of the film may be outdated by today but this film is still one of the best movies made by today. But don't be expecting lots of action.I hope you watch this film and share the same opinion I have. It also has a great music score. "},{"Title":"you now have the option to terminate and be cremated on premises...","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, first this movie was made in 1980/1981, so you have to watch it with an open mind (Bell Helicopters abound, large walkie-talkie style radios, an Ingram MAC-10 with a suppressor as the wow gun that Snake carries, vector graphics, longish hairstyles, etc.) second, i find it disturbing that in the wake of September 11th, the plot of Escape is once again believable (terrorists waylay POTUS and attempt to crash AF1 into the world's largest Maximum Security Prison - Manhattan Island!) i think they call themselves the National Liberation Front... an organization attempting to fight off the rapid conversion of America into a Police State.watch for many MANY scenes with the World Trade Center Towers in them (nighttime shots, daytime, vector outlines, etc).as for the acting, it couldn't be worse, but it's par for the course for a Carpenter movie. you kinda care about the main characters, but you'd rather see them kick some ass and resolve this whole get off the island dilemma.is that Jamie Lee Curtis doing the narration during the intro and computer scenes? "}{"Title":"possibly the best B-movie cast ever assembled","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" One thing you can't deny director John Carpenter, though his body of work has been wildly erratic in terms of overall quality, is his unbridled chutzpah and vision. Escape from New York comes from his most prolific period, and isn't at a loss when it comes to bending genres, taking chances, and even injecting some sly satire into the proceedings--he's like George Romero (whose own films ultimately have more to say than their surface qualities portend) with a more jaded sense of humor. In one of those deliciously hokey prologues that seem to be the norm of most science fiction, it is revealed that in 1988 (the 'future') the crime rate has increased by 400%, and New York has been transformed into a sprawling prison-slash-wasteland as a result. In 1997 (the 'future,' again), Air Force One crash-lands inside its perimeter on the eve of an international nuclear summit, and the police commissioner (Spaghetti Western vet Lee Van Cleef) drafts grizzled convict Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell in one of his signature roles) to retrieve the President; successful completion of the task will result in Snake's freedom, while failure will cause two artery-shredding capsules injected into his body to burst. Once inside the city, Snake comes into contact with a variety of colorful characters played by name actors street-smart Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine, hamming it up), a ruthless dictator known as The Duke (Isaac Hayes), and his right-hand man, Brain (the always enjoyable Harry Dean Stanton). In addition to Van Cleef, the authority figures (who, while representing traditional law and order, are also a source of ridicule for both Carpenter and Plissken) consist of Tom Atkins, Charles Cyphers, and Donald Pleasance as a convincing--yet VERY uncomfortable-looking--President. This is one of Carpenter's best casts, and in the context of such an absurd tale, works wonderfully--neither totally serious nor completely winking, everyone hits a perfect pitch between camp and conviction. And though the action sequences don't seem as spectacular as they no doubt did back in 1981, they still pack a suspenseful charge today, aided by Carpenter's clear vision. Though I believe Carpenter's commentary on the breakdown of society and the logic behind what transforms people into 'monsters' isn't as pungent as in Romero's films, at the same time it's not necessarily his aim to make Escape from New York a commentary on anything in particular--the note of irony the movie ends on seems to confirm that, and is as good a synopsis as any for a movie that wishes to thrill and entertain, and mostly succeeds. "},{"Title":"Decent film to watch, but not enough action","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's history of making bad films is quite know, so when you watch this movie, you'll wonder why he didn't try building off this film instead of making garbage like Big Trouble in Little China. He had a good run at this point with Escape..., The Thing, and Starman, which shows there is some talent in that noodle of his.Escape From New York was really a visual treat, taking us to a a piece of New York that had yet to be seen. Kurt Russell appropriately shed his image of Disney teen idol in the very first shot of the film, wearing his eye-patch and funky skin-tight jeans that were outrageous even in the 80s. Sadly, the action in the film seemed to be too far and in between. There was plenty of good ideas, but the lack of a budget kept it from being the truly great film it could have been. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi actioner!","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a great way to sit back, relax and kill some time. What a cool movie! Kurt Russell is great as Snake Plissken, a one time war hero cum outlaw who is recruited by the US government. His mission to rescue the president from New York, now a walled off maximum security prison. It's more of a no man's land filled with the worst of American society.While this film has some great moments, in my opinion it suffers from a misused cast. This is a top notch cast that have not been used to their full potential, mostly settling for cameo roles and underdeveloped characters.However, John Carpenter knew how to make a cool action flick back in those days!! What a pity he can't seem to nail the right combination and deliver the action flick for the new millennium that he must know we're all craving! OK it might be just me, but I'm sure Carpenter fans will agree with me!! "},{"Title":"Snake Plissken. I thought you was dead","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No one here seemed to comment on it but i loved that running gag used throughout the movie. Every time snake met someone they said a variation on I thought you was dead.  The Duke character played by Issac Hayes put it this way Snake Plissken?  I heard about you. I heard you was dead.   HAHAHAAs for the moon pitcher, it was pretty good.  Kurt Russell made a good bad guy even though he pitched his voice to sound almost exactly like eastwood. And i loved Adrian Boobeau.  Now if someone would just explain the ridiculous premise of the movie.  Manhattan island and it's buildings are worth prolly a trillion bucks.  If you're gonna turn 20 square miles into a prison, it would make more sense to choose some useless land out in Nebraska,  wouldn't it? I rate the film B+. "},{"Title":"I heard you were dead.","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This truly is a great movie. It's absolutely drenched in atmosphere and filled with an eclectic mix of great characters. The story and characters are not completely developed, maybe deliberately, which, I think, actually adds to the whole thing. But still there is much to draw from in many scenes when watching closely. A great deal of every single character's back story stays untold and we're left to concentrate on the present situation they find themselves in, while getting the occasional cryptic glimpse of their subtexts. Every single performance (except the secret service guy trying to break the door down) is virtually pitch perfect for this particular scenario. As self preservationist Snake Plissken, Kurt Russell does the best work of his career here, his body language and facial expressions speak volumes as does his dialogue delivery- more so than his actual lines. He really convinces you that he IS that hardcore. I don't think this character is simply an Eastwood rip off at all, regardless of the (deliberate) similarities. Harry Dean Stanton is perfect as the equally self serving Brain. For me, his reaction and facial expression upon reuniting with Snake is priceless- 'Snake?'Donald Pleasance's unnamed president is another interesting character and a curious one to my mind why does he stop the harness thing for which Snake is being elevated when he's blasting the Duke full of lead? It's great to see how this character operates according to his surrounds. Issac Hayes' Duke of New York has little else to do than be the coolest man on Earth and in this movie, that's enough! I love this guy's car!Ernest Borgnine adds a colorful, bright presence to proceedings which is a great foil to the otherwise nature of virtually everyone else.Frank Doublebay is hilarious as a total nut case henchman of the Duke.And Adrienne Barbeau admirably upstages her own cleavage which in itself is a strong presence in the film, not that I'm complaining, but it's good that her character Maggie has more to do (though not much) than just be there for a perv.And Carpenter directs the whole thing superbly. There really isn't that much action in this, but as I said it's drenched in atmosphere and suspense. I can't believe that some critics think he is a hack. Just check out the the first half of his catalogue, the man was a great director. I must admit that I don't like any of his recent films, but everything up to 'They Live' simply rules. Not to mention the awesome synth score here composed by him.This film isn't flawless by any stretch, but the flaws are mainly technical ones.This film simply shreds so much of the action/ sci-fi big budget crap they put out today. And while I HATE to say this, it really is better to avoid it's sequel, Escape from L.A.Bring on Escape from Earth, JC & KR, just watch the first one 10 times before you do though.  "},{"Title":"Wha' happened ??","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great concept, good special effects for the time, eerie music, Kurt Russell in the action lead (you would think a good thing), some entertaining supporting cast, all good stuff, so wha' happened? I've always been so fascinated with the idea of this movie and so utterly disappointed with where it actually went. The first half hour or so is pretty fascinating but once Snake hits town things degenerate into a Grade Z actioner, the sort of arbitrary pointless stuff Hollywood excels at. Russell's exhaustion at the end could just as likely be from slogging through this storyline and script as from his on-screen drubbings. A generous 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good but not Great","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this to be the weakest of John Carpenter and Kurt Russell films, apart from Escape From L.A. mind.   The first half hour I thought was great but it does get a little slow after a while but does pick you up more towards the end.   The world is in chaos and New York is a prison not the land of the free.   The president is flying over New York on air Force One and it crash lands there with the president being taken hostage.   Lee Van Cleef in one of his last great roles brings in Snake played by Kurt Russell to go into New York, rescue him and bring back safe.   One snag though is that Snake is already a convicted criminal but is the only man crazy enough to go into the chaotic New York and do what has to be done.   Snake is fighting for his own life though as he is injected with some sort of poison in his body that will kill him in a matter of time so the clock is ticking for snake to go in, get the president and then get out to rid what is inside him before it is too late.   This is the darkest character Carpenter has brought to the screen and is a lot different to how Jack Burton came across.I would give 7 out 10 because it does remind me of Blade Runner in parts and you do feel this is an action hero which we haven't seen before.  Basically he is Bad Ass.  "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi Classic.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll make this short  This is one of the best Sci Fi movies ever made..Dont let the low special effect count fool you.The story more than makes up for it,and adds to the overall charm.Its very much like  other sci-fi classics ; for example, Trancers,  and  The Road Warrior ....original.It's funny to see how technology has made a lot of film makers creatively lazy.Carpenter made this movie during a time when every little special effect had to be thought out.No  changing your mind and erasing the digital effects  here.The main character is a man known as Snake,played very low key by Kurt Russell.This is my personal favorite movie with Mr.Russell,although  The Thing  runs a close second.If you enjoy Post Apocalyptic Science Fiction,watch it,you wont regret it. "},{"Title":"Call me Snake...","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said?Great B-Movie for it's time, I still love to watch this movie.The Beginning Conversation between Snake and Bob Hauk is great.Snake Plissken has to be my all time favorite Anti-Hero character, he's just a guy that I can relate to, he really doesn't care a lot about his country or his president.I love the fact that throughout the entire movie he tells everyone to call him Snake, and then at the end when Bob Hauk finally calls him Snake, Snake says Call me Plissken.Classic.  "},{"Title":"Career defining for both John Carpenter and Kurt Russell","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading through some of the other IMDB comments here makes me wonder if some of the folks here have any sense of putting something in perspective.  John Carpenter's Escape From New York is very much a product of it's time, that when compared to other big budget movies of today, it just won't hold up (at least for the younger viewer who's really not willing to give a low budget movie a chance).  Having a sense of perspective with this film can certainly open you up to it. I was fortunate, I got to see Escape From New York when it first premiered in theatres back in 1981.  John Carpenter was building his reputation, and when Escape was announced, it certainly seemed like a novel concept and more original than anyone really gives it credit for- this sort of thing just wasn't done in 1981, and now so many things that were introduced in this movie seem more par for the course. It's a clever concept a rising criminal population gives birth to a United States Police Force and the idea of turning the entire island of Manhattan into the largest maximum security prison in the world.  Air Force One, on it's way to an important world peace summit, has been hijacked by terrorists with the intent of crashing the plane in Manhattan and taking the President's life.  The President survives, and the United States Police Force comes up with a plan to save his life involving one very special prisoner newly transferred to Manhattan, former Special Force operative-turned-criminal S. D. Snake Plissken.Bringing proper perspective to this, one can see that John Carpenter was very much ahead of his time.  Today, many of the trappings of this movie are pretty standard, but when it was first released, there were things here that just weren't done.  One thing I really admire is just how creative a filmmaker with a very low budget can be, and John Carpenter is one of the very best with a low budget.  Sticking with a low budget, let's Carpenter come in with a pretty uncompromised vision- and it certainly comes through- action, suspense  and comic book sensitivities are all over here, and had Carpenter been working from a larger budget under greater restrictions, you just might not have the film that you have now (and moreso, other movies as they are now- this really is an influence on a lot of other filmmakers).There's a whole lot of visual style here, and again that's pretty amazing when you take into account Carpenter's limited budget.  It is a little eerie to watch it again and see the World Trade Center in such a prominent role in the film- the eerieness continues when the Air Force One is crashed into a building by terrorists.  I love the fact that Carpenter composes and performs most all of the music for his movies (I think his score for Halloween remains one of the best horror movie scores ever made), they drive them right and they're neat signatures in the end.  His score for Escape From New York is a little more varied than some of his other film music, and still just as effective.It's a great cast, with a career-making performance from Kurt Russell as Snake Plissken.  Again, putting this in the proper perspective, this was a big chance in Russell's career at the time- he was still better known for his work in Disney films, and was just starting to break that mold.  Escape From New York cracked that mold entirely and I think Russell himself would be one of the first to say that it shaped his career.  Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton and Carpenter-regulars like Charles Cyphers, Tom Atkins, and Frank Doubleday are all solid here- very definite character types, pretty two-dimensional, but that doesn't matter, they drive the story.  One can really see that Isaac Hayes was definitely in to his part as the Duke of New York, Donald Pleasance genuinely invested something in his performance as the President of the United States.  And it was very nice to see both Carpenter's and Russell's wives, Adrienne Barbeau and Season Hubley in this film.  Hubley's scene is brief, but very well done.  Barbeau is in this significantly more, and she was simply the stuff of dreams then (not taking anything away from her now either), and it's a very confident performance (I just love watching her face down the Duke's car at the very end). I just bought the new Special Edition DVD and it's a lovely package.  Although I haven't been able to go through all of the contents yet, one of the must-see (or in this case must-hear) features is the commentary track from John Carpenter and Kurt Russell.  I understand that this is from the original laserdisc, so while there's a certain amount of perspective in their commentary, it's not the same as it would be today (especially after the events of 9-11).  It's a very enjoyable commentary from two guys who had great memories of this film and who obviously love to work together.  Carpenter is quite specific and very telling in all aspects of the film (some of those 3D computer graphics aren't 3D computer graphics- the flythrough of New York?  Black boxes with green lines painted on them... and yet it still looks cool)-  as much as I admired his skills before, after listening to the commentary, I admire them even more. Escape From New York is a wonderful piece of work.  It's an important film in the career of a visionary filmmaker and an important film for one of today's better known leading men.  Those of us who are older and experienced this way back when, will certainly appreciate it's craft, now more than ever.  For younger viewers though, you definitely need a sense of perspective with this- trying to hold it too the same standards as you would a movie made today is hardly fair, and you're just doing yourself a disservice by not opening yourself a little further.  Escape From New York is highly, highly recommended and a proud addition to my DVD library. "}{"Title":"Good action, great laughs.","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For the silliness of the plot concept - making a giant prison of Manhattan Island - I think that Carpenter really pulled it off quite well!Snake Plisken (Kurt Russel) is caught after robbing the Federal Reserve and is about to be transferred to the facility, and (Deus Ex fans take note) he is processed at the Liberty Island command facility.The entire city island is full of nuts, as you learn early on in the Chock Full 'O Nuts scene. Between Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), Harold Brain Helman (Harry Dean Stanton), The Duke of New York (Issac Hayes), and every other madman in the city, you should be laughing like mad at the movie.The movie isn't perfect; there are a number of confusing and/or silly things. However, I think that it's action-packed enough to make up for it.As for the music, get ready for 80s-style synthesized sounds. I wouldn't say that it's bad, but a lot of other people would. I rather like its beat. "},{"Title":"Indeed, Awesome.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Escape from new york. This is one of the essential movies of all time. I remember seeing this film for the first time in 1983 and it was a lasting impression. This is what it would be like if NY was a prison colony. A perfect anti-hero movie, and a staple for sci-fi films most certainly. Kurt Russel the perfect choice as snake plisken. Not the 'feel good' movie of the century...Warning This is a movie may not be suitable for people who like to watch horses running on beaches and marvel at the sparkling water splashes in slo-mo.Thankyou Mr. Carpenter. "},{"Title":"The greatest concept movie of all time!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't tell me you don't like this movie.This is the most original movie of all time.What's really crazy is how real this could be.So what if Russell overacted a bit,it was perfect for this movie and whoever said that the rest of the cast were bad actors is obviously gay.Donald Pleasence,Harry Dean Stanton,Lee Van Cleef,Tom Atkins,Ernest Borgnine,Adrianne Barbeau(the greatest B movie actress of all time),Issac Hayes and more.THIS CAST WAS GREAT!!!!!!!!!! I really like the way the New York prison looked (classic)Snake Plisskin, who could ask for a better hero (accept for maybe Han Solo) "},{"Title":"Another great action flick from John Carpenter!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say, although Carpenter is mainly associated with the horror genre, I prefer him as a director of a few great action movies. Having previously given us the superbly chilling &#145;Assault on Precinct 13' Carpenter offers us this perhaps accurate look at the future.1997 - Manhattan Island has now been turned into a maximum security prison due to the alarmingly high escalation of crime. The police are encamped around the island like the military but inside there is no law, just the world the prisoners create for themselves. After a plane carrying the President of the United States (Donald Pleasance) is hijacked and brought down inside the compounds of the island future prisoner and ex-soldier Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is offered a pardon if he rescues the President and more importantly a valuable tape. To ensure his co-operation and eliminate his chance of escape Plissken is fitted with a small explosive that will detonate and kill him unless he completes the mission and rescues the tape inside 24 hours.The film looks very dated these days, aside from the fact that we are now past 1997, the computer equipment featured and the general quality of the print (at least the one I viewed) makes the film look old. However, that does hardly anything to harm &#145;Escape from New York'. In the same vein as &#145;Assault on Precinct 13' there is no over-the-top Hollywood style action but instead shorter and more controlled action sequences that in some ways impress more than the lengthy and firey action sequences of Hollywood movies. &#145;Escape from New York' in some ways takes on a thriller feel as we wait to see whether Snake can rescue the President on time or if he can even find the President amongst the now crime-run desolate streets of New York. The movie is gripping and Snake Plissken is one of the few truly interesting action movie characters. Snake isn't really a good guy yet the audience is still made to sympathise with him and support his cause.For anyone who doubts Kurt Russell's acting abilities I suggest you watch this film. In the same way that the character of The Terminator seems like it was written for Arnie, the character of Snake Plissken is made his own by an excellent performance from Kurt Russell. Russell is supported by quite a strong cast and the performance from Isaac Hayes as the Duke of New York is worthy of recognition as one of the best portrayals of a villain in the last thirty years. The only problem with the cast I had was the casting of Donald Pleasance as the President of the United States. It might just be me but I think Donald just sounds a little too British to be playing the role of the President. Credit though where it is due, Mr. Pleasance certainly gave it his all for the role and played it quite well.This is definitely worth a watch for action fans. Some may be disappointed by the lack of gunfights and explosions but this is still a very adept action-thriller. With so many memorable lines and scenes I think that any movie fan, especially those of &#145;Assault on Precinct 13' and early John Carpenter, should make it a personal mission to check out this movie. My rating for &#145;Escape from New York' &#150; 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Futuristic Western","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is way underrated. It doesnt get the credit it deserves. This is an action/adventure/thriller/scifi movie.It has an all star cast and an extreamly great story.Its about Snake Plissken an ex-soldier that is caught robbing a bank by the United States Police Force and is forced to go to Manhattan to find the president of the usa.If Snake doesnt find the president in 24hrs Snake will be dead. Manhattan is sealed up from all sides it has become a prison which all criminals are deported to. once you are sent there noone breaks out and noone breaks in.All that exists is criminals and the enviornments they have made in Manhattan.If youve ever played Metal Gear or Metal Gear Solid you will notice that Metal Gear made thier Character solid Snake similar to Snake Plissken.If you like suspence,action or adventure then this movie is for you. I give it a 10 out of 10 for original story and characters. "},{"Title":"One of Carpenter's best....","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sandwiched between the classic THING remake and THE FOG is John Carpenter's ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK, which for all it's flaws is far more creative and imaginative a science-fiction film, up there with PLANET OF THE APES for sheer novelty.The disappointing ESCAPE FROM LA didn't hold a candle to the original and proved that big-budgets don't necessarily mean big box-office (The CGI on show in that film was some of the worst I have witnessed in ages, despite a tasty preview trailer which turned up on the BMG video version of EFNY in the early 90's.Seen today, post 1997, the film seems quite leisurely for an action adventure of its ilk, lacking the sort of excitement that a film like DIE HARD might offer, but you can rest assured that if it was ever remade, somebody like Jerry Bruckheimer would give it the ARMAGEDDON BAD BOYS treatment and turn it into a post-modernist hip-retro fast paced thriller that would outgross the original 100 times over!!!Primarily, the design of the film is the winner here, thanks to pre-TERMINATOR James Cameron's imaginative production values and especially to Carpenter's music score, in my opinion the greatest score he ever recorded.A cult classic which is always worth a look.... "},{"Title":"Snake is king.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have re-watched this recently. Considering it doesn't look like it had a budget It is a very entertaining 90 mins. Credit must go to the once talented John Carpenter for not only writing and directing this movie, it's home made score by Carpenter provides an excellent haunting theme tune.Russell's bad to the bone anti-hero Snake Plisskin is very cool and very tough. In fact Russell's Snake was surely the reason that the awful sequel Escape from LA was produced.Definately worth a watch. "},{"Title":"What More Do You Want?","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great atmosphere. A world of its own. Witty performances. Good action and special effects. Excellent camerawork and set dec. Biting social commentary.What the hell else are you looking for in a movie?On its own terms, this film succeeds as well as actioners with much higher budgets, like Aliens or Terminator II. If you watch this film very closely, you'll see that John Carpenter taught James Cameron everything he knows about how to film an action movie.Politically, this film is more relevant now than when it was released. It's not the crime element I'm talking about. It's the disillusionment of the lead character -- obviously intended to be a kind of Oliver Stonish war veteran who has nothing but contempt for the American establishment. When the Middle East gives America its next Vietnam, we'll have another picture like this. Great for cinephiles. Bad for America. Best momentHauk About an hour ago a small jet went down in New York City. The President was on board.Snake President of what?Exactly. "},{"Title":"Fresh Take on a Classic Theme","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** POTENTIAL SPOILER AHEAD *** The theme itself is pretty old establish an isolated realm to house prisoners and the rejected misfits of society, make it impossible to get out, then create a situation that requires somebody with special skills to infiltrate the realm and escape successfully.What makes it different is John Carpenter's foreshadowing of a darker time in our nation's history, where aggressive acts against the state rise to such a level that the government must take extreme measures to protect itself from a potential revolution.The movie starts out in the year 1997 (16 years ahead of the original audience), and the President of the United States has been taken hostage by a high-profile resistance movement set to reverse actions of racism and class discrimination against the working poor. With advanced knowledge that the President was on his way to a critical peace summit, they crash the plane into the no-man's land of the United States, Manhattan. In an eerie and ironic bit of happenstance for the year 2002, the plane crashes 5 blocks from the World Trade Center.No doubt, John Carpenter borrowed his story ideas from past examples in history, such as Devil's Island, the British prison-colony of Australia, and even the Vietnam War. With John Carpenter's grim twist on the situation, and clear contrasts from the other side of the fence portraying American society as having a split personality, others have borrowed from him. Consider the plots of movies like Demolition Man, The Running Man, and the Terminator line of films -- innocence turns into guilt, the absolutely corrupt rule absolutely, and the apparently involuntary exchange of absolute freedom & independence in mind/body/soul for a secure life under a strict, absolute and unwaivering set of guidelines.  "},{"Title":"HEARD YOU WERE DEAD...","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The definitive action flick. One of Carpenter's first bigger-budget flicks, EFNY is a highly entertaining action piece graced by the solid tough-guy performance of good ole Kurt. Well-made by Carpenter and his entourage (again working with a somewhat low-budget) and Ernie Borgnine is wonderful as Cabbie. Though the sequel, EF L.A., is made by Carpenter and it does star Kurt again, it was made with a humongous budget and basically has the same storyline, so it is therefore a near-carbon copy. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Grim, adrenaline pumping action that you will never regret to see.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Can't even remember when I first saw this one. Still one of the finest action movies around. If you first saw Escape from LA and now want to see this movie, you're going to be pleasantly surprised It's better than the LA-remake.WAY WAY better. I consider the remake an insult to this movie. This movie truly brings dark, gloomy, atmospheric settings, a furiously suspenseful soundtrack, decent acting and a simple though fast-paced script together into a work of art. One of John Carpenters very best. This movie, like so many of the 80's action movies, has nothing of the yukkie commercial, sentimental and politically correct crap that so many of the 90's action movies are polluted by. If you're in for some hardcore, fast paced no holds barred action you will NEVER regret seeing this movie. And it isn't even remotely gory or unnecessarily bloody. It's just pure, well made, unsentimental action. If you like this movie (and you're going to) you should definitely see 'The Thing', which I think is even better than this one, and that's hard. This one is one of my top 10 80's Action Movies (Aliens/Terminator/The Thing/Blade Runner etc), and it should be on yours. If you want to see Kurt Russel perform well in a more recent action movie, go and rent 'Soldier' instead of the remake of this movie.This movie truly is an absolute cult classic and a very, VERY good action movie. Don't let other commentators fool you. "},{"Title":"Shaft the Tormentor?","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I used to see this cult favorite on HBO in the 1980s, especially the character of the Duke (Isaac Hayes).  Why cast Mr. Shaft as a villain?  If anyone had seen this film years ago, one would never play the Shaft theme again.  Pop culturalists should note the Duke's Cadillac with chandeliers on the front fenders, which depicts an 'art car' in a major film.  ESNY was the first film to depict a decked-out automobile; if anyone ever travels to Houston, TX, there is an art car museum located on Heights Blvd.  Sorry, the Cadillac isn't there on display.  Rent either Shaft, Truck Turner, Three Tough Guys, or I'm Gonna Git You Sucka instead, if anyone is traumatized by Isaac Hayes' portrayal of a heinous villain.   "},{"Title":"Flawed Masterpiece!","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first heard about this movie way back in 1982 when it was released in the UK. But I didn't actually see it, until a friend showed it to me on home video in 1984.  I was immediately impressed by it, and the dark humour of main protagonist Snake Plissken (I assume, the name comes from the snake tattoo on his belly), and couldn't get it out of my mind. Then again, I was only 15 at the time. After seeing it again years later however, although I am still impressed by it, I began to notice certain flaws in the story, and glaring continuity errors which you would've thought would've been noticed during production (ie, Snake's gun magically moves from one hand to the other, in the scene near the climax where the heroes enter the ground floor of the World Trade Centre, after the glider on the roof has been destroyed).At the time the idea of the Island of Manhattan becoming a prison seemed far-fetched and ludicrous. But considering what has happened in New York yesterday with the terrorist hijackings, and the destruction of the World Trade Centre, maybe anything is possible. I also noticed through the end credits, that it was filmed partly in New Orleans, and, it has been pointed out to me by someone who has visited New York (I Haven't), that it doesn't even look like it was filmed there.  This aside, I still think that it's an enjoyable romp, which has it's tongue placed firmly in it's cheek, if the lines in the script are anything to go by. I especially like Snake's Get a new President! retort to Hauk in his office.  The silly car chase on the bridge near the end lets things down a tad, but Snake at least redeems himself at the finish.I won't bother to mention the useless sequel/retread Escape From LA.My sincere sympathies go out to all New Yorkers at this time of tragedy. "},{"Title":"Good, but some problems...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie as a kid, and still like it.  Especially when you compare it to the awful sequel.  But there is just someting that I can't get over.  OK, I can accept the fact that crime got so bad by 1997 that they had to turn a big piece of land into a prison.  But I just cannot get over the fact that they would turn the most expensive land in the country into aprison.  Why not Martha's Vineyard or some other island that woldn't involve displacing millions of innocent people and zillions of dollars of industry?  Yes, I know with movies you have to suspend disbelief.  But this is a little too much.    "},{"Title":"Chef Assaults Clint Eastwood's sound-alike Mad Max On Precinct 13!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Badly dated future noir with fascist dictators and Manhattan as one big secure prison full of the dregs of humanity, while the World is on the brink of a big bad pow-wow!!Enter Snake, (Kurt Russell) the anti-hero, sent in by Lee Van Cleef to rescue the President (Pleasence) from the prison island and return him in time for World Peace Talks AND to remove a capsule injected into Snake's arteries that will explode and kill him inside 24 hours.And that's about it really. From then on it's all action, action, action. Which is all very nice but it really feels so dated & wooden that you wonder why Carpenter bothered with this rubbish.Russell has obviously being watching too many Clint Eastwood/Mad Max films and as a consequence went into Method Acting to perfect the rather one dimensional Snake Plissken. The role is so barren & souless that I really didn't give a toss whether he succeeded or not. Unlike other Russell vehicles such as The Thing or Big Trouble in Little China, where he played the roles for laughs and thus added a lot wit, drive, humour & warmth into his parts, Snake is nothing more than an android with a Bad Attitude.This isn't helped by the lacklustre support. Van Cleef fails to convince and just wanders around with squinted eyes mumbling on about the end of the world is in Snake's hands, and all that gubbings. Unlike Ernest Borgnine, who realises right from the start that this movie is junk and treats it as such, with only the pay cheque at the end of it his only driving interest.Harry Dean Stanton & Donald Plesence look totally out of place, and their discomfort is so obvious it's positively embarrassing. While Adrienne Barbeau adds a little feminine charm to proceedings to keep the male audience interested (although not for her acting abilities unfortunately, but more for her bouncing chest).Then there's the chief baddy Isaac Hayes. Dear oh dear, he should stick to what he does best - produce damn fine soul records. Even his Chef character from South Park offers superior acting compared to his limp attempt in this movie.Escape is okay for what it is, but I feel Carpenter took a backward step here after such a good start with Dark Star and the middling Assault on Precinct 13. But he soon made up for this mess with The Thing a year later!**/***** "},{"Title":"Classic cult movie, and good fun to boot.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is cult classic movie, brilliant example of Carpenter at his best. Kurt Russell plays the moody anti hero, Snake Pilskin, superbly, with more broody looks and action than talk. Carpenter presents a desolate and barren New York with night stalking creatures and Mad Max style gangs, controlled by the Duke. The film sets a fast pace and keeps your brain from engaging long enough to think about the simple plot and the one dimensional characters. Fun story, with a cool, unflawed character as the hero. Just don't think too much about it, and you'll have a brilliant time. "},{"Title":"No- holds barred action flick","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	In the politically correct days of the nineties, you don't really get great action movies like this one.	Case in point look at Escape From L.A., basically the same movie with watered-down scenes taken out of the first one. In it, instead of an exciting battle sequence between Snake and a giant armed with baseball bats, we've got Snake playing basketball.	But In Escape From NY, we are treated to gripping gun fights and chase scenes, with a hero you seriously don't wanna mess with.	Snake is a man with no cares, except how to get out of the dilemma he's been put in. And if you try to get in his way, one way or...well actually usually one way, you're getting out. Kurt Russell knows this, and it's great that Carpenter is there to let him run wild.	The film also showcases some of Carpenter's best direction. The movie's aforementioned car chases and gun fights are trademark Carpenter. You never know how ol' Snake will get himself outta this one. 	Carpenter and Dean Cundey create a great atmosphere, of a gritty, urban world with no rules.	It's amazing that the film had a six million dollar budget. It doesn't look like it at all. And that's a compliment. 	Another plus are the co-starring roles, made up of everybody's favorite B-movie actors, like Isaac Hayes, Donald Pleasence, and Adrienne Barbeau. They give this film a great touch.	Anybody who likes action, sci-fi, Kurt Russell, B-movies, and John Carpenter will love this film. It is a terrific modern classic. 	 "},{"Title":"Does this movie kick ass?","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps the best thing that master-auteur John Carpenter has made in his career, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK is one hell of a ride! First, you have one of the greatest anti-hero of cinematic history, Snake Plissken, a character that couldn't have been made by any other actor except Kurt Russell. Second, you've got a great plot (something that it's usual for a John Carpenter movie). Third, and the most important of all, you have John Carpenter's direction and boy, this guy knows how to make a good picture.This is what critics like Jean-Luc Godard, Franois Truffaut and Claude Chabrol most loved a movie that has it's power by the cinematic qualities of it's auteur. No wonder why John Carpenter is loved in France as director's like David Lynch, Tarantino and Scorsese he has a very f****d-up sense of mise-en-scene, and that's everything for a movie, specially one like these. That's why I love all his movies.ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK is one truly great American picture. "},{"Title":"A possible taste of things to come!!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this movie on HBO in 1982 and thought it was one of the coolest movies I ever saw. Granted, I was 9 years old at the time, but as I grew-up,the movie made more and more sense. With all the events going on around the world, the hostage crisis everywhere, and the increase in crime, we needed to see something worthwhile in a movie. John Carpenter brings you that and more. The thing that makes this movie so good is that it was made on a 6 million $ budget and pulled in almost 10 times its budget, and that what he shows us in this film can actually happen. It is quite believeable. since then I have seen it so many times, I know every line, every scene by heart. I recommend this movie because it has the ultimate anti-hero in Snake Plisken. A very unique character. Though he cares about noone or nothing but himself,you still find yourself rooting for him because he's taking a job with impossible odds.SNAKE PLISKEN RULES!!! SNAKE IS KING!!!!  "},{"Title":"John Carpenters great sci-fi film","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Part of the success of this film, was the Kurt Rusells performance of Snake Plisken. This is an important film on Johns Carpenter filmography, he showns a different style in direction based on a great story that presents a new look on sci-fi films "}{"Title":"This is a great movie - Here is why..","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Besides old special effects, this movie has a real dark feel to it and a lot of action that makes it worth the watch. Carpenter's best movie I think.  He blew it with the sequel but I have seen this one over 10 times. You are forced to feel for Snake and his plight to save the president. With the countdown-to-death on his watch, you are always on the edge of your seat. Turn off the lights, unplug the phone, and pay attention. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Escape From New York","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Violent but entertaining John Carpenter film told in 1997 with Russell playing cunning criminal Snake Plissken. He would recreate the role for Carpenter again with Escape from L.A. This film is considered a cult favorite, but what does that really mean? "},{"Title":"There's a pizzeria in Portland named after this movie.","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter had looked at urban decay in Assault on Precinct 13, but took it to a whole new level with Escape from New York. In 1997, war hero-turned-convict Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is hired to rescue the president (Donald Pleasance) from New York City, now a maximum security prison (to accommodate the crime wave that swept the country in 1988).This is certainly one cool movie. Wearing an eye-patch, Kurt Russell looks like the ultimate bad-ass. And mark my words, that's exactly what Snake is. As for New York as a maximum security prison it's any bad mother****er's wet dream. And the other cast members Isaac Hayes (yes, the Shaft singer and Chef on South Park) plays the Duke, who is in complete control of the Big Apple; Ernest Borgnine plays Cabbie, who knows exactly how to survive in this most dangerous land; Harry Dean Stanton plays Brain, one of Snake's former acquaintances; and Adrienne Barbeau plays Maggie, Brain's hubby.Oh, and I noted that there's a pizzeria here in Portland called Escape from New York. It's located on NW 23rd St, if you ever come to Portland. "},{"Title":"Forgettable action-adventure","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" There were several things that bugged me about this movie, which I finally watched for the first time in 2014. I guess the first was Kurt Russell's voice... he sounded like he was doing a Clint Eastwood imitation. I'm no big fan of Eastwood's so I won't classify it as either a good or a poor rendition, just that every line he spoke came across as some kind of vocal caricature, like someone doing Marlon Brando.The glider landing on top of the World Trade Center, I liked. I didn't really believe it could have been done, but I liked it. The part I was the most interested in seeing, watching Kurt Eastwood... I mean, Clint Russell... take off in the thing at the end of his mission ended up not happening. I sincerely doubted he could have piloted a glider off the edge of the tower with no running start and somehow managed to immediately gain rather than lose altitude, and I was looking forward to watching him try. Alas, he found another way to 'Escape from New York'...... via the world's least convincing New York City bridge. I mean really, folks. We're all familiar with the Brooklyn, George Washington, Queensborough Bridges to some extent. The things are huge, multi-lane jobs with multiple decks. This is New York. There were a lot of cars going back and forth before they turned Manhattan into a prison. Yet Kurt & Co. escape across a two-lane truss bridge that looks like the one over the river a mile from my house in semi-rural New England, only longer. I saw the movie last night and I'm still laughing. Good luck putting that puny little spindly thing across the Hudson River. I see in the Trivia section that the sequence was filmed on a real bridge somewhere far from New York City... THAT, I believe.Ernest Borgnine was fun as a cabbie, and there was a singularly unpleasant-looking dude in the background that hissed a lot and looked like some kind of a mostly-human mutant who was very entertaining in a dark, creepy way. The rest of the movie was rather poorly thought out and the visuals didn't support what they were trying to do. Good gravy, that bridge... well, action-adventure fans might want to give it a look anyway. Held my attention adequately until the end. "},{"Title":"Not Carpenters best work...","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" KURT RUSSELL stars as a long thought dead SNAKE PLISSKEN, a former war hero turned notorious outlaw, who is recruited by local law enforcement to help rescue the president of the United States, who's plane has crashed & is trapped behind the walls of New York City in the year 1997, which has now been converted into a maximum security prison, where society's worst nightmares run amok. Implamented with an explosive device that will ignite if he tries to escape from his mission & armed with some nifty gadgets. Snake attempts to keep himself alive & from danger, as he looks for the man's whereabouts, only to discover the President is being held captive by the criminal ruler of New York's prison, a cold hearted criminal played by ISAAC HAYES. When Snake winds up being captured, he is forced to fight for his life against the well armed thugs that work for the main villain & escape with the president, before his time runs out. ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK is hailed as a classic among genre fans, with some even saying it's JOHN CARPENTER'S best work. After hearing so much praise about the film, I just had to see it, mainly because I'm a big fan of Carpenter's work, that & because the film carries a pretty good bevy of talent both in front & behind the screen. Unfortunately after seeing it twice, I was kind of left scratching my head, trying to figure out what everyone is so crazy about the film, because in actuality there really isn't all that much to it. The reason I saw it twice is because I thought I might have missed something or misunderstood it, but sadly all to no avail. Director Carpenter brought along his HALLOWEEN crew, Director of Photography DEAN CUNDEY, Producer DEBRA HILL, Michael Myers himself NICK CASTLE (Who serves as co-writer) Composer ALAN HOWARTH, BARRY BERNARDI (THE FOG) & even JAWS Production designer JOE ALVES & LARRY FRANCO (THE THING/THEY LIVE/ PRINCE OF DARKNESS) JAMES CAMERON (TITANIC) as effect supervisor) & then there's the acting troupe supporting the film, such as Carpenter's then wife, ADRIENNE BARBEAU, HARRY DEAN STANTON, LEE VAN CLEEF & ISAAC HAYES, DONALD PLESEANCE, BUCK FLOWER & KURT RUSSELL as the hero, which is why the film in my eyes, should have turned out a lot better than it did. ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK is billed as a Sci-fi/action film, but there's precious little action to be had throughout the films running time & it's clear Carpenter had much higher aspirations for the film then what he was able to pull off. The film passes the idea off that Manhatten has been converted to a maximum security prison, but yet there's no more than a few small crowds of criminals that could so easily have fit into a normal prison. It's very clear that Carpenter envisioned a much more fuller Manhattan, full of criminals, but that vision is hamstrung by his decent, but still limited budget. Joe Alves was obviously hamstrung by the films tight 7 million dollar budget as well, since he doesn't do much except strewn some rubble around here & there (where was the crumbled statue of Liberty on the box art?) The films plot does indeed show some promise & at the beginning looks to be set to become a very tight action sci-fi thriller, the best of it's kind. But once Plissken is dropped into New York, Carpenter drops the ball. The remainder of the films running time merely shows Russell roaming the streets, visiting old allies, meeting a kind hearted cabbie & visiting abandon buildings & is never engaged in any real fights against scores of criminals, not high powered shoot outs, fist fights, explosions, nothing. Issac Hayes is a good actor, but is hardly anything you would call menacing as the main villain & is unable to pull off that certain sense of dread & intimidation that most action movie villains have & the same goes for the criminals who are paper thin & hardly anything terrifying or even amusing. The acting is fairly decent by all involved...all involved of course with the exception of Kurt Russell. Kurt clearly is playing Snake as a sort of futuristic CLINT EASTWOOD style hero, but this merely just makes Snake bland & hardly makes him an interesting hero. Even worse there's almost no action to speak of minus a very poorly choreographed fight scened where Russell is forced to fend for himself against a brute of a man, in a crudely made wrestling ring, while surrounded by the crazy gangs & a poorly done car chase. In the end, I so desperately wanted to include myself in the millions of fans who love this film. I wanted to embrace it & at the same time, add it as one of Carpenters best work, but I just couldn't. I just couldn't get into the film & there were just to many missed opportunities on hand here that could have made the film really special. JOHN CARPENTER's direction was just as good as it's always been here, but I just felt let down by this movie. Maybe I was just expecting to much out of it, is why I wound up being let down, after hearing about the films hype for many years, I just anticipated a much better film than what I wound up with. In fact I've seen much better films made, that fans were split on. In the end, I'm in the minority of people left scratching my head & wondering what all the fuss was over. Maybe if I would have seen the film when I was younger I would have had different feelings over it, but as it is, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK just didn't do it for me. It's merely a film that is just hardly above mediocrity. Followed by ESCAPE FROM L.A.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Weak supporting characters and cheap production design drag this cult flick down a bit","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think I was expecting something a little more along the lines of the other Kurt Russell / John Carpenter film I've seen, Big Trouble in Little China. But Escape from New York isn't a wacky comic action movie, but rather a dark, somber thriller, somewhat closer to Carpenter's Escape from Precinct 13. The plot follows Snake Plissken (Russell) as he is sent into the prison colony of Manhattan Island to rescue the President (Donald Pleasance), whose plane was hijacked by terrorists and downed there. The film is fairly entertaining, but it could have used a shot of adrenaline. It moves along quite slowly for this genre. The setting is ripe for some fantastic production design, but I imagine Carpenter didn't have a lot of money to make the movie. I also wish the supporting characters were a little more vivid. You've got some great character actors here, including Harry Dean Stanton, Ernest Borgnine and Lee Van Cleef, but their characters are all rather bland. Adrienne Barbeau is an actress whose looks have aged quite badly &#150; yeah, she has large breasts, but she's quite ugly in the face. And Isaac Hayes makes for a dull villain. I did enjoy the movie, and it ends especially well. I was expecting more, though. "},{"Title":"snake from metal gear solid","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK let's look at this, the main character of the film... Snake Pliskin Now lets look at the main character of metal gear solid??? Snake Pliskin wait that's not right... there the same? as if, but surly that's just a coincidence Jake? Let's look closer? Hmmm, husky painful voice? Shared by both characters! Hmmm accurate stubble as well, that's awfully Queer! Wait they both have long black hair to! And the exact same Stance? These to men on missions' surly musk know there not alone? For Those of you movie peoples who don't play video games metal gear solid is the title of a series of stealth games based around nuclear war and saving people of authority... such as your president in the film I'm on About! I just feel so amazed that i haven't herd of this similarity before! The movie was made in the 80's long before the game was made. but if your a snake fan (talking of the game here you will notice snake doesn't have an eye-patch, no problem my friends, as in the 3rd game Pliskin gets shot in the eye right? I know its his other eye but how similar! All the snake from the film needs is a bandanna! both stealthy slithers are identical! The true twin snakes, even in the game snake says the classic call me snake in fact he always says it! i thought that if your a fan of the film then you might want to research how snake is doing fighting foes in his 3 games! I just watched the film with my girlfriend and we both almost exploded out of our seats exclaiming oh my god bit we just said it at normal register instead.just a very exited game fan, who cant spell, talking about similarities "},{"Title":"brilliant movie","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" this films is great , Kurt Russel is outstanding but the thing that really caught my eye was the story line, its completely original ,the presidents plane crashes in New York which is a massive jail and Kurt has to rescue him with in twenty four hours, how can you beat that and the music is brilliant as well through out the whole film and not one character is bad they all play there roles Greatly.i was sitting on the edge of my seat because it was so exciting and the ending is a classic in my eyes. its John Carpenter at his best and if you like The Thing and Prince Of Darkness and Big Trouble In little China i think you should give this a go 10/10 ***** "},{"Title":"Classic action film.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is John Carpenter's science fiction classic that stunned the world. By taking New York City and making it a maximum security prison in the year 1997, Carpenter became a legend in the eyes of action and sci-fi fans. Once you start watching this, prepare to be astonished.Kurt Russel, Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasance, Isaac Hayes, Season Hubley, Harry Dean Stanton, Adrienne Barbeau, Tom Atkins, and Charles Cyphers star in ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK, one of the greatest sci-fi movies of the 1980's. I thought the whole thing was ingenious, but the only problem was that Carpenter only made his story take place sixteen years into the future at the time the movie was made. Did he really expect things to be like that in '97? I bet he feels pretty stupid now. But, he didn't make the movie to make a prediction on the world in fifteen years, he made the movie for people to enjoy. And that's just what we're doing. If you are a fan of John Carpenter, then you have probably already seen this movie, but to fans of sci-fi and action movies, this film is for you! I am not an avid fan of science fiction, but this I really did enjoy. So, sit back and watch this classic action thriller and think to yourself Wow!ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Pacing ruins this movie","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was never going to be a brilliant movie it's pretty much a standard action-drama just with a futuristic (1997!) semi-post- apocalypse setting. However, it could have been good, and entertaining the whole way through, but for the pacing.John Carpenter takes pains to set up the movie the background to New York being as it is, the President being stuck in it and Snake Plissken going in to save him. You get to meet the bad guys and the side characters. Then, having taken time to develop the set of characters, the movie suddenly rushes to its conclusion. It's as if there is no Act 2, just Act 1 and Act 3 (and Act 3 is quite short).Action movies usually overstay their welcome, this one ended too quickly.Performances are so-so. Kurt Russell does his best to channel Clint Eastwood. His whole performance seemed so derivative. Lee Van Cleef is solid as Hauk. Ernest Borgnine does his usual semi-retarded-character shtick, Harry Dean Stanton is OK as Brain and Adrienne Barbeau provides the eye candy, and one of the best reasons to see the movie. "}{"Title":"Diverting futuristic actioner.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Carpenter's low budget cult film has a terrific premise and cast, but the narrative is a little too episodic for comfort. Carpenter's vision of the future is bleak to say the least &#150; society has become cold and cynical; the prison system has failed; even the supposed good guys have few redeeming qualities. For those of a pessimistic inclination there should be enough in this futuristic actioner to draw them in.In 1997, Manhattan has become a self-contained prison populated by the meanest life-term criminals. The city is surrounded by guarded walls; helicopters fly overhead monitoring the activities of the inmates on the ground; land mines make escape all-but impossible. Within this dangerous urban prison, things are run by The Duke Of New York (Isaac Hayes), a feared warlord of crime. A plane carrying the American president (Donald Pleasance) crash-lands in Manhattan where he is quickly taken hostage by the roaming gangs. Police Commissioner Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef) is faced with the impossible task of getting the president out alive. He enlists the aid of a recently captured criminal, Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell), offering him a pardon for his previous crimes if he will go into the urban hell-hole and rescue the president. Plissken agrees, but his mission is complicated further when an explosive on a 24-hour timer is injected into his neck to ensure that he doesn't use the whole affair as an opportunity to escape. As he makes his way through the debris-strewn streets, Plissken picks up various travelling companions &#150; among them Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), Brain (Harry Dean Stanton), and Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau) &#150; that aid and hinder him in his quest.It is rare for a Carpenter film to have such an A-list cast. Russell makes the most of his tough anti-hero role, memorable for his charismatic eye-patch and minimal (but cool) dialogue. Van Cleef also has a sizable role and delivers it well; but the likes of Borgnine, Pleasance, Hayes, Stanton and Barbeau aren't given enough to get their teeth into &#150; their characters simply follow Plissken around aimlessly, and have little bearing on the plot. Carpenter again provides his own music, a simple synthesised score that is quite effective if a little repetitive. The production design is pretty good within the budgetary limitations, with suitably crumbling sets that create the impression of a once-great neighbourhood in ruin. There are flashes of excitement along the way, including a fight-to-the-death with nail-embedded clubs and a tense nick-of-time climax. Indeed, the film could never be accused of being slow or boring, even if in parts it is somewhat repetitious. On the whole Escape From New York is an adequate, diverting action flick. A little over-rated by some reviewers, perhaps, but you could spend your time on a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Too serious, but I had fun!","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw a preview of this movie on I love the 80's 3-D and actually, it looked like fun and the commentaries were just so hilarious! Hal Sparks said that it would have been more fun with Escape from Idaho Potatoes, all these damned potatoes. LOL! But I recently rented some movies and came across this film and figured why not? I love Kurt Russell and John Carpenter.Escape From New York is a very exciting film taking place in the future, the world is a different place. New York has been taken over by the criminals and the president's plane crashes there, he is presumed dead, but the detectives send Snake Plaskin, an outlaw who is the only possible one to get the president out of there. There is a catch, Snake has 22 hours to get the president, or the drugs put in him will kill him in that 22 hours if he does not succeed.This is an on the edge of your seat thriller with cool effects, awesome actors, and terrific and catchy lines that you'll find yourself repeating after the movie is done. I'll never look at Kurt Russell the same again, but I find him to be just a little bit cooler after this film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi action from John Carpenter when he was still capable of making a good film!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" A female (producer Debra Hill) voice announces 1988 the crime rate in the United States rises four hundred percent. The once free city of New York becomes the one maximum security prison for the entire country. A fifty foot containment wall is erected along the New Jersey shoreline, across the Harlem river and along the Brooklyn shoreline. It completely surrounds Manhattan island, all bridges and waterways are mined. The United States police, like an army, is encamped around the island. There are no guards inside the prison, only prisoners and the world they have made. The rules are simple, once you go in you don't come out. 1997 now. The president (Donald Pleasence) of the United States is flying to a important meeting with China and the Soviet Union for talks that could possibly effect the existence of the human race. Unfortunately Air Force One is hijacked by anti US terrorists who crash it into a large New York skyscraper, but not before the president manages to bail out in a small emergency escape pod. On the Statue of Libertry island security control center police commander Bob Haulk (Lee Van Cleef) takes off for Manhattan by helicopter to see if the president has survived. Once there Haulk and his men are confronted by a freaky looking guy named Romero (Frank Doubleday) who hands Haulk a severed finger and warns him if he and his men aren't gone in thirty seconds the president dies, and not to come back either. Haulk and his men quickly take off back for the Statue of Liberty island security center to try and decide what to do. In twenty-four hours the all important meeting will be over and the president will effectively be useless, so Haulk decides to enlist the help of convicted bank robber Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) to go into New York on his own, locate the president and bring him back to safety. After learning they have implanted electrical charges in his body which will explode and kill him in twenty-four hours unless neutralised, Snake obviously feels he has no choice but to go along with Haulk's plan. Armed with a gun and various other supplies like a tracker to find the president, a locater so Haulk can locate him & the president and a walkie-talkie Snake takes off in a small glider which he successfully manages to land on top of the world trade center, the search begins. Once there Snake quickly realises that finding the president isn't going to be as easy as everyone had initially thought. Snake befriends Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine) who drives a cab and comes across an old friend named Harold 'Brain' Helman (Harry Dean Stanton) & his girlfriend Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau) who agree to help Snake find the president in exchange for their freedom. Snake has to deal with vicious gangs, rough terrain and the 'Duke' (Isaac Hayes) of New York who has plans for the president himself. Can Snake find and rescue the president in time? Watch it and find out. Co-written and directed by John Carpenter this is a cracking piece of Sci-Fi entertainment. The script by Carpenter and Nick Castle moves along at a great pace and is never boring, the dialogue is good and as a whole the somewhat silly premise works very well. The special effects are also quite good and they certainly hold up pretty well even today. The cast is great, I really like Russell in this and he looks more or less perfect for the role of Snake Plissken with his long hair, thick stubble and eye-patch! Experienced actors Cleef, Borgnine, Stanton, Hayes and Barbeau also all turn in fun performances. The appropriately cool sounding music by Carpenter and Alan Howarth reminds me of the score for Carpenter's Halloween (1978) a bit but that's no bad thing. It's generally well made overall and the widescreen cinematography by Dean Cundey and Jim Lucas does the job perfectly well. On the negative side it lacks any really big-budget action scenes, we get a few speeding cars and a few fights but nothing that's going to amaze anyone these days. It is also painfully obvious that a lot of this wasn't shot in New York itself. I wasn't sure about the ending either, it felt a little rushed and I didn't quite get what Carpenter was trying to say. But as it stands these are minor quibbles as this is great entertainment all the way! Definitely worth watching, so if you haven't already what are you waiting for? "},{"Title":"Yet Another Pointless John Carpenter Klunker","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah-Yeah. I know it's just-a-movie, but, all the same, what a dumb idea having the US government turn the 22-square-mile island of Manhattan into an ultimate maximum security prison. ( Such a big space, yet, all I saw, at the most, was maybe 200 prisoners, in all) Like, isn't NYC America's most beloved, most historically important, most architecturally diverse city in their entire nation!? Isn't it!!??And, yet, here in Escape From New York, this city-of-all-cities is given completely over to the absolute scum of the earth to do with it whatever they please. And, of course, they trash it.Now, that's what I call a really-Really-REALLY (!!) dumb idea for a movie's setting.And, it really figures that this utter stupidity for this film's setting came out of the head of that nit-wit director John Carpenter, who clearly has no knack for building or sustaining drama, terror, or suspense, whatsoever.I think that Carpenter is nothing but a self-deluded amateur who just happened to hit it lucky with 1978's Halloween. And, from that point onwards, he has continued to ride on its success throughout the entire duration of his career as a director of one dud after another.I also thought that wimp-actor, Kurt Russell, as Snake Plissken (the sneering, one-eyed, bad-boy, master-criminal), really sucked. Russell is totally pathetic in tough-guy roles. He's all puppy-dog bark and no pit-bull bite.It really killed me that even though this film's story covered a 24-hour period, only once (at about the half-way point) did the sun actually shine. Otherwise the action was all shot in the darkness of night. This, I'm sure, was probably a directorial ploy of Carpenter's which allowed him an easy way to hide all of this film's many glaring visual flaws.Oh, yeah - And after all is said and done - It's at the finale when Snake finally gets to say his piece to the US president. And it's here that we all find out that this particular world-leader is nothing but a callous, small-minded bastard, who's no better than the incarcerated lowlifes. "},{"Title":"Entertainment made in Carpenter","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carpenter turns the isle of Manhattan into a huge prison-city for the America's most dangerous criminals. 1997 is a futuristic movie with an 80's look and with Kurt Russell playing the same old tough guy.OK, the movie didn't change the history of cinema but it's so entertaining, as most of Carpenter's works. He may not be a genius, he is not neither Hitchcock nor Kurosaawa, but he's always known what the audience wants, and that's not as easy as it seems.*My rate 6/10--------. ------- -------- -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- "},{"Title":"A classic. Own it before they alter it.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An amazing classic of its time, the psuedo-low-tech vision of a dystopian New York.What happened in reality in New York, on September 11th 2001, was awful and did bear similarities to elements of the movie.But if we are to believe that 'life goes on', then the alteration of movies depicting events that have since transpired in reality is almost as obscene. Films are art, and as such they should be preserved.Please buy this film before the so called special edition completely alters it, deleting any imagery or reference to the World Trade Centre (which is a key location within the plot).Incidentally, this isn't the worst example of post-September 11th restructuring. The movie 'E.T' will have the word terrorist removed from its dialogue. Isn't it time we realised that this course that Hollywood is taking is absolutely absurd?Should we have banned 'The China Syndrome' following the Chernobyl disaster? Of course not.But getting back to the film itself, it is a superb dark vision of a future that has, ironically, already passed bearing little similarity to Carpenter's eerie vision. Both Russell and Van Cleef are excellent and Donald Pleasance is perfect as the President.Avoid its sequel Escape from L.A. - it is not in the same league! "},{"Title":"A better kind of trash","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a cult classic, this film is actually one of the better trash B-movies out there. It's raw, stupid and quite a bit pretentious - but it's very entertaining and intelligent enough for a lazy evening. This movie also bears the distinction of boasting the worst character name in all of movie history Snake Plissken. That's priceless. "},{"Title":"This film could've been so much better","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film starts out great but then loses its appeal.  I like the fact that in the film, Manhattan is supposed to be a prison, enclosed by a 50-foot containment wall.  But Manhattan actually appears as if it is only one big ghetto being run by somewhat of a mob boss.  I think they should've made the film longer than its 90 minutes and included more notorious inmate characters, rather than just having the Duke of New York and some of his hoods running around.  This film could have certainly used some more moments of suspense.  The search for the President should've been more of a challenge.  There should've been more inmates competing with each other to have the President under their control.  There should've been more scenes with the crazies, demonstrating more of their destructive qualities; after all, they were supposed to be night raiders.  There should've also been some scenes of Manhattan's underground--for example, there could've been a scene where Snake enters into the old subway tunnels in his search for the President, and instead he ventures into the unknown.  What was the point of having the Harry Dean Stanton and Adrienne Barbeau characters in this movie? Talk about corny!  The fight/wrestling scene between Snake and some thug was a total joke!  So pointless!  Also, daylight should not have arrived so quickly.  The whole suspenseful atmosphere of the film gets ruined once the nighttime is gone. Kurt Russell is great as Snake Plissken.  I also like Ernest Borgnine as Cabbie.  Yet, by the time that Snake gets caught by the Duke of New York, the film gets dull and boring.  This could've been a really innovative and striking film.  Instead, it's merely a below-average movie. "},{"Title":"Seeing Manhattan before it was Eisnerised in the 80s was refreshing.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once I saw that wall go around Manhattan, I knew I was in for a stinker! OK, so I swallowed that and hoped that the story kept me interested. Seeing Manhattan before it was Eisnerised in the 80s was refreshing.  Kurt Russell did a terrific snarl for the entire movie.  (Who'd have known he had that snake tattoo during the shooting of the Computer Wore Tennis Shoes?)  John Carpenter's shooting of Adrienne's cleavage (just like in The Fog and Swamp Thing) was amazing  There was even a moment when I thought pan down and the camera followed my direction!! I could dig Isaac Hayes more if he had helped on the soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"Worst Piece of CRAP I've seen in years","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Really? A wall around Manhattan island? No police force and no fire department yet the place hasn't burned down? The whole premise is just plain STUPID. They land a glider on the roof of one of the World Trade Center towers. I worked in the WTC. What happened to the observation deck on top? Hmmmm? Compared to the absolutely moronic plot, though, the WTC flaws are forgivable. Notice that the female leads all have spotless, perfectly made-up faces and hair. Spoiler... sorta'... if you're waiting for Adrienne Barbeau's boobs to escape, don't hold your breath they don't. This is a ONE star movie, folks. It belongs in the hall of fame of worst movies ever made, just a shade above Ed Wood's D-Grade movies, but not nearly as unintentionally funny. "}{"Title":"Who's The Duke Now?","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kurt Russell grunts his way into uber-Clint territory after having abomb implanted in his neck and being forced onto a plane that'sdestined to crash land into the Twin Towers. Hey, it is the future! Well, actually, it's the past, but, that's another film. Russell and his permanent migraine squint have just twelve hoursto rescue Donald Pleasance's stranded Pres from the clutches ofIsaac Hayes' 'Duke', overlord of the lawless wasteland whichManhattan has become. Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Harry Dean Stanton and geniusdirector John Carpenter's missus, Adrienne Barbeau, also say 'Hi',while the action is played out to yet another of the auteur's ownminimalist synth soundtracks. "},{"Title":"Stupid but my kind of stupid","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I hated this film the first time I saw it, but the more times I watch this film the more it grows on you.  Kurt Russel plays a great action hero. With lines like I thought you where dead, I'm tired maybe I will kill you later are great.  It is stupid in spots, and yes very cartoonish like Rambo, but the fast pace, humor, and, mean attitude makes up for the films faults. It's a great film for the guys to watch on a Saturday night. "},{"Title":"I first saw the excellent sequel to this film and to my dismay, the original.","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Come on, Carpenter has directed better films namely Prince Of Darkness, The Thing, In The Mouth Of Madness.I found this film devoid of any intensity compared with films like Rambo Trilogy, Die-hard, Predator, Commando, Delta Force etc. etc.So in the action department, this film is lacking. Also actors like Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasance, Lee Von Cleef have bit roles in the films. Any of course what acting talent does H. Dean Stanton have? Answer Zilch. How in God's name you can call this guy an actor? Having seen the sequel to this film, I would say the sequel is a billion times better. Also I'm not a big Kurt Russel fan and I can say with honesty that any other actor could have played his part, namely Stallone, Schwarzenegger, Bruce Willis, Chuck Norris etc. etc. Russel's acting talent is doubt-able.The plot of the film is exciting enough but Carpenter does a bad job of directing. J. Mctiernan, Michael Mann, Ridley Scott, R. Zemeckis would have been better 1st choice directors for this film.AVOID BUYING THIS FILM. JUST RENT OR WATCH IT ONLINE. "},{"Title":"Escape from New York","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recognised the title and knew the leading star, and when I confirmed it was John Carpenter (Halloween, The Thing) directing (and making the music), there was no way I would miss it. Set in the future, 1997, New York City was turned into a maximum security prison for criminals to be for life, and any way or out of the city is mined and walled. On his way to a conference, the President (Donald Pleasence) has Air Force One crash, forcing him to eject, landing in a New York building. Police Force Commissioner Bob Hauk (For a Few Dollars More's Lee Van Cleef) knows that one-eyed prisoner Snake Plissken (Kurt Russell) is the only man capable of bringing the President out alive. To make sure he does actually do the job, Plissken has explosive devices put into him that will detonate in 24 hours, and obviously when the job is done he will be saved and get freedom. So begins a search for the President, with the help of characters like Cabbie (Ernest Borgnine), Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau), and eventually Brain (Harry Dean Stanton). They do eventually find the President, being held hostage by ruthless warlord The Duke (Isaac Hayes), it is just a question of will Plissken either get the President out before his time is up, or will he try to escape from New York. It may not be a fast moving story, but it does have some eye-catching stuff, like the special effects and its slick dark tone, it is an action thriller to be liked. Good! "},{"Title":"So Bad You Wished There Was a Remake","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off for a sci-fi, post-apocalyptic movie based on Manhattan, whoever thought of the idea that buildings don't change over the years, from being downgraded or upgraded should clearly stay away from making films. The biggest plot device The World Trade Centers is proof of that. Even for the 80's similar movies e.g. blade runner, running man, total recall or mad max 2 didn't think that everything would remain the same.Throughout this whole movie all the actors were so terrible at acting it was like they weren't even trying. Even Kurt Russel, only had a few words to say and he only murmured. They make no attempt to make the clothes, uniforms, technology and vehicles at least retro or revolutionary for the genre, there the same 80's style.The music is so annoying its like listening to a worse version of techno and its happening throughout the whole movie. The pacing of the movie is all over the place, its skipping scenes as if its running out of film. The movie is not fleshing out the characters, story or details its being rushed. There is barely any story, action and dialogue.The reason why people like this movie is because of the concept and the iconic eyepatch on kurt russell, but doesn't change that it was not up to standards for making a movie. The remake couldn't possibly get any worse than this that's how bad this movie is. "},{"Title":"Wasn't exactly lovin it.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" My review will be short and sweet. I saw this awhile ago so I can't really go into specifics as I don't remember a lot but I do remember SOME of it and I just didn't see the appeal.I'm not a major fan of action flicks so maybe that's why but I have enjoyed SOME action movies and was determined to give this a try(the video was actually a birthday gift-long story). Anyway-I was reading some IMDb reviews of this and there was an imdbuser who said this didn't seem like an action flick, it was boring. I agree. I can't remember it scene by scene but I can remember being bored out of my skull. I remember thinking thhere wasn't any warmth to the picture which would be fine if there was something I could get into but there wasn't. The film did seem dated, even when I saw it, and I was pretty detached from the pic after a very short time.That's it, can't say more because I don't remember more frankly, people I've asked have said they like it because it's an incredible action picture so maybe it's just my personal tastes but I was not engaged by this flick at all. "},{"Title":"arf..arf..what a dog","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It would be physically impossible for Kurt Russell to have overacted his part any more than he did. He came up with every form of facial distortion possible for a human to make. He was just too bad and sometimes bad is bad. In fact everybody in this 'thriller' was too bad. I was overwhelmed with BAD! It is too bad that I bothered to sit all the way through this bad production. Stay away.  "},{"Title":"Dark futuristic comic book slant on a bleaker than bleak New York...","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" Far from being a cult masterpiece, as some of these enthusiastic comments would suggest, ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK is no more than a bleak escapade from John Carpenter envisioning a New York City that has become a maximum security prison--and full of the most unlikeable, sleaziest, grungiest characters you're ever likely to see paraded across the screen.This is one of those rare films that I walked out on when I saw it at my local theater on the big screen. I was disgusted by the overall plot, the characters (Snake Plissken is played with overacted zeal by KURT RUSSELL), the dungeon-like settings and the inept dialog.It was discouraging to see reputable actors like DONALD PLEASENCE, LEE VAN CLEEF and ERNEST BORGNINE wallowing in this messy bit of futuristic junk. And it's even more discouraging to read some of these comments which seem to have no perspective at all in passing judgment on what Carpenter has done here. He obviously wanted audiences to respond to his warped vision of urban blight, but for me it was too tiresomely unreal and outrageously overacted by just about everyone in the cast. "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't see how anyone can like this movie. i know it was made 24 years ago but the special effects, well they aren't special at all. The plot is that New York has become a huge prison because of soaring crime rates, where all the really really nasty guys are put. The presidents plane crashes right into the heart of this massive jail. Snake Plissken (possibly the worst movie name ever) a former war hero turned criminal is sent into to retrieve the president and an important video tape. By the way if he doesn't co-operate he'll be blown up. I won't give anything away, mainly because there isn't anything to give away but i don't want to spoil your enjoyment if you ever do watch it. Please Don't2/10 "}]