[{"Title":"There's Much More Going One Here Than You Think","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"121 out of 155 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Yeah, Possession. The First time I saw this film I was catatonic by the end. My 3 friends and I talked about it so much we got 4 new friends to watch it with us again. We continued discussing & marveling over it and watched it yet again on the third night (ten people this time). Why? Because this isn't really a horror film. Yeah, there's a monster, but only in America would this get relegated to the Horror genre. Because here, we usually make films to fit in a box, follow a formula or entertain, not as a catharsis for the director. Wake up my friends; not everything in life fits in tidy packages or makes rational sense. Several years ago there was an amazing fan site to this man's work (which doesn't seem to exist anymore) that went into infinite detail about his films and personal life. Suffice to say, there's much more going on here than you think.During 1970's and 80's Poland, all films were approved by the Polish film commission and Zulawski's second film Diabel (1975) was banned. Made in Polish, Diabel was essentially cut off from it's only possible audience. He took a trip to France, ended up making a film and then returned to his homeland. He worked on yet another film for two years which the authorities did not allow him to finish. Since then he has basically lived and worked successfully in France.Possession is the first film he made immediately following the 2nd incident in Poland. I read an interview where he talked about how his personal identity was in crisis at the time due to his divorce and being (for all intents and purposes) exiled from his homeland. Possession is better described as 3 films in 1. The first part is indeed a drama centering around a couple who's marriage is falling apart. As their discord escalates, it becomes a horror film with some scenes taking place only in the psyche of the wife. The last part is an action film, driving the frenzied pace even higher through chase sequences.There are many lines of dialog (especially in exchanges between Heinz and Sam Neill) that were written as critique of his treatment by the government of Poland. In many ways this film is an examination of the internal landscape of Zulawski at that moment; divorced from his wife and exiled by his beloved homeland. It's astoundingly dramatized because he was probably on the verge of a nervous breakdown, and these characters/actors are screamingly portraying every pent-up emotion he wasn't allowed to say about Poland to his fellow countrymen. I love this film. I love every gut wrenching, hysterical, chaotic minute of it. Long live Zulawski. "},{"Title":"What an experience!!!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"82 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Acting, colour, camera movement and story thrown into hyperactivity&#133;What do you get? Well, the headache inducing, enthralling Possession. Beautiful, erotic and extremely disturbing, Andrjez Zulawski's film (admired by the Italian Master of the Macabre himself, Dario Argento) is an extreme assault upon the senses.Mark (played excellently and deliberately over-the-top by Sam Neil) returns home from secret government work to his wife in Berlin, cue many shots of the Berlin wall representing the couple's marital breakdown. However, Mark's wife, Anna (a truly unforgettable, no holds barred and hypnotic performance from the lovely Isabelle Adjani) is behaving inexcusably strangely. Mark finds out that she is having an affair with Heinrick (another crazy performance from Heinz Bennet)  and confronts him only to find that the lover has not seen Anna for some time. This is the part of the rollercoaster ride before your cartplummets into some real thought-provoking, unsettling and scary surrealism.Possession is definitely the film that requires many subsequent viewings. Excellent performances that frequently go way OTT, dreamily fluid camerawork and migraine inducing metaphorical horror, this is a true beast of the imagination. Love it or hate it, it is a true original masterpiece that is definitely not for all tastes. If films were placed in boxes and divided by flavours, like crisps, POSSESSION would sit in a box entirely by its self, awaiting only those who can take it. Go into it with an open mind like you've never gone into a film with one before. It can seriously mentally damage you if you try and figure it all out on that initial viewing, so beware; if there is truly anything to work out. The now infamous miscarriage in the subway scene is confusing, painful and sickening to watch and nothing like it can be found elsewhere. This is a hell of a film, if you're prepared for it!`This for me exceeds anything thrown up by The Exorcist for sheer impact on the nervous system.' David Thompson - Sight and Sound "},{"Title":"Harrowing portrait of a disintegrating marriage.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"65 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Imagine Bergman's 'Scenes From a Marriage' filmed by Dario Argento using Kubrick's 'Shining' steadicam.  I can't pretend to have actually UNDERSTOOD this intellectually rigorous horror film, but I do know that it is arguably the most beautiful film of the 1980s, that ugliest of cinematic decades. The chief source of this beauty is Zulawski's camerawork, unsettling, spacious, constantly mobile, it achieves the kind of elaborate shots you normally expect with cumbersome, expensive equipment with the nimbleness of a handheld camera.  Static scenes in repetitive milieux are subjected to awesomely complex movements, as the camera encircles, tracks, reveals, blocks, opens up space, creating a narrative that never stands still, offering us different, usually startling viewpoints within the one scene. What is most remarkable is its transformation of scale - the film is set in Cold-War Berlin, a famously constricted city; the plot takes place mostly in inhumanly modern apartments or on streets, and yet the sense of size, scale, space is as monumental as a Fordian Western.  This is apt for characters who are simultaneously confined and alienated by their environment.  Even scenes of flamboyant repulsiveness, the puling monster mounting Isabella Adjani,  Mark's lavatorial dispatch of Heinrich, have a clarity of composition that is simply breathtaking.Unlike most horror films, which open with images of normality against which to measure the transgression of terror, 'Possession' hurls us into its relentless unpleasantness in medias res.  Zulawski opens at full speed and never lets up.  Mark in his car looks out at a city he hasn't seen for some time as if it is an alien land, full of troubling images, including an iron cross.  Anna rushes to meet him.  We assume they are husband and wife, reuniting, but their talk if full of exasperated dislocation.  Mark has apparently come home too early.  They have a son; after making love, their post-coital talk is full of Antonionian misunderstanding, uncertainty, alienation, cruelty.These scenes create the mood of the whole film.  'Possession' is shot in English with a French lead by a Polish director.  The dialogue has a stilted quality, like a translation from some lost original; this sense of not-quite-rightness extends to the acting, and the scenes themselves, which seem too mannered, too abrupt, too stylised to seem natural.  This sense of the drama being at one remove from some original 'reality' is perfect for a film about alienation - people alienated from themselves, each other, their marriage, their home, even their identity.  The horror that constitutes the film obviously has its roots in the female hysteria (one scene in a subway, remembered by Anna, has her miscarry, as she pours out blood and milk, the essence of her femaleness spilling from her; the toilet scene between Heinrich and Mark has a gynaecological terror similar to Argento's 'Suspiria') and male bestiality that cannot be hidden by affluent modernity, but this, on its most basic level, is a harrowing portrait of a failed marriage, horribly truthful to anyone who has even rejoiced in that institution.  All the while we are constantly reminded of the contemporary political reality - Mark's espionage (or is he an assassin?) activities; the wired Berlin wall with its faceless surveillance guards (a divided city, a divided marriage, literally divided people, the whore and the madonna).  The film has a lot of talk about faith, chance, God, good and evil, but its true power is recognisably more mundane, yet more unaccountably wrenching than that.  One should not overlook the comic sense that flickers through the film, the exaggeration of scenes by prolonging them (the restaurant scene), and the Franju-like waltz-of-death music. "},{"Title":"The only thing to fear is God","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"53 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This film doesn't do anything in halves, it doesn't abide by the mock humility of an understated/minimalist film that says I am important but I'm not gonna show it to you. I generally love overstated/baroque movies as much as I like overactors (Kinski, Bette Davies, Nic Cage) but Possession goes beyond Gothic, it flaunts itself in violent anarchy even when it knows it's not being important. It's a movie in a constant state of violent flux, a chaotic maelstrom of emotion threatening to rip apart at the seams by force of its own negativity, an excess of emotion and abundance of expression. I don't know what Zulawski is trying to say through the film about his own divorce from wife and country and political system, like Eraserhead it's something so personal that it pierces through bottoms of the soul to come out at the other end and speak for things that touch all of us.Sam Neill and Isabelle Adjani see their marriage come crashing down and the film is not merely the death and burial but the wake before and the mourning after. I don't like how Zulawski uses Isabelle Adjani to play different characters very calculated to be different sides of the same person, but then again I don't like movies that do that, it's like a very easy way to a quick symbolism (Ashes of Time, another film I saw recently, does that too). And I don't like who the monster turns out to be, for the same reason, and also because the monster, bloody and deformed, is a better parable of all the bile and hatred and oppressed furious anger felt the character who nurses it to life. The symbolism is too clear almost.But the rest of the film you watch in stupefied silence. Possession is like a woman in the grip of hysterics running around an apartment tossing and breaking things and cutting herself up with a meat knife, arms flailing like an armature of a tentacled beast ready to tear itself out from a human body.What Zulawski does here is perfectly illustrated in one scene the couple have one of their terrible rows in the apartment, the woman storms out, music cue plays then stops, and we get the impression the scene has played out, we expect the cut. But then Zulawski has the camera track behind the man as he chases the woman down the stairs of their apartment and out in the street, pulling at each other and yelling in the middle of an empty intersection, then a truck carrying beatup cars comes rolling by, cars falling crashing down from it. Like the wail of a banshee, Possession is demented and frightful.It's a movie that doesn't happen in the same place as other movies. Sometimes it gets hard for me for example to differentiate the look and feel of one noir from the other, one NYC crime flick from the other. Like Don't Look Now with its Venetian labyrinths, this has a sense of place and a malevolent presence in that place. It happens in that part of the city where other movies don't know how to go, the streets are different, the buildings and apartments look curiously different, and when an apartment catches on fire, there's a strange old woman down in the street corner yelling things about God (giving the light clear, getting it back dirty) and cackling maniacally as though an end to the world is very close at hand.Both Sam Neil and Isabelle Adjani give performances of a lifetime. Neil is going through the motions though, except for his 'going mad in a hotel room' scene in the beginning, his madness is external, pantomimed. Isabelle Adjani lives it though, feels and breathes it. She gives perhaps the most outstanding female performance I have ever seen. Her scene in the subway station, all spasmodic intensity and wordless cries, affected me physically like no other, at once monstrous and immensely sad.This movie is a nervous breakdown and an agnostic lament against an absent indifferent God captured on celluloid. The tagline for the American release reads She made a monster her secret lover, but this is not that type of film. This is like few films ever made, before or after, and is done with the ferocity of someone going mad in four walls, now perhaps clawing at the walls with blood and bile and staring at his designs as though there might be pattern and order there. "},{"Title":"Like nothing you have EVER seen before","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm not very good at plot synopsis, and I very rarely write reviews, but this film could quite possibly be a distant cousin to David Lynchs 'Eraserhead', in that it involves a marriage gone wrong, a (perhaps) mutant baby, infidelity, and so much more that is felt emotionally rather than explained and read into.It contains the most OTT, eccentric, and brilliant performances I've ever seen, and you can't say that about many films, where the performances are unique and different. There's serious acting, hammy acting, B movie acting, serious/Oscar winning acting, comical acting, silent film acting, but never any acting like you have seen in this film. And I guess you could include David Lynch acting, as thats pretty unique too. And of course method acting.Its like watching a theatrical play in cinematic form on acid. A lot of acid.I showed this to my friend who has the darkest possible taste in films I've ever known, owns over a thousand dvds, and even he was blown away by the sheer chaos, resonant imagery, beautifully swift camera work and photography, and of course, the performances. Most notably Isabella Adjani who manages to be sexy and scary as hell at the same time. Her performance in this is monumental, especially the often noted 'underground menstruation' scene which could induce some viewers to a panic attack. I certainly nearly had one when I watched the film for the first time.When a character has a breakdown in this film (both of the leads) its a REAL breakdown. And boy, do you ever feel it. Its realistic yet surreal. God knows how the director managed to coax these types of performances out of his actors. He must of drugged them or hypnotized them or something. He certainly didn't just yell 'action'.The way the scenes are cut together is highly unusual and unconventional but it makes absolute perfect sense. I don't know how, it just does. I'm unfamiliar with the directors other work but if its even half as good as this I'll order everything I can get of his.Recommended to any open minded individual who likes films that draw attention to themselves with an utter sense of uniqueness. "},{"Title":"Compelling and Complex","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Possession(1981) shows the viewer a relationship deep in dementia and repressed emotions.  Mark and Anna stay together until the Death do us part moment.  The family of Anna and Mark is probably the most disfunctional family ever portrayed on scree.  The marriage of Anna and Mark is unstable to the point of total meltdown.  The marriage is driven by harsh love, secretcy, and oppressed feelings of desire.Isabelle Adjani gives a fantastic performance in the duel role of Anna and Helen.  Anna and Helen are the polar opposites in their manners and personalities.  One thing they have in common is their current life is shrouded in mystery.  Helen in my opinion is Mark's fantasy of Anna as someone who is normal and stable.  I find it interesting that Anna & Helen never meet or are seen together during the entire length of Possession(1981).The East Germany locations are part of what makes Possession(1981) a special piece of film.  The marriage of Anna and Mark is symbolic of the wall that divided Germany for many years.  In Possession(1981), East Germany is a Kafkaesque place of fear, oppression, paranoia, and repression.  With the bright lit lighting and colors East Germany gains the appearence of something futuristic.  Gives East Germany a cold and indifferent feeling that inhibits every resident.1981 was a year which gave us two extrodanory performances from actresses Isabelle Adjani and Zoe Tamerlis.  Both put forth an emotional complex and disturbing performance in Possession(1981) and Ms. 45(1981). These two features show women with seas of emotions trapped within them until their frightening descent into madness.  Both films seem to have been influenced by Repulsion(1964).  Ms. 45 and Possession were two of the most underrated films of 1981.Possession(1981) is steeped in complex and confound religious symbolics. The landscape of the motion picture is a place that has lost touch with its own spiritualty.  The film needs to be watched more than three times in order to get a close clear understanding of the symbolic meanings.  The main characters in the film(except Heinrich) no longer have any faith in religion.  The final scene seems to symbolize the apocalyptic end of the world that is an element of Christianity.The best way to see or try to understand Possession(1981) is in its full 127 minute version.  The 81 minute version is one of the worst editing jobs ever done to an import film for American release.  For example the opening and closing scenes were totally botched in the film's  American release in 1981.  Thus the movie was misintrpeted by many film goers and critics.  Thankfully, Possession has been restored on Video in its uncut form.The cinematography is one of the key aspects in Possession(1981).  It moves among the characters of the film with sinister steps.  Bruno Nuytten uses some excellent techniques to describe to events of the film.  The DP and Director work together to create an intense and terrific type of genre film making.  The role of DP was Bruno Nuytten's early step towards becoming a film director.Possession(1981) is a mixture of a few different genres in cinema.  The genre that the film belongs to in large parts is the horror genre.  Inspired story by both director, Andrzej Zulawski and writer, Frederic Tuten.  There is a wonderful plot twist near the end that is one of Possession's best moments.  Its the kind of film I would expect from someone like David Cronenberg.For her brave and courageous performance in Possession(1981), Isabelle Adjani won a Best Actress award at Cannes.  She has been playing brave and difficult roles since The Story of Adele H(1975).  She would play a similar character like this in One Deadly Summer(1986).  Possession(1981) is a personal favorite of Dario Argento.  Done by Andrzej Zulawski because of his frustrations to see an earlier film in Poland by him censored by that country's government.An early film appearence by Sam Neil that may just be his top performance as an actor.  The creature is a top of the line creation by Special Effects artist, Carlo Rambaldi.  Shares some similarities with David Cronenberg's The Brood(1979), and Mario Bava's Shock(1977).  A daring motion picture that should be watched by mature and open minded people.  Possession(1981) blew my emotions away with its tense opening scene to its spine tingling and chaotic final moment.  "},{"Title":"Pure cinema","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"68 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  The very reason why this film was lambasted by so many people is because it requires the full use of imagination on the part of the viewer. Those who like films to be linear or over-explained (almost 90% of all films and almost 100% of all Hollywood films) will call this film confusing, baffling, hysterical, etc. However, very few directors are able to use cinematic space as Zulawski does in this film. This doesn't appeal to your rational part, it's supposed to connect with you on spiritual or deeply emotional level, it's supposed to appeal to something in you that can't be rationalized or explained verbally. Possession is a piece of pure cinema, no less.  "},{"Title":"She's the maker of her own evil","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Surely other Zulawski movies like La femme publique and L'important c'est d'aimer have dark, disturbing moments, too, but Possession must be the most terrifying of them all. It all begins perfectly normal, like something that could happen every day, anywhere in your neighborhood Anna (Adjani) leaves Mark (Sam Neill), she confesses she found a new lover already a year ago, and then the breaking up of their marriage naturally affects their little son, too. I'm the maker of my own evil, Anna says once, and the evil she creates is visualized literally as a slimy demon, whereas Mark creates a school teacher looking exactly like Anna (and also played by Adjani), a woman so pure and innocent they go to bed together without having sex, and of course the idealized woman immediately takes care of his son ... and the dish washing ;-). The torment and hysteria of destroyed love is perfectly set in a Berlin before reunification, with the wall appearing countless times in the frame an obvious symbol that divides what used to belong together, just like the characters in the movie. The possessed Adjani delivers an unforgettable performance, but if you are going to watch this, be prepared for more blood and guts than in The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"34 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Possession is a weird horror film by Polish art house director Andrzej Zulawski.Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill(Event Horizon,Omen 3)star as a couple who's marriage is on the rocks.Adjani claims to have a lover-she has a surreal affair with an octopus creature.First of all this movie is great,so every horror fan should check it out.Obviously some people don't get it-maybe they were expecting some cheesy horror bloodbath,who knows?Of course there's some exceptional gore including where Adjani slices into her own neck with an electric carving knife and a scene where she has a miscarriage on the metro which is quite disgusting(and possibly due to this scene the film was classified as a video nasty),but the atmosphere is really creepy and weird.The acting is awesome-especially an incredible performance by Isabelle Adjani.Watch this film with an open mind and an open heart,and I guarantee you will love Possession.   "},{"Title":"I Loved It","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"38 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I think that Possession is one of the most effective horror films ever made.I've read mixed reactions to Possession. I think that this is because the writer/director intentionally introduces dozens of narrative ambiguities. There are many unanswered questions, and the viewer is placed in a position where she/he must become a creative participant by answering these questions for themselves. Audiences are by and large uncomfortable with this type of thing, but luckily I've seen a lot of experimental/unusual cinema, so I'm acclimated to it.Isabelle Adjani is glorious in a dual role (which is a reversal of the Bunuel mindgame from 'That Obscure Object of Desire'--Instead of two actresses playing a single character, there is a single actress playing two characters.)Adjani and Sam Neill's enacting of a horribly troubled marriage is spectacular. Heinz Bennet's distasteful character would give anyone the creeps. When Adjani is seen in the company of a terrible Lovecraftian monster, it's almost a relief after the awful domestic situations depicted earlier in the film. (I also appreciate how the monster is very tastefully seen only in fleeting segments.)Everyone is right--Find the Japanese cut of this film. It has Japanese subtitles, but it is much more comprehensible with 40 more minutes of footage.  "}{"Title":"Intelligent, Emotional, Grotesque, Horror","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This was my first experience with Zulawski (and thank god because the next film I saw by him is the even more difficult, even more bizarre On The Silver Globe and Diabel). This film however floored me instantly. People can and will mention the in...(read more)tensity of all the performances, the swirling cinematography which moves constantly even as the characters remain static, and the bizarre ridiculousness of the situations these characters find themselves in. Anyone watching this movie would be hard pressed not to laugh at quite a few scenes, some of which are intentionally funny, others merge grotesquery, absurdity, and intensity to such a degree that it's impossible not to laugh out of discomfort.The story also is not a kitchen sink affair, but a surreal examination of division and breakdown. The setting is west Berlin, a divided city, and we are introduced to our characters a divided couple whose marriage is in smolders, Sam Niels character has some shadowy job with the government and he's been away at the war, while his wife has seemingly lost all control over her life due to an obsessive affair with...(SPOILERALERT) ...a slimy tentacled creator which resembles an scaly abortion with the head of a carrot, like the baby from Eraserhead had they let it grow up and reproduce with the sentient pile of zombie intestines from Dead Alive. Meanwhile, Sam Niels character grows more and more suspicious and begins an affair with his sons school teacher who is also played by Issabell Adanji, and is essentially the opposite(or other) of Sam Niels wife's character, calm, sweet, dependable and loving, to manic, maddening, unstable and lustful. To prevent her other lovers, policemen, and curious parties from finding out about her relationship which she describes as beautiful for its otherness, Adjani(as Niels wife) kills several people leaving their corpses spread about her flat. Sam Niel, after one knock-out emotional performance after another, discovers the horrible truth. His wife was pregnant and miscarried(in a disturbingly powerful scene where she menstruates milk in a dimly lit subway), and gave birth to a thing, which she took back to an apartment and fed until it became the tentacle creature, who she then took up as her lover(shown in another disturbing erotic scene). Sam Niel's character is horrified, and flees, until the two catch up with him them and the creature is revealed in his fully grown form (which is played by Sam Niel, just as Adjani had dual roles), the creature smiles, and appears to be invulnerable as a hail of police bullets cut down Niel(human) and his wife, but don't seem to affect the creature. The creature then returns to the couples home, where their other young son repeats dont open the door and hides under his bed, as his teacher(also Adjani) screams in terror as the creature stands outside the door screaming and causing the house to shake and bright lights to appear which eventually overwhelm the camera and we have the end.So yeah, there's some intense performances, monster sex, and a story that feels more like Franz Kafka, bare desperate human emotions displayed through inhuman events and surreal happenings, more than Clive Barker(who was very influenced by this film). It's difficult to nail down precise meanings, and there are no polemical points or tragic flaws, it seems as if both characters have their angels and demons, and all that is assured in the end is destruction.Possession The Night The Screaming Stopped is a one of a kind horror film full of psychological bends and monstrous gore, it's a story of a relationship divided, a nation divided, and an eternal divide between the self and the other, that gives us our God's and monsters, as well as our repulsions and attractions. It is absolutely not a demonetization of woman as destroyer, as the dual roles suggest that no one is A. whole in any sense of the word and B. free of guilt. There's few horror films which are really this good (too smart for their own good, because this will largely sail over your head if your not watching closely, a good deal hinges on a one off sentence roughly about God having pink socks, and a man with pink socks showing up later, albeit briefly in the film).Very hard to find, Netflix doesn't carry it, but those of you in the Los Angeles area, might try Eddie Brandts Saturday Matinée in North Hollywood(just off the Orange Line), that's where I found a copy as well as many other hard to find films. Happy hunting. "},{"Title":"Possession Utterly Mad","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Famously violent, bloody and brutal, Possession is a member of that most hallowed hall of Video Nasties we know and love. Boasting scenes of some noteworthy infamy, Andrzej Zulawski's complex allegorical explanation of marital disintegration is known for its thematic obscurity.In Cold War Berlin, Mark returns home from unclear duties to a marriage which is on its last legs. His wife Anna, suffering from increasingly inclement behaviour and mood swings brought about by their ailing relationship, is revealed to be having an affair, leading Mark to investigate. What he discovers is more bizarre even than his wife's drug loving German lover.The one feeling which appears to be universal in conjunction with Possession is that of helpless confusion. As the credits roll, the only thing we can justifiably think is What just happened?! The film is utterly mad; unendingly so. From start to finish, I struggled not to miss a beat amidst the mire. Difficult to follow and impossible to understand at first, Zulawski's frustrating work leaves us scratching our heads for the entirety of its running time. Possession's gradual descent from a Kramer Vs. Kramer-esquire marital drama to a bloody and supernatural allegory is as surprising as it is bizarre and mental. Thereafter, we are treated to a visual feast of harrowing images and strangely violent outbursts. The increasingly insane plot is marred by overeager performances, though it is considerably attention grabbing. The film is not at all a bad one, providing a deeply interesting message (which may take time and thought to fully comprehend) albeit through a hazy, complicated and apparently nonsensical narrative. Additionally, Heinz Bennent's Heinrich is a wonderful and whimsical character, bringing an element of farcical comedy to the plot.Managing to shock and surprise as well as stupefy, Possession is a film well versed in oddity. Exploring an interesting topic with a veiled depth, it gives us a message in an unconventional way which is quite brilliant in itself. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This has become my favorite movie, but only after watching it 5 times, and a 6th with the commentary of the great Zulawski. I believe this is the greatest movie ever, because it is completely flawless in its depiction of dysfunctional marriage, insanity, and ultimately the end of the world. Despite it being shot in 3 weeks, it is so tightly structured, beautifully shot, and marvellously acted, that at simply blows me away. I can only feel sorry for the people who have only seen the American version. Cutting a single frame from this movie would be a crime, and cutting 45 minutes is a sin. Another example of how the American movie censorships lack of understanding the art of cinema. Luckily the movie is now out on DVD,and any movie fan should pick this up. Possesion is simply a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"One of cinemas most original voices","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The first movie I have seen by Zulawski, the easiest to find, and it makes me want to watch the rest of his body of work. Especially Silver Globe. Possession has circulated in the periphery of my cinematic awareness for many years. Articles about the many distribution difficulties and cut versions made it all the harder to find the true one. A very edited copy existed in Sweden for a long while but I just never bothered. It was also never presented to me as the exceptional piece of work that it is, not until I got the awesome Eyeball Compendium, which features many interesting and well-written articles about Zulawski, among other things. Here is a director with a truly original and provocative vision. Despite the surreal and disjointed storyline, it is all held together by his sensibilities. There is no need for complete explanation, just sit back and enjoy the dreamlike atmosphere, the furious camera-work, editing and the dynamic acting and blockings. One of cinemas most original voices. I might start my own DVD-label just to release more of his work with the same care as this excellent copy from Anchor Bay. "},{"Title":"An art-house shocker; a flawless, mind-boggling piece of perfect cinema","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It took me ten years to see Possession, and finally viewing it was an experience I'll never forget, not ever, for as long as I live.How do I start this off? I suppose I can begin by saying that Possession was on a list of films I compiled that, by my estimation, were appealing to my own taste in cinema. I have always favoured dark stories (not to say that I don't love a great feel-good production!) but I knew from the minute I looked at the poster artwork, that Possession would be my kind of film.The story, right from the start, leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth. Anna is married to Mark and Anna...is not quite right in the head. She is so unhinged, in fact, that within the first ten minutes, she tries to slit her own throat and attempts suicide by jumping in front of a bus on a crowded street before being pulled back. Mark's curiosity overcomes him and he suspects that Anna is sleeping with another man while he, at the same time, meets a woman who provides him with the comfort&#x97;both sexually and emotionally&#x97;that his own marriage lacks. But how wrong is he? Very wrong, in fact, and by the film's end, Mark may not be the only one who regrets ever opening the bag...This is not to say that the film's line of discovery is lacking&#x97;Possession is in fact one of the most startling, shocking, and earth shattering films I have ever had the privilege of seeing. If there even is a twinge of regret in the viewer, it might just be due to the polarising nature of the production itself. While the physical world around Anna and Mark may not be particularly nasty (they are clearly well off financially), the emotional world, in fact, is, due largely in part to Anna's complete mental breakdown and Mark's disassociation (some would even go so far as to say depersonalisation) from the crumbling marriage in front of him.This is not an easy film to watch. From its very start, we are bombarded with scenes from what is perhaps the unhappiest marriage ever to be depicted on screen. The atmosphere is both tense and mind-bogglingly horrifying. It is here where I have to commend Zulawski for his talents as a filmmaker. Not only does he effectively evoke a stark feeling of dread, and not only does he provide us with an atmosphere that is both nightmarish and chillingly relatable for those of us who have witnessed a home break apart, he also directs Isabelle Adjani in one of the best performances ever committed to celluloid.Adjani's Anna is both beautiful and disgusting, heartbreakingly tragic and polarising to the point we want to turn off our screens, but nevertheless, absolutely poignant in this portrait of a woman for whom love can unfortunately be found at the expense of her soul. What we witness is, in essence, the splicing of a soul, each part shattered, coated in blood and other trimmings and trappings so personal and shocking that we cannot divert our eyes from her insanity, nor can we will ourselves to extend our hands and offer her our aid. We can only watch. And while Sam Neill's performance is absolutely wonderful, Adjani amazingly steals the film from him (walking off the set with a well-publicised suicide attempt and the Best Actress Award at Cannes).It would be easy to place Possession under the label of a film where 'nothing happens but suffering.' To do so would not only be wrong, it would be stupid. It takes a lot to make a film this jarring, and while some may claim that its sole purpose was to shock, I can honestly say that it is, at its heart, a story not just of a dying romance, but a tale of passion&#x97;passion put in the wrong places. What ensues is the best depiction of an apocalyptic world I have ever seen on film, but I will leave it to the viewer to see what I mean.This is a film that needs to be seen to be believed; my words alone cannot do it justice. My sole piece of advice? A love for all types of cinema...and a very strong stomach.Definitely not for the faint of heart! "},{"Title":"Extremely Bizarre, and Doubtlessly a One-of-a-kind Experience","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Being a huge fan of bizarre and surreal cinema, I wonder why I waited until a few weeks ago to finally see Andrzej Zulawski's Possession (1981), which had , on multiple occasions, been recommended to me by fellow cult-cinema fans as brilliant and absolutely essential. Having finally seen it, I must say that, while the film is definitely worthwhile, I do not quite get the hype it receives from most of my fellow admirers of European cult-cinema. Possession is often called a 'love it or hate it' film, but, personally I must say that neither is the case with me. On the one hand, Possession is a wonderfully bizarre film which really isn't like anything else, and furthermore an exceptionally shot exercise in fascinating cinematic style. On the other hand, it is - plain and simple - a mess.Terriffically set in Berlin (divided by the Berlin Wall), the film is about an... eer... slightly troubled married couple - Mark (Sam Neill) is slowly going out of his mind over his wife Anna (the stunning Isabelle Adjani), who does not merely betray him with a quite sinister lover, but also with someone (or something) else... This is only a very vague description of the first part of Possession, but, in this case, giving a proper description would mean describing every scene from start to finish (and what would be the point of that?). While I usually LOVE cinematic weirdness (one of my all-time favorite filmmakers being the Chilean/French/Mexican genius Alejandro Jodorowsky), and this one is full of it, the weirdness of Possession is too messy at times. Too often does it seem as if director Zulawski simply put together unrelated scenes, just to make the film more bizarre. The cast is great, and the over-acting (from everybody, which was obviously requested by the director) fits the film in this case. However, there are many scenes in which the characters simply grimace and do things like cutting themselves with electric knives for no reason whatsoever. Scenes like these may be shocking or fascinating in a film every now and then, but when large parts of a movie do only consist of barely related weird sequences attached to one another, the weirdness can loose its impact. Still, the film never gets monotonous.Technically, Possession is a masterwork. Both the settings in Berlin and the cinematography are fascinating. The film is set in West Berlin, and, in many parts, one can actually see the Eastern part over the wall, through windows on one the Western side. This aspect alone makes the film fascinating. Besides its stylistic and cinematographic greatness, Possession has many other fascinating aspects. The characters are entirely sinister. As mentioned above, all cast members are extremely over-acting, but, in this case this isn't a bad thing. Especially Sam Neill and Isabella Adjani are great. Neill is a terrific actor and he greatly portrays the maddening despair of a left husband obsessed with his crazed wife. Adjani (who actually plays two roles in this film) must be one of the most stunningly beautiful actresses ever, and she is an equally fantastic actress. Her performance as the ravishing but 'possessed' Anna is magnificent. Heinz Bennert is also very remarkable as her sinister, creepy and somewhat nuts lover, who claims to be a sex-master and still lives with his mother. Possession has the reputation of being very gory and perverted, which even landed it on the UK's infamous Video Nasty List (another proof that Film censors are a bunch of fascist morons). Except for one very gross scene, however, the film isn't really exceptionally gory, and the perversity is mostly suggested rather than show.Overall, Possession certainly is an unforgettable film experience, maybe even a must-see for every true cineaste. Still, I cannot quite see it as the masterpiece that some of my fellow cult-cinema fans seem to regard it. For true masterpieces of bizarre cinema see any film by Alejandro Jodorowsky (especially El Topo, The Holy Mountain or Santa Sangre); in case you dig surreal Art-Horror films in which beautiful women have sex with strange monstrosities, I recommend Walerian Borowczyk's La Bête (1975) over this one. As far as I am concerned, Possession is definitely recommended, but I cannot entirely praise it. "},{"Title":"Disturbing beyond belief...","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A young married couple, Anna(Isabelle Adjani) and Mark(Sam Neill) living in West Berlin split up at Anna's behest for unknown reasons. Mark is left to care for their young son, but becomes increasingly more paranoid that Anna is having an affair, so he hires a private detective to follow her. His fears are soon realized and Anna admits to being more satisfied by her new lover. However when Mark tracks this lover (Heinrich) down, he says their relationship has been over for some time, Mark soon realizes that there is another mysterious lover, but what he finds is more terrifying than he could have dreamed. My first Zulawski film i had been warned was just a little odd, while not the most linear of films to start with, i had no idea where or when the craziness would start or how it would present itself. It begins with a couple being destroyed by a lack of intimacy, paranoia, jealousy and ultimately separation. I must say that this aspect is brilliantly realized by Zulawski with two incredible performances to back it up, i really felt the guilt, the betrayal and the pain for both of them as they spun into self destruction. . Mark soon finds a lover of his own, strangely its his sons teacher Helen, who bears a remarkable resemblance to Anna . As the film evolves Anna becomes ever more manic, as a result, every one she knows seems to come to a bloody end, can anyone survive the mysterious beast that hides in Anna's apartment? I guess there must be many explanations for how and why the film evolves the way it does, my take is that both Mark and Anna invented their respective lovers to compensate for their own failings, of course others may look at it as a skewed version of Invasion of the Body snatchers. Adjani provides the viewer with perhaps THE most manic female performance since Shelley Duvall in The Shining (perhaps even ever), she even makes that performance seem restrained, such is her dedication to her performance that she really does seem possessed. Neill is equally strong, putting in what could be a career best performance. The standout performance for me though was the bizarre and crazy Heinz Bennent who plays uber mannered Heinrich, i was in awe of his every word and movement, he even made me laugh out loud. Zulawski for his part controls things to perfection, his camera is always moving making even mundane scenes seem really interesting. The setting of Berlin before the wall came down is a constant reminder of separation that mirrors the couples plight. Again though i feel this is a film that will benefit from subsequent viewings, i did lose my train of thought towards the end, still though it didn't spoil my overall enjoyment. If there's one over riding memory i'll take from the film, besides its bizarreness, that would be its incredible eroticism, despite the fact there is almost no sex contained within, it left this viewer a little hot under the collar. Before i finish off, its hard not to mention Anna's real lover, but how can one give justice to him, seeing is believing. Its onward and upward with Zulawski for me, next up Diabel. "},{"Title":"A dream, a nightmare, or an insight into the dark recesses of the writers subconsciousness?","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A dream, a nightmare, or an insight into the dark recesses of the writers subconsciousness? Possession is avant garde film noir that truly has to be seen to be appreciated or believed. Set with the backdrop of Berlin Germany (wall and all) in 1981, Sam Neill plays a husband who's dear wife (Andrzej Zulawski) is becoming increasingly bleak, with her bitterness of him escilating as her self loathing intensifies. Eventually she retreats to a world of despair and increasing erratic madness ultimately resulting is an aggressive separation. At a loss and fast becoming a psychological & physical wreck, he follows his love and soon discovers she is fornicating with a black tenticled malevolent entity and has embarked on a murderous rampage, killing those that intrude on her nest. Is she acting of her own free will and a slave to her urges, are there more sinister forces at play, what is this being that has such a grip on her? Immensely entertaining dark and often nasty but poetic through out, Possession feels like no other film I've ever seen. It is beautifully filmed with often odd seductive angles, supurbly acted, near masterful work of art which only falls down due to its extensive length and at times sluggish pacing. This is a film that is burned in your brain long after viewing and is as much an experience of the senses as a piece of celluloid entertainment. Sam Neill is brilliant in the lead role and Andrzej Zulawski is equally so. For lovers of horror, macabre art and edge of your seat intensity. "},{"Title":"Utterly confused","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" OK. SO I read all the reviews, downloaded this movie, and...I don't even know where to start, except to say I don't get why this is a 7.3 out of 10.First off, Im glad movies don't start off with running credits anymore, the few reviews I read didn't mention a creature but golly-gee, the idiots who made the movie wanted to give that away. I don't know why crediting the CREATURE MAKER had to be done in the first 5 minutes of the film, but that was a spoiler alert I cant even top in this review.Secondly, this movie is Poorly edited, you jump from scene to scene and you get left with the feeling of blue balls, like they are unfinished scenes. The story is confusing, nothing is explained, like how did this all start? Why is what is happening, happening? None of that is answered.Sam Neill, the star of Jurassic Park and creepy guy from Event Horizon, is a good actor, but even his acting is over the top. The lead actress and the guy who plays Heinrich, both ham their roles up at times, especially when she miscarries in the tunnel! WTF is she doing, she is supposed to be writhing in agony I guess, but its just comes off as modern day twerkingThe men in this movie are Utterly Weak and Stupid, even Heinrich, who comes off strong ends up portraying weakness,(forget the 2 PI's NEill's character hires to follow her, they are the epitome of weak) Sam Neill's character loves her to the point of insanity, which I can understand the movies point, love is irrational, but come on! Near the end, when he walks in on her with the creature, and finds whats in her fridge, he Still Keeps pining after her, saying, If I laid down in front of you, would you still walk over me? and he Does lay down(SPOILER ALERT and guess what SHE Walks OVER him) At that point I was Cheering for him to die!He literally does NOT get it till the very end, and even then he Still doesn't really get itThe last 5 or so minutes of this movie are Utterly confusing...that is the main problem with the movie, scenes simply do not tie together and make sense. Whatsup with the pink socks guy and the work Sam Neill's character did for him at the very beginning of the movie, does that have something to do w/ her being possessed? I have no clue, its NOT EXPLAINED, but he shows up at the end after everyones dead, hinting that he does, but once again the movie doesn't explain it.Shes keeps talking about Faith & Chance, but once again, its not clear if the doppelgangers (the doppelganger teacher of their child Bob, and the, Spoiler Alert the fact the creature turns into a evil Sam Neill's twin) how are they related to any of that, if they are even related.Also, nearly every outside scene on streets, subways and the tunnels in subways, the train ride, there are Literally no people on the streets, anywhere save for the weirdo on the train that takes one of her bananas from her shopping bag.I'll agree, this movie starts off innocently, with a break-up of a family and his hunt for the other man and some sort of CLosure, but then it descends into weirdness and gets weirder and weirder by the minute, but your left utterly confused and po'd...the last minute where the kid runs upstairs yelling repeatedly Dont Open the Door and then jumps in the tub full of water, is he drowning himself? or trying to hide? and the (good) doppelganger teacher is at the door, with the evil doppelganger Sam Neill right outside, but then their is an earthquake, and shes in a trance or something, not opening the door but staring off into space...roll end creditsThis movie leaves you confused and unsatisfied, hence my blue balls comparison "},{"Title":"Just another pile of crap guaranteed to make the arsty-fartsy wet their designer pants. Even worse than Irreversible, imagine.","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Oh my, is this flick bad. I wonder if Neill has ever tried to do what Heddy Lamar's hubby did once, to buy all the copies of some flick of her he didn't want people to see. Of course in our digital age that's impossible, but I'm sure anyway he would dearly want to do just that. I keep on this because what intrigues me is, what made him to work in such an awful piece of crap? Was he that desperate to start a movie career? Did they have pictures? (Come on, what compromising pictures could they have of Sam Neill, of him running a red light, washing his feet in a public fountain...?) So the mystery remains.Don't get me wrong, when it comes to my films I'm not squeamish; I can take practically anything as long as the end result is good cinema. I'm not turned away either by gore, cruelty, madness, hyperbole, obscenity or even pornography. I loved Snyder's DOTD and his Watchmen, as I loved Coppola's AN; I could barely stomach Texas Chainsaw Massacre&#x97;it gave me a good head ache--but I reckon it got some powerful imagery and the metaphor of the ghouls hunting the young to feed their blood to a mummy resonates deeply with anyone aware of the ways of the world in politics, economics, war. The problem with this one is that it's simply pure, unmitigated, 100%, trash. A flick with absolutely no redeeming value whatsoever, no depth, no focus, no imagery, no originality, with nothing that would deserve to live in our imaginations; just a pathetic waste of celluloid. Sam, I loved you in those dino flicks but here YOU STINK. As for Adjani, don't get me started&#x97;as Krusty said. If she is just annoying during the first hour, during the second&#x97;the ballet lesson on&#x97;she's simply unbearable. Don't punish yourself watching this woman here 'cause you gonna bitterly regret it, you will be inflicting yourself unnecessary, cruel and unusual punishment. Let me put it this way, you CSI fans. Remember the psycho girl who used to make miniatures of her crime scenes? Well, imagine her ten times more nuts and more annoying. That's Adjani here. If you insist in watching this atrocity after this, don't tell me I didn't warn you.Possession is so bad there's no one single scene, frame, word, sound in it worth remembering. Even the worst film leaves you something, a bit of feeling, of imagery, but not such luck here; all I felt all along was boredom and disgust. For. ex the climatic scene is supposed to be Neill shocked at seeing Adjani doing it with some giant, slimy, lizard and I guess that image was supposed to stand right up there, in the summit, with Chuck and the Statue of Liberty, but it simply comes out lame and disgusting. It would be enough to say we don't give a crap about the two weirdos, but that hasn't stopped many a filmmaker from making a great movie. The problem here is that there is simply no story, just random trash put together&#x97;the kind of nonsense the artsy fartsy adore after all and call pure art, even more so when they haven't understood a bit, as the rest of us&#x97;which brings some of them to even evoke assorted allegories, Christian and pagan, and to proclaim this the best film ever just because they could get a iota. What's the meaning, for ex., of a bum stealing one of Adjani's bananas in a train, where's the allegory there? And why is so important to show people with bloodied kissers? What the meaning of people cutting themselves, a staple in Euro trash it seems; are they making a point with it? I remember seeing, at the end of one of his movies, Depardieu amputating his own joystick with an electric knife in front of his own terrified, screaming baby. What was his point there, that he could be as existentialist as the next guy? As Krusty said, again, don't get me started.Oh, the script here is about a couple of losers who have been married and who are now separating. Yet the most intriguing thing to me is how he ever fell in love with her; not that he's himself such a big prize anyway. Along the flick they both work their way to a sordid, violent, nonsensical end, ranting and crying, killing people and cutting themselves. (In some scene Neill even offers a poor man's Willard in Saigon hotel room). At the end everyone seems to have been killed, of done themselves, the kid of the couple committing suicide&#x97;the only thing I understood, I would have done the same in his case.Probably the worst movie ever made. So bad that no long after I started watching it I was already longing for the morons stuck in the bar, which I had seen the night before. Truth is, compared to this one even Feast comes out like a masterpiece. (only for that I'm upgrading it). A well deserving --1000/10. "}{"Title":"Intense and unrelenting art-house/exploitation movie","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Of all the films from the video nasty list &#x96; films banned by the authorities in the UK in the 80's &#x96; Possession is the one that comes from the art-house side of the spectrum. It's a very different proposition compared to the other films from this list which were in the main pulpy exploitative genre efforts. Possession, by contrast, is an experimental movie that has some genre elements. It's the most obtuse video nasty and will certainly be one of the most divisive. Whatever way you look at it one thing is certain and that is that it is one bizarre film. Set in cold war Berlin, it's about the disintegration of a marriage. The process leaves the couple suffering nervous breakdowns. The woman forsakes her husband and lover for a tentacled creature that lives in a run-down apartment. It seems as though the story is allegorical in some way but, if I am being honest, I don't really know. It was way too strange for me to make any claims at understanding it.What I can confirm for sure is that the acting from Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill was very impressive. These cannot have been easy parts to play by any means and they both give their all in full-on performances. They match the style of the movie, as this is an unremittingly intense film from start to finish. Even the constantly moving camera work is agitated. I wouldn't necessarily say that this is a film that could exactly be classified as entertainment though. It's so cold and tormenting that it's pretty far removed from the comforts of genre cinema. The film that it reminded me most of was Lars von Trier's Antichrist (2009) which was also about a married couple in turmoil. Both are esoteric films that make you feel somewhat uncomfortable. In Possession the geographic location is also used to create an oppressive feel, seeing as events happen in the shadow of the Berlin Wall. So there is no doubt a political subtext to this as well but, like I said before, your guess is as good as mine.My feelings on this one are a bit mixed. One the one hand, the sheer coldness of it is very difficult to get behind and there are no characters you can really relate to seeing as everyone consistently acts in an all-consuming, severe manner. On the other hand, there was certainly something there, of what I am not sure but I am convinced there is an overall purpose. The scenes with the weird monster in the apartment were always interesting and there were individual moments that were hard to forget such as the subway miscarriage sequence where Adjani goes absolutely ballistic. Everything ends up with both parents being replaced with clones, while it appears that World War III has begun. As I say&#x85;your guess is as good as mine. "},{"Title":"God is in me","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It's staggering to come up against a filmmaker who has a truly mad vision to put onto celluloid. If it's really believable and the maker isn't just putting on the audience it can take us into that madness. Possession is a film that is like it's title, taken with it's own sense of grandeur, starting off as a Scenes-from-a-Marriage-esque tale of downfall - with more ZAP and wildness in the fights the married couple have - but with something just not quite right. These scenes feel raw and uninhibited, by the actors and by the material, which goes to such extremes of how much they hurt one another that it becomes perversely funny.Why all the camera movement in this film, especially early on, where it turns into Vittorio Storaro Time with a Red Bull chaser? From the sensibility of the high emotions and hysteria on display, why not? If your material is going all out, then you might as well go all out with it. Isabelle Adjani really, REALLY goes to town here, forgetting that there's such a thing as 'chewing scenery' and just stampeding through it at times, with Sam Neill and the camera operator being breathless to keep up. It's a film that moves with real force and energy... sometimes maybe TOO much force and energy.For a film like possession, excess is not something that can be kept back, but what is so fascinating is that it's so intense at times, in the husband/wife interactions, the emotional violence springing out into physical abuse (at one point a slap is then encouraged into more, an uncomfortable scene done just right), that it's fascinating because it's going into such high volume. And as a horror film, a true horror film of the soul where it's laid bare and stripped out by a demon and f***ed with a spiky tail or something, it's bewildering, mind-boggling, and a dark pile of fun.A lot of it is the performances - Adjani worked her ass off to get that Cannes best actress win, and though there are times I can't understand her (not sure if it's the accent or the lines, like her 'fate and chance' monologue) and runs the gamut as a character who starts out flawed and damaged and gets so turned-inside-out she makes Linda Blair in the Exorcist look like a... girl. And Sam Neill has a kind of strange appeal here - at times he talks like he doesn't take these lines seriously, or is doing so SO much that it just becomes funny, and other times he is genuinely power-punching with his dramatic touch. In a scene like the restaurant fight he goes between both levels.But why I may, someday, after I can get over the experience, would return to Possession is that among the f***ing-insane style of films out there, there's nothing else quite like it. It revels in bringing the audience into its horror set-pieces, especially with that creature in the apartment as ambiguous a demon as the baby in Eraserhead, and the dread in every man going into that apartment harder to bear than the one before. And there is genuine pain, I think, in the filmmaking. I don't know the history behind the film's gestation but I'd wager the director had a bad marriage and expressed it, literally and metaphorically, with a tale of an unfaithful woman brought to madness by a demon... or maybe that's it.Possession doesn't spoon-feed at any point in time. On the contrary, and maybe this is a flaw I think, there's so little explanation of anything in the film that by the last fifteen minutes as Sam Neill's character goes ape-s**t and the husband/wife's child just gives up. It got to the point where I had my hands up in a 'what the hell!?' position sitting in my seat in the theater. Perhaps another viewing would solve some of my quandaries, or just make new ones. Whatever the case, the mood of this film is chilling and harrowing, and for those who like their dolly shots, this is a must-must-MUST see. Oh, and by the way, the creature effects - by the guy that did E.T.(!) "},{"Title":"Trying way too hard","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I love ambiguity in films. Which is why Haneke's Cache, 2001 A Space Odyssey and Picnic at Hanging Rock all rank very highly amongst my favourite films. It's great when filmmakers give viewers credit and allow them to draw their own conclusions or search for their own meaning. Unfortunately, for Possession, I don't really care enough about the characters to want to go through the mental gymnastics required to dig out the deeper meaning hidden in this film.It's apparent early on in the film that much of the action is allegorical or meant to reflect the internal emotions of a couple going through a divorce. (God, I hope so. If it's meant to be a literal story, it's a monumental fail. A really annoying horror film.) If only there were an honest moment where you got to feel that these are real characters who perhaps were once a real couple with a real connection before the film slipped into allegory. A marriage can't slowly disintegrate if it never happened.And it's disappointing, because I really like Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill, and rate them both as actors. They obviously put everything into their performances, which must have been very demanding, the only reason I can conjure up a few stars for this one. That and the special effects, which are super creepy and hold up well more than 30 years later. Oh, and the amazing German architecture.But there are too many reasons it's hard to take this film seriously. The over-the-top acting, goofy choreography, elaborate camera moves for inconsequential moments, closeups so tight they managed to make even Isabelle Adjani look bad, soundtrack that's completely ripped off from The Godfather. There were quite a few laugh-out-loud moments that I'm certain weren't meant that way.Perhaps the filmmaker meant it as purely art, and it's raw emotion splattered on the screen. But my takeaway was, it's hopelessly dense. Every scene, every action, every movement, every word is imbued with a deeper meaning that, unfortunately, can only be deciphered by the filmmaker, and leaves the viewer with little more than the visceral experiences played out on the screen. "},{"Title":"Shocking, vulgar and delightful.","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A really really bizarre venture into madness, both psychological and demonic. Isabelle Adjani gives a memorable and really intense performance, all though sometimes it is a bit much. but i guess that's the point in being crazy. How this film got into the banned list of video nasties i cant understand, sure there is blood, disturbing behavior and a gooey monster but the violence is a really small part of the film. I guess it offended the UK's sense of morality or something. Either way this film stands out from most horror films and manages to leave me with a memorable and intense experience. A recommended watch by all means if you love horror. "},{"Title":"Not Exactly Sure What To Make Of This One - But I'm Pretty Sure I Liked It...","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" POSSESSION (like several other reviewers of the film have rightly noted...) is a VERY strange film that seekers of straight-forward narrative will probably either be confused or down-right frustrated by. There are no solid answers to be had at the end of this one, nothing will be magically made astonishingly clear. Instead - it's more a strange, grotesque, bizarre journey through two individual's failed relationship, and the resulting madness that it creates. From the bit of special-features that I went through, I understand that the director wrote this film after experiencing his own divorce from his wife...all I can assume is that based on how POSSESSION is filmed, the break-up didn't go so well...Mark (Sam Neill) comes back to his wife Anna (Isabelle Adjani) after conducting some secret government assignment - and it's apparent that their relationship is strained. It comes out that Anna has been cheating on Mark for a year with an eccentric guy named Heinrich - and Anna no longer wants to continue her relationship with Mark. He doesn't take the news too well and spirals into a sort of controlled madness, while Anna runs around like a crazy person also. We find later that not only does Anna have Heinrich as a lover, but also some strange, slimy, humanoid thing that is never quite explained as to what exactly it is. Yeah - you read that right. At this point, everything goes completely haywire as both Mark and Heinrich vie for Anna's attentions - but her main focus is on her slime-buddy, who seems to have some strange psychic hold over her...I can't begin to tell you what any of the scenes in POSSESSION really amount to story-wise - but it is obvious that it's some sort of metaphor for the confusion, hurt, anger, feelings of betrayal etc...that accompany a relationship that experiences infidelity. The completely insane performances by both Neil, and especially Adjani, punctuate the nightmarishness of the bizarre experiences, and the film as a whole has a sort of Cronenberg-esq controlled grotesquerie that is both compelling and confusing. There are also some scenes of pretty explosive and relatively graphic violence that come just at the right times as well. I can honestly say I enjoyed and was engrossed with POSSESSION, though I can't hope to truly make heads-or-tails of it. Fans of obscure, challenging cinema will enjoy this one - would make a great double-feature with something like NAKED LUNCH...8.5/10 "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorites...","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I don't want to be redundant; enough has been said about this movie. You really either do love or hate it. Out of the few people I have persuaded to watch it, none have enjoyed it like I did. Adjani said something like this movie is psychological rape...it really has this hard to escape unnerving feeling from the very start. I spend a lot of my time trying to find films that will move me to feeling something...I often resort to blood bath cinema with no substance. Possession is one of those exceptional films that get to you both on a visual and mental level. I am not going to go on a critiqued's rant, but I advise anyone who is looking for a challenging, non-pretentious art house film, to definitely check this out. "},{"Title":"Just another point of view of evil","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  After watching this film three times, I think their is magnificent esthetically and technically. Sam Neill and Isabelle Adjani are really great, and I think that a good movie does not have to be completely clear, because it allows you to think a lot, (I might mention Mulholland Drive as an example) and thats what happens with Possession. It just faces you to the evil. Obviously you should not consider that the thing that is living with Anna is a monster, is just one of the many faces of evil, and that explains why Anna's character changes so much. Sometimes she is she, sometimes she is possessed, sometimes she has acknowledge, sometimes she just cannot control it. In the scene where he tries to cut her throat is just after his husband says help me, though it seems that she is barely listening, thats what she does try to help, and the best way to do that seems being death.Anyway I did not catch all these details the first time I saw it, but after one second time, all gets clearer. It even gets clearer that all the nightmare started more less when she was still a ballet teacher. I would like to end this comment with what Zulawski once said As far as I'm concerned I don't make a concession to viewers, these victims of life, who think that a film is made only for their enjoyment and who know nothing about their own existence  "},{"Title":"A truly great piece of film","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This review is filled with parts about the movie and the horror ofAnyway this film is truly disturbing. This film is about the problems between A married couple. When Sam Neill returns he finds out that his wife has been cheating on him with of course another man. But it goes deeply into their sprial into darkness. And the fact that her sexual desire turns into a creature that later transforms into a copy of her husband makes this a movie incredable.But what made this movie disturbing outside of the film itself is the director commentary on the DVD where this man tells the story of how he made this movie and the inspiration for it.When him and his love at the time broke up (never understood what it was over) he himself began a his spiral into his interdemon. And wrote this out of anger for his former lover. Including he hit everything that men think is wrong with themselves as in he cant please her sexually it is a movie that only the strong can watch9/10 "},{"Title":"A very strange and twisted film that requires multiple viewings.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  (My comments are based on the uncut 123 min. version)This is one of those films that doesn't quite make complete sense the first time you watch it. But with repeated viewings it all becomes clearer since you'll pick on things that you didn't catch the first time through. (it kind of reminds me of David Lynch's Lost Highway in how it's set up.)I don't really want to go into any details of the complex plot since that could ruin some truly surprising events. The acting is solid throughout, and the creature effects are appropriately grotesque.This film should only be seen in it's full uncut form (123 min.) as I shudder to think how incoherent the butchered 80 min. american cut is.A strange but satisfying film that somehow manages to be both an intense arthouse film, a psychological thriller, and a full blown horror film all in equal doses. While it's not for all tastes, anyone in the mood for something different (or fans of Eurohorror cinema) should definitely check out this film.rating8 "},{"Title":"Gore-soaked, symbol-littered tale of infidelity and identity","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Strange, thought-provoking, bombastic drama about a very different kind of extra-marital affair. Director Zulawski is all symbols and metaphor, and his narrative does become fractured and confused, but the central idea is fascinating and the execution is adroit. Sam Neil plays a man whose wife, the stunning Isabella Adjani, becomes estranged from him and his son. He hires a detective to monitor the woman's movements, and the man's discoveries open a Pandora's box of worms and assorted beasties. It is difficult to describe the plot of this film because the many revelations contribute considerably to the impact of its gruesome and surreal horrors. The scenes of Neil and Adjani's marital disintegration possess a raw, hellish intensity, with the angry incriminations reaching a peak not seen in cinema since Roger Donaldson's Smash Palace. This is a portrayal of madness -- the madness of a society at odds with its true nature. The violence is nasty and wet, bloody and beautiful. A scene of lurid bestiality has a Goya-like intensity, and caps what has been a vigorous exploration of love, lust, jealousy, search for identity, possession and obsession. "}{"Title":"An intense, powerful, enigmatic and rewarding film","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've just watched the Possession DVD and I'm impressed. The film is very strange and absorbing. It's an enigmatic film that needs several viewings to connect with it. It is laden with anger, anxiety and hysteria. It was actually included on the DPP's list of 'Video Nasties' in the UK in the early eighties.The story involves a man named Mark (Sam Neill) who arrives home after being away on his mysterious job (possibly a government secret agent) and is told by his wife Anna (Isabelle Adjani) that she is having an affair with another man named Heinrich (Heinz Bennent). The film then goes into a convoluted mode of visceral frenzy.Isabelle Adjani gives an extremely powerful performance as the crazed wife, (think of Harvey Keitel in Bad Lieutenant, and then some more) in one scene in particular in a subway she is irrationally wild. The film is added more surreal flavour because Adjani plays two characters in the film, the other being the couple's son's teacher. Heinz Bennent is also in similar form as the creepy and odd Heinrich, he just looks like Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lectar. Anna leaves Mark and moves into a large vacuous apartment, where in one of the rooms she has sex with a strange slimy creature, whose purpose is to evolve and change into a doppelganger of Mark. The ending is really weird. I don't want to say anything else about the film except watch it, if you already haven't. If you liked Lost Highway, you'll like Possession. "},{"Title":"Inhuman ecstasy fulfilled.","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was stunned by the hysterical energy of this film. Isabelle Adjani as Anna should have won an Oscar for sustaining her momentum throughout. The plot is a little difficult to follow but makes more sense if you track down the full 2 hour version.Contextually similar to Cronenberg's The Brood (1979) the lead female character (Adjani) gives birth to her sexual frustration in the form of a multi-phallic squid-like creature. In the full version we see an extended scene in the Subway where she suffers the agony of a miscarriage which is perhaps her first attempt at manifesting her anger. She appears to find comfort in this monster as her marriage to Marc (Sam Neill) bitterly degenerates.We also learn that Anna is cheating on Marc and as she becomes increasingly disturbed both the men in her life turn on each other in a desperate attempt to understand her behaviour.Skillfully directed and masterfully acted this parable on relationships rivals Jean-Jacques Beineix's 'Betty Blue' in psychotic spontaneity. But unlike 'Betty Blue', Zulawski strips Adjani of all sensuality.My only criticism would be the rather ambiguous ending. If anyone can make sense of this please let me know!  "},{"Title":"Obscure Masterpiece","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of those rare films that will instantly sink itself into your personal cinematic cosmology. You will cherish and covet your copy, force new friends to watch it with you, and resent others who claim to adore it as much as you do with the voracity of a lover who discovers their beloved has made love all night with a stranger. I pretty much shudder with ecstatic pleasure every time I watch this film. It crackles and seethes with a bizarre and potent vitality that is apparent from the first few seconds of screen time. Isabelle Adjani's performance is like a maelstrom of sheer madness and perfection. Astoundingly beautiful and completely insane you will not be able to rip your eyes away from her face. Sam Neil is fantastic, completely embroiled in the character, rivaling Kinski at times. The color palette is extremely original as well using an odd combination of blues, oranges and yellows. Almost every scene is memorable and thrilling to behold. What many people don't mention is the remarkable humor of the film. At points it is incredibly, darkly funny. Not to mention it's genre-shifting plot structure. To some the film will be hard to swallow because of its experimental narrative. So don't expect your aunt Clara to get it. But to anyone with good taste in film it is an obscure masterpiece to be held, cherished, and worshiped. There is only one big problem. The film is basically out of print. There could be a few VHS editions floating around. The only DVD copy you can get was on a Horror Double Feature disc paired with a Fulci film. But that just went out of print as well (I snatched up the last copy at the closing of Kim's Video). If any film needs a restored DVD release on Criterion, or an upload to NetFlix and Itunes it's this one. And Valerie and her Week of Wonders. NetFlix has the film, but it's still listed as save status. This does give me a little hope though. C'mon distributors and archivists. Save Possession! "},{"Title":"a delight","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  What a wonderful movie.  I was startled to see that this one won an award at Cannes -- a piscatorial romance?  A Sam Neill picture?  ARE YOU SURE?? -- but once I saw it I understood why.  On one level, it's about a guy who comes home from a long trip to find out his wife has had an affair.  On another, it's about stepping over the line that separates the mundane world from the dimension of Lovecraftian horror.  The visuals are gorgeous, with a terrific hall-of-mirrors quality to it -- everyone looks like everyone else, just enough to startle you and make you wonder what is going on here. The acting is very subtle and nuanced (especially considering the demented subject matter), and the end is weirdly satisfying.  Until I saw this movie I never realized what a good actor Sam Neill is. "},{"Title":"Then there was Zulawski...","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I had heard about this film for awhile before I watched it. Various friends and people I consider to have good taste told me about it. Eventually I got a hold of it not even a year ago and I have watched it at least six times since. This is a horror movie, but, if you expect a slasher flick, zombies or any other clichés though you've come to the wrong place. This movie is about the deterioration of a marriage and how the couple hurt both each other and the child they both have brought into the world. The horror is psychological and through the couples actions instead of monsters. (Though there is a monster of sorts in the movie..). The acting is superb, (Adjani and Neil both shine) and the use of bleak color and claustrophobic way its filmed further lend to the sinister atmosphere. If you look around you can clearly see the influence this film has had on others. Dario Argento's Tenebre and although Lars von Trier made the actors in Antichrist watch Tarkovsky's The Mirror I can almost guarantee this movie had just as much influence on him. In pretty much every way this film is just as effective without resorting to the same level of shock and exploitation....I will close by saying at the time of writing this Possession is my all time favorite film. "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" i saw this movie in 1981, on its first release in the UK. a newspaper review claiming that possession was the death of cinema attracted me to the film. the utterly bemused faces of the audience, struck dumb by the absurdist, expressionist visual feast they had witnessed was looked upon knowingly by the cinema staff. a week later the film closed. i was at every London screening for the next 10 years. it has been wonderful to see this film's gradual acceptance by the critical under-establishment. contemporary critics would call the film valueless, except as weird travelogue and technical tour-de-force. i always consider top tens as pretty facile exercises, however this film surpasses and bypasses stereotypical classification. IT IS THE BEST FILM EVER MADE.. "},{"Title":"Sordid, macabre, weird... but still an interesting movie.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  During its play, you are offered loose pieces of a complex puzzle of gruesome events, just to discover that all the horror you may have felt has a little or nothing to do with the creature, but maybe with the deranged minds resulting from and dehumanized society.Do not expect to see G-d versus devil, here... actually classic fight between good and evil is almost non-existing. You can see people with good feelings receding to evil with no complaint (Heinrich mother accepting his son was killed by Mark, or Mark's son ready to commit suicide -even though he is so young and innocent- to avoid confronting `evil Mark.') and quite evil people convinced that they are creative no matter how much they are able destroy. The latter group of people defines the horrifying nature of this movie.Isabelle Adjani performance is tremendously good. Sam Neill does a great job too.  "},{"Title":"It's a scream","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Even in Cold-War Berlin we would expect to encounter more than a dozen city residents, and perhaps even a handful of motor vehicles, over the course of two-plus hours, but not in this movie -- which, I suppose, is what we are supposed to accept as deep symbolism. Cut to the estranged husband and wife, whose acting is so amateurish and over the top that it reminded me of the student plays we used to produce in high school. You can rapidly understand why these two don't get along. Wife wants to leave and live with the man who, she cackles joyously, satisfies her like the husband never could. For some strange reason, husband wants to hold on to wife and establishes at least 2,457 times that he will not take no for an answer. Wife does leave, but keeps coming back for short visits, presumably to spend time with the couple's young child who, frankly, is the only likable character in the entire cast. Relations between husband and wife continue to deteriorate. Eventually we come to the miscarriage-in-the-subway-corridor scene, where wife spends three minutes making us forget (finally) the screaming episode of Faye Wray in King Kong. And yes, things continue downhill even from there. All along, you've wondered how the couple's young boy could remain so even-keeled and undisturbed in the midst of all the marital explosiveness and physical violence swirling around him, but at the very end you hardly blame him for taking to the bathtub face down. In fact, his solution is one to which you might feel like subjecting yourself, at least until you realize that the eject button on your DVD player offers a much easier and less fatal means of escape from this thoroughly depressing bit of pretentious, Euro-trash nonsense. "},{"Title":"this new uncut version rocks!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw the cut version of this film years ago and hated it. This new version with the 45 mins added back in is another movie completely. A much better film. A very philosophical horror film that dives below the conscious and trys to awake those demons within. A very effective film. "},{"Title":"Great, Disturbing, intense...One of the Best!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Whether or not the allegorical, or symbolic meaning is coherent, this is a great film of horror and dread.  Some of the best acting I've ever seen, the three main performances, Neill, Adjani, and Heinz Bennet, are brilliant, and Adjani is ...well heroic, spectacular, someone compared her to Harvey Keitel in Bad Leutenant.  But Heinz Bennet's performance as Heinrich is unforgettable, even Dennis Hopper(Blue Velvet) or Anthony Hopkins(Silence) pale in comparison. I saw the 127 minute version, and couldn't imagine an 87 minute version of this, I would recommend waiting till you can see the real, complete thing. Unsettling, maddening, irrational, absorbing, better than David Lynch, The Shining, Rosemary's Baby. It's a real trip! "}{"Title":"A negative review from me","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I wanted to like this movie because it was recommended to me by a friend, but the over the top performances and bad dialogue made it a horrible experience. Isabelle Adjani is hysterical in almost every scene and Sam Neill, who I have always thought of as a great actor, gives the worst performance I have ever seen from him. There is no character development and we are simply thrown into the middle of a marriage which is ending badly. We never learn anything about them or what their motives are. There is just a back and forth of screaming and pleading until you get tired of the whole film. There is comic relief from the guy who plays Heinrich and I don't know if it was intentional or not. His wigging out in the bathroom was very amusing. He was like a Zen-Gay-Kung-Fu-Loving Hannibal Lechter. The ending of the film was very confusing. It's not one I would recommend to anyone. The director's commentary is very entertaining. This review is for the 123 minute version. "},{"Title":"Just watch it","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" If you find yourself enjoying most cult classics then watch this movie. If you are a fan of the surreal then watch this movie. If you enjoy atypical narrative structures then watch this movie. If you like to be challenged by the art you consume then watch this movie.It is so incredibly frantic that I felt like I was assaulted with a smile on my face. An exhausting experience that leaves you feeling as though you've stepped off a crazy ride. The only time the phrase an emotional roller-coaster actually makes sense.Advice for watching this movie Watch with other people, do not talk during the movie. You will have questions, do not ask questions. Do not attempt to ground anything you are seeing in reality. Do not attempt to justify confusing character behaviors, save this for after the movie.Advice for the post movie conversation Why does the movie take place where it does? Why do the occupations of the characters matter? Where do the characters spend most of their time? Recite the actions of the characters in chronological order.Don't read any more about it, just watch it! "},{"Title":"Slice of Angst","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" If you need spoilers or plot précis check the other reviews. This movie is one I noted at the time of its release with interest. The opportunity to actually see it never materialized. I'm not sure was it ever available on videotape? It's now in some sort of limited release. I saw a 35mm presentation last night at the Grand Illusion in Seattle. The screen at the GI is slightly larger than something you would have in your living room. However I could ascertain through the projection window that the presentation was indeed projected from film. 35mm? Hmm...However the print was in good condition and the presentation was acceptable except for the fact at about 15 minutes into the film someone came out and readjusted the bottom screen drape to conform to the height of the frame's aspect ratio. A movie in a different format had played just before Possession.The main interest for me was that in 1981 mechanical creature effects were state-of-the-art for movies (soon to be replaced by CGI of course) and Carlo Rimbaldi had also scored big that same year creating and animating the puppet pieces in E.T. He'd also been involved with some of the mechanical effects in the '76 King Kong. Plus the film had some notoriety and Isabelle Adjani won the best actress award at Cannes for this role.So what do ya get for your $10? An oblique, Eastern European art job complete with spastic (possessed) acting, bloody skewerings, gun shots, a toilet drowning and an odd, writhing, indefinable creature hidden away in a decaying Berlin apartment. This movie is not for those who prefer their plots to be logical and their action to be well-packed. There are a lot of doctrinaire esthetics on display (obscured by the Polish(?) director's cultural reference points) and the lasting impression is of that of a marriage destroyed by the dark realities of human nature. That message comes through plainly. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever made","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Andrzej Zulawski's Possession is one of the harshest movie watching experiences I've yet come across. It's a rough sit and that also makes it one of the most satisfying experiences. You really need to be in the right mindset, the right time when you first watch Possession. When people tell you this movie is a tough one they mean it. If you have two hours to spare in the middle of the day, before going out with your friends, you don't just go hmmm, I think I'll watch Possession now. No. Possession will ruin the rest of your day. You'll think about it for a long time and it'll drain you empty. It's tough. Not in terms of gore or gross out stuff, but as an exhausting emotional experience.It's the best movie about marriage I've seen. It's the best horror movie I've seen. It's one of the best movies overall I've seen. Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill are both incredibly powerful. There's nothing like Possession. To say it's just disturbing would be an understatement. "},{"Title":"Exhausting to watch","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" If you like watching people scream at each other at the tops of their lungs, this film is for you. Though there is nothing subtle about their performances, both Sam Neill and Isabella Adjani are terrific actors, taking their characters just shy of what would be a cartoonishly over-the-top portrayal of a young couple's slow, destructive breakup. I could probably sympathize more with Sam Neill's Mark as he confronts the impending loss of his wife than I could with Anna's bizarre obsession with the worldly, smartass Heinrich and his metaphorical doppelganger in the decayed flat, obviously intended as a symbol of ugly, forbidden lust. Trapped in the middle of this noisy mess is the couple's gentle young son Bob, who is so horrified by the climactic confrontation among the characters that he does something drastic and painful to watch. Don't watch this film if you're depressed, it's not going to cheer you up. Watch it instead with a sense of detachment, and see the characters for what they are human beings trapped by their own terrible life choices. "},{"Title":"Truly demented cinema","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" As a fan of David Lynch (which means I have seen Eraserhead), and not being somebody unfamiliar with experimental cinema, I can honestly say this is the most demented film I have ever sat through. It would be easy to think that means it makes absolutely no sense, is about nothing, and is essentially a host of ridiculous imagery edited together, much like the previously mentioned Lynch piece, but that is not the case. Possession is a film that actually appears to be about something, and does apparently follow that through to its logical, if by the point of the finale, completely twisted conclusion! It is the fact that on some level, you are aware it is following a story, that makes what you are experiencing all the more insane.The story is pretty much a precursor to the Lars Von Trier film Antichrist, the main differences being that in the case of Possession it is not grief over a lost child that is destroying the couple's relationship, and that Possession is the better, if more messed-up piece (seriously!) Mark returns home in the knowledge that there is something wrong with his wife Anna, and it quickly becomes apparent to him that she is unhappy with their marriage and that she has taken a lover. Once past this point, the film appears to become a much larger, extremely metaphorical piece, which goes far beyond these two people's relationship. My impression is that the characters you are watching become political archetypes, dialogue and on screen events often not making any sort of literal sense, but rather begging you to read between the lines. This impression is backed up quite firmly, I believe, by the fact that it all unfolds next to the Berlin Wall, the monstrosity often in frame, if not being shot as a central character at points; the fact that Adjani is clearly playing two roles, and that the lover Anna has hidden away for her private sexual encounters is in fact a monster! Talking of the monster, Carlo Rambaldi, the man responsible for the Alien creatures and E.T, is the person behind this, and he still does not like to talk about this film, apparently.There is some complaint that a lot of what happens between these character seems very stagey and false, but that is now how I saw it. Given my previous impression, I believe that we are being taken up close and personal in this surreal play, often far too close for comfort, as these people scream their conversations hysterically, and we plunge into the madness. The stagey feel comes from the fact it does seem to play out as a theatre production, but we are put right on the stage with them (again, something Von Trier would later visit in his work). It is clearly intentional that everything be surreal and strange, adding to how unnerving the whole thing feels, but the performances are undoubtedly superb. Adjani did, in fact, win an award at Cannes for her performance, despite the film being banned! You need no other explanation as to why, other than watching the acting; to see her give this grotesque, shrill, hyper performance is truly uncomfortable. The fact Sam Neill stands his ground is testament to his prowess and presence.You walk away from Possession completely dumbfounded and unsettled, with an inexplicable desire to watch it again; either that or you will simply despise it. Whatever happens, and whatever one makes of it, its power to alarm is still top-notch. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Is it a horror? Is it a drama? thriller? all three? Maybe, but it sure is entertaining and different and that is what is needed in this genre right now....come on how many more serial killer movies or slasher movies do we have to watch out there right now. This movie is challenging, in that it makes you think, its different, characters and situations are very interesting...and also totally unpredictable!!In other words, a breath of fresh air----see it! "},{"Title":"THIS ISN`T A HORROR FILM!!!!!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I must admit, this is a film for only those, who have a stomach of steel, it definitely the most disturbing films I`ve ever seen, BUT IT ISN`T HORROR.This is an explosion(a nuclear, more likely) of emotions, and Zulawski can perfectly pass these emotions onto us. What makes this film so disturbing, is the performance of Adjani.You can see as she is becoming a maniac, and if it wasn`t for her, the film wouldn`t be half this disturbing. This film isn`t beautiful, but it is brilliant.Imagine a mixture of Lynch,Cronenberg, probably Greenaway, and you get this film. A must see for those, who have interest in emotional films, and have a good stomach. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Andrzej Zulawski's Possession is a masterpiece of script, visual and drama. It's unquestionably a horror film and allegory, fulfilling the promise of its title.I do believe, watching it for the first time on Turner Classics the other night, it captures quintessentially Grotowski influenced acting performances, at a time period when there was the greatest awareness of his discipline and art coming out of Poland. Unforgettable, maybe seen as OTT by some, but nonetheless true within their weirdness are they, possibly the best of the long careers of Sam Neill and Isabelle Adjani.The topping on the cake is the on-screen work of the amazing German actor who passed away in October, Heinz Bennent playing the boyfriend, Heinrich; who is most interesting to watch, and one of the reasons the film is a not-to-be-missed.To not enjoy this film on all its levels, including its dark humor, is to deny yourself one of the great experiences in cinema. The story is pulled from the deepest serpent, dragon, demon myths, if you want to research back through Lilith, Eve to start. God's punishment by Adam's banishment in creating one in his image is another. There are similar mythologies in dozens of cultures, which deal with the female used as the womb to create the demonic to herald in the apocalypse...and at the root of the story, possession...in fact, if you don't view the film through possession first, you won't understand it.Hell, he titled it so where's the confusion? There's so much here, in a highly entertaining work I might add, that makes it worthy of subsequent viewing and discussion. You could do a University course for an entire semester just analyzing this one film.In addition, there's the disturbing rightness of it being filmed in Berlin, where the final stand of Hitler took place, where the demonic could choose to resurrect...to hatch. It's highly ironic it was banned in Germany for so many years by officials who must have recognized this the high art by the Nazis to be inhuman by creating creatures who distanced themselves from humanity and ultimately destroyed any last vestige of humanness, to the point of seeking to kill the last man, woman and child who wasn't them; the ultimate statement of this film by this tortured Polish director. "},{"Title":"The alternative title is The Night the Screaming Stops, but that night was never featured here.","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Now that I've seen this highly stylized semi-nonsense, which was fun in itself, I can look forward to additional fun by reading laughable reviews written by people who actually believe this movie has meaning. But I guess if you try hard enough (or if you're sufficiently deluded) you can read stuff into just about anything. Projection of one's own imaginary world into the empty vessel (the (European) movie) is the main tool of any self-respecting fan of surreal (European) cinema.I could see it coming, way ahead, that the monster was becoming a double of Neill. After all, Neill's voice could be heard talking to Neill (1) on the phone, early on in the film. And why not? Adjani gets to have a nonsensical double, so why not poor ol' Neill. I think they shouldn't have even stopped there; the German granny should have been doubled, ditto her strange Kung-Fu-loving son, and the all the rest of the cast, turning this into a body snatchers kind of scenario. Not that this would distract from the essence of the movie, the real message, the main story, for there is no message and no essence at all, and the story becomes increasingly disjointed and comical as the movie ends its amazingly bizarre conclusion. To be fair, occasionally I had the impression the director wanted laughs. But how can I be sure? It's all guess-work.In P every single character needs to be locked up in a maximum security loony bin. I guess if they had told me at the outset that all the events here take place on planet Zong, I'd have been far better prepared for all the lunacy they had in store for me.Utterly bizarre nonsense, but entertaining because totally unpredictable, with bombastic over-the-top performances by the leading pair. I can picture Neill and Adjani asking the director for water and some rest every five minutes or so, what with all the shouting, contorting and general mayhem, having to be manic for almost the entire movie-shoot in order to satisfy the insatiable director who was truly out for blood. The pinnacle of all this madness was perhaps the scene in the subway, when Adjani hollers, jumps around, and bumps into walls for several minutes.George Lucas is legendary for giving out instructions such as faster! more intense! to his actors during the filming of Star Wars. I kind of picture this director going stranger! more odd! overact more! shout and salivate! look wild and crazy! shake your head more! being the standard vocabulary in usage here. If only I'd been a fly on the wall.There are attempts to inject meaning into the chaos by having characters occasionally utter philosophical musings amidst all the silly proceedings. There was babbling about sisters faith and chance by Adjani - a monologue so vacuous that it really could only come out of the mouth of a person who tries to cut their own throat with an electric kitchen knife. There are several religious references, too, in which God's existence is the subject, plus a totally weird and baffling scene in which Adjani stares up at a statue of Jesus, holding a grocery back directly under her crotch (her, not Jesus), and making faint noises that I used to think could only come out of a drunken hamster spinning on a wheel.P starts of as a heavy-handed relationship family drama then takes a totally unexpected horror turn. Well, it WOULD have been unexpected had the opening credits not mentioned that there were creature effects i.e. that there was a monster! Now, WHY the hell would they tell us that in advance??? I for one was none-too-pleased that the monster surprise-twist was taken away with that idiotic decision. What director IN HIS RIGHT MIND gives us a SPOILER in the first minute?! Whatever one might say about this hugely absurd film, one thing can't be taken away from it it remains interesting throughout, not boring for a minute, in spite of running over two hours. Additionally, TP has been quite an influential movie, as I've realized. Clive Barker's Hellraiser was not nearly as original as I'd thought it was; he must have stolen the idea of the slow transformation from-blood'n'bones-goo-to-human-form from this zany flick. Naked Lunch (the monster sex) and Lost Highway (the total lack of story within the story, and Neill talking to himself on the phone) also come to mind, though it's difficult to say who borrowed from whom in the case of the former. TP is truly a one-of-a-kind horror film. It's just a pity that laziness (under the banner of surrealism) overtook the script-writing process. There could have been an actual story here that made sense, if only more effort had been placed.Let's face it. P is an original movie, and it is interesting, fascinating even at times, but to write this kind of meaningless nonsense requires little thought and absolutely no planning whatsoever. Kudos to the director and cast, shame on the writer. There is no message or point to convey, no at least semi-reasonable conclusion to wrap things up, just a bunch of people being weird for the sake of it (for the sake of oh-so artistic surrealism (that word alone gets some people to drool and swoon)). Naturally, there are going to be art-house movie-goers and deranged critics who will find the deepest cosmological meanings in all this, but I think it's about time that European cinema finally moves away from lazy overly absurdist writing, with more productions based on compact, well-structured scripts that actually take TIME to write. Nobody is saying go Hollywood, but a middle ground between self-indulgent boring meaningless drivel a-la Godard and totally commercial garbage a-la J.J. Abrams is probably the way to go. "}{"Title":"pure genius","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" There's a few things that I would like to mention before my overall thoughts on this movie. First, I got this DVD as a spit release with Bava's Shock in which I have yet to watch because I'm a lazy puts. Two, besides JP and In the Mouth of Madness, I didn't know Sam Neil's career went that far back into the horror genre. Third, I won't go into specific detail about this movie because I think the previous reviewer had given a general outline as to what this movie's about.But I being a part of a semi divorce/separation I can really appreciate the movie's disturbing realities of a very damaged relationship. I can't speak for the writer of this story but can comment off of what I've seen and I do beg to differ when it comes to categorizing this movie in something other than horror because it is horror. Besides the monster that has sex, it shows the horror of both husband and wife.Sam Niel plays a perfect deranged husbands, made that way by his troublesome wife and he suffers through it all because he has a child with her, they're married and he loves her until the brutal end.I think every guy's worst nightmare is to loose his woman to some doped out kinky guy who does nothing but has sex with her.In fact, I commend both actors for playing their parts because it really does show how people can turn crazy from the stress and heartbreak of a flawed relationship.Kudos. "},{"Title":"visceral allegory","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This one has to be seen twice. Once on a visceral - I can't believe what I'm seeing sitting on the edge of your seat with your mouth open -level. The second time on an intellectual - aha I think get some of the allegory but it still kinda doesn't add up - level. All in all, you haven't quite seen acting until you've seen Isabelle Adjani breaking apart, or rather, literally, oozing apart, in a subway tunnel. Linda Blair's got nothing on her. Speaking of oozing, the camera-work is simply unbelievable. The uninterrupted shot of the drunken Heinrich spinning around in the stairway is choreographed in a way that makes the camera seem immaterial. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Neglected Art-Horror Masterpiece from an Unfairly Neglected Director","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This shocking, bizarre, and emotionally brutal film from little-known (to mainstream audiences) Polish filmmaker Andrzej Zulawski combines the dark suspense and ironic humor of ROSEMARY'S BABY, the biological horror and familial disintegration of THE BROOD, and the unabashed histrionics and directorial flamboyance of Ken Russell's THE DEVILS. With themes of marital strife, familial disintegration, and psychological breakdown harking back to the former two and the in-your-face grotesquerie and visceral drama reminding the viewer of the latter two, little-known but acclaimed Polish filmmaker Andrzej Zulawski tells the story of Anna (Isabelle Adjani, in the performance of a lifetime) and Mark (Sam Neill), she a bored housewife and he an overworked... something (the film never makes clear his occupation). They share an apartment in an empty, run-down Berlin with their young son. After completing an important job of some kind, Mark comes home to his family to find things changed. He drags the truth from Anna that she has been having an affair. She insists she cannot stay with him, and leaves Mark with the child, apparently to shack up with her lover. Mark tracks down the lover, a real weirdo named Heinz (Heinrich Bennent), but after insults and fisticuffs, Heinz insists he has not seen Anna in quite a while. Mark, perplexed, hires a detective to follow her from their apartment after one of her sporadic visits, which always end in chaos. The detective manages to get in and... something really strange happens. I know what that something is, having seen the picture, but on the off-chance you haven't read the other (spoiler-inundated) reviews, I'll keep it secret. Instead I'll talk about the photography, which goes a long way toward mirroring the absolutely unhinged performances, and the set design, which provides a cool counterpoint to the feverish tenor of the film's action and dialogue. It obviously isn't going to be for everybody, and in fact some will doubtless find it repellent. Writing the film was obviously therapeutic for Zulawski (who, like Cronenberg when writing THE BROOD, was going through a nasty divorce). A friend of mine said he was more sickened by the scenes of emotional anguish than by any of the film's often-stomach-churning special effects. Just keep two things in mind firstly, this isn't your typical horror flick, therefore the splatterpunk/gorehound set should stay away; and secondly, this one is playing for keeps though laced with a bitter humor, there are no light moments here AT ALL, and this should not be watched by couples on a first date, or any couple whose relationship is not secure. Also, keep impressionable children away from it. I was very impressed with what I thought would be just another dreary, over-hyped horror film and turned out to be a genuine classic (at least as far as I'm concerned). Watch POSSESSION if you like Polanski's horror films, Cronenberg's more dramatic outings, or any of Ken Russell's stuff. SCENE OF NOTE Adjani going ABSOLUTELY NUTS and having a miscarriage (or going into labor...?) in a subway station for what seems like an eternity. "},{"Title":"Not a horror film but an artwork of highest level.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Possession was made 20 years ago and I am still surprised that people still think of it as a Horror film. Before all, this film is one of the most achieved and dramatic self explored results a director can put into the screen. The acting, the camera, the story and the power of image definitively take this picture far beyond than a simple Gender film. For me this is one of the most personal films of one of the  greatest 'Maestros' of modern cinema. "},{"Title":"a film about tortured and obsessive relationship","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"   Zulawski's Possession is painfully honest in its depiction of love gone horribly wrong.  Both of these characters start the film together in a state of pain, and they end the film together, once again, only this time in a bloody puddle and spray of bullets.  Each of their deaths occur entirely upon acts of their own doing.  After they die, horrible unfeeling clones of what they once were, assume to take over the roles of now dead Neil and Adjani.The first time i saw this film i didnt know what the hell to think.  Why did they're kid drown himself and why the clones just standing there at the end?  I saw a lot of the screaming and horror to be somewhat pretentious, but after further thought, I realized it contains a lot more symbolism than i had expected(think Eraserhead or Jodorowsky)Definitely a high water-mark of films during the Eightees. "},{"Title":"Interesting but marred by theatricality","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" SPOILERS IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW There are some vivid and distinctive scenes in this film the scrap in the restaurant; the shooting of the detective's lover; the bits with the creature. Unfortunately these parts are undermined by the screeching histrionics of many of the domestic scenes, with Sam Neill and Isabelle Adjani getting very am-dram and silly at every opportunity. In particular, the guy playing Heinrich is woefully theatrical; the director apparently prides himself on his toughness with difficult actresses such as Ms. Adjani &#x97; a shame this approach didn't extend to this bloke.The standout scene is Adjani wigging out in the empty subway like she's auditioning for a Cradle of Filth video. Had the director used some restraint on the performances throughout, scenes like these might have carried more weight. As it is, it all ends up feeling a bit Kate Bush (I like Kate Bush fine, but there's a time and place).It's a worthwhile watch with some cool ideas, but all the screaming and shouting ultimately makes it feel silly rather than creepy. "},{"Title":"a brilliantly bizarre movie","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  this is one of the best and bizarre horror movies ever made.  i absolutely love it.  the amount of madness between all the characters and how they feed this madness off each other is brilliant. intense,  the relationships are a downward spiral and of themselves makes for a great movie, but add the strange monster into the mix and this is quite the roller coaster ride.  i agree, get the imported edition as i can't imagine what could possibly be cut out of this masterpiece.  i only wish there were more movies of this calibre out there.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic, Please don't waste you time on this","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" First of all I don't think that Possession is a horror film at all. simply pathetic, allegory is different I liked machinist because that made somewhat sense. But showing or using supernatural phenomena isn't artistic at all. Please don't waste your time in watching this, as director awfully presented real life events in an UN-realistic manner. I have read mixed reactions to Possession. Few liked it may be because they like movie without any link to reality, sorry did I use reality. Please excuse me as I shouldn't have used reality kinda words in review of this movie. ( God time is money and I have wasted that on this movie. feeling sad ( "},{"Title":"Warning  A horror movie for cinephiles only","Date":"7 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm pretty active on Twitter and over the years have accumulated a lot of followers on there that I would consider to be cinephiles. For those who have never encountered the term, call them amateur film scholars. Some really are film scholars with the degrees to prove it. Some write reviews for blogs and various sites and some are just fans of movie, who have gone far past the typical popular Hollywood pablum to dive into the history and culture of film. Some might call these people film snobs. In a lot of ways I would consider myself to be one. One of the horror movies that I have seen a lot of these friends tout through the years is POSSESSION and it was with anticipation that I finally was able to find it on TMC and got my chance to watch it.I can only say I'm left more than a little disappointed. This is truly the kind of movie that only hardcore film lovers would appreciate. It's the sort of movie that's an acquired taste, developed through years of watching similar films and I just didn't have the patience to sift through the layers and find the value in this movie.We begin in what seems to be the middle of the story, as the guy from Jurassic Park returns home after years spent in government service to find that his marriage has hit bottom, his wife has been cheating on him and divorce is imminent. In the middle of this rocky relationship is a young child, who displays very little natural action. He is almost an object in the movie, meant only to serve the purpose of becoming another something for this couple to fight over.Much of the movie is spent in endless conversation, sometimes between two characters and sometimes with characters just babbling to themselves. There is not a normal person in this entire film. Everyone is neurotic, obsessed and possessed by various forces. It becomes an unnerving experience for the viewer after awhile. The wife is falling apart mentally and showing obvious cracks. Her behavior is completely irrational. She screams and shouts, talks nonsense and acts in bizarre ways that tend to grate on the viewer's nerves.The husband is reacting in obsessive ways, shown frequently rocking himself back and forth with a blank look on his face. This is carried out to such an extreme that it almost felt like a farce from a FAMILY GUY skit. His behavior is, also, erratic as he tries to cope with this failing marriage. At times, he is the focal point of the plot and the only normal thing, but then goes to extremes of behavior even worse than his wife's. Then, we meet the lover, the wife's boyfriend, who is is as much unhinged as the rest of them, bouncing from an almost flirtatious encounter with the husband, to spouting college philosophy course views on life and love.Somehow, this all leads to the wife having a third (second?) affair with something out of a Lovecraft short story, a tentacled, vegetative bloody monster that feeds on human blood. She gives her body, her blood and her lovers to this new monster, who is bedridden and must be brought his dinner by this young woman. None of this is really explained and the director never intends to do so, because it's all some metaphor that we're supposed to think through about the nature of love and the forces that both bring us together and tear us apart.I'm all for art in my horror and appreciate a film that has layers for me to tear through, but this movie is too perturbing. By the end point, I want to kill all of them myself just to end their babbling and their drama queen behavior. By the time we get to the end, I no longer even cared what the director was trying to say and just wanted it to be over. "},{"Title":"Not a horror,  not a thriller,  not a suspense film... Not really sure what it is","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I had to look very hard to pull much positive out of this film. Adjani's character was compelling enough to keep me watching until the end of the movie. Sam Neill was still in the process of developing his on screen presence but is acceptable. In the end the only way I can justify this film is to look at the metaphors presented. Divorce is an ugly beast, the unhappy wife creating an idealized version of her husband. The husband wanting a version of his wife that is very opposite of what exists (she even wears white opposed to Anna's dark clothing). Even in the end when the idealized versions of the two come together the child still pays the price understanding that ultimately the war that is raging between the two of them will continue. "}{"Title":"Rx  Aromatherapy.","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I won't spoil the end because I couldn't make it all the way through. I can't even guess at what the end was like. Three-quarters into the story I was exhausted and felt like committing suicide by swallowing a string of lighted firecrackers. Somebody actually tried that once, according to Dr. Carl Menninger.So far as I can make out, the fundamentals of the story are pretty banal. Sam Neill's wife, Isabelle Adjani, has had an affair with another man, and she may be having an affair with still another at the moment. Why? The new guy is a better lover than Neill.Neill is supposed to be distraught because he loves her deeply and desperately needs her to come home and reestablish her place in her family, including not just Neill but their young boy.That's about it for the fundamentals. The way it's written, acted, and directed can only be described as freakish. Sam Neill, for instance, is usually a reasonable kind of guy, a bit of a wimp. But make up has darkened his hair and eyebrows and he looks far more threatening than the pastor who scratched his head until it bled in Cry In The Dark. Anxiety is his strong point as an actor but here he delivers outrage. His voice is a sneer. He smashes furniture. He beats his wife until bright crimson blood drips in festoons from her battered mouth. When she leaves him, he rents a hotel room and goes on a three-day drunk, after which you can almost smell him.In fact there's blood all over the place. Neill confronts the other man and takes a swing at him, only to get decked himself. But if Neill is bizarre, Isabel Adjani is plain nuts. She chatters to herself, shrieks constantly, tries to cut off her head with an electric carving knife, beats a detective with a broken bottle until he bleeds to death. What must her thoughts be? She gives us a token. Fate can control chance, but chance can influence fate, so it it fate? Is it chance? There's a lot of metaphysical flotsam in the script if you can hear it through the screams.The director seems to think all this is a superlative idea, shouting, bashing, murdering, glowering. I didn't. I kept thinking that it made the end of MY marriage look, well, what they call amicable, despite the gymnastics and the silly reports in the newspapers at the time. It seemed to me that if Neill loved her so much, he wouldn't always be batting her around and throwing chairs at her. The only love on display was between Neill and his son, and that would better be called affection. The director also has people standing much too close to each other when they speak, as if they were Arabs. If one speakers moves away, the other follows, continually violating his personal space. Sometimes, for no reason, a speaker will slowly whirl around and carome off the walls. The developments towards the end, about when I tuned out, are impossible to fit into the rest of the story. There is some kind of slimy, blood-covered organism that looks like a squid. It writhes in a bath of gore on a bed. He's exhausted, explains Adjani. He spent the whole night making love to me. It's difficult to accept this chimera as Adjani's hallucination because a detective sees it too.Well. Make of it what you will. It's like Roman Polanksi's Repulsion, a little, only on methamphetamines. "},{"Title":"the film editors should have chucked this entire film onto the cutting room floor","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This piece of rubbish is not horror, drama, art, suspense, contemporary production, acting, writing, directing, or anything whatsoever. It is simply the most pathetic bunch of garbage ever put on film. It's a horrendous waste of time, film, and money. Plan 9 from Outer Space (1959) is an Academy award winning epic compared to this trash. A rating of 1 is infinitely greater than it deserves, but zero rating is not an option on IMDb's web page.There are many efforts underway in the film industry to preserve old films, mostly through digital means, in order to prevent historical and great films from being lost to future generations. This film and all its copies should, instead, be purposely destroyed in order to prevent it from ever wasting anyone's time again. "},{"Title":"great surrealistic horror","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Mark (Sam Neill) returns home in Berlin from a business trip and his wife Anna (Isabelle Adjani) is falling apart. She leaves taking their son Bob. He finds a postcard from Heinrich to Anna. He refuses to see Bob and goes nuts when meeting Anna. After three weeks of isolation, he returns home to find a dirty and bruised Bob home alone. He meets Bob's teacher Helen (Isabelle Adjani) who looks exactly like Anna with blond hair.I really love the surreal minimalism. It's creepy and fits a horror quite well. The over-the-top acting takes a little time to get used to but that also fits this alternate universe. Heinrich is insane acting but he highlights the outlandish nature of these character. Every scene seems to be trying incite a response from the audience. As the movie progress, it becomes weirder and crazier. It's a descend into madness. It has a bit of Cronenberg, a lot of experimental, Adjani's sexual wildness and some of the craziest scenes including one in a girls' ballet class. There are some unforgettable images in this movie. "},{"Title":"Kafka Horror? Or What?","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A woman starts exhibiting increasingly disturbing behavior after asking her husband (Sam Neill) for a divorce. Suspicions of infidelity soon give way to something much more sinister.This is a very absurd film. It starts off normal, making you think it is a drama or romance gone wrong. But even early on we get something telling us there is something off. Maybe a little David Lynch, maybe a little Franz Kafka. But something not quite right. And then it starts to build. There are moments that almost seem right out of Lovecraft.This seems to be a horror film that needs to be seen, but may not be very well known in the mainstream. Based on how many people rated it on IMDb, it can't be extremely obscure, but still enough that it has to be overlooked. And it shouldn't be. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, disturbing, perplexing","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" There are other reviewers here that probably have a broader understanding of what is happening in the film and may articulate what they've seen much better than I. However, I think I can give a basic description of what this is about.A young couple's marriage is falling apart and they are both suffering, in vivid detail I might add, nervous breakdowns in their own way from the collapse. I assume the catharsis for her is the manifestation of what she perceives as the evil of her participation in the break-up of the marriage. A being very different from humans. In The Brood by David Cronenberg a wife's hatred for herself manifests itself in welts and a womb that forms on the outside of her body. The resultant births are extensions of her rage and the children that form from those births act on Nola's thoughts.Here the being seems to be undergoing a growth of it's own, a sophistication, becoming more human-like. But to what purpose? Is this the end of the world? Is it the end of all living things on the planet? Is the being God? I'd have to think about it for a while before I could make that decision.I will say this-there are many, many scenes of people screaming in agony, people suffering from mental anguish and physical pain. This is NOT a peaceful, feel-good film. This is a film of people in pain. If this isn't your thing I'd avoid it. But it isn't something you'll forget soon if you decide to sit through it. Bizarre! "},{"Title":"Domestic drama? Horror film? I doubt even Zulawski knows","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Andrzej Zulawski's infamous cult film has Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill as a troubled couple living in Berlin. After returning from a business trip, Mark (Neill) finds his wife, Anna (Adjani) wanting to divorce him for inexplicable reasons. The film chronicles the deterioration of their relationship as Anna exhibits increasingly psychotic behavior, going back and forth between the apartment they share with their son, and an abandoned flat where Mark believes her to be holding secret rendezvous with someone... or something.It's been said that Zulawski wrote this film during his divorce from his wife, which is pretty damned clear. It's difficult to explain the film in terms of plot beyond what I've already said, so I won't even bother, but I will say that it is magnificently crafted in just about every way possible. As a meditation on divorce and how people deal with remnants of what was once a relationship, the film is astounding. Beyond that, however, is the fact that it's operating on levels far different&#x97; it's also a horror film, a creature feature, and perhaps even a sci-fi thriller, all rolled under the blanket of a twisted domestic drama.Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill turn in jaw-dropping performances here. I've heard accusations of overacting in this film, and I simply don't see it. Adjani's wicked, otherworldly presence in the film is haunting; she turns from frustrated mother to murderess to madwoman writhing on the floor of a subway tunnel having a miscarriage, and you never once question her or her motives, no matter the level of madness her character reaches. She is both touching and horrifying, and the catalyst around which the entire film hinges. Neill plays her counterpart with extreme precision as well, communicating the emotions of a husband driven mad by his wife's infidelity, and an abusive control freak who will stop at nothing to possess her.Zulawski tells the story among the gloomy cityscapes of Cold War Berlin, and the photography in the film is stunning in all its greyness. It's a disturbing film in both content and imagery; the scenes of domestic violence are just as disturbing as the gruesome murder scenes and Adjani's infamous copulation sequence with the tentacled monster whom she's been nesting away. The last act is particularly compelling, mainly because of how out-there it really gets, and the ending follows in line. I still don't know what to make of it; what I do know, is that is was brilliant, and that it demands repeat viewings.Overall, Possession is a gobsmacker. Ajdani and Neill's performances are reason enough to check the film out, but there are some utterly bizarre plot twists and shocking special effects here that will satiate fans of thrillers and creature features alike. The film's duplicitous nature makes it a difficult one to really pin down, but conversely is also one of the most fascinating things about it; it's a domestic drama, and a horror film, and a creature feature, and perhaps even a love story. Regardless, the end effect is that we are ultimately as uncertain of what the film is as we are of Anna's schoolteacher doppelgänger, or her grotesque paramour locked away in the abandoned flat. In any measure, Possession is a ruthless tale of betrayal and desperation, and I think that's one of the few things Zulawski and his audience would agree upon. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Stunning cinematography.","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" People tired of modern days' shoddy color filtering and unnaturalistic post processing will most probably enjoy this classic. The photography here is so clean and crisp - with white colors being white and black being black - like I haven't seen it in ages (well, American Beauty in parts maybe coming close to this). With ample use of natural daylight, congenial and non-intrusive camera movement and angles, and excellent choices of interieurs and exterieurs this film makes for some thoroughly impressive imagery.Adjani fans in particular should be thrilled. I can't recall having ever seen such beautiful closeups on the actress, in her younger days. The contrast of black hair, fair skin and blue eyes is breathtaking. Unfortunately, I can only imagine how extraordinary the film should look like on the big screen.Thematically, this piece reminds of Polanski's apartment movies, like Repulsion or The Tenant. A bit more of the former maybe, because it's lacking any humor whatsoever. The film is atmosphere driven, and soaking with a profound, relentless sense of alienation.The latter is achieved also by means of odd dialog pieces and intentionally wooden acting, in parts resembling a clumsy stage theater rehearsal, thus constantly suggesting a second, hidden meaning to everything that's happening. So the focus is not on a straightforward plot but rather on disorientation - enhanced by the use of doppelgangers - which might put off some viewers accustomed to more simplicity.Still, the protagonists - Neill, Adjani, Bennent - are plain awesome. And Adjani's subway scene provides for a dimension of physical acting I can't recall having seen ever before.A gem, as far as I'm concerned. Highly recommended, especially to the visually perceptive. "},{"Title":"First movie of this kind","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is not a horror flick. The movie interested me mainly because of the so many mixed comments made on it. Sam Neill does a very good Job, so does the heroine. I came across this, searching for Sam Neill movies.. It was straight till one point, and suddenly there's something very bizarreWhy does this guy allow things to happen, when they were actually under his control? Of course, he tells her in the movie, it will all be the way she wants it to be.I feel that the character of Helen (the teacher) was created for being perfect mom for Bob, and the monster, for being a perfect dad for the kid. But the kid does not like them both, and so dies in the tank.. And these two clone creatures, they're left for themselves..A good movie for people who want to see 'different' "},{"Title":"Over-the-top performances and a really big surprise is an understatement!","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" It starts off as your typical but powerful drama. Sam Neill suspects that pretty wife, Isabelle Adjani is cheating. When his suspicions are confirmed, he ventures into a nervous breakdown, and soon enough, both of them are thrust into depravity, self-mutilation and other disturbing behavior. It takes a turn for the ultra-weird when he finally realizes that there is much more to the plot than just the average cheating housewife scenario.This features some of the most non-stop, emotionally charged performances ever by Neill and Adjani, and other odd-ball characters are introduced into the mix as well, coming off so eccentric that one can only determine that this was filmed as some strange, artistic freak-show of some sort. It's well directed, written and executed, but when you eventually stumble upon the explanation of all this madness, you'll understand what has kept this from being the classic that its potential would suggest. The shocking punch-line of this European eye-opener will either leave you revolted and appalled or mesmerized and amused. It was perverse enough to be labeled as a video nasty during the 1980s, and the U.S print was cut by a whopping 47 minutes sending it into doomed obscurity. The full-length cut is now available on DVD if one would be so bold. You'll definitely need an open mind and a guide to what these philosophical, art-house film-makers were trying to convey. "},{"Title":"There is really no way to summarize this film....","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I enjoyed watching this film.I give this film an 8 out of ten stars? Why? Well, it all depends on the viewer. If you don't watch a lot of films, you will rate this one automatically low. If you watch a lot of films, then your mind will be open to more possibilities of what can happen in film. With that said,when the film starts, it may seem a bit confusing and random, but keep watching....it all goes together quite well. The directing, acting,setting, and mood are in place right from the start, so when other events start happening later on, it really hits you hard..... This is a type of film that you like or you don't like. There really is no room for middle ground is this one..... "}{"Title":"LOVE IT OR HATE IT, SCENES FROM A MARRIAGE..WITH TWISTS","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  POSSESSION (1981) ** Isabelle Adjani, Sam Neill, Margit Carstensen, Heinz Bennett, Michael Hogben, Johanna Hofer, Carl Duering, Shaun Lawton. Polish filmmaker Andrezej Zulawski plumbs the dark depths of madness that is equal parts of his brethren craftsmen  Cronenberg, Polanski, Lynch, Hitchcock, and Ken Russell - in his overwrought visual imagery and metaphors aplenty in this hodgepodge of horror, insanity and marriage (not necessarily in that order) that takes the misshapen form of Gothic horror via HP Lovecraft. Neill discovers his deeply troubled Adjani (who acts or overacts a storm, you be the judge) is having an affair but not with a who, but a what (and trust me it rates a 10 on the What the F**k??!! meter) - a creature that is a manifestation of her emotions and possibly a link to the Apocalypse (!) Much of the film is grating, laugh out loud at its incredulities, wildly uncomprehensible, obtuse and maddening as is the zero to 100 acting styles of its protagonists (and Bennett as Adjani's 'human' lover is arguably the most annoying character ever on film!)  To see it is to believe it. Kudos to acclaimed sculptor/monster maker Carlo Rambaldi, best known as the creator of ET & 1976's King Kong. "},{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" To call this horror film disturbing would be an understatement. Isabelle Adjani & Sam Neill have marriage troubles that manifest themselves when Adjani gives birth to a tentacled creature and proceeds to procreate with it. A circular horror story to be sure and director Andrzej Zulawski creates a sense of dread with nearly every scene, grounding the film in reality making the freakish things that occur even more horrifying. Neill is great but Adjani is out of this world, giving absolutely everything to her role. To reveal anymore about the film would spoil it. Suffice to say, it's a little David Lynch, a little David Cronenberg and a little Roman Polanski. It's all very scary. The music by Andrzej Korzynski adds a lot and the cinematography by Bruno Nuytten is stunning. "},{"Title":"excellent!","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" hi, it's my first comment ) I am proud that such an excellent film was made by my countryman, because I am Polish, as well as Żuławski. In my opinion Possession contains such elements, which make from it an almost ideal work. It's atmosphere is really unique ad the role of Isabelle Adjani is something different than usual theatrical art. Her role is something more, something, which cannot do any other actors. She has proved that she is a rel genius. I know that Possession is a very strange film and for some of you, it may be something completely abnormal. But I was strongly impressed by it and all it's components. Although, I am unable not to say that it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Overwrought monster melodrama","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill are the most unhappy married couple in the world. They argue and scream at each other constantly. Isabelle wins in the screaming department. She is a shrieker. Isabelle runs off from time to time. Sam wonders where. She wants to be alone with her new lover. A lover that is perfect for her...This movie is the definition of overwrought. The actors are directed to be as over the top as they can. Isabelle Adjani deserves a special mention as the most hysterical woman ever put on film. The movie has a serious melodramatic vibe. It keeps the tone for the entire flick. If you're not in the mood for an explosion of emotions, this movie will grate you. I was ready for the ocean of emotion and enjoyed most of it.Speaking as an exploitation movie fan, I must compliment one of the final scenes*EXPLOITATION SCENE SPOILER*So Sam Neill tracks down Isabelle. He wants to see her new lover. He finds her screaming in ecstasy. On the bed is Isabelle having sex with a squid like monster! YAY! Her soul was in pain and her body created a perfect lover. Yes, Squid Man. I live for movie moments like that. It made all the screaming hysteria worth sitting through. There are some other good bloody scenes too.Make no mistake. This is no exploitation film. Although it does contain scenes of blood and guts. It's worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Sexy, bizarre and twisted - a compelling film experience!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Andrzej Zulawski's film is relentlessly confusing and I bet that even the man himself doesn't always know exactly what's going on; but it's such a beautiful and unique film experience that it's difficult not to go along with it; and while I understand how this movie has become a 'love it or hate it' film, I am firmly on the former side of the equation! Almost everything about Possession is twisted and/or bizarre; so I suppose it is fitting that the film was included on the British censors' 'Video Nasty' list back in the eighties. Don't get me wrong, there's a fair amount of gore on display; but the inclusion of this film on the list is yet another sad example of censorship depriving the general public of a movie that really deserves to be seen. Possession starts off like any drama following the break-up of a relationship. Mark has just returned from a business trip to find that his wife wants to leave him. Naturally, he deduces that the ending of their relationship is down to another man; and he's not wrong - but things take a turn for the sinister when she leaves her lover for...something else.The style of the movie is superb throughout, as director Andrzej Zulawski manages to create an atmosphere that is sexy, surreal and bubbling with mystery. Zulawski's use of the camera is fascinating, as by keeping everything mobile he manages to aptly convey the characters' fractured mentality, and continue to build the mystery surrounding the central plot. Indeed, the film is a labyrinth of sub-plots, and many of them don't really go anywhere - but everything in the film serves a purpose; even if that purpose often is simply making the film even more bizarre. A trio of great performances make up the movie. Sam Neill is superb in the lead role and, unlike in his more popular films, he actually gets to act here. Isabelle Adjani is scintillating in her role, and while it appears that she doesn't have much to do; she actually carries the film's biggest burden as it must be difficult to convince an audience that you're in love with something that isn't human. Heinz Bennent's role is the least weighty, but he rounds off the film nicely with a good performance. The special effects are brilliant and never go over the top; the director's use of what can only be described as a 'monster' being especially well done, and on the whole; Possession is a movie that everyone should give the time of day to. HIGHLY recommended! "},{"Title":"Among the 100 best films","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" An extraordinary story that mixes reality and fantasy by a very talented director with a specific point of view. Sam Neil comes here in his first big roll that has never achieved to his career.Atzani is maybe also at her top point. Not to forget that she gained the Best Actress Prize in Cannes Festival. From small details, like the red stockings of the homosexual detective to the broken leg of the couple's friend (Margita Kirsternsen, Fassbinder's diva)the film doesn't hesitate to take any risk crashing all the clichés. Except the three main characters (Atzani in two parts) you can not forget persons like Atzani's lover and his dying old mother, or the two detectives. Among the 100 best films. "},{"Title":"A heavily symbolic and not entirely successful European art film","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Well... reaction to this film seems very mixed... probably to a large extent because it tends to be labeled a horror film, but is essentially a European art film. Whatever. Is it good? Well, it's powerful, in it's way. However pretentious would probably be the first word that would come to my mind to describe it... pretentious it certainly is, in spades (not, of course, that pretensions are always a bad thing). This movie pretty much screams Hey, get a load of *this* symbolism! from every scene. I've got nothing against symbolism in film or literature... but I do tend to find the kind of symbolism that seems to grow naturally out of the material of real life more effective than the kind of extremely self-conscious, gee look at me variety of symbolism found in Possession. In a way it's rather a pity, since the idea of the monstrous manifestation and its juxtaposition with the troubled relationship could have been effective if more subtly handled... or perhaps I'm just saying I would have liked to see it handled differently, and saw hints in this movie... which ultimately didn't work for me. Recommended to those who like heavily symbolic European art films that you can talk about for hours (with the qualification that I don't think this is an entirely successful symbolic European art film). Not recommended at all to anyone expecting a regular horror movie, even a European one... viewed from that perspective the film will just seem confusing and pointless. These comments are based on the uncut version - heaven alone knows what sort of a hash the cut-down US release came out as.  "},{"Title":"Weird, weird, weird!  (and not in the good way)","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I read an article recently about the scariest movies you've never seen and this one was on it. So I sat and watched this movie. The title was the same, the actors were the same, but I'm not sure I saw the same movie as they did. The movie I saw was bizarre beyond belief. Characters go into convulsions for no apparent reason. That this all occurs in an apparently depopulated Berlin (or perhaps some other large eastern European city) is one of the most bizarre things. Then the ending has no connection to the rest of the movie -- again with no explanation. If you like strange European movies that make absolutely no sense, then this is the movie for you. Otherwise avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"pretentious decadent excess","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Isabelle Adjani (Nosferatu the Vampyre) begins to laugh madly in an empty subway tunnel after standing under a statue of the crucified Christ, splattering a bag of milk and eggs against a wall, writhing around in a dance of insanity, while meeting the sexual needs of a blood-caked, tentacled creature.  Gay detectives investigate as a young Sam Neill spins around in an office chair and flicks a light switch on and off repeatedly while his wife's (human) suitor does Kung Fu on him during a random visit...  For the first hour, Possession is tolerable and even randomly compelling, but then you realize there's a whole other hour to go...  All the Gothic settings/imagery are wasted on a rambling, incoherent story, where character consistency, plot cohesion, and comprehension in general go bye-bye.  Neill will play his role straight one second, be a bumbling Marx Brother the next, or act like a violent sociopath...etc., etc.  The only thing that kept my attention during this indecipherable glob of decadent excess was director Zulawski's busy camera movements, but that's no reason to subject yourself to Possession.2/10 "},{"Title":"Too ridiculous to be taken seriously","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Pssession, which is most likely supposed to be an allegory of the emotions a bitter divorce can create in people, fails on most levels. I will grant it that it does catch the emotions, to a certain degree, and I can see how some people, particularly those who have experienced it themselves, will find power in this.However, despite certain insights, what destroys this is the presentation. From an intellectual step by step analyzes, it could most certainly prove a revelation, but taken as it actually is I can't help shaking my head.The performances are flat out disgusting. All the actors seem to do is make odd noises and gurgles, say retarded nonsensical lines and walk and look as if mentally disabled. Most is not even aimed at comedy, though certain aspects most certainly are. The mixture seems utterly displaced.To make it perfectly clear - to me it fails no matter what it attempts. It's fails as an emotional allegory, it fails as the moment of zen, it fails as body horror, it fails as nonsensical art-house and it most certainly fails as a comedy. The reason I put out all of these possibilities is because it was so god damn horrible I can't see where it could possibly fit.Why make something this bad if you aren't even trying to be funny? Why mix in retarded comic relief lovers? Why walk around in a constant trance? I get the concept that you change as a person and that who you are is destroyed, but when you mix in a ridiculous plot, shoot outs and detectives you have gone in the wrong direction.I know this film has gotten a lot of fans over the years and that it will most likely remain a classic for decades to come. I'm happy it made a positive impression on these people and wasn't a complete waste of film - but to me this is one of the worst films ever made. "}{"Title":"Probably better seen than described.","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Possession is a remarkably intense, offbeat, and surreal drama, a truly personal project for Polish writer / director Andrzej Zulawski. He used his divorce and treatment by the Polish government as the genesis for his vision. That vision is of the mind boggling deterioration of a marital relationship, with themes of obsession and psycho sexual problems. Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill play Anna and Mark, the couple in question. She now wants a divorce, and he's determined to find out WHY. It turns out, she does have a lover (Heinz Bennent), but that's not the only issue in her life. She becomes more unhinged, and Mark eventually discovers that she's got a pretty creepy secret that's come to murderous life.There's no question that this will be a hard slog for some viewers. Although trimmed of over 40 minutes for its American release, it runs over two hours in its uncut form, and it's NOT the horror film - at least, it's not JUST a horror film - that people might be led to believe it is. (Although it's gory and slimy enough to suit some tastes; Carlo Rambaldi did the creature effects.) It does take a dark and macabre turn in its second half, but it promises to be weird for the duration, early on.Zulawski obviously encouraged his actors to truly go for broke in their performances. Neill and especially Adjani tear into the scenery like they haven't done before or since, and again, the acting might prove to be a turn off for some in the audience. Bennent is good, and amusingly off kilter, in his supporting role, and Michael Hogben is an appealing child actor as Mark and Annas' boy Bob.There are interesting moments and conversations throughout, to be sure. The filmmaking is certainly slick. Zulawski managed to create here a unique, memorable entertainment that dips its toes into the waters of both art-house films and genre cinema, and does so with some style.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not dull, but abrasive and confusing","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I feel I should mention that I saw the uncut version of this movie, and not the notorious American version that was cut by about forty minutes. But after watching this full length version, part of me kind of wished I had seen the cut version, because it would have ended a lot quicker. The first third of the movie is almost unbearable, because it almost all consists of the character screaming at each other and inflicting great abuse. The remaining two-thirds of the movie is somewhat easier to sit through, but it is filled with many unanswered questions, most of the characters being unlikable and unsympathetic, plus moments that are quite frankly embarrassing to view (such as the notorious sequence that takes place in an underground subway station, especially since it does not know when to quit.) I will admit that the movie has a few pluses - the Berlin backdrop (while the wall was still up) is fresh and eye- catching, the creature (made by special effects artist Carlo Rambaldi) is intriguing to look at, and writer/director Andrzej Zulawski puts a great deal of energy in every scene so you'll never nod off. And Zulawski definitely made a movie that is never boring and gets you curious as to how it will all end. I have to admit that despite the problems I had with this movie, I found myself to a degree captivated. In a way I am glad I saw this one of a kind movie... but I know that it's highly unlikely I will revisit it any time in the future. "},{"Title":"It certainly has a lot of metaphors and subtext.","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" During a secretive business trip away, Mark learns that his wife Anna is growing restless in what he believed was their happy marriage. Upon his return home, he learns from her that she wants a divorce. They both go through a series of different emotions related to their situation, Mark's which is generally obsessive about learning why Anna, who he still loves, wants the divorce, and Anna's which is generally increasingly histrionic in getting away from Mark. Caught in the middle is their infant son Bob, who Mark uses as a gage to Anna's mental state. Anna states that her want for the divorce is not because of another man, but Mark finds out that Anna has a lover named Heinrich. In the meantime, Mark also meets Bob's teacher Helen, who looks exactly like Anna, but is her polar opposite in temperament. Starting a relationship with Helen lessens his obsession with Anna. But as Mark and Anna's encounters together reach more emotional and violent levels, Mark, with help of a private. Roger Ebert wrote If one would try looking for comparisons that best describe Żuławski's sensibility, it would probably be wisest to position him mid-way between Brian DePalma and Ingmar Bergman. For all his love of cine-hyperbole, which often makes his movies feel like mere strings of 'grand' sequences, Żuławski doesn't share DePalma's slickness - or his heartlessness, for that matter. Instead of reducing his cinema to formal pyrotechnics, Żuławski remains deeply engaged with the secrets of the human soul, which he perceives as being forever torn apart by violent contradictions. In that alone, he's a deeply romantic director a passionate explorer of what's most self-destructive about us. And yet, one feels him strive for an elation that would prove redemptive enough to help us carry on despite our deeply divisive desires. Even if Possession was once described as a movie about a woman and a octopus, there's no mistaking the fact that deep inside, Żuławski's cinema is all about searching for grace. I mean it seemed like a film about the deterioration of a marriage but then seemly out of nowhere this monster/alien, whatever appeared without much of an explanation. I don't know really what to make of it. It certainly has a lot of metaphors and subtext. "},{"Title":"Not a Movie You're Likely to Forget","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A supremely strange film. It's infamous for two reasons For being one of the 72 Video Nasties and for being the movie where Isabelle Adjani has sex with a squid. Yep, live-action tentacle porn.The film is rife with visual symbolism. This was written while the director was going through a bad divorce, which is obvious. Sam Neill comes home from an undefined espionage mission to find that his wife is acting extremely erratic and demanding a divorce. Things quickly get stressful. Their relationship deteriorates wildly. It's not too long before what appears to be a drama pitched at a hysterical emotional level evolves into a horror film about madness and slimy monsters from another place.Neill and Adjani spent the entire film screaming. Chairs are tossed, fridges are emptied on the floor, self-mutilation with electric carving knives ensues, people are beaten, lots of other self-destructive behavior follows. It's a mess of emotional trauma. Neill, near minutes in, lies on a bed, wearing the same clothes for weeks, seizing, running around in a daze. As the story goes on, he commits arson, theft, and murder. Adjani is in emotional turmoil throughout. In the second most famous scene, she stops in an alleyway, hysterical. She rolls around in filth, cries and wails. Finally, she coughs up milk, while blood and green slime flood out from under her dress, in an inexplicable miscarriage of&#x85; Something. Oh yeah, before that, she's masturbates in a church.The insanity extends to the rest of the cast. Adjani's (human) lover is a weirdo named Heinrich, a New Age guru. He hits on everybody, even Neill. He talks in an odd accent and is constantly moving his arms around. He does drugs and knows jujitsu throws. He also lives with his dowdy, suicidal mother. Bob, the son, is always making siren noises, when he isn't testing how long he can hold his breath. Adjani's best friend, Margit, wears a cast and romantically hits on everyone too. There's the world's most incompetent private eye, who is extremely bad at following people. A character known only as the Man in Pink Socks might know something about what is going on.The only normal person is Bob's teacher, Helen&#x85; Who is also played by Adjani. Why? Anna babbles about how there's a Sister of Chance and a Sister of Fate inside of her, warring for control. There's a bizarre scene of her torturing a girl in a ballet class. There might be something about the Madonna/Whore dynamic, since Anna abandons motherhood in favor of a bizarre, sexual relationship. Neill falls for Helen and she immediately fills the mother role to Bob.There might be some Lovecraft influence. Carlo Rambaldi's monster is exactly the kind of creature HP wrote about. It's greenish, transparent, blood and organs flexing inside. It develops tentacles and feeds off of people's emotions. Eventually, glassy eyes form. You could throw adjectives around like proboscidian, semi-amorphous, or squamous to describe it. Moreover, SPOILER ALERT, the movie ends with this creature taking on human form. As he floats in front of a green glass door, visually illustrating forces pushing through one world to another, the lights fade and bombs are heard outside. It's an apocalyptic image and suggests this madness has a world-wide effect. Assuming I'm not just applying my own meaning to an inscrutable mess.And that's just the tip of the iceberg. There's so much insanity in Possession. It pretty much defies critical analysis. The performances, as out-of-control and high-pitched as they are, are quite good. If nothing else, Neill and Adjani commit fully to the rigorous material. The movie is well-shot. Zulawski's camera roams in creative ways. The electric score is softly unnerving. It's certainly not a movie you're likely to forget any time soon. You'll probably think it's either indecipherable pretentious nonsense or a very deep statement. I think I liked it, as much as it's possible to like a film like this. "},{"Title":"I need to see the Japanese version...","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is the third time that I have viewed the 81 minute  version, and believe me when I say that much has apparently been cut.  Entirely too much is missing to give the film any real coherence or continuity.  Watching it was like piecing together a puzzle without all of the pieces--you know what the finished picture looks like (kind of), even though there are large holes.  Adjani's acting was superb, but in my estimation, Neill was emoting like there was no tomorrow; I could smell ham in my living room.  The restaurant scene was opposing ends of the acting spectrum--Adjani convincing, Neill acting as if he were on his very first audition; it was laughable.  And he never really got better, he just spent most of the movie mugging for the camera and grimacing at the right moments.  He reminded me of Sally Field.  I need to see the long, un-cut version, but I don't know where to get it.  But I have the feeling that this film is really saying a lot, it's just that in the 81 minute version what it is saying is being said in a whisper.  Can anyone tell me where I can get the full-length DVD?  "},{"Title":"A Film That Stays With You Long After You Have Watched It","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I first was Possession many years ago and to be honest I really wasn't sure what to make of it. I ended up buying the video, *I have yet to find it on DVD* and re-watched it several times. Each time the film becomes a little clearer as to what is happening, I am not talking about on the surface, but what is boiling underneath the surface. The movie has some incredibly powerful images that really do stay with you, some of them are downright disturbing. Of course the film is carried, not only on the strong visuals but on the superb acting of both Sam Neil and Isabelle Adjani. Some of their scenes together are brilliant, both going way over the top as they play a married couple that are divorcing. Some of the scenes in the movie are quite frightening at time, but this is no horror movie. In fact I am hard pressed to be able to categorize it, not that I think there is any need to. I think some people might be put off by the at times, rather confusing scenes, but trust me, stay with this film, it's a hell of a ride, but worth it in the end. "},{"Title":"Hmmm, I wonder if Clive Barker saw this?","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Mark (Sam Neill) returns to his wife Anna (Isabelle Adjani) in Berlin and finds things have changed. She seems distant and he suspects she has been cheating on him. His suspicions are correct as he finds out that she has been sleeping with German transcendental weirdo Heinrich (Heinz Bennent) for the past year. But when Mark confronts Heinrich, he finds that Anna has been sleeping around on him too and that this new person in her life is what is causing her psychotic behavior.I've heard strange things about this Andrzej Żuławski film for years and finally got around to watching it last night. It definitely lived up to its reputation. The first hour or so is a truly painful examination of the breakdown of a marriage (the director stated he was going through a divorce at the time) and the second hour is a totally surreal metaphor for the reasons people leave each other. Basically it is the perfect date movie for David Cronenberg. Neill is very good in his role as the husband who goes a little bit nuts, but the real standout is Adjani as the wife who goes a lot nuts. She is really impressive with her crazy, vacant stare that quickly morphs into bouts of rage (the bit where she got psycho in the U-bahn station is flat out amazing). On a side note, I was shocked at how much Clive Barker seems to have ripped this one off for his story The Hellbound Heart and the subsequent film HELLRAISER. The theme of a wife trying to literally grow a replacement for her unaffectionate husband with the blood of strangers is identical. Also, the visual style of the apartment is almost identical to the house in HELLRAISER. Shame on you, Clive! "},{"Title":"The Girl and Her Tentacle...","Date":"21 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Possession is a surreal horror film that draws similarities with the works of David Lynch and early David Cronnenberg mixed with a healthy dose pure insanity. The follows the destructive marriage between two, more or less, completely insane people. And then all the fun overacting, gore tentacles and other surreal nonsense you can ask.The acting is absolutely brilliant. Isabelle Adjani does the crazy wife wife so good and so well, she makes Kathy Bates from Misery look normal. It's a great performance were the actress throw herself into the role and gave everything she got. Sam Neill gives equally crazy performance and drives this film with his manic behavior. The rest of the cast is equally eccentric and strange. The only mildly sane character was the creepy green eyed Isabelle Adjani who played twin schoolteacher. Everyone was great and Adjani is the sole reason to see it for her phenomenal performance.The direction by Andrzej Zulawski is also brilliant. He doesn't rely so much on the visuals as more on the camera movements and the way he shoots his his actors. It's not as visually impressive as Giallo films, since it looks just like a boring 70's and early 80's urban drama, but the great cinematography and editing perfectly creates a surreal atmosphere without the crazy visuals. Also the visual effects are impressive and doesn't look dated, since they are used very well. There is plenty of gore and blood and has some truly disgusting scenes. The look and the way it's shot, perfectly works with the crazy performances and the story.If you ask me whether Possession is straight up horror film or a bizarre art-house drama with some Cronnenbergian elements, I couldn't really answer. It certainly shares the elements of both and works either way. It's an effective horror film with some genuinely shocking moments and also has a lot of subtle symbolism and underlying themes to work as something more smarter and effective. It looks like that this film will require multiple viewings to fully appreciate what it has to offer. As for plot not making much sense or general feeling of being slightly confused about everything, you should view it as a David Lynch film. Imagine if this is a dream or nightmare and just try to understand from that point of view. If you do that, you might enjoy it and be less annoyed by the things that make no sense.Possession is a must see for anyone who likes art-house exploitation. If you like films like Bronson, Lady Vengeance, Oldboy, Antichrist, Clockwork Orange, Videodrome, Brood or anything else that comes from this subgenre of film you will enjoy as much as I did. It's both a nasty and disturbing film and also has brain to it. It's everything Rob Zombie and Eli Roth tried to do but failed so miserably. "},{"Title":"Yes, I liked watching it, but... ***SPOILERS***","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Possession is, amongst myriad other things, a highly derivative film. The 'plot' or 'story' insofar as one would care to interpret it as such, comes across as a hybrid of Cronenberg's 'The Brood' with a warped mimicry of 'Kramer vs Kramer', significantly infused with both thematic & cinematic elements of 'Repulsion' - that may well be intentional given the nationality of the director - and, as a showstopper, the ending of 'Kiss Me Deadly'. To say its influences are eclectic then, is only to pay due homage to the uniqueness of the resulting viewing experience.If you like it is a 'body horror' epic belonging to the minor subgenre mainly populated by Cronenberg films. In this respect it seems that 'Possession' is concerned with bringing human existence, and its continued evolution, full circle. It is concerned not only with our preoccupation with the pursuit of the meaning of life (via existential dialogue), but with the essence of life itself; its creation, transient nature; and cyclical properties. References to circles and cycles abound. During the film, each character voluntarily or otherwise concludes their cycle of life. Characters spend a lot of time in corridors, tunnels and stairwells of varying description. They interact by walking in circles within immediate surroundings or even around each other. When they are not doing so, the camera does it to them. Circles signify endings, as characters die from attack via bottle, taking circular pills, and drowning in circular toilet bowls. Marc's relinquishment of his secret service duties, breaking the circle, seems to bring about world (circle) ending results.Whilst all this might seem too laborious an interpretation of perceived symbolism, it's impossible to dimiss the notion that what you experience is not meant to contain a heavy metaphorical significance. Zulawski himself commented that as far as I'm concerned, I don't make a concession to viewers who think that a film is made only for their enjoyment and who know nothing about their own existence. Ironic then, given his 'artistic' motivation, that he chose to go against advice given to him regarding screen treatment of the 'creature'. It is here that the film quite ungraciously falls apart.Until then, we are fully aware that what we are experiencing does not represent 'reality', but it is given a humanistic context by the stark, ascetic East Berlin setting. The subtle assurances of a 'real' landscape are enough to pacify us into becoming absorbed into the unfolding psychological drama. The extraordinarily intense physicality of the two leads is so effectively gruelling that it is impossible not to feel vicarious pain at points such as when they respectively cut themselves with an electric carving knife.But then Zulawski breaks the cardinal psychological effectiveness rule - he shows the monster. As competent and convincing as it may be, its intrusion crosses the very fine line the film has thus far been treading with our suspension of disbelief. For as much as we can accept the bizarre behaviour, we all know that monsters don't exist and can therefore take cynical, complacement comfort in the realm of fantasy when we see one - regardless of whether we are watching an art film or a fantasy horror film. Zulawaski in fact went so far as to defend his position on this by contradicting his previous (above) artistic aspirations and proclaiming that if you invent it, then find a way to show it.. otherwise do something else. Certainly Neill's emoting upon discovering Adjani's 'creature' does not convey anywhere near the dramatic conviction of his earlier, hyperspasmodic portrayal of a nervous breakdown within his own apartment, in fact seeming rather indulgent and self-parodic by comparison at this point.If taken as 'body horror' film, then one would expect there to be elements of physical violation and transmutation, right? Yes, but this is already implicit with the film's title, and also self-evident within the true climax. We do not need to see what Anna has 'created' - it is enough to witness the effect it is having on her and those around her. Without it, her murderous mayhem would seem more profoundly desperate and the appearance of Marc's doppelganger at the climax would be far more shocking and, crucially, acceptable within the ensuing chaos. The SFX scenes also have a smugness about them which compounds Zulawski's problem in following other filmmakers into such murky waters. As well as comparisons with Repulsion, its also worth noting that Cronenberg was able to achieve body horror in 1988 by simply using human duality and the same actor twice, without any gunk, recognising that one or the other would have done. Zulawski would have been wise to exercise the same sort of restraint - 'one or the other'; but not both; here.It is also quite possible to take the film as an epic religious parable for the agnostic. Anna feels that God is in her - providing another reference to the title. She talks of a mysterious, spiritual sisterly relationship that has caused her much pain and anguish, whilst Marc encounters Helen, a dead ringer for his estranged wife. Anna then falls out with Jesus and has a miscarriage of something which one assumes was never of human origin in the first place (Mary). She copulates with a serpent (Eve). She gives birth to the antichrist (if you interpret the climax as the apocalypse), the doppelganger of Marc, which is highly convenient given that Neill's previous role had been as the adult Damien in The Final Conflict, the conclusion of the Omen trilogy. This theory makes credible the introduction of 'Helen' (also played by Adjani) at such an early stage - as a sentinel of some form of evil sent to assist with the destruction of Marc, and await his nemesis. The final shot certainly bears out this controversial theory. If, as suggested in flashback, Anna has already 'given birth' to Helen, her mental disintegration seems all the more credible and potent. The film's Cold War backdrop also fuels this theory, given that most modern-day Holocaust believers were convinced that WWIII - an inevitably nuclear war, and the Judgment Day end of the world as prophesised in the bible - would be the result of the Cold War.This doesn't excuse the visual silliness of Possession that has already been explored. There is no denying, however, that it is an ineluctably compelling viewing experience. There is of course always a 'third way', which is that Zulawski's vision represents a director who wanted to make a film about a woman who goes mad and has sex with an octopus. "},{"Title":"A review for both the 80 & 123 minute versions.","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Both versions * * out of 4. (Though I would say that I liked the 80 minute version slightly more)123 minute version-Sam Neil is shocked to discover that his wife doesn't greet him with the warmest of welcomes when he returns home from the war. He is shocked a little bit more when he discovers his wife is slipping into mental illness. What shocks him most is that she is having multiple affairs, one of which is with a tentacled monster. Her affair with the creature sends both of them into a murder spree to cover up her actions.At 123 minutes the film is way too long given the material. The same metaphors, same sybolmism could have been told in a much quicker narrative. The material is too thin and too shallow to justify such a long running time. The tour de force acting by the entire cast grows tiring even punishing after a while. Some parts of the film are way too slow while other parts move at a brisk pace. Plus as everyone has mentioned some parts of the story can be confusing and require several viewings before you can get them. However, the gross special effects are terrific and the ending is an all out shocker filled with nasty graphic violence, sleazy sex and plenty of weird situations. Too bad only a few select scenes prior to the finale match the quality of it.80 minute version-Scenes have been rearranged, other scenes have been cut out all together and the violence has been toned down. Still it really isn't as confusing as other people try to make it out to be, but the editing in this version is pretty bad overall. Still at least with this version the acting is sensational and never grows tiring and it better sustains the twisted tone of the film. It moves quickly enough and keeps you entertained throughout. "}{"Title":"Bursting inner madness","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I admire Żuławski for his courage to make such an uncompromising raw film about the bursting inner madness of a couple on-the-edge-and-in- the-abyss of disintegration (extrapolating his own reality at the time personal identity in crisis, marital problems and exile from his homeland); love grows from a small seed, then there's the chemistry and the beauty and the magic... and sometimes things don't go as planned or wished, the flower simply dies, or, as in Possession, turns carnivorous and devours from the inside the relationship; its roots, once pillars of stability and trust and devotion are metamorphosed into slippery grotesque tentacles, feeding on fears, frustrations, (self-)doubts and guilt; the violent physical and psychological convulsions are the implacable manifestations of a transition towards new selves because cohabitation and living are not possible anymore into the old skins drenched in the toxins of a decomposing affection; the withdrawal from love (as god and as drug) is volcanically devastating; ironically, Anna is the maker of her own evil in order to survive, putting herself through the mental and physical flagellation to counterweight the void, the arid wasteland which the loss of love really is; for both Anna and Mark martyrdom is necessary as a way, as a chance to salvation "},{"Title":"I love this film.","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I just saw a new print of this film, I had been wanting to see it for a long time but even trying to get it on Netflix is impossible. I'm glad I saw it on the big screen. Sam Neill is amazing in this film, and I'm not a huge fan of his, but he brings a haunting and violent and brutal and loving energy to his portray of the scorned husband. And, of course, Isabelle is a powerhouse. The last scene in this movie is one of the most effecting, yet most befuddling endings I've ever watched. I can't believe a movie has taken the top spot on my movie list from Days of Heaven, but here it is. Find this movie, watch it, revel in it. And then pass it on. "},{"Title":"A horror movie that dares the viewer to think","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A intelligent horror movie is somewhat of an oxymoron, but this is more then a horror movie. It is a movie that plays on many levels and provokes the viewer to think about what is happening.the perfomances are top notch Isabelle Adjanni has such fluid motion, her scene of possession in the subway passage is almost like a ballet.Sam Neill is also excellent as the husband posessed by love for his wife. Heinz Bennet is top notch as the other lover of Anna his perfomance will send shivers up your spine.In a way he reminds me of Hannibal Lecter from Silence of the Lambs. the ending to me was very thought provoking and unexcepted will have you scatching your head in bewildenment. I only saw the cut U.S. version I understand the longer uncut version is much better. "},{"Title":"Spare yourself","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This has to one of those highly rated movies that are nothing but absolute garbage. I have seen some very bad movies and this movie deserves to be in my worst 5 ever movies seen. The story of the film is Sam Neill is husband of Isabella Adjani. He comes home after doing some secret job which remains disclosed throughout the film. After he comes back, Isabella starts behaving like she's nuts. She has an affair with some German dude. One thing that annoyed me, was she screams at the top of her voice throughout the film for no reason.She screams and breaks things in the house and behaves like a total lunatic. It's shown in the film that she is possessed and has sex with some monster like creature, which is created by her own evil personality according to the film. Sam Neill also gets fascinated by his son's school teacher who exactly looks like his wife, but her behavior just opposite of his wife, and as desired by him (Sam Neill). Really, I didn't understand how one's imagination can create monsters,and to top it all that particular scene when Isabella has sex with that gruesome creature is very unpleasant.Both the main characters in this film are good actors, but they are told to overact in this film. Especially, to watch Isabella Adjani's hysterical character was painful to watch. The only thing that made sense to me was the kid commits suicide in the end. Really, he had no other alternatives left, as we see his parents are screaming and fighting throughout the film. It is completely idiotic film, some people say again that it has some symbols which act as metaphors. But, screw all this. We watch film to be entertained not to be annoyed. I think I am lucky I downloaded this film and watched, I was going to rent his film otherwise. If you like films with unnecessary screaming and overacting, and some gratuitous nudity watch this film. Otherwise spare yourself. "},{"Title":"Garbage, Gibberish and Artsy-Fartsy.","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" foreign films obtuse plot lines, irrelevant scenes, dialogue that seems to have been translated from its original tongue to Chinese, then to Swedish, then to mongolian, then to nepalese, then.. well, who cares? the symbolism of the film shoots in one direction, the acting somewhere else, the dialogue, well, i mentioned it already, the point? there is no POINT, which IS the point.. it is an experience, much like up-chucking an evening's consumption of beer or whatever is your poison, into a friend's porcelain facility of the residence long-remembered, preferably forgotten.. i've seen bugs bunny cartoons that made more sense and little rascals comedies that were more rewarding.. at least there was a moral at the end that was comprehensible and fun to watch.. the horror, the devastating impact of this film was watching it from start to finish.. why did sam neil accept this role? did he lose a bet? was he double-dared by someone? did he owe money to someone in the production team, and this would square everything? he should have mowed lawns, fried burgers or worked as a greeter at wal-mart.. those things people can forget; this piece? like pictures on the internet, it will last forever.. sam should buy all the prints and negatives and hold a beach party where the evidence is burned as the guests dine on lobster and sushi.. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the least enjoyable of all the 'nasties' (and boy, there are some bad films on that list).","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The inclusion of Andrzej Zulawski's Possession on the official video nasties list during the 80s (thanks to a couple of scenes involving goop, blood, mucous, and Isabelle Adjani) has forever guaranteed that it will be of interest to avid horror fans; a shame, because if any of the 72 titles deemed unsuitable for public viewing by the BBFC actually deserved to be wiped from our collective memory, its this piece of highly pretentious, extremely irritating, and very tiresome art-house dreck.Sam Neill and Isabelle Adjani play a married couple whose relationship is in tatters, Adjani having found herself a new lover or two, one of which is a slimy, many tentacled monster born of her id (or some such existential claptrap). Two hours of almost unbearable histrionics from the stars, interspersed by the occasional FX scene courtesy of Carlo 'ET' Rambaldi, this garbage is supposedly symbolic of the director's troubled state of mind as he struggled to work in the repressive environment of the Eastern Block while his own marriage fell apart. But while Possession may be a very personal piece for Zulawski, a cathartic movie that helped him to come to terms with his political and marital issues, I found it nothing but an utter bore from start to finish. "},{"Title":"One horrible mess of celluloid.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is awful. I bought this movie a long time ago, after hearing that the original U.S. version was cut by 40 minutes. Sounds good, right? Europeans are more open with sexuality, so it doesn't really come under harsh censorship. I finally watched it last night. One can't even describe how bad this movie is. I know that European horror movies don't always have a completely linear plot structure. I rather enjoyed The Blood-Spattered Bride. This is an entirely different realm. Possession is just a big two hour mess with no real point. Can someone please explain what the hell happened in this movie? I can't even remember the last time i was so disappointed in a movie...I love the work of Sam Neill. I liked everything else I had seen with him in it. This could possibly be the worst movie I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Uncut Version","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" OK, I've seen a uncut version, that is available in Brazil, in DVD free zone with a bargain price, but I did not understand the end. I am in doubt if his wife's clone was possessed before,and for this reason she looks like identical, and the reason why the new SAM (clone)went at the last scene to the apartment. The wife's clone has a different bright in her eyes at the last take, why ? For me is not clear also, that the boy committed suicide at the ending. I did not understand for what reason SAM returns to the lover's mother house and shoot the police. The movie is good, but I believe it was bad edited, with a lot of unnecessary scenes. Sam and Isabelle act very well. "},{"Title":"See it for those scenes...","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those films that I read about when I was a kid  I was 10 when it was released, and it was covered in genre magazines like Starburst , and was fascinated by. Just the bizarre images suggested a whole other nightmare world available on film - seeing the trailer for Eraserhead was another good teaser.Occasionally you'd get to see some of these incredible strange films, either on a friend's VCR - we didn't have one at home - or on late night TV, and they'd make a big impression - Xtro, Demon Seed, Harpya, Eraserhead, Videodrome - though they all became absorbed later into a growing knowledge of film and film history, and contextualised as bad or good films. POSSESSION, however, slipped through the cracks until 1998.*SPOILER ALERT! *SPOILER ALERT! *SPOILER ALERT! *SPOILER ALERT! *SPOILER ALERT! *SPOILER ALERT! Now that I've seen it, I'm happy to say it's almost exactly what I imagined it would be, and it sits in my memory in exactly the same spot it occupied before I saw it - meaning I still regard it as a weird horror film whose seriousness and disconnected strangeness give it an otherworldly quality. See it , as I did, for Carlo Rambaldi's hideous monster creations a strangely sentient patch of fungus that really does look like it's alive, a squid monster in two stages of development that Isabelle Adjani sleeps with; and see it for the scene where Adjani noisily and messily aborts something she and the monster have conceived, in a subway tunnel.I suspect the director had other intentions beyond horror, though. He seems to take his melodramatics terribly seriously  he was in attendance during the screening I saw, and got up and walked out when there were audience titters at some of the sillier scenes; also, as a side note, the Quay Brothers were a few seats away from me, which tells you something about POSSESSION's influence and its more serious audience .With its blue-on-blue colour scheme, and endless marital shouting matches, total paranoia  Sam Neill's male lead is a spy who doesn't trust his wife - and that's just the starting point, and identity crises galore, it seems to have something to say about ... identity? trust? the state of the world? Maybe there's some allegorical meaning to the monster I've missed but I think monsters are scarier than allegories, so I prefer to take it at face value.So... a bizarre art-house film with some potent images. Take this film even a fraction as seriously as it takes itself, and you'll get a few chills and take home some disturbing moments, to be sure. For the strength of those moments, I give it a 6/10 rating.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, disturbing, but essential","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Ukrainian director Andrzej Zulawski's first and only English language film, is a strange mixture of horror and drama. The film begins as Mark (Sam Neill) and Anna's (Isabelle Adjani) marriage is deteriorating. What proceeds is a series of increasingly brutal arguments, as Mark unravels Anna's infidelities that she has been embroiled in over the past year. Their son, Bob (Michael Hogben) is caught in between the feuding couple. As Mark breaks down in almost infantile ways to begin with, he employs a detective to follow Anna to find out who she has been having an affair with. Here he meets Heinrich (Heinz Bennent - giving a fantastically deranged performance as zen superior; stumbling around in a strangely amusingly contorted way), who has been at least one of the persons Anna has been sleeping with.The first half of the film sees Mark's paranoia escalate, as he attempts to discover Anna's secrets. Each of their meetings are fraught with anguish and violence. As the secrets unravel, it becomes apparent that Anna has a clandestine apartment, where she has been seemingly having sexual relations with a tentacled monster. What transpires is a vicious hatred of men, as Anna murders and dismembers men, perhaps to feed the bed-ridden monster.The ambiguities within the text of the film are great. As the protagonist in the film is male, are we to consider that his instability after the breakup creates these base images of his wives monster lover? Has she simply become a monster herself within his broken mind, so that he projects these images of male slaughter onto her? It has been stated by the director that at the time of the creation of the film, he too was going through a marriage break-up. Perhaps these are his fantasised thoughts on the realities of this very real trauma.Isabelle Adjani gives an incredibly powerful performance, moving from serene, to a very animalistic frenzy of outbursts. She won the best actress award at the Cannes Film Festival for this film. The film also became embroiled in the British video nasties debacle, as it was placed upon the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) list of banned films. A strange inclusion amongst the hard-core gore films. The film plays mostly as a dark drama, a fantasised male projection of women's infidelity. It has been compared to celebrated relationship break-down films such as Ingmar Bergman's Scenes from a Marriage (1973). In it's depiction of body horror, it has been likened to David Cronenberg's The Brood (1979). I wondered, within the moments of horror within Anna's secret apartment, whether Clive Barker may have been influenced by the film to create the fundamental idea of Hellraiser (1987). Anna's tenticular lover may feed upon her victims to create a whole new being. In the finale of the film, she presents the dying Mark with a doppelganger, stating, It is finished now. We could read this as the total end of the relationship. Or, we could see this as her way (within his own mind) of creating a superior yet visually similar man. A man devastated by the break-up may not be able to deal with the idea of his former wife living with a totally different man, so therefore he wants to create a man that is his mirror image. A shockingly forgotten film, portrays the destruction of a relationship in all of its debilitating reality. For a period after such an upheaval, nothing really seems real. Perhaps the film has largely been forgotten within the UK because of its inclusion into the video nasties list. A bunch of films that most people would have no interest in viewing. And those interested in the gore-filled nasties, would probably be disappointed with the beauty of the film. It is almost a perfect portrayal of devastation, and the implications, and horrors projected onto the fall-out of long term relationships. Beautiful, disturbing, but essential cinema.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"No","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" So where to start? I know there will be a lot of fans who jump at me for this, but I didn't like it. The first hour is pretty solid, but the second hour is just really terrible. It ruins the whole thing. I'm all for a crazy, hysterical film like this, but this is no Polanski and the whole thing reeks of self-importance like I haven't encountered in many horror/psychological dramas. The actors all give it their all, and Adjani especially is mesmerizing to watch. The only fault that lies with these actors is the fact that they signed on to do this. It could have been a truly interesting metaphor for marriage and its destruction, but the script just absolutely kills its momentum in the second hour and what is supposed to be an intriguing allegory just seems like a waste of time. There's a scene in the subway with Adjani's character that's truly a hoot to watch, if only for the laughs of the pure insanity in this thing. You know it went in the wrong path if that's the most memorable thing about the second hour, or the only thing that has really stuck with me in the hour since I finished it. "},{"Title":"A Curates Egg","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" According to some reviewers here, there are two sorts of people who comment on this film, those who 'get it' and award it high points and those who don't 'get it' and denigrate it. My problem is that I 'got it', I understood the symbolism and mostly what the director was trying to say but I still thought it was a crap movie. That wasn't where my difficulty ended though. I was trying to decide whether it wasn't a good film or if I just didn't like it. To explain explain my point further in musical terms, you might like the music of Beethoven and Bach or maybe your taste is for Keith Emerson and Rick Wakeman or perhaps for Miles Davis and Tubby Hayes. If you are an affection-ado of classical music you may say the music of Keith Emerson has little merit or you may say Keith Emerson has talent coming out of his little finger but I don't like what he does. And so it was with Possession. Did it have little worth or was it personal preference? Let me get into the movie a little bit. The Sam Niell character Mark was weak all the way through. He was besotted beyond the point of rationality. Yes you can have your lover just so long as you don't leave me. The Isabelle Adjani character Helen showed what a fine actress she can be when directed properly. For her Anna character, Zulawski wanted serious overacting and that is exactly what he got. Full marks to Adjani for making a career call and deciding to do it. It was like a classical trumpet player performing in a bad Mardi Grass band. The monster, which wasn't all that frightening or even creepy, represented Anna's (or Zulawski's) depressed state of self loathing. The miscarriage scene where the bad acting reached its zenith, was Anna (and Zulawski) exorcising their demons. Not being a woman and never having witnessed a miscarriage, I do not know if women do actually bleed from the mouth at such times. I suspect it is highly unlikely. The scene reminded me of a bad John Wayne movie where even if he gets shot in the leg he still bleeds from the mouth.Having said that, there were some fine pieces of cinematography in the film. The shots of deserted streets around dawn representing Anna's feelings of isolation and loneliness. The buildings austere facades mirrored her feelings of sinister unease.The film ends with scenes of death and redemption. We always assume that knowing what we do, we will make a better job of things the next time around but that may not always be the case. If there is reincarnation it might not be for the better. The sons actions at the end of the film foresee a state of hopelessness that the granted re-run of the situation will not fare any better than the first.Zulawski has confronted and raged at his own daemons with this film. I thought The Third part of the Night was more difficult to follow but a better movie overall. Possession was somewhat of a curates egg, good in parts but generally not. My vote is 4/10 "},{"Title":"The most terrifying film ever made.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I didn't bother to read any other comments posted on this film because I just knew there would be nothing but very judgemental people saying how much they hated it.I do admit the film is very badly edited with lots of scenes beginning but not actually leading anywhere and almost 90% of the happenings in it are completely unexplained,like a particularly confusing scene where Neil wakes up with a beard that he didn't have previously and when he asks someone how long he was asleep for she replies 3 weeksand the fact that it is never explained why/when/how Adjani was even possessed in the first place,nor is it seen.There are many other things that make as little sense as this and one woman-a teacher that looks identical to Neil's wife-who simply disappears from the story altogether.But apart from all these things,the film is absoloutly terrifying.The director achieves this with very dark,deeply troubled characters,all of whom are a little crazy,very dark,spooky sets,in particular Adjani's apartment where the creature lives,completely isolated streets in outside sequences and Adjani's standout performance as the disturbed wife.Definately the most terrifying movie I have ever seen,so it's a shame the version that actually makes sense is so rare. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Possession is a silly, often repulsive French-German co-production that is interesting only as an early vehicle for Sam Neill. The film is bizarre, to say the least, and seemingly could have become a cult film if it were any good. The American release is obviously butchered from the 120 minute European version, rendering it incoherent. Events and characters pop up randomly, making us confused instead of scared. The acting is way over the top (I hear Adjani actually won a Best Actress Award in Europe for her performance, which is basically her running around screaming and slashing both herself and other people). Possession ends in a twist that is too idiotic to even bother spoiling. Whoever thought this subject matter could pass as watchable entertainment, much less be scary, was sorely mistaken. Maybe if they release the full version on DVD soon I would have a better opinion. Then again, I'd have a better opinion of the film if it were thrown in a bonfire.  "},{"Title":"I love Sam Neill but this is a BIG piece of doo-doo!","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  No one is a bigger fan of Sam Neill than I am.  I almost went berserk when I saw My Brilliant Career and the Reilly  The Ace of Spies series within weeks of each other -- the first time I had ever seen him.  And I have been an avid, one would almost say possessed, fan ever since.  That said, I can't help but ponder some of his career choices, although 1981 was at the beginning of his career, so that probably accounts for his taking this role.  This stands -- beside the execrable Night Train to Venice -- as the worst movie of all time, Sam Neill or no Sam Neill.  I actually bought this sight unseen on eBay for not much money because I try to collect everything Neill, and I WILL keep it, but I will never watch it again in an unaltered state.  Neill is, as always, very good and, God love him, I give him all the credit in the world for sticking to the old adage  A job worth doing is worth doing well.  And he does look good young, handsome, and lean.  But no amount of cutting or editing could have saved this exercise in mediocrity.  Isabel Adjani doesn't help matters.  She is SO convincing as a certified nut case that I have to wonder if she isn't really nuts.  There is such a thing as good acting, but she's so over-the-top that it only makes a bad situation worse.  The whole thing stinks to high heaven.  Sam Neill, if he has the right material, is all a body could hope for in a leading man.  But no one could sit through this, not even Boopsie. "},{"Title":"AUGH!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Quite possibly the worst film I have ever seen! This coming from a HUGE Sam Neill fan! I tracked down the uncut edition, and that proved to be a big mistake! It only prolonged the torture! The special effects... oh, I'm sorry... did I say special effects? I meant the FEEBLE ATTEMPT at special effects! They were so pathetic, I couldn't even laugh at them. The plot had holes to make the Grand Canyon look like a ditch, the dialogue was so poor... the term non-sequitor does not even BEGIN to describe this flick! Somebody please tell me what Sam was doing in this film? He's so much better than this! (Please tell me rent was due, Sam!)  "},{"Title":"Great Direction and Performances Wasted","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Possession (1981) ** (out of 4) Andrzej Zulawski's incredibly bizarre film centers on a husband (Sam Neill) returning home from a spy job and learning that his wife (Isabelle Adjani) is leaving him for another man. The husband begins a mental breakdown before meeting his son's school teacher who looks exactly like his ex. While this is going on the wife has given birth to a deformed creature. I've heard people call this SCENES FROM A MARRIAGE with a touch of Roman Polanski thrown in. I'm not exactly sure what the film was about and I'd say that everyone watching it will have their own feelings on the matter but I do think the director was trying to show the mental breakdown of a marriage gone wrong. With that said, I think most art house fans are going to be disgusted by the gore and violence and I think those wanting the gore and violence are going to be bored by the so-called story here. I must say that I found the story to be incredibly boring because not for a single frame did I care about either character. Clocking in over two-hours made me feel quite bored because I didn't care for anything I was looking at and there were several times where I was just downright bored with everything going on and I must say that I just didn't connect with anything happening. I think the film drags on for no real reason and I'd also add that in the end you really just feel as if you've wasted your time. The only thing that keeps this movie from being a complete turkey is the fact that it contains some terrific direction and performance. I thought Zulawski did a marvelous job with the actual look of the film because there are some very stylish things going on. Just take a look at the sequence near the start of the picture when Neill is in a room meeting with some men. The 360-degree shot is extremely well-done and there's another great one where Neill is just rocking back and forth in a chair. This visual quality really makes for a nice atmosphere. Adjani is extremely good in her part as you certainly believe you're watching someone lose their mind. The same with Neill who handles his part with ease. The two of them together are quite effective but it's just a share the story didn't give them more. "},{"Title":"There will be time for explanations later....","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" ....or so I thought when things stopped making sense. Unfortunatly this never happened, and the half dozen people who saw this with me might agree. Ostensibly a horror film, this decidedly weird and arty European flick is actually much more of a domestic/marital drama with a sinister edge. An almost unrecognisable Sam Neill plays the cuckolded husband, whose wife has formed two extra-marital affairs, one with a man, one with...well, an octopus like creature (yes, thats right) which she hides away in an empty apartment on the other side of town. The film made its name in the eighties under the British 'video nasty' scare, with its (relatively mild) scenes of violence and extra terrestrial sex, but far more interesting is the analysis it offers of a disintegrating relationship, and the resultant mentality which leads to possessive pyschosis. However the psychological aspect of the film eventually takes a backseat to an ending which, having something to do with dopplegangers and aliens makes NO SENSE AT ALL since throughout the monsters purpose has supposedly been to justify the marital breakdown, therefore no explanation for its presence is deemed necessary. In consequence while containing many positive elements the film is an unsatisfactory whole, one which would have benefitted enormously from more narrative coherency and perhaps some slightly more restrained acting.2 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A Truly Dreadful Movie","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I hired this movie expecting a good art house/cult horror movie that would capture my attention, however i was wrong, dead wrong! There is nothing good about this movie at all. The editing is extremely bad and annoying, it is nowhere near as gory as people make it out to be, the acting is suprisingly bad especially from Sam Neil and even Isabelle Adjani who i like, it dragged on and tried to create an arty feel to it but failed miserably. The only good idea about this film was giving it an eerie political message by setting this film in east berlin before the fall of the wall. Basically avoid it. "},{"Title":"Confusing bit of nonsense","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Confusing piece of work.  I was not sure what was happening or why at many places.  People seem to jump around - and scenes flash by - as if the editing was all wrong.  I saw the hacked-up cut-down video version, but from comments I have seen the full-length version does not make much more sense. Didn't scare or entertain me - just confuse and make me wonder why I bothered. "}{"Title":"Pretentious endurance test","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" ***No Spoilers***(see it for yourself!) Took me quite awhile to acquire a copy of this film (I'm just so glad I got it through a library loan and didn't have to actually pay for it). Been wanting to see it for a long time because I've heard it referenced many times when researching films described as out there (for want of a better term) that veer off the straight-and-narrow narrative path to tell their tales.I really wish I could report that this was a hard-to-find treasure that I could recommend everyone seek out immediately at all costs to see...but sadly, no. I will give it props in the acting department--Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill give it their all, and I do mean ALL--venturing into deep recesses of their psyches that I'm sure was not a pleasant journey for either of them. It's the talent of these two actors that made me continue to watch this gory endurance test to the bitter end. There's a particular scene of Adjani enduring a miscarriage in a Berlin subway corridor and writhing, screaming, flailing, and oozing about that lasts nearly 3 minutes in one continuous take--for sheer dedication of a lead actress to wallow in the demands of a director, it reminded me of the similar torment that Monica Belluci suffered in Gaspar Noe's Irreversible).Just too bad that the rest of this film couldn't match the effort of it's lead performers. I'm still trying to decide if the director meant for the actions of this film to be taken literally, which would require a leap of faith across an abyss as wide as the Grand Canyon, or symbolically, which is far more probable since most Eastern Bloc filmmakers in the later half of the 20th Century all had the tendency to disguise their ultimate statements in symbolic terms (necessary, considering the oppressive regimes which mandated this kind of approach).The best compliment I will concede to this film is that it's tone occasionally hits notes of repulsive eerieness and squirm-in-your-seat uncomfortability that can only be compared to the work of David Cronenberg when he's firing on all psychologically deviant cylinders (such as in Crash, Naked Lunch, and Dead Ringers). However, Cronenberg always seems to remember that stories need a MIDDLE as much as a start and finish--and this film really has no middle. At it's core, this is a story about sexual obsession...but the real question becomes...exactly whose? At the start it seems to be about Sam Neill's character, but then it veers toward Isabelle Adjani's character being the one who's cuckoo, then by the end, it seems to be both of them. And there's the fact that this couple has a young son, who winds up in the last shot of the film face down in the bathtub, a place where he seems to spend a lot of time throughout the film (drowned there? Who knows? You'd think a young child would take on a greater importance in the tale, but not for this f*cked-up couple of wackos, or its director).And last but certainly not least, I'm sure many have heard of the notorious creature (designed by the great Carlo Rimbaldi, who was just a few years removed from his ground-breaking work on Alien when he showed up here) that seems to be some kind of manifestation of the wife's infidelity, or the husband's jealously, or perhaps both, who first appears as a bloody amorphous mass and eventually, after a few juicy murders under its belt, evolves into a tentacled squid-like creature that is discovered by Neill copulating with Ms. Adjani... well, it was 1981 and I guess showing something like this WAS ahead of it's time for then, but I just wish I could say it was really there in the sense that it wasn't just designated to be a symbol, that is, just thrown into the story to symbolize INFIDELITY or JEALOUSY (with all caps and all the pretension that signifies)....I think some auteur who was educated during the glory days of the big bad communist bloc must have seen Boris Vian's The Empire Builders at some point in his youth... "},{"Title":"Worst film I've seen since Myra Breckenridge","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Just received the DVD in the mail (thank God I only rented it) and it was everything I could do to keep from taking it out of the machine and smashing it into little bits.  I don't care about the imcomprehesebility of the film, but would someone tell Isabelle Adjani to just SHUT UP!!!!  She screams throughout the entire film.  The dialouge is obviously written by someone who speaks limited English.  The horror of this movie is in the watching these actors screach throughout the film.  After 20 minutes I wanted someone to come on screen and put a bullet through their heads.  The scenes are poorly put together, the acting is little less than screaming punctuated by mannered psychoses.  Everyone involved should be sacked. "},{"Title":"Married&#133;with Monstrosities!","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is&#133;ahem&#133; a bit weird, maybe, and it's plain easy to see right away why it divides audiences into two extreme categories. Possession is a textbook example of the so-called love-it-or-hate-it film and there's really nothing in between! On the 1-10 weirdness scale, this movie easily gets a rating 20, as it is a non-stop series of bizarre events, demented characters and incomprehensible plot twists. If you add to that a whole lot of gore AND an attempt to stuff the film with symbolism, you get something that becomes incredibly hard to rate and masterpiece or turkey-trash purely lies in the eye of the beholder. Personally, I'm a big supporter of strange cinema (films like Sweet Movie or Santa Sangre are highly listed among my favorites), but even I thought that writer/director Adrzej Zulawski exaggerated with the constant adding of new and always odder elements. There's absolutely nothing that makes sense here and, eventually, the story lines and sub plots begin to contradict each other and the ambitious screenplay simply becomes one giant pseudo-artistic MESS! The entire story revolves on the troubled housewife Anna who abandons her husband Mark &#150; upon his return from a very long business trip &#150; as well as her eccentric lover Heinrich with no apparent motive. Both gentlemen don't handle this rejection very well, but they eventually discover that Anna left them for a piece of homemade fungus that has its own apartment in the center of the city! Yes, fungus! Not just any type of fungus, but fungus that feeds on private detectives and their gay lovers. Mark replaces his lost wife with her own doppelganger while Anna has a miscarriage in the subway and floods half of Berlin with blood and pus. Are we confused yet?? Well, in case you're not, there's a lot more weirdness where this came from, but I can't possibly bring myself to list it all. If you expect at least a minimum of logic when watching films, I strongly suggest you skip Possession. It's either that or continuously asking yourself the question Why is this happening? Like&#133; Why are people cutting their own necks with an electric knife? Why does the self-acclaimed world sex-champion still live with his mother? What's up with the guy in pink socks? Why does it look like there are only 5 people living in the whole of Berlin? &#133;And about 10.000 other why-this & why-that situations, but you get the idea&#133; Possession often succeeds in being confusing and tedious at the same time (which really isn't a good combination) and the whole thing is very ugly to look at. It got labeled as a Video Nasty shortly after its release in Britain, due to some very explicit and sick gore (notably the aforementioned miscarriage sequence), but don't expect another Cannibal Holocaust or Maniac, as this is pretentious gore. Pfff&#133; Isabelle Adjani's monologues seem to go on forever and I'm not quite sure whether Sam Neill knew what he was doing half of the time. Don't worry, Sam&#133; It's not your fault. "},{"Title":"A Huge Deception","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Anna (Isabelle Adjani) leaves her house, her husband Mark (Sam Neil), her son and her lover, to live with a strange creature in an old building. What a huge deception this movie was for me! I have been trying to achieve it for many years and finally it was released on DVD in Brazil. However, the story is so weird, non-sense, confused, disgusting and bizarre, that I cannot understand how it can be a cult movie. The impressive performance of Isabelle Adjani is something spectacular, stunning, and outstanding. It is rare to see a beautiful actress like her in such a role. Sam Neil also has a great performance, in the very beginning of his career. Honestly, the film has a great direction, photography, actors and actresses. Technically it is wonderful. It recalls David Cronenberg and Peter Greenaway styles, and even David Lynch. But the problem is the confused plot about obsession, looking like a nightmare and not making much sense along 123 minutes. In the end, I was very bored and disappointed. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) `Possessão' (`Possession')  "},{"Title":"Utter, Utter gufftrap","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Some complete ball-bag came into my work place and recommended this film to me, he smelt of boiled cabbage and tripe. I'm nigh on certain that this inbred arse farmer's dentures were giving me the come on.Anyway, I watched this garbage under the ill-advised supervision of a one-eyed fruit bat and last weeks issue of 'By-Jingo he's got a big Clock' monthly expecting something of a European master class in high gear filth. What i received was in fact a bile infested self-indulgent crap bonanza of the highest order.The direction stank like the ratatouie at my girlfriends sisters' last tupperware party, musky and familiar, whilst the script itself could have been written by some dole reaping cudgehole who's not left the confinements of his house for 10 years, drawn all the curtains and jerked off to all the naughty bits from Dario Argento's back catalogue.Suffice to say I'd sooner lick the inside leg of someone who's just completed a 50 mile run than have to sit through another minute of this dire horse-abortion of a film. "},{"Title":"Pretty gross","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It´s kinda gross when you see a scene with Isabelle Adjani having sex with a monster that looks like a squid or something strange like that. But I must say that the actors are very good, especially Sam Neil. But that doesn´t get the movie very far. It gets a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Sludge","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Poor, poor Sam Neill, a pretty solid actor in a piece of crap movie. Words to describe this movie would include melodramatic, overacted, pretentious, and for a large part of the overlong two hour running time so deathly boring. The perfomances are SO over-the-top. But hey, I hear the French LOVE this film. So it can't be all bad right...wait, wait yes it can. Before someone pipes in to say oh, he must have not 'got' the film, keep in mind, that I 'got' Naked Lunch a FAR superior film. Oh yeah, it seems that mass hysteria from the movie has carried over to the rating some IMDB users gave this cinematic waste.My Grade D- "}]