[{"Title":"Animation is not just for kids and male teens.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"120 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I waited a bit before contributing a review for I wanted to read a few reviews to see if what I thought would be true...and it is. So let a lady step in and point out a few things for those who are interested in viewing this film.This film was actually started in 1978, and finally released in 1981 and I was there to see it. It is based on the adult fantasy sci-fi America version magazine Heavy Metal. The original origin of the magazine is French, very adult, very graphic, very sci-fi, lotsa nudity BUT excellent and compelling storytelling.The key phrase is Adult, Fantasy, Illustrated.Just because its a 'cartoon', does not mean its for kids.Looking at the Animation now in 2002, its dated. In the mid-80's Japanese Anime has set and kept raising the bar on this kind of adult anime genre. This early mainstream American attempt was good, for it had a good model, the magazine, Heavy Metal.If Heavy Metal had waited to be produced until now, with all the advancements on technology, animation, graphics, art we have at our disposal, I only wish that the popular artists and storytellers of the magazine Heavy Metal were involved. It would be a different film indeed, and it would get an NC-17 rating. The only pieces that were trademarks of the Heavy Metal magazine were Soft Landing/Grimaldi Den and Taarna.More specifically, Taarna WAS exactly what the American Heavy Metal Magazine was all about and uncredited was Jean Giraud who has done a hell of a lot of work in the magazines history....both American and French versions is the cause for that. You may know his work by his other more famous name, Moebius.If you ask me, the film could have gone one of two ways just like the magazine story by story without the silly connector of the green orb, or with just the one story of Taarna. Back in 1978-1981, I would assume the Studio Executives could not venture into that manner without getting squeamish about box office so what we have is a tip-toe cross blend between the two. On one level it works, on another it does not. Its a viewers decision.I like this 1981 version of the movie Heavy Metal, although a few stories didn't live up to the level of the magazine content..or were not presented as such. Neverwhereland should have NEVER been cut, I would have taken it over Captain Stern any day. Neverwhereland seemed to be along the lines of the magazines' content, too bad it wasn't included. Harry Canyon I could have taken or left, made no difference.Additionally, I JUST loved Den and B-17. I loved the soundtrack, for Metal is America. But just like the magazine, it was adult, it was fantasy, violent at points and contained nudity. It was early R Adult Animation American Style. (I know...Fritz the Cat was an X rated Animation that instead of using humans, used felines. Besides, Fritz was Ralph Bakshi's ticket outa Disney Animation and Robert Crumb is the 70's counter culture!)This film, Heavy Metal was also marketed as the male dream Metal Music, Sci-Fi, Fantasy, Nudity.But wait...why was I...a woman interested?!?!?It was Taarna. This was the first animated woman in an American made mainstream animated adult feature film that the world needed, that the world depended upon, that was tough, that was independent, not a size four but voluptous, and was still very sexy. Nowadays, it may not mean much, but in 1981 when I was a teen and saw this, it meant a lot. Snow White, she wasn't and was she the Wicked Witch of the West either and that is how women were portrayed up till the release of Heavy Metal.When I read a few stories in the adult magazines Heavy Metal from the late 70's to the early 90's, both American and French versions, the women in the majority of the stories, although drawn by European men and set in uncertain futures, wear...and in many cases...don't wear at all... and involved in explicit sexual situations..the women WERE the heroes!!All in all, keep in mind Heavy Metal was made for an adult audience, just like the magazine. It's not just for the teenaged guys, its not just for the stoned and metal heads, its not just for the trekies or x-filers. It's a good effort for its time but if you're expectting work like in late 80s/90's Japanese Anime like Katsuhiro Ã”tomo's Akira, etc., or 2001's Taro Rin's Metropolis remember its 1981, and American, and NOT quite like its name sake Magazines, but its still good. "},{"Title":"Incorrect.","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"80 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A lot of reviews of this film are negative, and I spotted one that said this film is merely for the older generation. Well, I just have to say that this comment is incorrect. I myself was not produced until after the film had been around for some years (*raises hand* 1986), and I highly enjoy this wonderful flick.I got the chance to sit down and watch the movie with my mother when I was 13, and I instantly fell in love with it. I love the way the green orb links the stories together, the humor, the music, and yes - even the animation.True, the animation is nothing compared to the stuff that's out there these days, but this film is a classic. If you don't understand the film's stories, then you clearly weren't paying attention. Heavy Metal magazine is fantastic, and this movie is nothing short of the magazine's beautiful creativity.Also? Comparing Heavy Metal to its sequel, Heavy Metal 2000, is simply wrong. Heavy Metal 2000 pales in comparison to the original. Sure, the soundtrack is amazing, but in my opinion, that's about it.  "},{"Title":"Cult classic.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"60 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Gerald Potterton's Heavy Metal is definitely one of the best animation movies ever made.It has everythingviolence,sex,nudity,humor and intelligent story.Great soundtrack by such hard rock/heavy metal groups like Black Sabbath,Nazareth,Devo,Blue Oyster Cult,Journey,Sammy Hagar,Trust,Grand Funk Railroad etc.My favourite segment from Heavy Metal is B-17-this one is dark,bloody and creepy!My highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"TAKE A RIDE...ON HEAVY METAL","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my all-time favorite flicks is this animated anthology of stories all bound together by this glowing green Locnar, an orb of evil unmatched in all of time and space.  The animations are terrific Harry Canyon about a futuristic cabbie in NYC, DEN about a nerd who is transported to a far off land as a hulking muscleman, Taarna about mankinds last stand against the power of the Locnar, and others. My personal favorite is the short B-17 about a bomber in WWII and the horrible power of the Locnar. As I mentioned previously, the animation is spectacular...reminding me of a day when not everything was computer-generated.  Features Cheap Trick, Riggs, Nazareth, Black Sabbath, Blue Oyster Cult, Devo and others on the kicking soundtrack. Overall, a classic of the 80's one that shouldn't be missed at any cost. My Highest Recommendation. "},{"Title":"A true Cult Classic, and well worth seeing.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to admit, I loved this movie from when I first saw it.  A true cult classic, and second in Midnight Movie viewing only to Rocky Horror.I think one reason that this movie was looked forward to for so long is that it was unavailable for so long.  I remember around 1984 when a release was planned, and a dispute with the multiple musicians caused it to be pulled.  But thankfully this was finally resolved, so we can own it again.I bought a pirate copy when i was in Japan in 1988 (On Beta no less), and almost played it to death.  And having been a fan of the comic when I could find it, I think it told the stories very well.  I admit that the green sphere link was silly and did not work, and that the original carousel concept would have been much better (watch the DVD release for details on this).  The simple fact that I have bought 3 copies of this time and still own all 3 of them says something about the movie.Harry Canyon, Den, and Taarna are the be the most remembered pieces of this movie.  Each in itself could even be fleshed out to hour long length, and still be enjoyable.  So Beautiful, So Dangerous is enjoyable, and Harold Ramis and John Candy steal the show with their voices (Hey man, you got any of that plutonium niborg left?).  And I admit, the film version of the story was MUCH more enjoyable then the original one from the comic.PS  Watch for the cameo of a destroyed USS Enterprise.  I love pointing that out to people that miss it. "},{"Title":"Fine showcase of a great magazine.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Heavy Metal, the movie, is great encapsulation of Heavy Metal, the magazine. Heavy Metal was and is an anthology of the best of American and European comic writers and artists.  It has carried the work of such masters as Moebius, Druillet, Liberatore, Bernie Wrightson, Howard Chaykin, Walt Simonson, Arthur Sydam, Enki Bilal, Richard Corben and Simon Bisley.  The movie adapts some of the great stories from the glory days of the magazine.The movie is much like the magazine a mixed bag of sci-fi, fantasy, horror, comedy, and erotica.  Some of it is good, some not.  My personal favorites are Harry Canyon, Den, Captain Sternn, B-17, and Tarna.  Harry Canyon is a sci-fi tale of thugs, femme fatales, and cynics ala Dashell Hammett and Raymond Chandler, transported to the future.  It has been cited as an inspiration for The Fifth Element, by some; but it bears some resemblance to the works of French artist, Moebius, who created designs for The Fifth Element.  Moebius also factors into Tarna, as the entire look of this sequence is almost xeroxed from Moebius' Arzach stories.Captain Sternn is the anti-hero/criminal from Bernie Wrightson, co-creator of Swamp Thing and illustrator of a beautiful edition of Frankenstein. This is a fun sequence, full of comedy and chaos, much like the Sternn stories. Sternn has more than a slight resemblance to a certain Kryptonian.B-17 captures the flavor of the old EC horror comics, like Tales from the Crypt and the Vault of Horror.  The sequence features design work from Mike Ploog, a horror comics master and artist of Marvel's Man-Thing. It has a nice creepy, decayed atmosphere and lets the visuals tell the story.Den is adapted from Richard Corben's tales.  The melon-breasted women that Corben is known for are on fine display here.  We also get the humor that also permeates Corben's work.  John Candy was quite good here, giving Den the perfect adolescent voice.Tarna is the most lush sequence, with sweeping vistas and the use of rotoscoping for the character.  It is also quite violent.  Again, it owes a great deal to Moebius' Arzach.So Beautiful, So Dangerous is pretty forgettable, with juvenile humor and boring animation.  Soft Landing is fairly pointless, except to serve as a title sequence.  The whole linking device is unnecessary, as the segments bear little relation to one another and are stronger as separate entities. The soundtrack is great, with most pieces capturing the flavor of the animation.Ultimately, the uneven stories and lower budget animation holds this movie back.  The movie is best viewed as an anthology, rather than a complete story, and with a forgiving eye to the budget.  With that said, it's still entertaining and an important work of adult animation. "},{"Title":"Growing Up","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd imagine a lot of people commenting on this site are within a certain demographic and age group as am I.  I notice quite a few comments from people who were in their teens when they saw this movie and identified with it and now who cannot fathom it.  To them I say, it's not for you now.  It was for you then.  This is one of those movies that is aimed at  people from the ages of 16 to 20 who are just starting to see what the world is about and what a difference they can make if they try.  It's about having dreams and pursuing them and it's about making sure that you don't get carried away in the process.  It gives you an idea of what awaits you in the wide world and yet it tells you that if you hold true to what you are and make things happen you will get what you want out of life in the end.  Now, the animation isn't as good as even the old Batman/Tarzan Saturday morning cartoons of the 70's, but it has style for days.  The soundtrack has become a top selling CD although released years afterwards.  The voice characterizations are as good as any animated film ever made. And last but not least, it has John Candy, who, in my book, just has to show up to make a movie.  Whether you stay to watch the rest of that particular movie is entirely up to you ... 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure, it's not the best animation by today's standards. However, for when it was made the animation was top notch. It does have a great voice cast and the music is great. I graduated highschool in 1991 with long hair down my back. I went to my senior prom wearing a Motley Crue t-shirt--so nothing more to be said. I think anyone like me must appreciate Heavy Metal at least on some level. I also appreciate it for the art work and the small details. Watching a beatiful warrior godess slowly don her ridiculously sexy red outfit before wielding a sword to gut a bunch of mutants--it couldn't get any better. The movie as a whole, a conglomerate of strangley unrelated yet joined stories, makes this movie a cult classic--as true as they come. Perhaps that is what is lacking in Heavy Metal 2000--truely a sad attempt as a sequel, with no potential of ever being a worthy classic to sit on a shelf next to the original. The FAKK sword is the coolest thing about the movie, besides the Simon Beasley cover art. At least I think that's Simon's work and not Royo's--perhaps someone could confirm that. Okay, but not to stray from the topic of Heavy Metal (1981)---take it for what it is--don't over analyze it. Sit back, have a few laughs, poke fun at it, and at the end I think it's worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Comic fantasy ... and nothing more","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Trying to con Harry Canyon in futuristic New York City (big deal), striking a deal with Den, having sex with a robot (or, as he puts it, using mechanical assistance), bribing Hanover Fiste to testify on your behalf in court, praying for Taarna to save you. None of these things have anything in common except for the Loch-nar, a green ball supposedly containing the essence and entirety of evil.It doesn't matter if none of this makes complete sense or if it's even that good in terms of plot construction. This is Heavy Metal!The concept of this 1981 animated experiment is two-fold show good and evil in a constant state of flux, and bring to life the richness and erotic energy of the popular animated magazine. Add to that some science fiction, a slight reverence for history (in the beautiful ghoul scene in the WWII B-17) and a juvenile insight into drugs and sex, and you have the definition of my '80s youth culture.I was one of those kids who'd sneak an issue of Heavy Metal, found on the magazine stands in the local drug store next to the grocery store where my father did his weekly shopping, inside another magazine and stare at the drawings, looking for some violence and humor ... and naked women with bi g breasts. I did the same thing whenever I got my hands on a National Lampoon and, if I was lucky, Hustler.It's pre-pubescence at its hormonal best! And seeing it again as an adult brings all that excitement back to me. Every story, every piece of music ... God, every shot for that matter -- they all bring me back to being 10 years old and wrestling with my older cousin as she tried to block my eyes when the chick Harry Canyon picks up off the street strips and slides into bed with him to the tune of Journey's Open Arms.This movie wasn't meant to be cinematic greatness. It was meant to be a boy's fantasy and his coming of age. Sometimes we take these things too seriously. A good movie is a good movie, and a good memory is a good memory. Let's leave it at that ... and let me get a whiff of that stuff the spaceship pilots have lined along the floor... "},{"Title":"Trippy little piece of art; waycool soundtrack to boot","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  HEAVY METAL (1981) **1/2 (Voices of  John Candy, Eugene Levy, Joe Flaherty, Harold Ramis, John Vernon) Featuring songs by  Devo, Sammy Hagar, Blue Oyster Cult, Donald Fagan, Stevie Nicks, Nazareth, Grand Funk Railroad, Journey, Cheap Trick, Black Sabbath, Don Felder, Riggs, Trust  Landmark animated adaptation of the cult magazine Heavy Metal is a dizzying soup of noir, science fiction, fantasy and sex vignettes all strung together by the shared element of a glowing green meteorite of pure evil called Loc-Mar which by the way has parallels to the glowing suitcase in Pulp Fiction and the eerie car trunk of Repo Man; just food for thought that threatens a little girl as it recalls the stories for her.  Somewhat dated by today's standards but nonetheless a trippy little piece of art.  It's recent release on video (1996) was held up primarily by music rights for all the songs being used; includes THX sound and an excised segment Neverwhere Land that was cut due to running time.  Executive produced by Ivan Reitman (Ghostbusters).  Directed by Gerald Potterton. "}{"Title":"A real funky blast from the 80's past","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Made right before the buzz-crushing ultra-conservative religious right backlash against the gloriously loose'n'libertine permissiveness of the 70's took hold, this wonderfully wild'n'raucous animated sci-fi/horror/fantasy anthology film gleefully wallows in excessive graphic violence, crass leering objectification of the amply proportioned female form (buxom ladies only, please), and a wickedly funny line in cheery low-brow humor. This movie sure ain't politically correct -- and that's exactly why it's such a hugely enjoyable blast from the funky early 80's past.An evil glowing orb called the Loknar (the supremely sinister and velvet smooth voice of Percy Rodriguez) spreads its malign influence throughout the decades and galaxies. First tale, Harry Canyon - Cynical cabbie Harry (marvelously voiced to weary perfection by veteran character actor Richard Romanus of Mean Streets) gets involved with a sexy young lass in a bleak and rundown futuristic New York. Second yarn, Den - A nerdy teenager (affably voiced by the late, great John Candy) winds up on another planet where he's transformed into a bald and brawny behemoth. Third romp, Captain Sternn - Sleazy scoundrel Captain Sternn stands on trail for his many heinous indiscretions. John Vernon scores strongly as the angry voice of the prosecuting attorney. Fourth opus, B-17 - A very creepy and gruesome World War II zombie outing. Fifth vignette, So Beautiful and So Dangerous - A couple of wacky aliens and their goofy robot buddy abduct a sassy hot Jewish chick. Harold Ramis and Eugene Levy are hilarious as the Cheech and Chong-style stoner pilots of a giant smiley face spaceship. Candy once again is a delight as the voice of the charming and amorous robot. Sixth outing, Taarna - A lethal and lovely mute warrior woman mixes it up with a vicious horde of nasty marauders.Boy, does this picture rate highly as the ideal guy flick we've got a fantastic roaring rock soundtrack (Cheap Trick, Black Sabbath, Devo, Grand Funk Railroad, Nazareth, Blue Oyster Cult, Journey, Stevie Nicks and much more), plenty of sidesplitting sophomoric humor, stunningly voluptuous and often naked women, a handy helping of gore, a nice smattering of soft-core sex, a blithely breezy'n'carefree tone, and no pretense whatsoever to get in the way of the infectiously trashy fun. The strikingly stylized and varied animation is suitably vivid and garish throughout. Elmer Bernstein's lush majestic orchestral score likewise hits the spot. A real cool treat that's wholly deserving of its cult status. "},{"Title":"Heavy Metal","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Series of sci-fi animated tales revolving around a powerful evil green orb named Loc-Nar(who serves as narrator to a young female earthling it plans to possess). Set to a rock soundtrack with many(if not most)of the tales loaded with profanity, sex & graphic violence. Lots of animated boobage. There's even alien drug use(a cocaine type drug called Nyborg, we actually witness the hallucinations the aliens have while driving their ship to a space station)! Perfect entertainment for the Midnite Movie crowd, but could be offensive to women and of a moral authority. Quite lurid and grotesque at times..this is not for all tastes.Tales include a New York City cabbie of the future, with a disintegrating beam loaded in his car for anyone who tries an attempt to harm or rob him, who gets mixed up with a mysterious dame holding the orb and gangsters desiring to possess it, a young boy transformed into a muscular warrior who must defend a blond dame against a seemingly unkillable king and evil witch both vying for the orb, a navy crew being turned into creepy skeleton monsters by the orb during WWII while the fighter captain must abort for a spot on Earth where other ships have wrecked not knowing what lies in wait for him, a crew of aliens responsible for human mutations thanks to the orb in their possession with a robotic captain who kidnaps a Jewish hottie hoping to marry her, and a battle between orb infected human monsters and a female warrior from an ancient race.Some really great animation, especially in the final tale. "},{"Title":"Louder And Nastier Than Ever","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" 'Heavy Metal' is a very strange movie, full of sex scenes and surreal things. A glowing green alien orb(The Loc-Nar) was bring from an astronaut to his young daughter, but he kills the astronaut and terrorizes the little girl with a collection of stories of dark fantasy, eroticism and horror. Basically, he tells about the battles between good and evil with difference examples each time ,saying that the evil always win. (The Loc Nar is the sum of all evil).The segments are Soft Landing; Grimandi; Harry Canyan; Den; Capain Sternn; B-17; So Beautiful, So Dangerous; Taarna.This movie is based on a Comic Book of the same name. "},{"Title":"Aging well","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Animation as it should be.Those who trashed it are too used to the Pixar style. They forget that at one time people had to actually draw this stuff. This animation style was last used in Pinochio. That's about 40 years.I saw this as a midnight hit in New Jersey back in '82. Finally got the DVD in Japan this year. Bargain price too. Brilliant stuff. Reminds me of the early issues. Also seems like issues of CREEPY or EERIE at times.I have the most fun trying to identify the SCTV stars' (John Candy, Joe Flaherty, Eugene Levy, Harold Ramis) voices. "},{"Title":"Entertainingly juvenile cartoon feature","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Despite featuring some really impressive animation and designs, Heavy Metal is by and by an adolescent male's fantasy. There's a whole lot of demons to slay, a rocking soundtrack, and yes, boobs. There's a lot of animated boobs in this flick. With all this overloading imagery on display, its difficult to concentrate on the story aspects of the production. That may be as well, because the stories themselves are rather hit and miss. Harry Canyon and B-17 are really cool and entertaining science fiction tales, one which accurately capture the feel of a good comic book (not surprising, because Heavy Metal was originally a comic book publication). The rest of the stories aren't nearly as good, but even than the visuals are enjoyable enough.Another criticism of the film is the soundtrack, for two reasons. The first being more minor in that many of the artists included aren't heavy metal. Stevie Nicks, Journey, Cheap Trick, and Devo (as much as I love the latter two bands) don't even qualify as pop-metal. Even more disappointing is the fact the soundtrack seems muted throughout the film. The dialog isn't remotely important, so the soundtrack should have been a whole lot louder. Despite being flawed, Heavy Metal is entertaining enough, especially if you've ingested some substances (legal or otherwise) beforehand. (6/10) "},{"Title":"It's my LocNar!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was great in it's time. I used to see it in the theatre every weekend at the 'midnight movies' we had where I grew up. This movie is fantastic. I watched it last month and it still entertained me. The segment Harry Canyon is IMHO the inspiration for the movie The Fifth Element. The character Bruce Willis plays, the cab he drives and the time period the movie takes place it all scream of Harry. Heavy Metal is not for everyone, and neither is this movie. I loved it. =) "},{"Title":"If you stop at the busts and gore, you missed it.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie about characters.  The movie takes about ten to fifteen radically different personalities and is able to fully depict each one in less than 5 minutes each.  Many people view the movie as choppy because there are 5 different scenes without any characters that continue from one to the next.  This is where one of the movies greatest strengths lies.  Its able to deliver a sense of closure in each story and you know more about the characters than you would from many lesser full length films.Unfortunatly, for those of you who didn't get it the first time, it probably won't grow on you.  If you're a die hard japanimation fan and are looking for that kind of experience go watch Ninja Scroll, but if you want something completly different see Heavy Metal. "},{"Title":"An Adult Sci-Fi Fantasy Space Film....who could ask for more?!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't trust the opinion of that previous ....!....The truth is This film is COMPLETELY AMAZING!!.... It has INCREDIBLE animated graphics, and the short stories include action, thought-provoking situations, strange heroes, amazing babes ...and to top it off, this film features one GREAT rock 'n roll  soundtrack! ....Better yet, this is geared towards adults, so the writers were free to include adult humor, sexual content, some graphic (animated) violence.... and all of this while still keeping a serious, worthwhile storyline in focus. ....I mean, this is not just a frivolous animated romp like Fritz The Cat!.... Let's put it this way.... this film came out in , like, 1981, and yet - its still one of The Greats in my book!....especially as far as animation goes! "},{"Title":"No hair. Hmm... BIG.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A collection of short stories, most based on stories from the cult follower magazine item Heavy Metal, are connected by the Loc-Nah the glowing green ball of doom, which an astronaut presents to his daughter as a gift, only to be killed by the thing. After killing the astronaut guy, the glowing green ball of doom starts harassing/torturing/tormenting the poor girl with stories of its evil antics across the universe - stories that yo-yo wildly back and forth between absurdist humor to dark fantasy to horror, most if not all with an element of science fiction in it, and almost all of them very heavy on the eroticism.1) Harry Canyon the story of a crass, cynical New York cab driver in the post Apocalyptic future. One day he gets caught up in a conspiracy that involves the Loc-Nah.2) Den A nerdy teenager nerd boy picks up the Loc-Nah after it crash lands in his backyard. When he tries to experiment on it, he gets flung into an alternate dimension planet called Neverwhere Land, where he is transformed in a giant bald beef-cake with superhuman strength, pursued by beautiful, busty women (one of them a Native of Earth who was also transformed from a frail, unhealthy girl into a beautiful, more womanly individual). He too is caught up in a plot involving the Loc-Nah, which is also in this world, and is the pinpoint in a big huge sacrifice.3) Captain Stern A ruggedly handsome but irredeemably evil scoundrel is on trial for his various misdeeds, but he bribes a weakling named Hanover Fist to speak on his behalf at the trial, but Hanover gets a hold of the Loc-Nah, and it may or may not influence his Hulk like rampage at the trial. But will the righteously brutish version of Hanover win out over the evil Captain Lincoln F. Stern? 4) Zombies on a plane a sequence involving zombies tearing up an old WW II fighter plane and its ill-fated passengers.5) Stoner Aliens & the randy robot A beautiful, buxom red head secretary is abducted by two stoner aliens and their over-sexed robot, who then take us on a space odyssey like no other.6) The last story concerns the last Tarakian Taarna, a beautiful yet silent warrior woman with white hair who rides a flying pterodactyl is given the task of thwarting a race of green skilled mutants, who owe their very existence to the Loc-Nah after the thing crashed into a volcano. Though the beautiful Taarna is captured, stripped naked, tortured (possibly raped) and left for dead, she ultimately prevails in thwarting the mutants and destroying the Loc-Nah. The last story comes back to the present where the Loc-Nah is destroyed once again, revealing that the girl is in fact the next Tarakian.Uneven but atmospheric, very hit and miss, as tends to be the case with a lot of these adult animated epics. The Den sequence is probably the most entertaining, thanks in no small part to the voice performance of the late John Candy as the nerd & his brawny alter ego. Also worth a look for the Elmer Bernstein score as well as the look at old school animation. "},{"Title":"More peaks and valleys than the women in the movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The women in this collection of animated short stories are very fond of taking off their clothes and/or hopping into bed with men they just met.  Not a criticism, just an observation.  When you add graphic violence, elements of sci-fi and fantasy, and relatively crude animation to the busty nymphos, you have a slapdash, strangely affecting film that is both irritating and fascinating.As has been mentioned in several comments, the quality of the stories vary from dull to captivating.  The taxi driver tale and the story about the young geek who becomes a muscular hulk are weird and fun to watch; others, like the final story about an avenging beauty clad in a skimpy system of straps, are tedious and revel too much in their unique brand of kinkiness.  However, the story about the fighter plane which becomes infested with the living dead is an underappreciated gem.The writing is average and the animation is pedestrian when compared with some of today's animated classics (The Iron Giant, Tarzan), but Heavy Metal is an amusing enough exercise in rock and roll cartooning.  (The selection of music is hit-and-miss as well, and the exclusion of Ted Nugent is inexcusable.)  If you rent this not expecting much, you might be pleasantly surprised. "}{"Title":"Heavy Metal","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When your 16(as I was when it was Released),full of Spunk & Probably Marijuana,LOL,this is 1 Killer Flick!! From the Very Beginning,when you try to figure out What the Heck...how can a Corvette do That?? To the Time-Honored Tradition of Good Vs.Evil,you are Regaled in Confusion,Laughter,Wonderment and a Total Overwhelming sense of Bemusement at Almost Every Turn!! From Soft Landing to Taarna you are Immersed in a Never Ending Cornucopia for the Sences(Smell being 1 that wasn't affected,unless your Neighbor,in the Theatre,had a Particular Odor,LOL)a Timeless Classic of Animation,1st of it's Kind,Remember it was 1981,No-One had done Anything that even Resembles it,Before!! 1 Movie,that after coming out on VHS,was in My VCR that Very Day!! Sadly,that Copy was Burned-Out in 8 Months to a Year...but I Still have 1 that's Sealed & will Remain So!! Needless to say,I gave it a 10 & Still watch it,Every Time it's on a Cable Station that plays it!! "},{"Title":"Heavy Metal Memories(no not Spinal Tap, ha ha)","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I think it's about time I got that Taarna tattoo... My cool Mom, who naturally loved anything hip, tried to get me to see this movie when it came out. I was intimidated, being 12, that I might see something that might pull me out of still feeling like a kid. A couple of years later I did see it and it did blow my mind. The thing I'll never forget about it is that was that the hero was a WOMAN and she was the baddest and beautiful. If anyone doesn't appreciate this film's contribution to cinema then it's just too bad. Music and film were both breaking out of the chains of mass commercialism, producing some of the newest, coolest ideas in years. Maybe it's time for a new Taarna. Watch, Japanese Anime will become popular and then maybe younger people will appreciate the forerunners. "},{"Title":"Disney for Adults","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you like cartoons, sci-fi stories, 80's music, and have a slightly warped sense of humor, then this is a movie for you. Although its a typical good vs. evil plot, the movie takes you in a number of interesting, and sometimes outlandish, directions with each subplot. I've seen this movie at least a dozen times, and each time I can't help to notice the little subtle things added to the backgrounds and the sound effects. If you do enjoy this movie, then I definitely recommend the sequel Heavy Metal 2000. The animation is a better quality than the original and the music is up to date, but it is still done in the classic Heavy Metal fantasy genre. Enjoy!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best American animations ever","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's unbelievable to expect such movie to appear in America, and it is reasonable to expect that it wouldn't be accepted by a big percent of the auditorium (or would be accepted because the movie has boobs in it etc.) I would expect such movie from Japan maybe. The movie is more than _beautiful_ animation, it surrounds you with its own atmosphere and drives you into the world the authors created. That's what makes you watch it and like it. And just a couple of words about the animation. Most American animations I've seen fell into two categories  Ugly and Disneyish. I like Disney's movies - the ones that Disney actually directed, but the movies made by the studio years later are annoying. Those guys who make the cartoons seem think  worked once, will work forever and just copy Disney's style. now disneyism is transferred to 3D - with no change however.But there are rare but wonderful exception (Simpsons, for example ) Heavy Metal is one of those exceptions. You will definitely like the movie if you like Six-Stringed Samurai - these two movies have something in common, their spirits are alike.  "},{"Title":"Cartoon breasts! gore!  DECADENT!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm one of the few females that worships this movie.  Possibly because if this movie was made today, it would get a smack acros the face with an NC-17 rating. However, in a liberal, better time, it got the less prudeish R-rating. The humor in this movie is superb because it is very subtle. The animation (especially for the time period) is exquisite if not, enchanting. You can't be doing something else while watching this movie however, because you could get very easily lost that way. It is a series of short stories and often times it is not defined where one ends and a new one begins. But if you watch it intently, it comes together very nicely, and somewhat unexpectedly at the end and makes the whole movie worthwhile.  I am NOT looking forward to Heavy Metal 2000 for I heard it was quite a bit of hogwash (to put it nicely). And how could we expect any different after all these years?  After all, Heavy Metal was really the first mainstream adult cartoon.  Now, adult cartoons are like an old hat. I fear the new one might be doomed to the nothing special pile and from what has been rumored...I don't have much evidence that will prove me wrong.  "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Say what you will about Heavy Metal.  It's uneven, eclectic, and very geeky, mixing sci-fi/fantasy with an erotic sensibility retarded even by the standards of your typical teenage boy.Having said that, I must also admit I find this movie immensely entertaining.  The soundtrack is superb and though a few of the episodes are light, they serve their purpose within the context of the film, providing comic relief for some of the darker material that follows.  My favorite episodes are Den, a light-hearted romp which could also be viewed as a satyrization of the film's target audience, Taarna, the film's redemptive conclusion, and   B-17, my personal favorite.  In addition to having one of the film's best songs (Heavy Metal by Don Felder) it also manages to be genuinely disturbing, posing for us the problem of evil and, for a brief moment, almost raising this film to the level of art. "},{"Title":"An American animation classic..","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Even if some of the animation was done in England and Canada. Great music, good adaption of the magazine to movie format. American Anime...  "},{"Title":"The Loc Nar demands you view this film!","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love this film. When the world awoke form it's boring funk, disco, brown-yellow-orange-colored slumber after Star Wars shook it awake and revived sci-fi, heavy metal appeared during the aftershocks and created albeit for a small public a visual feast. Heavy metal is usually described as a void fest for stoners and granted with the proper intoxication the movie's charm is increased greatly. What makes heavy metal so appealing is what many people call it's principal flaws, the pubescent jokes, violence, plethora of nudity, the crude animation and often its bright explosive colors. But these are not flaws, in fact to anyone with a fun-loving nature and imagination these are virtues. The script is wonderful, with lot's of crude jokes, that make excellent one-liners during parties. Death, death to all who oppose us has to be a classic introduction-line for a villain (who is menacingly one dimensional. And has anybody wondered where his helmet comes from?)At moment the script even becomes epic, like during the sequence where the council of elders summon Taarna.Although the animation maybe dated and even downright ugly, it gives the movie it's charm, the same as Ralph Bakshi's animation gives it, it's cult-charm and those with imagination see what the animators tried to accomplish. The backgrounds are simply stunning. From epic landscapes with cycloptic animal skeleton's cradling entire cities to impressive space-vessels and space-stations(Mark the brick-motief of the space-station during the Sternn sequence,hahaha) The color schemes of these backgrounds are daring and vibrant.And there are boobs, lot's of voluptuous big-breasted women! I think this needs no further clarification.The music is excellent. The soundtrack features a lot of decent hard rock tracks(I'm not writing heavy metal, because of inane debates by metal-purists (mostly with ugly goatees) that these are not metal-songs. Thank god, No!)And there's the majestic score by the late Elmer Bernstein. That simply blows you away with it's beauty (Listen to the Den sequence when the queen flies on the dragonflies, how the trumpets and the lower brass are sequestered by two themes, one rising, on descending.)So in a dull world where tedious monochromatic fantasy trilogies pass for a good time, Heavy Metal is the lost jewel, that fortunately is discovered every generation. So gather your friends, get some beers and pizza-bagels and watch this movie, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"6/10 Geeks listen up","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was my birthday, and one of my best friends, be it joke or not, gave me Heavy Metal.  I was quite put off the first time I saw the film.  I figured it was made for teenage dorks who've never been with a woman, so they have to ewww and ahh over a cartoon.  After another viewing, I realized that it is everything I mentioned above, but it's also very enjoyable, in a guilty pleasure sense.Filled with cartoon violence and nudity, this movie is for hardly any tastes.  Those young adolescent youths looking for a fun dirty time, this is your film. "},{"Title":"Rockin' animated flick!","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An astronaut brings home to her daughter a gift, it's a green jewel from a distant planet. After it murders her father, it turns out to be the Loc-Nar, a powerful and very dangerous meteorite that is the sum of all evil that can bring corruption, death and destruction to anyone who possesses it as it tells the girl and the viewer five tales of futuristic cab drivers, eroticism, aliens, outer space, zombies, warriors, babes, monsters, other worlds and good vs. evil.Inspired by the popular French adult comic book, this is a visually stunning and very adult Canadian/American animated Sci-fi horror fantasy anthology. The artwork and animation are just terrific, there's also plenty of other things that will please the adult animation fan such as animated hotties like Taarna the platinum blonde warrior babe, sex, animated nudity, gore, violence and action. There is voices by Harold Ramis, John Candy, Roger Squidward Bumpass, Don Francks and Eugene Levy and an awesome soundtrack by Elmer Bernstein with Devo, Black Sabbeth, Don Felder, and more.A must see movie for fans of animation, Sci-fi and fantasy and one of my all time favorites! big naughty animated fun.Also recommended Creepshow, Blade Runner, Akira, Grindhouse, Starchaser Legend Of Orin, The Fifth Element, Total Recall, Fire and Ice, The Dark Crystal, Excalibur, Conan The Barbarbian, Clash of the Titans, Pink Floyd The Wall, American Pop, A Clockwork Orange, Willow, Star Wars Saga, Serenity, Army of Darkness, Krull, Superman, V For Vendetta, Wizards, Rock and Rule, Princess Mononoke, Fist of the North Star (1986 animated), Starship Troopers, 300, The Flight of Dragons, Alien Saga, Predator 1 & 2, AVP Alien Vs. Predator 1 & 2, The Running Man, Max Mad Trilogy, Escape from New York, Phantasm, 2001 A Space Odyssey, Ghost in The Shell 1 & 2, Fantasia, Death Race 2000, Riki-Oh The Story of Ricky, Sin City, Vampire Hunter D, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust, Wicked City, Fritz The Cat, Flash Gordon, Beowulf (2007), Tron, Hellboy, Transformers (1986 and 2007), The Neverending Story, Titan A.E., Barberella, Fantasic Planet, The Hobbit, Lord of the Rings (1978), Lord of the Rings Trilogy, Return of the King (1980), The Secret of NIMH, The Last Unicorn, The Princess Bride, Metropolis (2001), Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, Final Fantasy IVV Advant Children, The BeastMaster, The Thing (1982), Lifeforce, Dune (1984 and 2000), Robocop and Terminator 1 & 2. "}{"Title":"Cel animated anthology with mostly bad stories","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is extremely odd. It combines different genres (adventure, crime, drama, sci-fi, comedy and horror) with R-Rated elements (sex, nudity, gore, extreme violence and profanity) all done in cel animation. I personally think this film is a huge mess but certain parts are very well done. The film opens in space with Elmer Bernsteins haunting score playing. As the credits role we watch a model animated astronaught return to Earth on a space-vehicle. This credits sequence is awesome, combining the stop-animated and sometimes hand painted animated astronaut. Then we meet a green globe which represents pure evil. It tells storys of how it has been around for ever all around the galaxy and what it has done to it. The first story is, OK. It's predicible and ends kind of lamely but it's OK. The second story is pretty much a big mess. It's called Den about a nerd who gets transported to a place where he is the hero and sleeps with every woman who wants him and saves the world and the alien civilization. It's really nothing more that a 12 year old perverts fantasy and it's a waste of time. The third story is better than the firts few called Captain Stern and it reminds me of the old Nelvana animated cartoon shows except for the language that is. The fourth story is a masterpiece. It's called B-17. It opens up as WWII fighters and planes are battling each other. The only surviving plane, being of course a B-17, flys off after all of the others have also gone or have been destroyed. The only surrviving people on the plane are the pilots and one of them goes back to see what's going on. He sees that everyone else has died of bullet wounds. Then a circular green meteor-like object lands on the plane for a short moment and then leaves. When the meteor leaves, the dead bodies of the men come back alive, as skeletons who's organs are falling out. Now the 2 pilots must face ultimate evil while trying to escape the B-17. This story reminds me of old EC comic books such as Tales from the Crypt and Vault of Horror. This was extremely well done, accompanied by an awesome and haunting score by Elmer Bernstein, the animation was done so that it looks like you're watching a living horror comic book on your TV. The 5th story is another excuse to show sex and pathetic antics. This time with a sex-crazed robot and 2 drug addicted aliens. The last story is so boring, I don't even feel like talking about it; it's so poorly written and looong, it's the longest segment in the film and not even Bernstein's score can save it and it was worse to find out that the end that the whole bookended storyline (with the meteor and the girl) ties in with the last one. I'd say that this movie has one excellent segment which should be scene by horror comic book fans, but the rest is terrible.  "},{"Title":"Anthology of animated shorts from the comic; great set of background music.","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film follows the Loc-Nar (glowing green orb) that contains the personification of ultimate evil in the universe. The orb corrupts whatever it stays near.First story ('Harry Canyon') a professor finds the orb while excavating. The professor is killed by gangsters. His daughter is rescued by a cab driver, Harry Canyon. She disappears on him overnight. Next morning, everyone wants to talk to Harry, so he half heartedly looks for her. Loved the humour here.Second story ('Den') an idiot who experiments with lightening obtains the globe. During a storm, his apparatus catches lightening; the globe adds its own power. The experimenter is transported to another planet and perhaps another time. He is in a new body. He rescues a woman from being sacrificed. They get kidnapped by an odd group that takes him to the leader of the revolution, whatever that is. This person demands that he steal the Loc-Nar from the queen.Third story ('Captain Sternn') set on a space station orbiting a planet that resembles Jupiter. A space officer, Captain Sternn is on trial. He thinks he has an 'angle' with a janitor Hanover Fiste. The Loc-Nar takes over Fiste, who delivers damning evidence against Sternn.Fourth story ('B-17') set on a World War II vintage B-17. The Loc-Nar follows the plane. It kills the crew one by one. The pilot parachutes out. Does he survive?Fifth story ('So Beautiful and So Dangerous') set in Washington, DC. Mutations have been appearing on Earth. Is this because of interference from forces from outer space? An expert says no at a top secret meeting in the Pentagon. The expert starts to mutate himself; he attacks the voluptuous secretary taking notes. Then aliens abduct them. Can this turn out well?Sixth story ('Taarna') set on another world. The Loc-Nar enters a volcano, which it causes to erupt in green vomit-like lava. This mutates those who are trapped in it. The non-mutants are about to be overrun by the mutants. An elder calls for Taarnak (of the line of Tarrak) to come defend them. It is their sworn duty, after all. She answers the call after those she was to defend are all slaughtered. Her mission becomes vengeance.The preparation scene in Taarna was beautiful, as was the destruction of Loc-Nar and the transfer of the mission to the new Taarakian.This is quite a classic.-----Scores------Art/Animation 5/10 Good for 1981, but does not age well. At all. Has some of the same styles as Bakshi's Wizards, 1977, for instance, and that is not a compliment.Sound 10/10 Outstanding. The music is still good. For a list of performers, see this page; look in the User Reviews.Voice 7/10 OK.Screenplay 8/10 The last segment, Taarna, was the best. I would give it high marks for heart, humour, and heroism; its use of a female hero was cleansing and cathartic, rather than PC nonsense. This segment almost carries the entire film. The first and second stories were good for humour, and advanced the story overlying the segments a bit. The third and fourth stories were not as good as the others. The fifth was just a waste. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How those who criticize this film came to their opinion is beyond my understanding. Heavy Metal was an animation landmark pioneering adult fantasy with modernized standards of gore, nudity, language, etc. As a cult-fan I find watching it infinitely enjoyable. As a critic, I want to briefly review this film's technical achievements and pros1. The animation was unparalleled for its time by making uses of early 3D rendering, cell shading over live-action photography, panoramic landscapes, multiple moving sprites, and amazing detailed cross- hatching.2. The stories are nostalgic the way they reiterate, in an adult sense, fantastic themes from literature we read as kids. Respectfully, I think the beautifully expressed motifs are derived out of ultimate male fantasy which are boys share once in the lives.3. Though sometimes lacking a coherent moral, the writing stays fresh and balanced enough to keep you entertained.4. The voice cast includes legends like John Candy, Richard Romanus, Eugene Levy, Joe Flaherty, and John Vernon who all give memorable performances.5. The Soundtrack (both the rock music and classical score) is perfectly conceived to accommodate the strangeness of this film.In conclusion, I feel this is one of those movies where its shortcomings do not hamper the artistry. Heavy Metal has stood the test of time, and therefore deserves no less respect than recognition as a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A great animated film filled with sex, violence, and a heavy metal soundtrack","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Have you ever wanted to watch an animated film where there's no kiddie stuff and feel's like you're watching a Ralph Bakshi film? Well now you can with, Heavy Metal. An animated film with sex, violence, and a heavy metal soundtrack.What make's this film worth watching is the animation. It's like watching an animated film made by Ralph Bakshi except with segments. The segments were also interesting. In the segment, Taarna, we have a girl in a skimpy outfit fighting mutants. Pretty nice. There's also one where a nerdy kid named, Dan (Voiced by John Candy), get's sent to another world and change's into a muscular hero. The film also has a nice soundtrack. It feature's, Black Sabbath, Cheap Trick, and Riggs.Overall, Heavy Metal, is a great animated film that's worth watching if you're trying to look for an interesting animated film. "},{"Title":"Earth women who experience sexual ecstasy with mechanical assistance always tend to feel guilty!","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't know what to expect when I sat down to watch this.Keeping in mind that it is over 30 years old, the animation is fantastic.The heroine, a voluptuous woman, is also way ahead of it's time. Four stars to full figures.I really thought I would be in for some loud head banging music, but I was thrilled by the score. It was really fitting to the film and enjoyable.This is film history, a camp classic, and would look totally different if made today. I should be seen as an excellent example of early animation. "},{"Title":"Highly Enjoyable with  Superb Soundtrack","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Heavy Metal is a legendary animated film, and it was quite a film at the time of its release in 1981. Unlike most animated films at the time, Heavy Metal combined heavy metal music, blood-n-guts and nudity in an animated feature. The result was a somewhat daring film. While adult animation had been done before (Ralph Bakshi films like Fritz the Cat and Heavy Traffic), Heavy Metal took things to a whole new level.Based on the magazine of the same name, Heavy Metal is an anthology film. It has six different segments, all strung together with a plot. A green orb that is all evil in the universe called the Loc-Nar tells these six stories to a young girl.The first of these stories, Harry Canyon, is an original story that is not adapted from the magazine. However, it does draw inspiration from some other stories from the magazine. The Harry Canyon segment is well-told and has a touch of film noir in it. The portrayal of New York in 2031 was rather grim. A lot of music is used in different scenes.Den, based on Richard Corben's character, is the story of a 14-year-old who becomes a muscular man in a place called Neverwhere, due to an experiment he conducted one night. This segment was pure fantasy, with fight scenes and fantastic artwork throughout. In this story, the Loc-Nar is worshiped. Captain Sternn is a more comedic segment in the film. Captain Sternn's pleads not guilty during his trial. His angle, Hanover Fiste, is there to praise him, as he will be paid to do this. However, with the Loc-Nar in his hands, he begins to reveal the truth about Sternn and becomes a giant and chases Sternn throughout the space station.B-17 is probably my favorite segment in the film, based on the story by Dan O'Bannon. During WWII, the Loc-Nar hunts down a severely damaged B-17 bomber and turns the dead crew into zombies. This segment was truly creepy, and unlike most of today's horror films, it gets to the point and ends in a freaky Twilight Zone-style ending.So Beautiful, So Dangerous is not a strong segment story-wise, but it's one of the funniest segments in the film. Some of the best songs on the soundtrack are on this scene as well, and the animation is very colorful and detailed here. The two stoner aliens are the best. The film concludes with the epic Taarna segment, an original story that is somewhat lengthy in its structure. With its epic fight scenes, amazing backgrounds and its grand scope, Taarna is a great finale.The soundtrack is the best thing about the film. There's nearly twenty different songs from many different artists, ranging from Black Sabbath to Sammy Hagar to even bands like Grand Funk Railroad and Journey. It's a very diverse mix and the songs on here are all very good. Black Sabbath's The Mob Rules goes great with the barbarians' invasion of the peaceful village in Taarna, and Don Felder's Heavy Metal (Takin' A Ride) makes the beginning of the B-17 segment pure excitement.The animation is one thing I get a bit cynical with. Despite some great effects (particularly on the Taarna segment), some of the character animation seemed a bit poor. There was a lot of rotoscoping used in the film, but some of the character animation wasn't very subtle.Aside from a few flaws in the animation and the story, Heavy Metal is still an enjoyable film. Even though some critics look back on it and called it dated and juvenile, it doesn't seem to effect the quality of the film. Some say it hasn't aged well, but to me, it's still fine. It is a bit juvenile, yes, but the film is still great. What this film did show was what the animation medium was capable of doing. Setting animation to heavy metal is quite an achievement, with compelling storytelling and epic moments to boot. This film proves that animation can do anything.A 9.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"American Adult Animation that should have continued...","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw a Heavy Metal magazine, I was about 11. Some kid brought it to school and showed me a segment with the penis monster. If I recalled correctly, it was sliced in half by some warrior with a sword, destroying the beast. It was all I needed to see to know this wasn't an issue of Spider-Man. I didn't understand the reasons as to why any artist or writer would even create such a thing, but I understand now. The worship of the phallic symbol, the slaying of a male dominated society, perhaps? The movie takes on the surrealistic touch on the same thing, everything from a crummy sci-fi future taxi cab to a fantasy setting with lots of breasts and violence. It includes several short stories, including a wrap-around story. If you don't like one story, you are going to love at least one other. I personally liked Harry Canyon & Taarna, but I enjoyed the others as well.While it may seem obvious that the amount of nudity and violence will attract teens and older geeks, animation has continued to make strides in a variety of genres. Heavy Metal had so much to offer aside from this. It could have been a stepping stone to much larger projects where a live action camera can not compete with. But, alas, here in America we have hit a wall in creativity for the animated adult market, and it just about ended with Heavy Metal. Movies like A Scanner Darkly, or even South Park come around rarely, and I find myself dipping into the only thing I can, and that's Japanese anime. It has evolved to the point where deep character study, stunning visuals, & great story lines is the norm.As of this writing, May 2009, rumors exist that a new Heavy Metal is to be made. Let's see how that pans out, but I will keep my expectations low. Heavy Metal 2000 wasn't very good... "},{"Title":"A great memory from my youth;","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was a teen watching this movie and at the time it was amazing. The soundtrack was very diverse with bands from across the board. The stories were also very cool and funny. This movie has tons of funny moments and if you are of this generation, you need to have this in your collection. Every once in a while during guy times we put this on in the background and it always ends the night with a smile on our faces. Before its time, and now its timeless. With the pathetic garbage out there now like high school musical, and the Britney Spears, Paris Hilton gang, I have no problem lauding about this movie of my youth. Long live Heavy Metal! "},{"Title":"No weed smoking experience is complete without this movie.","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" During this movie me and a friend drank 1 bottle of vodka and smoked a bag of weed and there has never been a better experience.This movie has excellent script, beautiful animation and is generally enjoyable and it is defiantly a movie that should be viewed by all because you will never forget it no matter what substances you smoke or inject during it's viewing.The movie is somewhat inconsistent in it's style, being made in separate parts drawn by separate studios some parts are very much humor orientated while others turn more to a horror mode. This means that the movie isn't necessarily best viewed in one sitting but can watched almost in episodically form. "},{"Title":"Super 80's","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Wow! It's been so long since I've seen this. Most of it doesn't stand the test of time. The nudity is so gratuitous that it had me laughing after a while every time it'd come on screen. Even though there is a loose plot throughout the entire movie, it's basically a bunch of shorts Soft Landing/Grimaldi- The opening sequence definitely sets the tone of the movie with the 80's rock blaring while we watch an astronaut navigate a car in space towards Earth. Then we get the loose thread through all the stories which is the dreaded green glowing Loc-Nar- the sum of all evils! Harry Canyon- This is one of my favorites. The animation's a little crude but I think it fits the'dirty' world that they're portraying. And I love the old noir detective feel it has as Harry narrates the story. It's got good action, and of course, boobs.Den- I just can't take this one seriously, especially with John Candy narrating, whom I love as a comedian so it just cracks me up the way he narrates it. This truly is every nerd's dream to be whisked away to an alien world, transferred into a perfect body, and making it with hot babes. Who could ask for more? Captain Sternn &#150; The animation kind of lost me with this one and the story isn't that great. Plus the fact that one of the characters literally Hulk's out just makes it seem unoriginal. Sorry, but can't really salvage anything from this one.B-17 &#150; This is my absolute favorite one out of the whole movie. It's the reason I wanted to go back and check it out. It's like an episode of the Twilight Zone. I love War World II stories so to set a horror idea with that as the backdrop was brilliant. I love the animation here and it still creeped me out after all these years.So Beautiful, So Dangerous &#150; In case you forgot that most of the creators contributing here grew up in the 70's, this one is a goofy reminder. A robot and two aliens capture a hot chick. The robot makes it with the chick while the two aliens get high on an insane amount of cocaine. Did I spoil the story for you? What story! Taarna &#150; This is the epic finale that ties the movie together (loosely) in grand fashion. The Loc-Nar creates an evil army on another world that decimates the local population. Enter Taarna, an elegant, beautiful,tough, and mute warrior who is like Wonder Woman on crack. The music and the animation evoke a fittingly grandiose finish to the project that is&#133; Heavy Metal! Definitely check this out if you're a fan of adult animation. "}{"Title":"Classic Sci-fi at its best","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Any person who considers themselves to be a particularly involved science fiction fan would not or could not watch Heavy Metal and shrug it off. While the storyline may seem a little dated to some who've followed the genre for a fairly significant time, it's the way in which the story is told (which I still have yet to see mimicked in a similar fashion) that makes it different and very well done.As a young person who's grown up in an age of computer generated graphics and animation, I very much enjoyed the style and effects used in Heavy Metal. All transitions between visual styles and effects were pretty much seamless, and as a result, the images portrayed in the movie really had me drawn in to the many worlds shown in the Heavy Metal universe.Of course it would be important to mention sound for this movie, which like the visual effects was done in a very stylized way, considering it won awards for its audio aspects, I can safely say the sound effects as well as the soundtrack are amazing, everything fits together.All in all, this movie has done it all, it's got fantastic humor, it's got plenty of action, and it it's suspenseful at all the right moments. I give it a 9 out of 10 on the basis that I couldn't fully justify a 10 out of 10 without writing an essay (even though this is probably already quite long). "},{"Title":"40 somethings should remember this movie fondly","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a major source on entertainment for myself and a bunch of my friends. We practically memorized most all of the lines. Stern!, I'll kill him He should be torn into little pieces and buried alive. A simple metal laden fantasy movie that is great at the midnight movies or at home with a few beverages. The animation is excellent, the story lines are bizarre and the plot is not necessary to follow to enjoy. It is a simple escape for someone who enjoys old metal, animated gore and animated babes. It's R rating is deserved as I would not watch it with my underaged children. Overall, I still enjoy a diversion watching this. "},{"Title":"imagination candy","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i was 14 when H.M. came out, saw it with my best friend--my art definitely reflected it's influence--a year or two later i got into the mag itself and remember the early 80's as being a high point in H.F.'s quality. i finally got around to re-watching it the other day on video-- brought back a lot of memories and impressions from that era. the lack of plot, story and taste now seem like an asset rather than a detriment-- Heavy Metal reflected a lot of what the late 70's head was about-- shiny form and light substance, sexy women, cool cars, spaceships and drug references, etc. considering the times it's impressive that this movie even got made at all. looks like the work of a bunch of talented stoners who got their sh*t together enough to finish an inspired project. besides,the colors alone are worth watching this film-- beats the heck out of practically anything Disney's done in 60 years or so. it would be great to see someone take some of the visual sensibilities of H.F. and American Pop and update them for the times in a new era rock and roll fantasy. Anyway I think there's still a lot to like in this movie and inspiration to be mined for future creators. long live Heavy Metal! "},{"Title":"Trippy Good Fun.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Warning! Major plot Spoilers Ahead!First thing's first do not watch this movie for any coherent plot or narrative; you won't find it. The story about the Loc Nar is an afterthought, poorly tacked on to tie in the six vignettes; for two of them, Captain Stern and So Beautiful Yet So Dangerous, the connection is not clear at all. With that out of the way...This cartoon is deservedly considered a path-breaker in adult animation. It is a lovely piece of schlock that features sex, nudity, and mutilations to the nines, all to the sounds of a hard rock soundtrack (it does so better than the coordination between music and action in Goodfellas). I am not a fan of rotoscoping or Xeroxing; the use of real-life models in some scenes makes this film look rather cheap. It is certainly no ground-breaker in animation quality, but overall the style is not too terrible. This film, depending on the vignette, oscillates wildly between genres and animation styles, from semi-serious drama styles, with realistic humans, in the Harry Canyon short, to horror movie realism in B-17, to cartoony and comical aliens and humans in Captain Stern and So Dangerous, and serious and epic styles for the sword-and-sorcery Taarna story. This extreme in animation styles may seem like it would make for a terrible film, but it works here. There are lovely background designs for many of the settings, such as futuristic cityscapes, the interiors of spaceships, and eerie and alien desert landscapes. I presume these were inspired by the other-worldly stories and art from Heavy Metal Magazine. This film is a quintessential camp popcorn flick for the grown-ups; or, in other words, it is sweet and satisfying brain candy. It earned cult status as a midnight movie, much like Rocky Horror, and I must say this film is in the same league as mindless fun. The guys will love it for the exaggeratedly bosomy---and often naked---beauties that populate the stories. Those who watch the DVD must also view the documentary that explains the creation of this movie. The creators explicitly admit that their inclusion of naked women and blood-and-guts was pure teenage wish fulfillment. They also state that the Loc-Nar storyline was an afterthought to the individual stories themselves. Scenes to watch for the goof-ball aliens who snort mile-long lines of coke from the floor of their spaceship, while their robot captain (voiced by John Candy, and who looks like some 1950s toy you'd find in an antique shop)beds a lovely secretary; Taarna's long dressing scene in the temple, done to an epic-sounding tune; the barbarians sacking a town to a loud thumping heavy metal tune; bomber pilots getting shot to pieces to a hard rock tune; and Journey's Open Arms in the Harry Canyon sequence. "},{"Title":"Excellent combination of metal and animation","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is the anti-Disney! This was the first time a great movie came out that had the music of my generation combined with great animation as well as an intelligent storyline. It is a must see! I was impressed with the fact that it wasn't just another venue with which to showcase metal; it had a plot that flowed at a quick pace, had great animation, and yet it still managed to keep you hooked. As for the rockin' soundtrack, the director seemed to know exactly what he wanted, choosing, in each instance, the perfect song for the film's moments. I honestly don't think it could have been done any better.Add all that to one hell of a Second City gathering of vocal talent and you've got an instant classic that has truly stood the test of time! "},{"Title":"Pure flavor","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" People watching Heavy Metal for the first time with on prior knowledge of the magazine or the basic concept of the movie, like me, will undoubtedly give you mixed reviews.Some will love the violence, sex, humor and all-around edginess. Some will hate the animation (which is good in some instances and frustrating at its worst). The degree of nudity seemed a bit intense when I began watching it, but I quickly adapted to this stylistic choice.On its own, it isn't a particularly good movie. Its Tarentino narrative style and dropped-in-the-middle exposition can't help but upset if you're not expecting it. The reason the film is called Heavy Metal isn't even readily apparent (unless you've done your research and discovered that it is, in fact, based off of something else).But, if you're willing to look past those things that irk cinema fans, and if you picked up this little cult piece you probably are, either being an animation fan or just a free spirit, it's a rather satisfying film. The emotions and ideas of the film come together if you are willing to take some of the other elements with a grain of salt. Some people may hate it, others herald it as a masterpiece. I just think it's so bad it's good. That warrants it a 7 in my book. "},{"Title":"I Agree...","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I could not have said it any better than Karim Michael Tahir in his comment. This movie/cartoon was hugely popular when it was released and stayed on the marquee at thousands of theaters across the country for many years. After its initial release, it mainly played as the midnight movie along with The Rocky Horror Picture Show and Pink Floyd's The Wall - a tradition some of you may be unfamiliar with. This film along with those other two chronicle the music and youth of the 80s. This is the movie that spawned the song that spawned the genre that is this film's title. I find it disheartening that so many people who never got to experience this film in all its theatrical glory are so quick to bash it and bemoan its faults because as Karim stated - yes, there was a time before CGI - and that time rocked! "},{"Title":"Not great, but enjoyable nonetheless!","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I must be, at 36 years old, an old geek for actually liking this movie. Granted if you compare it to today's animation and CGI graphics standards, HEAVY METAL might be a pile of worthless crap. But bear in mind WHEN was this movie released. It's like trashing something like The Day The Earth Stood Still just because it doesn't look and sound like ATTACK OF THE CLONES! Anyway, I was 13 years old when I first saw the TV ad for HEAVY METAL. That ad literally changed my life. I purchased the album 3 years before watching the movie (I finally watched it on a Betamax in 1984!). I must confess that it was the ALBUM rather than the FILM that had the biggest impact I went on to become a metalhead, and I still am to this day! Although, the album is not JUST heavy metal music. It has stuff by Stevie Nicks, Don Felder, Donald Fagen and some really mellow stuff. But, it has some really hard stuff (at least, by early 80's standards) by CHEAP TRICK, SAMMY HAGAR, BLACK SABBATH, NAZARETH, TRUST, RIGGS and other bands. When I finally saw the movie I thought the story was a bit contrived; the movie tries to be just like the adult magazine it was based upon, and include many stories all linked together by the story of a malignant glowing orb. The animation varies from story to story. There's some graphic violence and some over the edge sex scenes and nudes. Had this been done with real actors, it would have been X rated or at least an NC-17! The final story of TAARNA is the real deal here, although the other stories are fun and sometimes even frightening (like the B-17 story). The TAARNA story uses some rotoscoping (a technique where a real actor is shot on film and the animation is done on top, making it look very realistic), something that Ralph Bakshi used a lot in his movies. It's the longest story and the most interesting. The TAARNA character (who is a hot looking blonde)is the last breed of a race of defending warriors, sworn to protect another neighbor race. When this neighbor race is attacked, TAARNA is summoned. The story is also the most violent AND the most sexy, as we get to see full frontal (albeit, animated!) nudity.I would recommend this movie to just about anyone who enjoys sci-fi, fantasy with a dash of sexiness and violence. You won't find any Nu Metal music herein, nor state of the art CGI effects (which, by the way, are getting boring REAL FAST!). This is a handmade movie if you will. It's not the greatest animated feature, but it sure was fun to watch and brings out cool memories!  "},{"Title":"excited, surprised, amused, and shocked...","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is a certain, special quality to this movie. The artistic definitions of the scenery and characters is so expressive you really become caught in the moment. To fully understand this movie, you must know that there are a bunch of mini-stories in it. Some overlap, yet others seem to have very little to do with the real, underlying plot. There will be times where you'll be excited, surprised, amused, and shocked. This movie can also rival some real life horror films with its blatant gore. By this I can say its definitely not young children material, but is still very cool and quite impressive. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!!!!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Heavy Metal is a great animation movie for mature people. This movie has great art, humour, and storyline involved. I can't say much but if you have time take a look at this great movie one of these days! Heavy Metal with cast its spell over you and everyone around who happens to be watching it! You got to love the last episode! Very artistic! "}{"Title":"Elmer Bernstein's movie...","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As many a reviewer before me has commented, Heavy Metal is a pretty uneven movie.  Some of the stories are fun in their own goofy teenage-boy kind of way, while others are almost entirely worthless.  I recently watched the film and tried to figure out why I liked some of the segments so much better than others, and suddenly it hit me--the good ones are the ones that actually use Elmer Bernstein's score instead of relying on the dated eighties rock music.Bernstein's score actually supports the on-screen action, but the rock music only interferes.  Look at the Captain Sternn sequence, my personal least favorite of the stories--the song they use to accompany the long chase through the spaceship is completely inappropriate for what's going on.  Likewise, So Beautiful & So Dangerous, another clunker, barely uses Bernstein at all.  The only stories that successfully use the rock music are B-51 (with the soldiers dying in slow motion) and Taarna (when the barbarians attack the peaceful city).  Otherwise, it's Bernstein who carries the film--listen to his work as Harry Canyon and the girl meet the mobster at night, as Den risks his life to save Catherine, as Taarna flies over a rocky valley in the film's most memorable special effects shot.  It's one of the best scores I've ever heard, and the sad thing is that it's never been released on CD--but infuriatingly, the rock music soundtrack is readily available at any corner music store.  Would somebody please explain that one to me?Also, on never video editions and Columbia's excellent DVD special edition, there is a deleted segment known as Neverwhere Land.  Don't ask me why they selected it to be removed from the film instead of Captain Sternn--it seriously would have been the movie's shining point.  It's creepy and haunting and beautiful, sort of a silent-movie anthology of the history of evil set to the most chilling classical music I've ever heard (it's much better than even Bernstein's work).  If you like this movie or experimental animation in general, you have to check it out. "},{"Title":"Dated, but original American animation","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (MINOR SPOILERS) Like most anthologies, Heavy Metal is wildly uneven.  Due to its collaborative roots, the styles and tone between segments vary widely.  Much like the film Tron from the same period, some of the elaborate cinematography shows its age, particularly the use of filmed models.  For example, the long follow shot in Taana was innovative in 1981, but compared to the dizzying visuals in contemporary Disneys like Tarzan, not to mention Japanese animation, it's prehistoric.The best segment is the first, a near future detective story set in New York.  The Fifth Element clearly borrows (steals?) liberally from this idea.  The later segments grow progressively weaker until the last, a well told Western framed as a fantasy with a female warrior.  This last segment is reminisicent of Eastwood's speghetti westerns, right down to the squint.Heavy Metal is entertaining if taken at face value.  It's a sign of the times, the last gasp of the counter culture pop art of the late 60s and 70s. "},{"Title":"Not much of a story","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If there's any kind of filmmaking that is at a tie with live-action, it is hand drawn animation. It's a skill that requires a lot of patience and pain staking precision while animating every frame of the picture. It is no easy task. I like to categorize it in the same area as stop motion animation because that requires the same if not more amount of time and effort. What interests me even more in this kind of filmmaking is when an animated movie obtains a rating higher than a G or PG. I mean, how often does a viewer get to see a cartoon bleed or run its mouth without a censor. The world isn't always gumdrops and smiles.So when I came across this movie, I was thrown back for that exact reason. It was totally new to me. I never had a chance to experience such an opportunity. Because of that, I went into watching this movie with optimistic hopes. They weren't high but I didn't expect garbage either. Instead, I came out feeling frustrated and rather annoyed. By no means is this movie bad. The visuals (which I will get to), are fantastic but the plot is just so irrelevant.The story is about a girl who is harassed by a deadly godlike green orb that tells her random stories. The stories range from how others have seen it and used it. But honestly, who cares? If I were that girl listening to this orb's stories, I would begin to get tired of it continuing on and on and on and on and on! Enough! Just tell me what you want or if you're going to kill me, get it over with! It's like having a serial killer jump into your house and hold you hostage just so he can blab about his life story. That's torture enough.That's really it because I didn't care for any of the stories at all except for the last one because it actually dealt with what I thought was going to be the main character. The rest was a mishmash of random stories. I also found it sexist too. Every woman in this movie ends up sleeping with some guy they don't know, either because they were saved by them or because they were wood into it. For any person who watches this, please remember that most women are not like this.Back to what I did think worked though was the animation. For 1981, the animation is crisp and highly detailed. I was honestly expecting a budget in the range of He-Man cartoon animation. But it was very good. Everything from the backgrounds to the characters themselves had great colors and shadings. The voice cast behind it was also fun to listen too as well. I even enjoyed Elmer Bernstein's score. It had some really beautiful tunes within some scenes. As for the rock music, I can understand because of the era it was made and how popular it was at the time. And in some scenes, the rock music does work which surprised me. Overall it is a piece more for the nostalgia of the time and nothing else.The animation is great for its time and its score actually has some beautiful tunes, even when it contains rock music. But don't count on it for a decent story. There is no plot and it doesn't have a main protagonist to root for. "},{"Title":"Great music, strange movie","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie came out when I was 17 and I remember going to the Midnight Movie on Ridge Road in Griffith, IN. Everyone in the theater was also in high school or just out. It is what it is, a silly movie with great music. I was the designated driver and therefore was not drunk or high as my friends were. My other friend was also a DD and even though we didn't get the same feeling from it as our drunken friends, we did really enjoy the music and watching some people get sick and in a few cases pee on themselves. If you are looking for some intellectual Dumbo jumbo, move along. However, if you're looking for a cartoon with great music than go ahead and watch this. At 44, I don't consider myself part of the older generation but I guess at 17 I probably thought it was. I'm not old, your music today really does suck! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Back in the early 70's Marvel Comics made an offshoot anthology comic book geared toward adults. This book was called Heavy Metal and it's still going strong today. Most of the stories are science fiction and delve into some pretty strange ideas. The movie was made to in a way showcase the talent that came from the most popular artists and writers of that magazine. There was some up and coming Canadian talent doing the voice work like John Candy and Eugene Levy. While the idea sounds cool enough I think the execution leaves a little bit to be desired. This movie feels like it was a rush job considering some inconsistent production values and even some of the story content. Since it is an anthology of multiple stories I will go down the line so you can get an idea where the quality lies and where it falls short.Soft Landing - This is the opening sequence that comes with the opening credits and it's the only story that connects itself to another story in the movie. The animation is a rough rotoscope technique that has only a wash of paint over real footage. I like how they did it. Very artistic. I have to admit it is a perfect representation of the magazine with its off the wall content and nice design. The hard rock soundtrack feel appropriate in this segment too. It's short, but it sure does make quite a good impression.Heavy Metal did accomplish what it set out to do in that it showcased the magazine in a time when it was at its highest in popularity. For the non-Heavy Metal Magazine fan it's not as good. Keep in mind the content has lots of blatant animated nudity, sexual situations and graphic violence, Definitely not for the kids. The stories are interesting enough, but that might not be enough for some who expect quality production values all the way through. If you're a fan of the comic book then you probably already seen it and love it. If you are the type of person who jams to classic rock and have that biker rebel streak in you then you might find Heavy Metal refreshing. The rest of you will have to just make a judgment call. It has equal parts good and bad qualities so take that for whatever you see it.More info for this movie can be seen at www.metalthrone.net "},{"Title":"Took me 25 years to see it...","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...and I'm damned glad I did.I slapped on headphones and put the DVD in the Macbook and set sail for a better time's stony realms...I read comments saying If only this movie were made now, it would be so much better, blah blah blah, and that's the biggest crock of horsesh*t I've ever heard. If it were made now, it would be slicker than slick, void of soul, with the wretched music of our age providing the soundtrack. Heavy Metal circa 1981 has the texture and imperfect beauty that sustaining, lasting art must possess; think Miles Davis' Bi*ches Brew or Sketches of Spain, or the Rolling Stones' Exile on Main Street - that's where Heavy Metal lives. It's not perfect, parts of it are quite flawed, but as a whole, even the flaws are beautiful gems to behold, and I tell you, for every voice barking on about Heavy Metal's flaws being too much to take, I say this you take your Saw and remakes of Texas Chainsaw and The Omen and whatever else your fetid college brains latch onto as broken things that need fixing, and we'll take Heavy Metal and the original versions of the horror movies mentioned and be artistically far richer. But you're not after richness in art, are you? You're after eye-candy and digitally rendered starscapes, aren't you? Yes, you are. And you're beggars with moldy bread because of it.Heavy Metal is a classic, and I'll be first to admit that it's got problems, but believe it or not, problems sometimes add to a classic's being considered a classic in the first place. Exhibit A Heavy Metal. Watch, listen and learn, youngsters. "},{"Title":"Sex, Drugs, and Rock and Roll","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was truly unusual for a North American production. Naked women everywhere! out of six female characters in the whole movie, only one of them manages to not flash her big cartoony breasts. I'm sure if I were a strait male I would be thrilled at the thought. I know the theory is that the female body has more artistic value then the male body, but how come I didn't see any penis? It's just not fair. I don't think anyone who enjoys this movie could complain about big-breasted Japanese school girls.The other problem I had with this movie was the simple fact that the only story that was really important was the last one with the Defender. Don't get me wrong, some of the other stories were great (like the one with the druggie aliens)but they didn't seem important to understanding the evil of that green orb. I would have preferred if it had a more coherent plot.On the plus side of things, The blood and gore was great. The soundtrack was awesome too. There was an interesting mix of horror, adventure, comedy and violence that was entertaining at least. "},{"Title":"Wont Mom be surprised!","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was lucky enough to see this with my dad (cool guy) when I was a kid at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood. At the time the only animated movies that you would get to see were Disney type stuff so this totally blew my mind. The soundtrack was and is so cool, you never heard heavy metal music in movies or on the radio for that matter(well OK maybe on after midnight on Sunday if you got the tinfoil just right.) so needless to say it was an experience I'll never forget. If you have not seen it yet then by all means rent it..............My comments are not the minimum length for comments of ten lines of text so I will add some more. Movie goers maybe a little more jaded now (Me included) but this movie still holds up. The b-17 segment still is as exciting and creepy as it was when I first saw it. And who wouldn't want one of those flying bird things to ride around on. "},{"Title":"Adult Animation","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There doesn't seem to be much in the way of American adult animation, probably because people figure that it costs too much to make for something that probably wouldn't attract much of the target audience. Heavy Metal must be on the few exceptions that I've ever seen, and its one pretty damn weird movie. When I call it as adult, that's not a reference to emotional maturity- this is the most blatant male-fantasy I've seen since Conan the Barbarian. It reminds me somewhat of Wizards, a sort of counterculture Lord of the Rings, which was made a few years before this. Luckily, I found Heavy Metal than I remember Wizards as being, though it's still very uneven. Strangely enough, I remember seeing bits and pieces of this at Starlog, the downtown geek store that was closed years ago to make way for nail salons and restaurants. The quality of the animation isn't great, which is understandable, considering the movie's age and the fact that, as I mentioned before, this wasn't exactly made for the Disney audience. The movie's main flaw is that the individual stories tend to be underwritten. They also vary greatly in quality, not to mention style- even though Heavy Metal had a single script, its segments were all done separately. The device used to (very tenuously) link the stories together is weak an evil green orb telling stories to a young girl to demonstrate its boundless evil, or something. At least one of the stories drops the orb altogether, and the orb's function is never very clear anyway. The first segment, Harry Canyon, is one of the best. Though the animation isn't as sophisticated as in later stories, the visuals, of a decaying, futuristic New York City, are the most interesting in the movie. It's actually quite reminiscent of Blade Runner, both in terms of the setting and the film noir-like tone. The story, of a cab driver who helps out a woman on the run from gangsters (they want to know where the green orb is) begins well, but it runs too short to really go anywhere. On the plus side, Harry Canyon is the most interesting and complex character in the movie (which is, admittedly, not saying much). The second segment, Den, is the most gleefully sophomoric, sexist section in a movie that was pretty much based on being sophomoric and sexist. But it also has the best sense of humor, and could be taken as at least as much a parody of ridiculous male-fantasies as a representative of them. The story has a nerdy adolescent, voiced by John Candy, being turned by the green orb into a muscular, Conan-like warrior and transported to a barbarian planet, where naked beautiful women throw themselves at him, that is when grotesque monsters aren't attacking him, that is. It's fun to listen to John Candy's voice coming out of two bodies that are both equally unlike him. The third segment is probably the weakest. It has the handsome Captain Sternn on trial for just about every crime that you could think of at a space station. He looks doomed (his lawyer tells him that the best they can hope for is an unmarked grave!) but then Sternn uses a surprise witness to escape. This story is fairly pointless, with no real protagonist and not many particularly interesting visuals. It was fun hearing John Vernon do the voice of the prosecutor, however. The fourth segment, B-17, is perhaps the best, despite being the shortest. In this one, the orb resurrects the dead crew of a bomber, who then attack the pilots. The animation has an effectively creepy look to it. The fifth segment, So Beautiful and So Dangerous, has an alien ship abducting a woman from earth. She has sex with the ship robot and they decide to get married, while the ship's pilots get stoned. The story has its moments (ever seen animated characters do drugs before?) but it's as out of place as Captain Sternn, and doesn't really come to any sort of end; it just stops. On the plus side, it does have some fairly complex animation of the ship's journey through space, but in the end the whole story is just an elaborate setup for some lame jokes. The sixth segment, the longest and most elaborate, is essentially the movie's showcase. In this one, the orb inspires a race of barbarians to wipe out a peaceful civilization. Before they're killed, the civilization's elders summon a woman warrior to avenge them. The visual style in this segment is excellent, but as with the other stories, its impact is limited somewhat by the script, which seems underdeveloped. Here, the main problem is that the female avenger doesn't end up doing very much. The bad guys capture her, and then she fights in single combat with their leader. Surprisingly, what hurts this story is that the makers didn't include enough gratuitous violence "},{"Title":"The soundtrack and animation are the best parts of a wildly uneven, episodic movie","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To say this movie is uneven is putting it mildly.  Tied together very loosely by a framing sequence that provides what little plot there is, this is a series of episodes, some of which are great (the WWII bomber) to very good (Harry Canyon) to just there (too much of the rest of the movie). To any Steely Dan fans out there who may read this, the following for the few who don't already know Donald Fagen has a song on the soundtrack, for the Harry Canyon section.  The artwork is in the style of the magazine this is named after.  That and the soundtrack make it worthwhile, plus two to four of the segments, depending on personal tastes. "}{"Title":"Heavy Metal rules!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A disintegrating green orb that makes people disappear connects a string of short science fiction/horror stories, set mostly to rock music.  The animation is cool and the soundtrack even better, with songs by Journey, Cheap Trick, Stevie Nicks, and Sammy Hagar.  Heavy Metal is and should be viewed as a cult flick and not as a family animated film (which it's not, because it's rated R).  My two most favorites Harry Canyon (about a tough New York cabbie) and the last short with the silent Xena-type who can really fight.  My evaluation *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"THUD!!!!!","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  HEAVY METAL (1 outta 5 stars)I was very much into the Heavy Metal/Metal Hurlant magazines back in my late teens... and I think it was this movie that got me disinterested in the books for good. Yes, there was some good material in the early issues but there was a lot of crap, too. Too bad the crappy elements of HM are all that seemed to make it into this movie... a series of short sci-fi/fantasy cartoons linked by the lame device of some evil, sentient green jewel that sets out to kill the one person that can destroy it... but first, it's going to tell its victim several irrelevant stories. Most of the stories are based on some of the best cartoons from the early years of HM... but the transition to animation doesn't do them any justice. The best cartoon of the bunch, Captain Stern is but a pale, pale echo of Bernie Wrightson's original 7 page strip. Every other sequence is just an endless parade of juvenile sex/drug jokes and senseless bloody violence. I guess you could argue that that's all the magazine ever was anyway... but at least there was an artistic vision behind it all. There is no art in this movie whatsoever... just clumsy animation, bad writing, crummy voice work and lousy inappropriate heavy metal music (hey, the movie is called Heavy Metal... better cram some heavy metal music in it!) I just recently saw the movie again to see if it was as bad as I remembered. Guess what? It is!  "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure at best","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" So what do we have here?Halting animation-cells? Yeah. Over-sexualization of females to the point that it's really laughable? Yes. Awesome rocking tits? Hell, yeah! Taarna? Yup. Soundtrack that must be handed down to posterity? Yes, it must.In all honesty, this movie isn't all that great. One could easily do a better film on the subject of Metal-culture (well, gloss over the fact that there is no actual metal music on the OST). But if you can give it anything, it would be the status of a cult-classic, now that can't be denied. It caters heavily towards pubescent boys and snubs nuance on every page of the plot. Is it that important anyhow? Given the subject, no. But, come on! I need SOMETHING to bite into, I felt I was dumber after the movie than I was before. It also didn't age very well, some segments had better rotoscoping than others. Then there was annoying style-bloomers where they changed the character designs from completely realistic to full-blown Looney Toons.My advice, be drunk if you watch it. I don't like out of ten ratings, they're always so misleading and kinda disingenuous, but let's say it would be a 6/10 if you watched it in jest. It's not really a good film. It does have rotoscoped cheescake, I'll give it that. "},{"Title":"Moebius comics are much better","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's interesting to see Moebius art in a feature film. That said... it's nothing compared to his comic books, the visuals are mostly rough and stuff is flickering a lot. The animation is roto-like, meaning lifeless, no contrasts, the motion of everything is even and slow-ish. But hey, it's animated in 1981. The story... I don't know, it's probably interesting if you're high. Very, very high. This film was probably made by people who understand comics, not film, and it's not a good adaptation of comics to motion pictures. I think the film does have merit though, for being a feature that looks like a comic book, not like the usual 2D animation stuff the line is more complicated, lots more details in the drawings. Some of the backgrounds are quite interesting, and they use line art, so the whole picture is colored line art.. as opposed to the usual animation look which has painted backgrounds and colored line art for animated elements (and it doesn't look cohesive). Anyway, overall... this film is more or less a creative mess. It has some remarkable bits of eroticism, not normally found in animation. Personally I would love to see more comic-book-like feature animation. But made today, with modern tools and animation and film knowledge, and with better character design and better overall visual style. "},{"Title":"Mixed bag","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A glowing orb called the Loc-nar proves to be the linking device for an anthology of science fiction tales.This film, seeded by the magazine Heavy Metal, is very much an animated movie for adults - there is a moderate amount of nudity and sex in it. Old school comics enthusiasts will recognise some of the names whose pieces live behind the 6 pieces (and linking sequence) here - Richard Corben and Bernie Wrightson, to name but two.It's well worth a look if you know your interests lie in that direction, albeit it isn't 100% successful - for one thing, you can have too much of a good thing. Having said that, it's not the sort of film that gets made very often, so we should value the fact that it exists at all. "},{"Title":"I love this Rock-n-Roll fantasy movie! )","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" EVERYTHING about this movie is A+EXCELLENT -1,) the story; 2.) the characters; 3.) the animation; 4.) the settings; 5.) the sexuality; 6.) the music; and, all else!This is a perfect animated movie for a teen of the 1980s, like me! And...now that I'm 49, it's become a memorable part of my childhood, and, a happy part of my memories...as Woodstock has been for people of the generation before me!This, I believe, came from the 1968 short Neverwhere. That was primitive, but, also, innovative and great, too!This is an awesome animated movie, EPIC CARTOON, that I loved in my teens, and, still do, now!I give this TEN STARS...IT'S HEAVY! ) "},{"Title":"This could have easily been an epic work of pop and trash art, but it never quite reaches that level. It is still completely entertaining though.","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Heavy Metal is an animated anthology film based on the magazine of the same name. The film explores many genres, such as sci-fi, fantasy, horror, film noir and bizarre combinations of all of these. The soundtrack includes Black Sabbath, Cheap Trick, Nazareth, Journey, Blue Oyster Cult and many more. The result of this bizarre combination of elements is incredibly chaotic, nonsensical and trashy. Yet somehow, for the most part, the film seems to work. It feels like the fantasies of a 14 year-old boy being portrayed in very crude animation and the result is fascinating. This could have easily been an epic work of pop and trash art, but it never quite reaches that level. It is still completely entertaining though. "},{"Title":"A little rusty . . .","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I just don't get it. Maybe it was the fact that so many talented people were involved. Perhaps it was just unusual to have a major release of an animated film with this kind of content. Or maybe it just has something to do with the fact that for the first time an animated film brought about the elements of a bawdy comic book and played it out for the mentality of 13 year-old boys.Whatever the reasons for the success of 'Heavy Metal', I'm afraid I just don't get it. I see the images, I see some original writing in spots, I see the potential for a cult classic. But, for me, 'Heavy Metal' looks dated, silly, disjointed and out of all eight stories I find myself defending only two.I found 'The Legend of Tarrna' (the last one) to be a true original. Sure, it seems sexist and Tarrna is a complete male fantasy but I found it to be strikingly original in its visual imagination. She comes out of the sky riding a giant condor and carrying a sword. She walks into the bar, is hit on by three slobbering goons and you can fill in the rest. This well animated scene owes more than a little to the Clint Eastwood westerns (Did I say a little? She even squints her eyes). I caught myself smiling at this scene, that's why I liked it.I have to admit that 'So Beautiful, So Dangerous' is curiously funny. An alien spacecraft breaks into the Pentagon and kidnaps a secretary. She is kidnapped by a trio of robots, one of whom has an over-inflated libido in it's programming. I wasn't all that keen on this segment as a whole but I have to admit a certain admiration for any scene that opens with a robot and a naked woman in bed after sex and ends with the line 'Okay, but I want a Jewish wedding'.The rest is pretty routine. I liked where 'Harry Canyan' was going but it seemed to be over before it began. 'Den', a story about a geek who gets turned into a giant blue hulk is little more than a prepubescent fantasy. 'Captain Sternn' had some fun dialogue before disintegrating into predictability. 'B-17' the disturbing story of a plane being taken over by the living dead is a matter of taste (but not mine). The framing material about a sickly green orb that tells these stories to a frightened girl is just plain baffling.'Heavy Metal' is based on a popular behind-the-counter comic book that would make Bob Guiccione blush. The movie isn't anywhere near the graphic level of that book but to fans of this movie that hardly matters. I haven't a clue what makes this film so popular. I find chunk-style movies like this lacking almost by definition. It has it's moments, it fills it's quotient of T&A and graphic violence, but I wasn't all that impressed.Ratings (out of four) 'Soft Landing'- *Â½; 'Grimandi' - **; 'Harry Canyan' - **Â½; 'Den' - **; 'Captain Sternn' - **Â½; 'B-17' - *; 'So Beautiful, So Dangerous' - ***; 'The Legend of Tarrna' - ***. "},{"Title":"A Very Adult Animation","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This animation is rated R for a reason - it is catered to adults that were (and maybe still are) fans of Heavy Metal Magazine. A fair warning for parents this movie really is not for kids.I was 9 years old when this film came but I did not get to see it until I was 13 or 14 years old (maybe I was 15) anyway, the movie's story is not all that bad - but it's not that grand either. I am not a fan of the soundtrack either although some of the songs are OK. It's worth watching for the artwork (animation) and pure nostalgia factor.This movie is OK. And it most definitely is a cult classic film - it's not a film for everyone.6/10 "},{"Title":"Great animated cult classic","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Grimaldi returns home from a Space Shuttle trip landing his Corvette through the atmosphere. He bring home a present for his daughter, a glowing green orb called the Loc-Nar. It turns out to be a sum of all evil. It disintegrates Grimaldi and shows the little girl how he destroys the lives of people it touches in a series of short stories.The animation is dated with the 70s style. The material is violent and full of scantily clad women. It is sexist and juvenile. It just does it with such abandon that it fully develops what it promises. It revels in the big boobs women in tiny outfits and muscle bound men. It's grotesque. It's got good music. It's a cult classic and fully deserves to be. "}{"Title":"I am the sound of all evil.","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Animated anthology about a glowing green orb called the Loc-Nar, which is apparently pretty bad stuff. All of the stories tie back into the orb somehow. The best stories were Harry Canyon about a cabbie in futuristic New York who becomes involved with a sexy woman on the run from bad guys, Den about a nerdy teenager who is transformed into a muscular hero, and Taarna about a silver-haired big-breasted beautiful savior out to save her planet from an army of zombies. The rest of the stories are all okay, although I liked Captain Sternn the least. That's about a guy named Captain Sternn put on trial for his crimes where one of the witnesses turns into a monster. Anyway, they're all watchable. Some of them were adapted from stories from Heavy Metal magazine. The animation is crude at times but there's certainly a lot of imagination put into it. The story doesn't always make a lot of sense either but it's still very interesting and fun. The music is great. It's obviously for adults, not kids. It's good if you enjoy fantasy stuff and can manage to not take it all so seriously. "},{"Title":"Powerful and Exciting Universe","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Everything is perfectExquisite film containing several salient elements science fiction, action, sex, violence, comedy, horror and fantasy ... accompanied by refined heavy metal music. The characters are fascinating, some of them are anti-heroes, villains, erotic women, evil beings, warriors, some consumed by ambition, lust, gluttony. These are stories about the struggle of good against evil, survival, justice, genocide, everything develops in parallel universes and time travel. The animation is flawless, outstanding ideologue, Heavy metal is the sum of all the evil and the goodness of the world in a space of unlimited time where the characters are the kings. "},{"Title":"Cult and offbeat cartoon for informed public","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First realization is surprising by its precarious and quirky side but quickly mesmerizes (hypnotized), then the type of design with big features, of dubious (doubtful) entertainment and a little trash of the first story is not to all tastes. But we quickly forget this prejudice as the history and background captivates us. We must put this cartoon U.S. in its time (1981 release) and suddenly found some quality and undeniable artistic cachet; Japanese animation , in the same period was to Goldorak and Harlock 78 when its design. This achievement is even amazing on certain sequences like the B 17 which is turned around, or even more than during the flight of the Taarna's bird.The film is completely shifted (quirky) but the story, at least the storieS are exciting and captivating. Indeed, the history includes several stories, like the Tales from the Crypt or Creepshow or quicksilver highway (1997, by Mick Garris),&#x85;, here with a common factor the evil incarnate by a green ball. This representation of evil reminds us of the movie The Fifth Element by Luc Besson (1997) with the taxi and unexpected girl passenger in distress. As heavy metal music and atmosphere and the presence of John Candy reminds us some scenes of Spaceballs by Mel Brooks (1987).The soundtrack is a reference here, as the heavy metal parts and the high quality philharmonic.This is a high quality film! It is true that there are already talents in this production as Ivan Reitman or Harold Ramis, John Candy , ... "},{"Title":"Required (but not so enjoyable) viewing for comic-book fans","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This gets 7/10 from me but that's purely the fan-boy speaking here, it's really not that enjoyable. It was an ambitious project seriously hampered by bad animation - especially the dynamic was way off most off the time - and very inconsistent story quality through the episodes. Also, the Loc-Nar frame story was neither asked-for nor did it add anything. Some good songs don't really save this from being a slight to big disappointment.(My biggest disappointment here is the Den episode - Richard Corben's artwork deserves so much better than the *** they put on screen, plus they even gave Den a loincloth - I thought they tried for adult animation!?) As ultimately hollow as HM feels, at least it's much better than HM2000 where they did better on the animation but completely forgot about everything else ... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if uneven","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Heavy Metal is understandably a movie that people are going to love or hate. I personally found it a decent, if not great, one. It does have a number of problems. A lot of the segments have stories and morals that for me lacked coherency, So Beautiful and So Dangerous was the one that was the most problematic in this area. And as beautiful as it looked, I didn't really see the point of the Soft Landing sequence either. Some of the character designs looked rather flat which may make the film rather dated by today's standards, again the weakest were in So Beautiful and So Dangerous. Most of the characters work very well actually, especially Den, Captain Stermn and Harry Canyon- Loknar is also intriguing but not developed enough- but others like the female from So Beautiful and So Dangerous get on your nerves. The humour gave me a mixed reception, Harry Canyon, Captain Stermn and Den did work very well in this respect however apart from some moments So Beautiful and So Dangerous comes across as juvenile, in fact the only thing that stood out to me in that segment was the voice acting. On the plus side, the animation on the most part was very good, not the best I've seen but acceptable enough for when it was made, Taarna was by far the best-looking sequence, so sweeping and lush. The soundtrack is superb, the songs are the epitome of killer and the musical score itself is powerful. The graphic violence is unrelenting and quite disturbing, most evocative was B-17, my personal favourite segment of the entire film because of how creepy and atmospheric it turned out to be. Harry Canyon is thoroughly enjoyable, only let down by a rather underwhelming ending, you do have a feeling you know how Captain Stermn is going to end but the memorable titular character and wonderful humour really carry it wonderfully while Taarna is the most visually beautiful of the segments. Den is highly effective also. The voice acting from Richard Romanus, Eugene Levy, Harold Ramis and especially John Candy is spot on. Overall, enjoyable but Heavy Metal is a wildly uneven film to me. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Unusual and powerful.","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of the first completely animated SF films, which indicates on the latter direction of development of SF cinematic expression, although there is not a lot of people who would agree on this unusual SF genre. I think it is a very brave film, violent, filled with heavy metal music, it has sex, action and raw, serious animation. A suitable historic compatibility wanted for this film to be made exactly eight decades after Georges Melies filmed his own space opera and other fun and most important things when it comes to the SF genre. Heavy metal closes one big media and genre circle, when it comes to the maturing of the genre. The title of the film comes from the British adult magazine, and it's adapted from French magazine Metal Hurlant. The movie is made out of several short stories, that were based upon such authors as Richard Corben, Angus McKie, Bernie Rightson and others... The item that combines all stories is Loch-Narr, a lighting ball that presents the alien evil. The director Gerald Potterton shows us a bizarre world of anti-utopia and space opera, and somewhat cosmic parabola. We can see aliens, robots, monsters, mutants, the whole gallery of SF archetypes that looks pretty original and fresh. It would that seem that audience back than, and even today, didn't accept this film pretty much, not even the SF fans... but I think that this film holds a special place in history of SF genre. "},{"Title":"Heavy Metal (1981)","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Heavy Metal is a bizarre animated anthology that doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Which is probably why it's pretty awesome. Based on a series of stories from a magazine of the same name, Heavy Metal takes a number of different animated styles and creates some science-fiction tales that are loosely connected thanks to a big glowing green thing called the Loc Mar. The tales range in absurdity and quality, but most have time to strip a woman naked for very simplistic reasons, such as thanking a man or tricking a man. SOme stories are very Twilight Zone-esque, such as the tale of Zombies in a bomber. But others are just weird, such as the woman taken into space, where she has coitus with a robot and the pilots of the ship are doing drugs. It really did feel like a long bizarre music video, with a bunch of stories that never really concluded properly. Some fantastic designs, good soundtrack, and things you are bound to not see anywhere else, means this is a strange curiosity you should definitely see at least once in your life. "},{"Title":"A celebration of sex, drugs, rock and roll... and boobs, of course","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I can't really say what it is I like about this movie. It's got plenty of storyline flaws, characters who behave in an extremely implausible manner, gratuitous nudity and animation that makes the old Looney Tunes cartoons look like The Lion King. By all accounts it should have turned out horrible but instead the grittiness and wild storytelling is actually part of its charm. Heavy Metal is an anthology of stories that range from gritty noir (Harry Canyon) to wacky comedy (So Beautiful, So Dangerous) to straight out gore (B-17). They are all tied together rather loosely by the presence of an evil green orb called the Loc Nar. It narrates these random stories to a hapless teenage girl it considers its arch-nemesis.The film opens with an astronaut returning to earth in a flying convertible. He makes it home to present the previously mentioned green orb as a gift to his daughter only to have it threaten his daughter after melting him into goo. My main problem with the opening segment is that the Loc Nar chooses to tell the girl about all the evil it has perpetrated rather than melting her as it did her father. Of course, if it did that, we wouldn't have a movie. Also some of the faces she makes come off too goofy to take seriously.The film switches to the first story, Harry Canyon, a 50's film noir transplanted to a futuristic New York in decline with a gruff cabbie in place of a gumshoe. He is thrust into the action when a girl gets into his cab to escape from gangsters who just murdered her father, the current owner of the Loc Nar. While it's my favorite of all the stories, the problems come from the girl's behavior. She decides to have sex with Harry Canyon within minutes of meeting him and watching her father die; a reaction usually reserved for porn movies. Then she turns against him after she gives the Loc Nar to the gangsters despite there being no foreshadowing that she would do something like this. Perhaps most disappointing is that this is the way the story ends. Harry kills the woman in self defense and drives off to adventures that we will never know.On to story #2, Den. This one is more of a fantasy where an 18-year old nerd finds the Loc Nar in his backyard and is teleported to an alternate universe where he is transformed to a muscle bound hero who gets tasked to defeat an evil warlord and, of course, rescue a superhot naked girl. I really enjoyed this story and John Candy's voice-over lends some much needed laughs after the downer resolution of Harry Canyon. This one also seems to have a more satisfying ending. The only thing I can't understand is why the Loc Nar would include this story as it clearly made Den's life BETTER.The third story is Captain Sternn, the story of a lowlife criminal who bribes a meek man to give false testimony at his trial. However, the Loc Nar has other plans and causes Hannover Fiste to hulk out and chase after the titular scumbag. Despite the premise, this is the most light-hearted episode up to this point. It also seems to end before it really gets going. Surprisingly there are no naked women to be found either.The next story is B-17, a claustrophobic horror tale about a WWII pilot trying to survive a plane full of zombie comrades reanimated by the Loc Nar naturally. This story is highly effective in its gore and scares and has, by far, the best ending. Once again there are no naked women and there is also little spoken dialogue but it does just fine without them. This is the strongest segment, storywise anyway.After the brief segue to full on horror, So Beautiful, So Dangerous, seeks to lighten the mood. We have a sexy secretary who is accidentally beamed aboard an alien spaceship piloted by two stoner aliens. She also finds love with a robot of all things. I'd consider this one to be the weakest. The woman is annoying, the thought of robot sex requires too much suspension of disbelief and I was actually disappointed that the story abandons the far more interesting plot thread about mutations once the spaceship shows up. Also the Loc Nar doesn't do anything evil here and appears as a bauble on the secretary's blouse. How did she get it? Why didn't it kill her? Finally, we conclude with Taarna, a stoic fantasy involving a mute, but impossibly gorgeous warrior woman and a city of violent thugs mutated by the Loc Nar. All in all, it's a good story with a good ending except for the beginning where Taarna takes an eternity to get dressed while the city that summoned her gets completely slaughtered.After the stories are concluded, the wraparound plot concludes in case you forgot about it. The Loc Nar explodes, taking the house with it. However, the girl escapes where Taarna's bird shows up to whisk her away and her hair whitens indicating she is Taarna's ancestor or reincarnation or... who knows? The ending makes little sense but it's not the main attraction here anyway.Heavy Metal is a fun escapist fantasy that knows what it is and makes no apologies for it. Even though it's not the most expensive or the best looking movie, it more than makes up for it with its passion and unencumbered approach to storytelling. If you're looking to have a good time, definitely check it out. "},{"Title":"As loud and nasty as one could want.","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Very good cult animated feature based on the science fiction / fantasy magazine Heavy Metal, itself inspired by a French magazine titled Metal Hurlant. The project was the brainchild of publisher Len Mogel, who ended up bringing it to producer Ivan Reitman, who agreed to join the project on the condition that he have total control and bring in his own writers, Dan Goldberg and Len Blum, with whom he'd worked on Stripes. The result is an anthology of lush, vivid, sexy, violent, adult stories linked by the ongoing journey of an evil glowing green sphere dubbed the Loc-Nar, which brings chaos to all those with whom it comes in contact. Some of the episodes are taken from the magazine - Soft Landing, Den, Captain Stern, and So Beautiful & So Dangerous, some are originals - Harry Canyon, B-17, and Taarna, and they're united by the common thread Grimaldi. The movie is an amazing collaboration between artists such as Richard Corben, Berni Wrightson, Mike Ploog, Howard Chaykin, Chris Achilleos, and Juan Gimenez; the total crew of animators and support personnel numbered around a thousand and was based around the world - NYC, LA, London, Ottawa, and Montreal; also among the credited writers is Dan O'Bannon of Alien fame. The assemblage of voice talent is solid - John Candy, Eugene Levy, Joe Flaherty, Harold Ramis, Richard Romanus, Percy Rodrigues, Al Waxman, Jackie Burroughs, Don Francks, etc. Harry Canyon, a noir style story of a cabbie of the future, Den, a tale of an adolescent's fantasy of derring-do as a muscular hero, and the adventure saga Taarna are definite standouts. Even though it's true that animation has come even further in the past 30 plus years, and a film of this sort would look even better now, there is still much to admire with the look of this film. Some of the stories are actually worthy of feature length in their own right, and they're all equally engaging and often humorous, with Levy and Ramis priceless as a pair of chatty aliens and Candy endearing as a sex starved robot. (In fact, some of the SCTV guys provide voices for a few characters.) The awesome soundtrack includes contributions from such artists as Blue Oyster Cult, Sammy Hagar, Cheap Trick, Riggs, Stevie Nicks, and Journey, so the movie is just as appealing that way as it is visually. And one doesn't necessarily have to fit into the obvious target audience to get entertainment out of it. It moves along quite well and clocks in at a reasonable 91 minutes long. Followed by Heavy Metal 2000 19 years later. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Read the movie title","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a big fan of movie titles. Death Race being one, Shoot Em Up, another when the producers don't disguise the plot as more than it should be by the title, and don't get me wrong my top 3 are pan's labyrinth, memento and Mullholland Dr. But forget that, this movie is so gratuitous, so fantastical and awesome in the mind of every 14 year old, but at the same time if you focus on the story, it is really quite a fun bullshit movie and it's awesome. Yes the boobs and gore are over the top, but when you consider the audience and the feel of the movie, come on, of course it's going to be stupid fun, which it is, and you really shouldn't expect much more, but for what it is it delivers. An epic fantasy, stupidly orgasmic, train wreck of an anthology that doesn't become comprehensible unless you are in the mindset of it all. Yes it is stupidly ridiculous, but at the same time it could care less what you think of it which is one thing I love about this film. I'd gladly throw a 7 of 10 in it's direction for being honest , original and innovative. Great for some stupid fun. "}{"Title":"Heybuddymovies #8 worst comic book movie","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My brother recently put this film up on his Facebook status as his favorite animated feature. So wrong&#x85;so very&#x85;very wrong. While its idea is admirable, taking an obscure comic series and trying to put most of its best stories together in a film that glorifies the days great heavy metal artists, it didn't work out so well. I was absolutely bored to death with this film. It has animation that is well done in certain areas, making most of its human characters flow on-screen, but that's the only good thing I can say about this. It is overly sexualized and has a headache inducing soundtrack. If I had a popular website, I am sure this would be the one in the comments people disagreed with most. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable fantasy erotica","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This animated feature is made up of a collection of short stories connected by a mysterious entity called the Loch-nar. This sphere spreads evil wherever it goes, and it's loosely behind the various dark stories collected here. In all honesty, it's a very vague connection at best; the vignettes here essentially are all stand-alone. The universe of Heavy Metal is one of science-fiction, fantasy, occasional horror and an abundant procession of large breasted women. Its erotic content is perhaps its chief selling point, and certainly what gives it its memorable imagery. Even though I know I should know better, I still have to confess to really enjoying the voluptuous vixens that populate this film; I'm such a sucker for the pneumatic female form that even these cartoon ladies worked for me. Call me an idiot if you like, I can take it.The stories themselves are as variable as you might expect but fairly imaginative. The mixture of the erotica into the sci-fi/fantasy narratives always keeps even the most uninspired segments at least enjoyable. On top of this the soundtrack is a selection of music from arena rock bands of the early 80's, which I guess is only appropriate in a film called Heavy Metal.I suppose you could classify this as an example of a cult cartoon, an animated feature that could just as easily be considered a midnight movie. It's most definitely a little strange on the whole. And it is quite clearly aimed at males, although women would find the whole thing a little amusing I suspect. They would most probably come away from this celebration of enormous breasts and sci-fi/fantasy thinking that the male of the species is in essence a knuckle-dragging low-brow idiot. And really we wouldn't be able to argue very convincingly against the charge. "},{"Title":"If a comic book were tripping balls, it'd probably look like this.","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Heavy Metal has deranged lab experiment written all over it. An anthology made up of dissimilar vignettes (aside from an alien orb that vaguely ties them together); a cast of SCTV veterans; an adolescent fantasy full of creatures, other worlds and T&A; all set to a decidedly un-metal soundtrack (Stevie Nicks?). But it is very much a soundtrack movie, one that's chock-full of famous names, and it wouldn't work nearly as well without that music. I do like this soundtrack, and it's really the reason for watching this movie. This is 90 minutes of sex, fantasy and rock and roll, and I imagine that, were I to watch this movie stoned, it would make for a wild ride.No matter your feelings on Heavy Metal, I think we can all agree that an astronaut driving a Corvette down to earth is a pretty cool image.6/10 "},{"Title":"Hit and miss anthology tied together by the green orb of doom!","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Yes, this movie has a bunch of short cartoon stories that are loosely tied together by a green orb that is apparently very evil. We start off with an introduction kind of story where the orb begins terrorizing this girl while telling her of the various evil he has done throughout time. Then we shift to a very cool cartoon, the best of the bunch about some cab driver from the future. Unfortnately, we then go to a comedy in some new dimension and I think there is nudity in this one, but I have never saw this movie on anything but standard television. It shifts again, I have a hard time remembering the exact order, I do know there is a rather good one featuring some sort of pirate on trial, a cool one about some bad happenings on a plane during what looks like world war II, and then one with aliens that is not all that good and we wrap it up with the weakest of the bunch about some woman on some bird. Do not ask me why I dislike that one the most, I can not even give you an answer, I just thought it played out very weakly. The voice work is interesting having John Candy as one of the main voices used and the music is pretty good too. The animation is not top notch anymore, but for its day it was okay. The stories themselves range from too short to to long. The ones you want to run long end to abruptly, the ones you want to end seem to go on and on. Still it was a pretty cool movie when looked at as a whole. "},{"Title":"Kinda a let-down for fans of the magazine but...","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this film in the theater in Calgary; some of it is well done for the time and there are many funny moments. The Tarna and Harry Canyon sections are my favourites (when the warrior-woman flies through the giant dog skeleton on her winged steed I was impressed!). You could see Ralph Bashki's influence in some of the vignettes and I'm not sure that's a good thing. The actors used for the voices were well-selected.As I mentioned above, it was not up to the cutting edge standards of the magazine. The plots had been bowlderized a little (made cute) and the dark humour of Heavy Metal/Metal Hurlant was not evident... hence, my low score for it. "},{"Title":"Notable animation. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Somewhere amongst the comedy and science-fiction offerings of the 80's, there was Gerald Potterton's cult adaptation of the magazine HEAVY METAL. Like CREEPSHOW, this is a portmanteau of short stories, linked by a common object.In CREEPSHOW, it is the discarded comic book of the kid berated by his uncompromising father; in HEAVY METAL it is a glowing sphere that brings chaos and destruction in five places.A forerunner of the Japanese Anime and Manga movies that dominated video during the 90's, HEAVY METAL is admirable sci-fi animation. Laden with dark humour and a liberal sprinkling of sexual undertones that wouldn't look out of place in a Tinto Brass movie.The story begins with the sphere arriving at the house of a young girl who is terrified at first, but then is regaled with stories by the sphere. Cue some very bizarre adventures (my favourite is the man who ends up in an Aztec civilization and starts enjoying his unusual surroundings)Worth a look for all that and something waiting to be discovered on DVD. "},{"Title":"Well done film version of the popular comic mag.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I should I should state that I'm a huge fan of the comic magazine, so maybe I'm a bit bias.  This film oozes 80s `MTV' type animation, which I found suitable because it gave a feel that stayed true to the stories in the comic itself.  The film is a collection of stories that seem right out of the comic.  The stories in the film are well written and animated, coming from a variety of settings.  What I liked the best was the extreme far-out fiction. The stories have no `explanation' of why things are; they just throw you into the story and let it flow out.  Also the film makes sure the audience knows it's for mature audiences by throwing in graphic violence and nudity, which adds to the story but seems a bit much at times (although that holds true to the comic also).  I would recommend this to anybody looking for a mature animated film with a serious sense that's not anime.  Of course, also to fans of Heavy Metal the comic magazine. "},{"Title":"An ok movie, but not the best.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is fun and entertaining, despite two boring stories in the middle.  The first two and last story are very strong, however,  carrying enough content and plot to be movies on their own.  The animation has a dirty yet comical style.  I recommend this film to anyone interested in adult animation. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Has it really been almost twenty years...? I never got to see this in the theatre, unfortunately, but I bought a copy of it for my girlfriend the month that it was released on video. We sent the kiddies to bed, popped some popcorn and settled in. She had seen it in the theatre, and kept saying Wow...I don't remember that... a lot. Personally, I try not to critique a movie based on production values, props, special effects...you know...the technical stuff. That's what Maltin gets paid for. I rate movies on how I feel. When I walk out of the theatre, do I regret spending the four fifty on it. In this case, I dropped a twenty on purchasing the video, and I am satisfied.Besides...tell me you don't see a lot of influence on The Fifth Element from this movie! If nothing else, see it for the absolute Killer-with-a-capital-K soundtrack! "},{"Title":"It is the magazine","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If there is one thing this film does, it is that Heavy Metal captures the spirit of the original work it was based on.  When watching the original, keep in mind the magazine.  Don't watch expecting high culture or political correctness. Watch it, and enjoy... "}{"Title":"Great movie, DVD special features complete the experience.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A movie I've loved ever since the first time i saw it in high school. Great stories, I'm glad they opted on the framing story that ended up in the final film, the alternate shown on the DVD just doesn't cut it.  I do wish they would have included the deleted Neverland story. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a watchable movie and the animation wasn't as bad as I'd expected.  Most of the stories were pretty solid.  I'd have to disagree with a previous commenter about one of the stories, though the last.  I found this to be rather poorly-paced.  It seemed to take forever for that warrior woman to fly around on that bird (which sounded like a demented idiot), dress up in that Frederics of Hollywood getup, then run into those green guys.  As the viewer might expect, there's no way she could have gotten to those poor folks in need of salvation in time and she doesn't.  Rather, they have to settle for avengement, and a poor showing of it at that.  I almost thought it was all a joke, but I couldn't note any irony evident at all.  Still, this bit was watchable too; just needed some better pacing. "},{"Title":"review of this movie","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie I was reluctant to see in 1981 because it was a cartoon. I decided to see it because I like to judge all movies for myself. It started out as a cartoon. Within its music and its story, I became lost in this animation simply because it was different. I left the theater as if I have already saw it before. Every story was perfect in itself and as a whole. I now own a copy of this movie and I do see it especially when my friends come to visit. Its in its place, so see this movie and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining sexy animated movie.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an interesting movie about a green orb that tells a girl about 5 stories of evil. The stories seem to have their own form of animation. There are different songs for each story. This movie combines Action / Adventure / Horror / Sci-Fi / Fantasy all into one film. The film also has nudity and as well as sex, all the women's breasts are large. John Candy is funny as a sex crazed robot. The violence is gory but the film is animated so it can be shown on television. The mix is kind of uneven but the ending had a good unexpected twist. It's an entertaining sexy animated movie that is worth checking out. (Don't show it to your children)    "},{"Title":"Classic in a way, and adolescent tripe - both","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING! (okay)Heavy Metal is based on some early issue 'underground' comics of the same name, and is simply a compilation of five stories, strung together by the same evil greenish (for some reason) 'force' in the shape of a globe or sphere. It's called the 'loc nar', prob. for reasons I could care less about. And the beastie is after a heroine, which we discover she is only later in the film, and who alone can save the world; shades of Buffy and her vampires.What's striking in the film - apart from some of the aires, and even lyrics, from Riggs (never heard of them outside of this film), Blue Oyster Cult, Sabbath, Sammy Hagar, and of course Don Felder - is the enthusiasm and energy of everyone involved. Many of the episodes involve the adolescent fixation on gratuitous sex, so the cartoon women are busty and loose. And much else strikes the same remarkably juvenile pose. It's truly a disco era, '70s feminist'/frat-boy sort of film (contrasted with the 90s prudish feminism of the X-Files and the nasty inseminating bees, with the ooze, the black pupils, the virus parasite creatures, and so on). But despite that childish tone throughout the various stories, or maybe because of something childish in it all, the stories are interesting, and remain so upon repeated viewing. The late voice acting John Candy (among a regular cast of voice over Canadian (or is it 2nd City?) comics, I believe), who himself seems to be one or more voices in almost each episode, actually sounds remarkably old and mature, considering, and in light of the overall tone of the film itself. And one can look past the dominatrix-clad heroine of the final episode, and the somewhat crude and distracting experiment in '3D' animation at one brief point, even the slightly cheesy attempt to capture a bit of Frazetta, and see instead the selfless bravery that was intended, even if the evil is uncomplicated and exaggerated. One can understand that some would decry the animation itself as cheap and based solely or too unimaginatively on live action cells. But, for what it's worth, the animation comes through, and doesn't really get in the way (just my opinion) - save for the slo-mo fight in the final episode, which is a little visually confusing (and thankfully, they left that pretentious Neverwhere Land sequence _out_).It really was an amibitious film, if you think about it, and would surely be considered for an Oscar if released among the nonsense films of today. It holds up well, except perhaps to assorted anime fans, who would prob. be more satisfied with hardcorn porn rentals, anyway (again, just my opinion). Any buzz about a sequel, with today's 'talent', and today's overly precious PC thinking, and not to defend adolescent indulgence either, strikes me as a project doomed to fail, and something which would never approach the sort of spirit, good and bad, found in the now decades old film (but one can always be surprized). "},{"Title":"Woah! This movie is evil!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A collection of nice short stories adapted from a comic book magazine by the same name. The stories work just as well in animation and are fun to watch.Some shock value is achieved by nudity and gory violence, but the stories are also pretty good. Definitely worth watching, as you won't find too many movies like this one. "},{"Title":"HEAVY METAL TAKE A RIDE!!","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Screenplay adaption of the cult sci-fi/fantasy magazine that bears its name. Splendid animation with an equally impressive accompanying soundtrack. A film which brings back many fond memories of my adolescence. Also be aware that the majority of voice actors in this film were comprised of SCTV ALUMNI! e.g. JOHN CANDY, HAROLD RAMIS, EUGENE LEVY, etc. This film is a must for those of you who grew up reading the magazine.  "},{"Title":"I grew up with this movie!","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has been a part of my  life for almost all of my 22 years on this planet. Sadly most Americans think that cartoons are for  kids but this great movie blows that  right out of the water. I'm sick of  seeing talking and singing animals.  Not everyone who goes to the movies  to see animation is a 5yr old. It's  to bad you have to go to Japan to see a movie for adults.  "},{"Title":"A buffet of highly contrasting styles of sci-fi animation","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I grew up on this movie, first watching it when I was about 10, WAY too young naturally.  This was the first flick I saw to take animation to the adult level, such as in Wizards around the same time.  Some of the episodic stories here are weaker than others, but if you want a full plate of various fare; from the light comedy of Captain Sternn to the straightforward adventure of Harry Canyon, Den, and Taarna, to the outright blood & guts of B-52.  That villainous Loc-Nar weaves many a lurid tale as he tries to seduce a young girl to the ways of evil. "},{"Title":"Let me get some points across about this flick","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all the chick at the end of the movie is no Xena copy, in fact this movie came way before Xena, and by saying something so stupid as calling her a rip out of Xena makes absolutely no sense, another thing is, this is no kid film, and story can be hard to follow, if you can't stay awake while watching a film, don't bother coming here and whining about how much the movie sucks, if you probably slept through most of it, however this, it was a great movie, with various stories and art styles, and I still consider this great animation, it is by no means outdated, and it still exceeds it's time, I give this two thumbs up if I had a second person next to me giving the second thumb up. Please be advised watch the B-17 story, it was awesome, and the Tarrna story at the end, it was another good one, and the first skit about the cab driver, but anyway it may have had off the wall stories that sometimes don't relate to the Loc Nar, but don't let those wacky scenes get in the way, even those were not relating to the Loc Narr, those scenes were still good skits, so I recommend you watch all the way through the movie, instead of watching 30 minutes of it, and putting it back on the video store shelf. oh and one more thing, If anyone says anything bad about the Tarrna skit I'll have to convince them myself. "}{"Title":"A Cult Classic","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Heavy Metal, when you look at it is not as much a movie as a long running cult phenomenon. I remember reading that when it first came out it was pretty much ignored by everyone including the future fanatics.If it weren't for it's somewhat obscure status for much of the 80's it probably would have been forgotten. Today it lives on thanks to the rise of AnimeWhen I first saw it I was into Sailor Moon. I rented Heavy Metal when it was finally released and liked it. Enough that I purchased it. I watched it a few times afterward and then tossed it in a drawer.The same consensus seemed to happen for all the new fans. For a while there was much fanaticism about it and then ultimately a sense of disilussionment "},{"Title":"A weird, enjoyable film","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw it, I was expecting Japanese anime, but I got more from Heavy Metal. The animation, though dated, is pretty good, and I like any animated film that has mature themes. So Beautiful and So Dangerous and Taarna are my two favorites. I'm hoping to see the long-awaited sequel along with that other big film, Star Wars Episode One.  "},{"Title":"Taarna","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Heavy Metal when I was a teenager in the summer of 1981, and it remains one of my all-time favorite movies.  My most esteemed sequence is the final one, and seeing it is the only reason I now watch the film. After being subjected to all of the gratuitous nudity and sex in the earlier parts of the film,  and having watched all of the earlier characters succumb to evil, there was something very striking, even haunting, about Taarna, who spoke not a word and went about her duty with a single-minded, no-nonsense purpose which was quite out of contrast to what had transpired in the earlier stories.  I realize that this is an animated film which, in the main, is entertainment for entertainment's sake, and that I am deriving more from the movie than was intended.  Nevertheless, Taarna struck a deep chord in me at an elemental level by the conjunction of the concepts of good triumphing over evil, selflessness and self-sacrifice, and the beauty and power of woman which has remained to the present day.   The sequence in which she dons her gear in the hideaway, which was rotoscoped, is particularly striking and beautiful. "},{"Title":"Ehhh...Not saying I didn't like it but...ehhh...","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A friend of mine let me borrow this movie about five years ago. I was still in college so I was broke and didn't have the required DVD player to watch it. The friend who let me borrow it was a home town buddy, so I couldn't exactly use his player that was a hundred miles away. It took me three weeks to locate a DVD player I could use. During that three week span, the box sat at the edge of my desk, tempting me. I waited in great anticipation to finally get to watch what my friend had told me was the greatest animated film ever! As you might have guessed, the hype and anticipation left me duly disappointed. I have since read the comics, re-watched the movie, and even sat through the execrable sequel 2000. The whole experience never got remarkably better. Even though the comics are good, they aren't eye-popping like everyone says they are. The movie is certainly enjoyable, but I feel the only reason it has such cult status is because it's futuristic and there are animated boobs. Heavy Metal lacks meaty realism and true human condition amid fantastic backgrounds as such animated films as the '85 Vampire Hunter D or La Planete Sauvage. On the upside, the soundtrack is awesome, the voice characterization is worthy, and, at times, it is a kick ass movie. Just don't believe all the hype! Good, not immortal. "},{"Title":"Has Not Aged Well","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film that may have been groundbreaking in its time, but as the years go by, it's increasingly dated.  The animation ranges from fairly sleek to scribbly;  the stories range from gritty to juvenile.  Although the use of sex, drugs and violence in animation was something new and controversial in '81, the thrill is gone.  The viewer is left with the film's faults and what can serve best as a time capsule of violent Amazon spank-art. "},{"Title":"It's terrible... but I wouldn't have it any other way","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a film Heavy Metal is a total disaster. Corny, cheesy, cliche'd, wanky (in every sense of the word.... the sexism is outrageous) - all you can think is thank God it's only a cartoon. As entertainment, though, it's fantastic, not least the wildly improbable babes' outfits - they put Xena to shame. In a way it's sad that this movie was ever made, because the world is a poorer place culturally for it... but who wants to live in a world of high culture? Give me glowing orbs and the SCTV boys every time.  "},{"Title":"Heavier than bricks...","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Animated short stories in a goth/science-fiction vein, supplemented by a rock soundtrack featuring such non-metal artists as Journey, Cheap Trick and Stevie Nicks. International product financed through the Canadian Film Development Corporation (which would explain the mostly Canadian-born voice-over talent, including John Candy, Harold Ramis, and Joe Flaherty) and distributed stateside by Columbia. The screenplay by Daniel Goldberg and Len Blum (utilizing original stories from several talented writers, including Dan O'Bannon) may intrigue youthful audiences, yet these plots fail to pop and the thing seems to last a lifetime. Worse, the look of the film is gloppy, with ugly color-schemes and foregrounds which are hardly intriguing. It made a decent (if erratic) record album, but as a movie it fails. * from **** "},{"Title":"old fart","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw it 20 years ago and liked it. I was 15. It was fun because it was a cartoon with violence, gore, aliens getting high and naked chicks with big boobs. I saw it again this year and I thought it sucked. First of all, there has been a lot of adult cartoons in the past 20 years so the shock effect just wasn't there. It is also very uneven. It is basically a collection of 10 minutes not-really-related sketches put together by different persons, and it shows. The animation quality of many of the sketches is below the average Saturday morning cartoon. Pretty bad. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Read the comic but DON'T waste your time watching the film","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Pathetic, the only word for it.The makers of this film took a brilliant comic magazine, which housed many amazing stories, original plot and extraordinary graphic work, and turned it into an INSULT of a tribute.This film is bereft of any originality or quality, a hastily put together series of stories with very little plot or artistic value.Mind you there are PLENTY of animated work from this era that are amazing, even rivaling what we see on screen today, but this film...is simply a pathetic excuse. (The sequel to this is even more stupefyingly horrible). "},{"Title":"Bad animation, lame stories","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is pretty sad, the animation is terrible, especially when compared with a lot of stuff that was coming out of Japan at the same time(Vampire Hunter D).  For some reason all the vignettes seem to have a really weak plot that involves either gratuitous violence or naked cartoon women with lots of t&a.  Not to mention that the device used to interlink the stories is a glowing green orb that is the source of all evil in the universe, again not that impressive.  Granted that many anime films seem to find a way to show quite a bit of naked people and violence, at least they do so with an engaging and intersting plot that contains the viewers interest rather than being something that looks like it was written by some blocked eighth grader looking to show naked women and lots of blood. "}{"Title":"Worst animated film ever.","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is bad in every way conceivable. It's a adult-oriented yet approached in a very immature manner. The animation is anywhere from sketchy to stiff and dead. The plots in each of the stories only serve the singular purpose of indulging in whatever immoral and ridiculous themes that the writers thought of. The film as a whole is just shallow and mindless, like living out some immature adolescent comic book geek's dream. You don't sit through this film, you trudge painfully through it. For a film that requires no thought whatsoever, this movie causes your head to hurt too much. Why waste your time with it? There are better adult-oriented animated films from the era, see those. "},{"Title":"Challenging film.","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Or rather I should say JUVENILE. And I mean that in the most sincere way. Let me get this out I don't like this film's stories and themes. I like the scope of imagination, and maybe the Den story.Most of this film, to me, represents the filth of the drug-rock counter- culture that pervaded much of the 70s in America, and could often be threatening if not downright lethal as one often heard news stories of the results of drug abuse. Yet, even so, even with the law created to abate the problem, there were those those who engaged in it casually or indulgently, and did so without apology.To me, this film represents that in spades. And yet I acknowledge the positives of the movie; that being a group of people took a chance on creating an imagined spectacle based on an Americanized version of a European comic book.Regrettably the French got royally screwed in the deal, and instead of American audiences getting exposed to the finest of Continental Sci-Fi, we're given some bastardized version of the same comic (Metal Hurlant). Anyone familiar with the publication will know the stark difference between the over- sexed, over-drugged, and just down right insulting and pornographic version of the American magazine verse the rather refined (but no less violent in terms of themes presented) publication of the original European publication.Don't believe me? Go to the two different websites, or buy issues of both American and European publication, and you'll be stunned at how insulting the American publication is.Still, the film has heart, and delivers a type of escapism that I think a lot of sci-fi fans will guardedly and tacitly nod in mild approval. After all, it wasn't meant to be a head-trip film (as it often was mistaken as such), but an earnest attempt to bring some of the grown up adventure fantasy to the big screen, and done in an animated venue to not only keep in style of the comic, but also to show a stylized and artistic rendering of alternate worlds.And that's what I like about the film. Worlds and other places that during the cultural depression of the 1970s and early 80s were presented to people who normally didn't get to see such places. Hence the reason I have the DVD in my collection.As a young man I was deeply insulted by a lot of the baser themes coursing through this film, but I did appreciate the redemption at the end of the film, and for me that seemed to partially exonerate the authors of this anthology.Then, after seeing the film on HBO, it vanished. And it wouldn't be until many years later that I finally saw it again a few times on the midnight circuit. The print was battered, but the scope of the film was still there.This film should have been a lesson for the major studios, just like Star Wars, but the ever cautious and sociopathic middle-men who horde wealth in the entertainment industry for the sake of it, and have no concept on how to expand and create better products to garnish more wealth, the lesson was lost.Meanwhile, across the Pacific in Japan, animation is running strong, and was the forerunner to the Heavy Metal film with adult themes depicted in animated media. But the squabble and fear of upsetting North American audiences with a cartoon not meant for kids, is too daunting, too challenging, and just plain baffling and incomprehensible.I guess what I'm saying here is that there could have been more and better Heavy Metal like films without all the extreme cultural- pollution depicted in this film. Sad, but true. And only now, when CGI is finally coming into its own, are we getting some mild exposure to what we should have gotten many years back.Well, allegedly there are a few other Heavy Metal films in the works, and after seeing Heavy Metal 2000 all I can do is shrug and hope the DVD hits the bargain bin, or there's a free stream of it somewhere because of what I expect to be more of the same.So, to sum up, the original Heavy Metal film should have been a turning point for American animation cinema. But it wasn't. Why? Because it not only pushed the envelope, but, like any experimental aircraft that flies beyond it's performance envelope, is crashed and burned.Like a lot of other products in the 70s and 80s, the Japanese came to our rescue. In the meantime Heavy Metal remains a cinematic curiosity. Me, I can't watch it more than once a year, if that. Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Eh","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was a little too young to watch this (10) when it first came out, but, on a whim, I watched it on NetFlix the other night.The animation was embarrassingly bad. Fans of the movie seem to be poo-pooing anyone who comments on how bad the animation is, but come on, the animation is done at a REALLY low frame rate, causing movement to look really stiff and jerky.That said, the artwork is rather good, in a comic-book sort of way. The style was very unique, and was clearly influenced by the cartoons of Ralph Bakshi. Even though the movie was a series of episodes, there was a uniform look and tone, which I enjoyed.The writing, again, pretty much on a par with some comic books of the era. If you are a fan of any of the anthology comics from the seventies, like House of Mystery or House of Secrets you will see many parallels (including the fact that Bernie Wrightson, well-known as a horror comic artist primarily in the 70s and 80s, contributed work to the movie).The voice acting was laughable -- but in a good way. It seems as if most of the actors accepted this gig as a goof. No one really seems to be taking the material all that seriously, which is good, because it is NOT Shakespeare.I am not familiar with the magazine, Heavy Metal, so I can't draw any comparisons to that; but for me, the movie reminded me most of the comic book inserts that they used to include in National Lampoon. Kind of quirky, intentionally camp, and with decent enough artwork.It was a nice enough movie, although the horrible quality of the animation did tend to distract from the story -- what there was of it. "},{"Title":"time/perspective...","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Funny. First watched this movie as a teenage stoner and absolutely loved it...like an 82 minute trip...or a really vivid dream...I just picked it up as the special edition DVD in Oz just came down from 35 bucks to 10. Glad i only paid ten, coz revisiting this one proved that time has either changed it, or ME. Probably the latter! Anyway, I still enjoyed it, but perhaps my perspective now is a bit different, but i couldn't help thinking it 'had' something back then that was just missing for me now. I thought it was the kind of movie Roger Corman would make if he did animation (not that there's anything wrong with RC's movies...) What it is very good for is seeing the remarkable work of some very talented people when they barely more than film students. Dan O'Bannon and Jimmy T Murakami to name 2.Still heaps dig the music and the weird animation style...not a great movie by any means though. "},{"Title":"An excellent Animated Romp filled with violence and sexual content.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rated R for Strong Violence,Sexuality/Nudity,Language and Some Drug Use. Quebec Rating13+(should be 16+) Canadian Home Video Rating14A(should be 18A)I saw Heavy Metal two weeks ago on MoviePix.Heavy Metal is an excellent film and one of the greatest films of the 1980's.It is my third favorite film of all time.I'm surprised it is only rated 6.1/10 on IMDb.THis film is excellent.It has a really good storyline,the stories in this film are very interesting,lots of violence and nudity,good animation and a great rock soundtrack.I suggest you buy this film you will definitely not be disappointed.The film is about a spaceman who brings an orb for her daughter.The orb however kills the spaceman and tells the girl stories about itself.The stories are about a taxi driver who protects a girl from the mafia because they want to buy the orb,a man who is convicted of many crimes and escapes because the defendant turns into a monster and tries to kill him,there are two other stories as well.Mixed with Violence,Nudity,Sex,Drugs and weirdness,Heavy Metal is an excellent animated film that you wont want to miss! Runtime86min 10/10 "},{"Title":"Anime like this. *HELP!*","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" So there was an anime movie that I watched when I was younger. Early 80's or around there, and its set in the future I think. It was set in this desert, or a desert planet and there are these huge kind of shrimp looking things with lots of legs under their bodies. They also had glowing red eyes, an travel across the ground at very high speeds in huge packs. Like giant walls of insect things. At the end of the movie, one of the characters does something and they all stop in their tracks and end their path of destroying everything in their way and their eyes turn from red, to blue. I wish I knew more about the movie, like when it was made and stuff. All I need is the title. I hope someone knows what I am talking about. Thanks for your time again everyone.But!!!...if anyone know what the hell I'm talking about, please help!!! "},{"Title":"Ground breaking adult animation (In its day)","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was created during the drug era it should be easy to relate to by  we the people of that generation. See it more than once you will definitely see things you missed the first time. it is a great movie and should be deemed an adult classic, see it stoned then it makes perfect sense!!! "},{"Title":"The Younger Crowd Might Like This One","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was fourteen when I saw this movie and I had to sneak into the theatre to see it.At  the time, I thought it was a relatively interesting movie.I need to watch it again to refresh my memory. "},{"Title":"great for animation fans","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry but saying this movie sucks is an understatement, the beginning and the ends were good, stay awake for the ending, despite the boring inbetween stuff, but don't miss the odd stuff inbetween it was either humorus, or gothic in a way. I can stay awake through anything, even HobGoblins, this is a great movie for animation lovers, definitely not for kids, but still this was a good animation. "},{"Title":"Fascinating study of animation styles","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a series of animated stories loosely tied together. Each story has been sketched by a different animator using approximately similar budgets and it is fascinating to see where each spent their money. Style is similar to that seen in heavy metal magazines. One story has a good example of the use of rotoscoping. The heavy metal sound track is a plus. For fans of adult-oriented animation, this is a must-have. Outside of Ralph Bakshi's work, there is little in this film genre. The question is, why hasn't this been released on DVD with redigitized sound?  "}{"Title":"The greatest rock and roll, erotic, sci-fi/fantasy movie I ever seen! It ROCKS!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this great awesome movie six years ago. This movie came out when I was born in 1982! This movie has everything -sci-fi, horror, comedy, romance, and of course rock and roll. The soundtrack from the movie rocks. My favorite songs are Open Arms by Journey, the two theme songs by Heavy Metal, All Of You by Don Felder, and the best one is Blue Lamp by my favorite female rock singer Stevie Nicks. I like the last story of the female warrior and her flying dragon or bird. My favorite part when she is in the bar. She gives those green guys a can-of-whoop --- on them and Captain Sternn in a courtroom trial where wild strange things happen. The late John Candy has an excellent voice performance as Den and the robot. I gave Heavy Metal two thumbs up! This movie should be recommended for those who are fans of grown-up cartoons and sci-fi freaks! "},{"Title":"Great Flick!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After seeing this film for the first time, I was hooked.  I went out and bought it.  The main reason I liked this film was because you weren't forced to sit and watch one style of film.  It was different genres of stories tied together.  It was a cult film, and should be viewed as that.  If you're into cult films like Rocky Horror Picture Show, and Night of the Living Dead, seriously consider this film as your next rental. "},{"Title":"Cool movie","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Man! This movie had everything in it!Heavy metal music Nudity And other stuff***** A+ That's what I give it! "},{"Title":"Spirit of adventure and imagination = good, execution = meh","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is an animated movie that's awesome and sucks at the same time. It's awesome because of its spirit of adventure and experimentation. I'd rather see ten weird, experimental, and personal movies like Heavy Metal than one boring pander-fest like 500 Days of Summer which, like a smooth politician, is guaranteed a wide audience because it's engineered to appeal to as many people as possible. What it loses in the process is a human touch, the sense that I'm getting to know a real person's dreams and aspirations, not being manipulated into thinking that it's hip for young women to have borderline personality disorder (as in most popular RomComs like Juno), or that grand special effects are more exciting than a good story (as in the Avengers or the Phantom Menace). This is just a guess, but I think these animated stories are very close to the hearts of the people who wrote and designed them, and this movie was made out of love for the stories instead of expecting to get rich off of it. I love it for that alone because even if it's a bad story, someone believed in it enough to not let it get (too) watered down by someone who didn't think it had enough mass appeal. So for better or for worse, it's a window into another person's heart, which makes me feel connected to humanity. You can't buy that with all the special effects and cinematography in the world.So I love this movie for the spirit behind it. But the movie itself - eh. It's a mess. Stunningly detailed background plates vie with very hit-and-miss animation. In fact it's shockingly bad in many places, the battle scene in Den is almost as choppy and wooden as in GI Joe. And it's juvenile -- there's not much going on underneath the boobs, violence, and cool drawings. I want some kind of cohesive message to justify all this eye candy, like making the green orb only destroy people who are evil anyway (the B-52 pilot wasn't necessarily evil). And why is it some busty chick, of all people, who defeats evil? Since this plot device is just plopped in there, it makes me think that the answer to this question is that the filmmakers thought chicks with swords and big boobs just look cool, that's why. I want more reason why it's HER who defeats evil, because I don't think hot Amazonian chicks who dress like pole-dancers defeat evil in real life; they'd create it by frustrating men with their hot and exposed bodies. A more plain- looking woman in a monk's robe would be more believable, but (I know) a lot less cool-looking. That's not to say there aren't some gems here and there that shine on their own. There's a scene towards the beginning of the Taarna part where townspeople are turned evil by being immersed in green slime. That part on its own has a strange, resonant power like a story from the Bible, and is worth the entire movie. I think it resonates because of its chilling similarity to Marxist and feminist brainwashing, but that's just my opinion. PA must-see if you're into the art of animation or just have a taste for strange movies, its heart is in the right place but watching it is like looking through a talented fourteen-year-old boy's sketchpad. "},{"Title":"A film that hasn't stood the test of time.","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I thought this was a fun movie when it came out in 1981, but it really doesn't hold up that well.The first problem is that you have such an extreme mix in tone between the stories they don't fit well together. You have drama, comedy, horror, and swords and sorcery, and going from a story with humor (Captain Stern) to horror (B-17) back to humor again (So beautiful and so dangerous) just doesn't work.A bigger problem is the animation itself. It's mostly of poor quality, and to be fair, by 1981, even Disney had lost it's touch in this artform.A couple of the stories do work. The B-17 story is quite good, as is the final one. (which probably could and should have been expanded into a full length feature, which is what they tried to do in Heavy Metal 2000.) Should point out this movie with its excessive sex and gore, could never be made today with the current batch of prudes at the MPAA. "},{"Title":"The South Park parody was better","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have to recognize the importance that Heavy Metal has in the history of animation, being one of the first mainstream examples of adult animation (Which was mostly considered as something from the underground culture at the time when this was made) However, Heavy Metal hasn't aged very well Not only the animation from some segments seem very poor and dated, but also, the plot of most of the stories included in this film seem to be pretty basic and clichÃ©d.There is a huge amount of gratuitous violence and nudity in this film, but for the most part, this feels like a very bland, forgettable experience. Well, the music is awesome, but sadly, the other aspects of this movie are exactly the opposite.On the other side, I liked very much the Soft Landing sequence, which opens the film, and B-17, a brief, but effective horror story that was interesting to see. The other segments were mostly boring and repetitive, almost without any quality worth of mention. I think that the Taarna segment (The last one) had a decent animation and cool designs, but the plot was way too predictable, slow and clichÃ©d for my taste.Anyway, despite being a deeply flawed film, it still was much better than the atrocious Heavy Metal 2000. But for good adult animation done in the eighties, I think that I prefer movies like American Pop and The Plague Dogs. "},{"Title":"Older animation with a stretched-out story = meh","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember seeing shots of this film and thinking, My god, they were liberal on nudity and violence back in the 80's. It turns out that they were, in fact, as well as depicting drug use amongst aliens. But this is an adult animation. Sure there's goofy aliens in some scenes and dumb-as-bricks warriors in others, but the overall story is about this green Orb who has caused some downright horrific in its past. It chooses to settle down and talk with a chosen girl about its exploits and how she is a part of its story. If you haven't seen the film, picture it like a long episode of He-Man back in the days of Dungeons & Dragons marathons and way too many pot-fueled stories of alternate universes. There's an over-abundance in breasts throughout the film, much like most of the D&D fantasy artwork of the time, and there was pressure, I'm sure, to play it up as something they could do in this adult animation. Some of the animation was overdone but it looked better than some of Bakshi's animations. The rotoscoping effects look great as well, and the skies in some of the sequences were very dreamlike. I personally was not attached to the various pop artists they got for the film, and to see that the VHS release was delayed on account of them makes me cringe. I hardly noticed the music at all. I found that it was called Heavy Metal because the idea for the film came from the Heavy Metal magazine where a handful of these stories came from, but I don't understand the tie-in of the title to anything in the movie itself. Overall, I recommend this film to animation fans and fantasy/sci-fi fans. It doesn't really have anything to do with heavy metal music so for you music fans, you might feel ripped off (although Sammy Hagar singing about heavy metal is included). "},{"Title":"Heavily Mental","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In-con-sis-tent-ly bad.I finally watched this seeing as how many websites recommending classic animated movies tend to recommend this show as well. Whats more, it was a cult classic hit among animation fans. I was seriously let down.THis animatrix-like collection of short films range from mildly decent to shallow and terrible. Each of the shorts have their own pros and cons but none of them seem to be able to strike a balance between story and animation.Those that have really interesting and entertaining stories tend to have really sub-par animation(even by 80s standards. Goodness, even TV series episodes of Scooby Doo look like they were animated better than some Heavy Metal short films). On the flip side, those with richly detailed art and high standard of animation are coupled with overly simple and superficial stories.The dialogue and acting is also a mixed bag. The music, especially the heavy metal music(haha, heavy metal music in a movie entitled heavy metal, who would have expected that), is used in all the wrong places and never really seem to mesh with the footage on screen. Sometimes it looks like they just threw in any random screaming loud rock song to the wrong footage; like some newbie music video producer who would just sync in random shots with no connection whatsoever to the music playing.It might appeal to only the most hardcore science fiction fans or hot blooded teenagers who are looking for more adult style of cartoons. But those looking for a wholesome animated movie experience, a good balance of animation quality and engaging story, would do well to avoid this mess. One or 2 stories do seem to be slightly satirical of social and political issues in today's world but the rest don't seem to go anywhere beyond a surface level. "},{"Title":"Seminal and Monumental","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a fan of the early Heavy Metal stories - of which much of this film is based - I was expecting a lot of great art and very little substantive story. What I received was a succession of fantastic sci-fi and fantasy stories wound together by a common plot line and delineated vividly by art and animation that is light years beyond anything ever released in Japan. Mind you, Heavy Metal was released in 1981, several years before the first true Anime films came overseas and had some mainstream success. (Akira - heavily inspired by the cyberpunk style of Heavy Metal - springs to mind) Putting aside all of the historical context, however, any layman with a mild to moderate love of life can enjoy this on its sheer over-the-top fantastical qualities, alone. To borrow an old adage, they simply do not make them like this anymore. It is fun, raucous, and unrepentant fare - much like the music of the same name - and very few people will not be at least mildly entertained by the novelty of many of the concepts presented therein. From a dreary sci-fi world where we find a world-weary taxi-cab driver triumphing over forces larger than him, to a boy who becomes a barbarian, defeats a sorceress, and gets the girl, this film has a quality which the vast majority of cartoons and live-action films of the modern era find strange and foreign original ideas.Unfortunately, much of the originality and vibrance is overshadowed by Heavy Metal's own unapologetically violent and latently sexual overtones. This is, quite simply, a stupid reason to discount this film's merits, as its strength stems from the imaginative nature of its own bombastic brand of sci-fi, and not the varying degrees of T & A that each story has to offer. One only has to look at some of the most successful science fiction films of the last thirty years to see the influence of this seminal animated film. "},{"Title":"The reason I listen to Rock Music.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before seeing this movie I could count the number of Rock groups I was aware of on a stump. After I saw this movie, I never listened to AM again.  The animation is varied, vibrant, adult and just plain cool.  The sound track is great.   "}{"Title":"To the Point!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie for die-hard animation fans, and only then can that fan rate this movie average at best.  I think of myself as a pretty bright guy, but can someone please tell me what this movie is about (other than the obvious short stories)?!?  This movie is and was HIGHLY overrated and if it wasn't for the dated soundtrack, this movie would be garbage.  It was billed as an animation wonder when first released but compared to today's animation movies (or cartoons for that matter) this movie seems fairly primitive.  It does have one or two enjoyable stories however, namely B-17 (short and to the point; cool song by Don Felder) and Harry Canyon (the only one with any real characterization).  If you haven't seen this movie and wonder what all the hoopla has been about it, watch it and decide for youself.  Then come back to these statements and see if you agree with me.  You will! "},{"Title":"Awful, immensely overrated.","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Once upon a time, me and my dad were watching Akira, as soon as it ended, my father mentioned Heavy Metal, he said that the animation was awesome, but it was very...spicy.A week later a 720p torrent version finished downloading, don't look at me like that, i don't live in a country where you can find The Secret of NIMH At any store.I watched it and boy....did it sucked.Let me set this straight i love adult animation, Ralph Bakshi is one of my favorite animators, but when people mix up his work with THIS...No plot, barely any character development, no reason, nonsensical, and the ending? God, it doesn't even count as a spoiler to say that the ball thingy explodes out of nowhere and the girl becomes the next legendary warrior, don't worry, it's not explained well in the movie than it is here.The animation is horrible, i don't know what i am looking at, characters look ugly, i don't know what they are doing, and at times it looks robotic.The music is good, but they play so out of place, why is there playing a music during a space station shot?Overall, overrated movie, everyone loves just because it has sex and violence in it, hey, here's a newsflash it takes more to make an adult animated film than just sex and violence, it takes a compelling story that you don't see on a animated film for kids, okay? "},{"Title":"woah","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Alright lets get a few things straight 1) this film has gratuitous sex, graphic violence, some drug use, and language; 2)Plot? What Plot?; 3) art was...well...it's not Disney quality.Enough of that. The film itself is...well...its not your typical animated film.  Its a collection of short episodes based on the popular Heavy Metal magazine...the only thing connecting the stories together is that an evil green meteorite called the Locnar is present and/or the source of conflict in each of the episodes. The episodes beingSoft Landing - Typical early MTV'ish style animation with an astronaut re-enter earth...via an old Corvette convertable! Just filler for the credits...but awsome music.Grimandi - Very short clip introducing the Locnar and the daughter of Grimandi, the astronaut/scientist who found the Locnar.Harry Canyan - Think Taxi Driver set in the distant future. Gritty animation fits into the bleek and almost depressing atmosphere of a future NYC. Sex, Violence, Corruption on all levels...Ah New York hasn't changed.Den - Teen-age boy's dream come true 90 pound nerd-boy to hulking Barbarian who also happens to be God's-Gift-To-Women. Pure fantasy story complete with sex, violence, and of course nudity. Even the animation is dark and Conan-ish. (Never knew the word dork could be used that way.)Capain Sternn - Humorous sci-fi bit about an infamous space villan who is brought to intergallactic trial for...well...try to keep count of the charges. Animation is sleek, almost cartoonish. Violence, language...but no nudity. (hmm)B-17 - (Most well done of all the episodes, in my humble opinion) Pure horror. Its Tales From The Crypt meet The Twiligh Zone or Outer Limits. Gore and Violence...what did you expect from a horror story? Animation was superb.  (No nudity again...oh well)So Beautiful And So Dangerouse - Personally, I think the guys who made the film decided to throw in some sophmoric humor involving two stoned aliens, a beautiful Earth woman, and a over-sexxed robot...you add it up. Some violence, nudity, and more drugs than on a Columbian drug running plane.Tarrna - Its Xena meets Mad Max meets Conan meets a Clint Eastwood Western (watch and see). Sci-Fi and Fantasy collide in this violent story of one woman standing up against an army of evil. To hell with Xena...Tarrna rules. The animation seems to have been slowed down a bit during the fight scenes. (I never knew putting on clothes would be so sexy)Heavy Metal...masterpiece(s) or just pure crap. Only way to find out is for you to grab the video and watch it. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Juvenile, mind-numbingly bland, and clichÃ©d vignettes move from instant gratuitous sex to instant gratuitous war, numerous droning speeches about War & Destiny from people you don't care about, mediocre animation that relies too much on rotoscoping, tinny b-list radio play soundtrack, and a nonsense story arc that is meant to hold it all together.... This is getting a 3/10. It's that bad.HEAVY METAL is one of those films that fans love because of what it represents, rather than what it actually accomplishes on its own. Although the source material may have been groundbreaking, the vignettes here are either boring or incoherent. The magazine was a collection of serialized adult comics and the film attempts to show a range of those stories each realized with different animation teams based on artwork from the publication, but the film never pulls together as a whole and is actually weaker than its individual parts.Two of the sequences rise above their genres. Den is a sarcastic take of barbarian/fantasy genre with its musclebound hero literally having the mind of an 18yo nerd, an evil queen who interrupts a battle to have sex with the hero, and a sneering gay-ish villain who seems ready for the whole thing to be over. But the sequence never gets the chance to LOL as a genre-challenging satire. The animation is appalling (Thundar the Barbarian TV-show looks better!) and contrasts badly with the final sequence Taarna which takes its Fantasy pretensions seriously.In the Sci-fi story So Beautiful, So Dangerous a scientist reporting to the Pentagon on the impossibility of extra-terrestrial life turns out to be a robot planted by aliens. When he malfunctions and is retrieved via vacuum tube to a giant spaceship that looks like a kawaii-style smiley face, a sexy Jewish New Yawker secretary (reporter?) is accidentally sucked aboard as well. Beautiful/Dangerous is the best-looking and least dated of the entire film - and the gratuitous sex is the least irksome, although there's still plenty to cringe at.The lone Horror-genre piece B-17 written by Dan O'Bannon (ALIEN) stands out as the most memorable sequence, told almost entirely through action and in real time. The story would feel at home in EERIE or similar pulp comic from the '50s, and really is an oddity in this film. It completely ignores the Loc-Nar story and is the better for it. I've read it was not an actual story from the magazine.Another odd-ball is Captain Sternn where the life of a rogue is examined in a court trial that gets interrupted by mayhem. The character animation here is refreshingly stylized rather than rotoscoped, and the plot also dismisses the Loc-Nar arc.The opening credit sequence Soft Landing shows an astronaut sitting in a vintage Corvette. The animation is processed with hand-painted Xerox frames but would have felt dated even by 1981 in the age where MTV was exhausting alternative animation methods. Like most of the film, Soft Landing is a one-punch joke that you are stuck with for too long.Harry Canyan is a clichÃ©d effort at a noir double-cross set in future New York City where cab drivers are the baddest dudes you will ever meet. There's a girl with an artifact. There's a gangster. There's a deathray in the back of the cab for unruly passengers. It's low-grade writing, although it's amusing to contrast this sequence with THE FIFTH ELEMENT where similar cab driver/hero clichÃ©s are done with a wink and nod.The peak sequence Taarna is handsomely animated but slow and pretentious. The plot is so ridiculously unimaginative - belonging to the Fantasy sub-genre Naked woman in a Temple with a Sword - that I could devote an entire review pulling it apart. Meanwhile the filmmakers are convinced that what they are showing is SO amazing that they cannot cut away or edit for narrative pacing. Long rotoscoped sequences and long speeches, the title character putting on her skimpy leather straps for a really long time, people you couldn't possibly have any investment in are slaughtered (probably because it takes Taarna so long to get dressed) - all with monumental self-importance.The only worse sequence is the recurring story arc that is meant to hold the film together Grimaldi where the green orb Loc-Nar must convince a little girl how EVIL it is, apparently by talking her to death.If you see this, be sure to also see ROCK&RULE and WIZARDS. They got it right. "},{"Title":"Buy the soundtrack and watch the South Park version instead!","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I decided to watch this film recently after seeing South Park make fun of HEAVY METAL in the so-called Cheesing episode. Kenny and Stan's dad get high and enter the very sexually charged world of HEAVY METAL.I give this movie 3 stars for one reason alone--the music was exceptional, though why they included Journey's Open Arms along with all the harder rock, I'll never know. The tunes, if you love late 70s-early 80s hard rock, are really good. As for the rest of this film, it plays like a teenager's wet dream as animated and directed by a group of not particularly talented teens.The first thing that many viewers will notice will be that the animation makes the worst Hanna-Barbera cartoons of the 1970s look pretty good in some ways. That's because the frame-rate of HEAVY METAL is very, very low--resulting in an even jerkier and less animated style of animation. People who have given the film scores of 10 must either be blind or just could care less about super-cheap animation. Now that doesn't mean the animation is all bad--some of the backgrounds and a few of the scenes are definitely better than Hanna-Barbera--but even the best this film has to offer is light-years worse than anime, such as AKIRA. Although I saw reviews that compared the two, AKIRA is simply a much better product animation-wise or traditional full-length cartoons. Apparently the different segments were the work of different animation teams, though none were particularly good.Another thing you may soon notice is that although this film managed to get an R-rating, it is incredibly explicit--yet somehow this got the R and FRITZ THE CAT got an X. While the language wasn't that of FRITZ, there were tons of naked people featuring not just breasts but crotch shots and sex--lots of sex. Now I could see how a teen might like this, but for anyone wanting porn, they could also do a lot better! Seeing exceptionally explicit cartoons just seems sleazy and kinda gross.So what you have is a long series of short smutty stories that are horribly animated that are set to great tunes. My suggestion is that you watch the Cheesing episode of SOUTH PARK and see their dead-on parody of HEAVY METAL instead--it's actually funny and worth seeing--unlike this rather stupid film. I can't believe I actually watched this dumb movie. "},{"Title":"Never really succeeds on any level","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A friend of mine recommended this movie and I watched grudgingly. I'm not into heavy metal music and it didn't appear to me that this movie was either.It's not like a rock opera where the music is written for the story and helps move it along. The music basically plays in the background, heavy metal songs (I guess) intermixed with boilerplate Muzak background music. The music made no impression on me, bad or good, because it was just kind of there, droning in the background.As sci-fi, the stories weren't terribly interesting or well-written either. Instead of coming up with one interesting, well-written story, let's come up with five or six vignettes that aren't terribly creative (the cab driver one was OKAY), let's throw in some bare breasts (which was really the only time my interest was sparked) and profanity and maybe no one will notice the stories aren't that well-written. Throughout, I kept feeling like I had walked into the middle of a movie.The animation is crude (understandably so for 1981; maybe it looked better back then).I think I understand why the movie was regarded so highly (at least at the time). It's an animated movie that breaks all of the rules. The filmmakers should have still adhered to the rules of good film-making instead of settling for mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Dated but not without interest","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A bunch of stories about evil (represented by a glowing green ball) spreading itself throughout the universe. It's all animated and has a soundtrack of some very popular rock bands of that era.Back in 1981 this was considered extreme but fun. Us guys in high school or college loved it for the animation and music. Seen today it looks different. It comes across as misogynistic and sadistic with lousy animation. The almost constant female nudity is more boring now than anything else and the soundtrack is VERY dated. Its not a total washout though--some of the stories (especially Dem and the closing one) have excellent animation and are fun in a stupid kind of way. Also this would NOT get an R rating today--I'm surprised it got it back then--but an NC-17. If you came of the age in 1981 you might get a kick out of this (like me). But younger viewers would probably be bored. I met a bunch of guys in college today who saw it and thought it was garbage and pretty BORING garbage at that! I give it a 7 because I DID love it when it came out and it is well-done for its era. "},{"Title":"oh boys....this one is for 14 year olds I think...","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this once or twice when I was 17 and I really liked it, for the most part. It is basically for the D and D playing set that would today be into Xena or Laura Croft or whatever. Red Sonja too for that matter. Very adolescant, sexist, sexy, violent, etc.I liked hearing Eugene Levy and John Candy in it. I enjoyed the 'STERRNNNNNNNNNEEEEEE!!!' segment, along with 'Den'(...Can't go running around with my Dork hanging out'), the bit with the stoned aliens  and whatever. It def. has it's moments.But this thing does veer from good to garbage and back again, depending on the music(Hagar, Felder and co are fine), Harry Canyon or whatever kinda slapdash at best. The linking segs with the talking green ball is very dated.If you liked anything like this, say Conan or the magazine itself, you will like this flick. It helps to be in either a Beavis age group or Butthead mindset however. Like-he said 'dork'! HEHEHEHEHEHEHEHEH!**1/2 outta ****, dated stuff. "},{"Title":"Guys hate it, but chicks may like it","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a total chick flick.It is supposed to be sort of a follow the glowing object that magically transforms people story, but really degenerates into boring stories based on racist ideals good for women, but bad for men.There really isn't anything likable about this pile of garbage.Everything is so predictable, it will put you to sleep.Men are supposed to be cool because they kill beautiful women. That's what I meant when I said women will love it, disposing of the top competition, but men, at least heterosexual men, will be completely turned off by the whole piece of crap.It's supposed to be based on the art of the magazine, which is just as chick flick racist as the movie. A complete neo Nazi propaganda movie, totally seventies formula in 1981. "},{"Title":"The most poorly made movie ever.","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie looks like a bunch of comic book artists decided to make an animated feature, but without bothering to learn how to animate first. It's just a series of junkily animated shorts (adapted from good comic books) held together by a nonsense frame story.  Each short is either poorly animated, completely boring, or both.  By the end, you won't understand the plot and you probably won't care to.If you're really desperate, you could probably squeeze a little entertainment out of this movie, but you're likely to have more fun taking a nap. "}{"Title":"VERY hit-and-miss","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This animated film is actually a number of short stories that are tied together (somewhat loosely) by a glowing orb.  The middle stories are pathetic and/or boring, but fortunately, this film is book-ended by two solid tales at the beginning and a particularly entertaining segment at the end. None of the parts are suitable for children, as the film is littered with cursing and (sometimes gory) violence.  One might also object to the tendency of the animators to only draw rather voluptuous female characters. But it's the strong storytelling that often makes this film worthwhile for the rest of us, and I would heartily recommend watching about half of this movie to those who like good stories.  Just skip the middle so that you're wide awake for the great ending.   "},{"Title":"Trashy movie, bad animation, lost opportunity","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is barely worth criticizing. Ironically, it could have been an interesting movie. I liked Sci-fi more as a kid but still think it has its place, and the premise of linked tales in the future is not a bad one. Even the mix of the exotic and mundane in the future had some potential. However, this movie took the easy way out and went for stories that almost all hit below the belt. Even the animation was a disappointment because it was so sub-par--more like a bad version of those forgettable Saturday morning Transformers cartoons that started running in the 80s--Warner Bros. and Disney did it much better decades ago. Shame on anyone involved in this piece of trash. Since when does the future have to be overrun almost exclusively by trashy people? The creators tried unsuccessfully to mask poorly written stories and cheaply drawn animation with hard core violence, meaningless adolescent fantasy sex, and illicit drug use. Wow. What creativity. If their aim was to appeal to socially misfit adolescent males brimming with violent urges and unfulfilled lust, then they hit their mark.. Not recommended for anyone with a modicum of taste or decency but perfect for wannabe serial killers and misfit males mentally stuck in their teens. . 2/10 "},{"Title":"Disaster","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Very disappointing, it might have been good in 1981, and it might have inspired 5th Element, but that doesn't make up for the (disastrous) rest. The first part with the taxi driver is almost ok! The rest is very meaningless. I rented this because it was refereed to as one of the first adult-orientated cartoons. Ã cannot speak for the others, but for myself I believe that adult is more than (boring) sex and (boring) violence and gore. The worst thing about this movie is the total lack of story. Good against evil has never been portrayed so.. shallow and uninteresting.Normally I love cartoons, both anime and western, and therefore gave this one a long line before it broke...PDD  "},{"Title":"Why did this movie become a cult movie???","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A series of silly stories about fantastic creatures, the outer space, or the future are the pretext to show a little bit of violence and blood, and big breasted naked women.Why did they called it Heavy Metal? Well, I guess it was just marketing. Heavy metal was the most popular music in those days, so they filled the soundtrack with bands such as Nazareth, Blue Oyster Cult or Black Sabbath (let it be said in passing that those weren't 100% heavy metal bands, they were more like hard rock bands). Maybe they thought that way thousands of long-haired rockers would fill the theatres to overflowing.*My rate 3/10 "},{"Title":"Load of c**p","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I picked this movie up in a hurry, mistaking it for an anime, and I was astounded by it. Astounded by how POOR it was! It had dreadful animation, the violence was really fake (so was the sex), and the stories weren't even that good! Just goes to show how much American cartoons suck. "},{"Title":"A real waste of time","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the most boring films I've ever watched. I really like anime, and thought I was gonna have real fun with this one. It seemed to be a myth to many people. The first story is quite great, with that cynic taxi driver, and the voluptuous girl. Also good animation, different to anything I've seen before, and really refreshing. But that's all, only 10 minutes of joy. The 2 I give to this film is due to this first story, without it, it would be a 0.The next chapters are just a collection of naked girls and nonsense action. Action is not even spectacular, just nonsense and boredom. The animation becomes ordinary, just medium quality, similar to Heeman series and things like that. There's even some chapter without naked girls at all, what just turns them into below 0 crap xD.There's only another story that's not so bad as the rest of the film. It's that one of the zombies in the plane. Great animation and a quite disturbing atmosphere. Unfortunately, at that time I was so bored that I couldn't enjoy it properly. There's one chapter particularly stupid, 7 or 8 minutes just to make a joke about cocaine. And besides, the joke is not funny, just silly. It seems it pretends to be politically incorrect or corrosive, it's just childish and stupid.The ending, that fight between the girls, is so predictable and typical like a telefilm. And the real ending, with the green sphere, wants to be mysterious and even transcendental. I thought it was pathetic. Like if somebody was going to spend a second thinking about this movie. So if you have to choose between this and any other animation movie, choose any other animation movie, you'll have chosen right. And if you wanna see a really good anime, with loads of action, just take Blood The Last Vampire.Marcuse. "},{"Title":"Horrendous!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to easily be the worst movie I've ever seen. Admittadly, I saw this movie AFTER I saw Heavy Metal 2000, so I might be biased in my thoughts/opinions. While there are some O.K. Parts to this movie, 95% of it is worthless drible. The Animation is AWFUL by today's standards. Even in 1980 (4 years before I was born) it probably looked like garbage. It looks like a bad Sci Fi Beavis and Butthead. The story makes little sense. Of course, you don't watch these types of movies for plot, but they could have at least tried (like HVM 2000 -the plot wasn't much but at least it was there). The music is a bunch of 80's style Hard Rock. While middle-aged viewers might enjoy this 'music', I cant see anyone else enjoying it.The violence and nudity are all that anyone could possibly like about this movie. And if you really want that, then you could watch HVM 2000.Overall, 1/10. Only older people and geeks should watch this movie.James Black Wolf Johnston blackwolf14016@hotmail.com "}]