[{"Title":"Mind-blowing masterpiece of sleaze","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"67 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Be grateful for Michael Winner's sledgehammer sensitivity because it produced this classic.None of Paul Kersey's (Charles Bronson) remaining family and friends get off lightly in this twisted nightmare of domestic violence, anal rape, vigilante justice and simplistic politics.For fans of rough justice, the rape of Bronson's Mexican housemaid is truly amazing and eroticized like crazy by Winner's leering direction.Thomas F. Duffy as Nirvana, the film's lead thug, is really horrible and a joy to behold (in a perverse way).Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page provides a rock score that scorches the L.A. imagery and Vincent Gardenia returns as the cop who prefers to look the other way.A Cannon-backed sleazefest that brings home the groceries if you like eating trash.Screw GONE WITH THE WIND. This is much more entertaining.  "},{"Title":"May cause a desire to take a shower (and that's the point)","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The second Death Wish film has a very strange concatenation of qualities. It can come dangerously close to running off the rails altogether, but overall, I think it's a more successful film than the first Death Wish.The first peculiarity is that much more strongly than the first film, Death Wish II's urban crime-ridden backdrop is exaggerated to a point of caricature. Of course, there was plenty of crime in Los Angeles during this era, but not as depicted here. This is almost Broadway-style crime, with choreographed gaggles of hoodlums running out of control in designer gang-wear, making spectacles of themselves. It's over the top but serious in a way that feels uncomfortable at first, but then, that's just the point, and it helps anchor the plot developments that follow.And that plot should be no surprise to anyone who first watches Death Wish I. Death Wish II follows the plot of its predecessor as if it were a fairly rigid template. Even the events that cause Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) to take charge and clean up society's scum by his lonesome are very similar. I don't see this as a flaw here (as I don't in many other sequels that use a template approach, including series like Friday the 13th). This is a direct continuation of the story of the first film, and the similarity gives Death Wish II both a natural, logical flow and a nice symmetrical structure.Although Death Wish I had its brutal moments, Death Wish II amplifies that atmosphere and sustains it through its length. Like the films that best display gritty 1970s New York City--such as Taxi Driver (1976) and Basket Case (1982)--Death Wish II makes you feel almost dirty (in the grimy despair way, not a sexual way) while watching it. It's ironic, maybe, that Death Wish II does this so well when the setting is Los Angeles as opposed to actually being New York City, as in the first film. That director Michael Winner is able to perpetuate that atmosphere, whether by accident or design, results in the viewer being sucked into the setting and vicariously experiencing the range of unpleasant emotions felt by both the protagonists and the antagonists.Also helping on that end is the score, provided by Led Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page. Although Winner sometimes incorporates Page's music in a discordant, jarring way--over the opening credits when it fights for volume with radio banter, for example--more often than not the score gives Death Wish II a sublime, otherworldly and eerie edge. It's too bad that Page didn't go on to score many more films.This is certainly not a film to show during family time, and it's not particularly uplifting or overflowing with positive messages or socially redeeming values. But it's not trying to be any of those things. It's just a visceral (especially on an emotional level), disturbing revenge flick, and at that, it meets its goals well. "},{"Title":"Do you believe in Jesus?","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"37 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, says the crying thug, knowing his last breathing second on this planet has come. Bronson replies Now you'll get to meet him, and blows a hole in his chest! This scene found me laughing in disbelief, shocked and horrified over what the Paul Kersey-character has become, and at the same time impressed that somebody actually dared to make this stuff more than 20 years ago, and even starring one of the biggest movie-stars in the world!This once bleedin' heart liberal family man has for sure turned into a  messenger of death, with about as much mercy for the criminals as a hungry stray cat has for a limp mouse! It's shocking to watch, but at the same time fascinating because the whole movie looks great, the atmosphere gets under your skin, and you still find yourself rooting for Bronson's character.This is still the best of the Death Wish-sequels, and it still packs a wallop and manages to stir controversy even today. It's a movie you will either like or hate, there is no middle road here, and it makes for a great conversation piece.One final note this movie sure is a reminder and evidence that when it came to movie tough-guys Charles Bronson WAS the baddest of them all. After the sad news of Bronson's passing a lot of people say he was second behind Clint Eastwood as far as action icons go. I'm a huge Eastwood-fan but Bronson still beats him any day. It really hit me as I was watching this movie. Bronson is driving through down-town Los Angeles, after brutally executing the thug in the above mentioned scene, he passes a movie-theater and sees a guy pretending to be a cowboy outside the theater, and what is the double-billing at the theater? Those silly comedies with Clint Eastwood and that big monkey Clyde!That kinda' sums it up doesn't it?Charles Bronson was THE MAN. "},{"Title":"Pure Revenge","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson picks up where he left off in the famous Death Wish movie of 1976, going after punks and eliminating them. The only differences he's moved from New York to Los Angeles and the violence is more graphic.Despite the B-movie feel to this (produced by the kings of the cheapo movies of that era (70s and early 80s)  Golan/Globus, it still is very enjoyable and satisfying - if revenge is your thing. Here, Bronson revenges the death of his daughter. At least her death is quick and bloodless, unlike the unpleasant rape-and-murder scene in the first film.Also, unlike the first film there is no need for a long setup. Bronson gets back in his vigilante mode in a hurry here and never lets up. If you want a short dose (an hour and a half) of action, this is your movie. One of the gang members in here, by the way, is a young Laurence Fishburne.The negatives are (1) sub-par acting performances by Bronson and his real-life wife, Jill Ireland; (2) some blatant credibility problems with the story ( such as how Bronson could get across town all bloody but never be noticed;) and (3) not exactly the most intelligent dialog!Yet, this is still an appealing movie to our conditioned satisfaction for instant revenge. So, if you've had a bad day and need a release of your hostilities, this is a good remedy! "},{"Title":"death wish, you wish, we all want a death wish...","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The supposed correlation between violence/sexuality in art and violence in reality has been shoved to the forefront of our culture, especially in the past decade, when incidents such as the Columbine massacre confirmed politicians' fears of an unregulated entertainment industry in need of a spanking. In non-fanatical, everyday reality, however, I have come to disagree with the equation above. Some would argue that ugly, violent, nihilistic, and generally misanthropic films like Death Wish and its sequels do nothing but contribute to intensifying the more unsavory impulses that lay dormant in the viewer's id.Yet therein lies the purpose of such rough-edged, unpleasant entertainment. It sparks the id, pummels it into submission, so that when the experience is over, a sigh of relief is uttered.The original Death Wish was a well-done exploitation flick with the professional gloss of an A picture; despite its relatively shallow insight into the murky moral terrain of vigilante justice, it contained an intensely subdued performance by Charles Bronson, and confident direction by Michael Winner.By comparison, Death Wish 2 is a typical sequel, taking what the original had and dumbing it down to milk some cash for the franchise. In addition to Bronson (in the role of architect Paul Kersey), a few other characters return to provide at least a superficial connection to the original (Robin Sherwood as his daughter; Vincent Gardenia as the cop that uncovered his identity). The plot is as before Paul Kersey has begun a new life (courting the cheerfully cardboard Jill Ireland) which is shattered when a gang of punks (including a young Laurence Fishburne) rape and murder his housekeeper and daughter. Unlike the original, no time is spent watching Kersey contemplate his actions; he simply goes to work, and in the process is rendered a stoic killing machine. The characterization/motivation for the punks is given even less thought--they exist for the sole purpose of showing how scummy the scummiest scum of society can be. The film moves from one random encounter to the next, wherein Kersey stumbles across gang members and kills them.Of course this doesn't sound like highbrow film-making, but Death Wish 2 never teases the audience with any notions of greatness. In spite of the meager attention given to Kersey's character, we root for him anyway; and in spite of the inexplicably-written punks, we hope for their demise. Michael Winner once again gives the film a gritty yet polished look, though he is clearly directing a flat-out B picture; the pacing is tight (the film runs just under 90 minutes), and the action is competently choreographed (though the romantic subplot provides a respite from the relentless violence, it is shallow and cloying). Jimmy Page's offbeat musical score only adds to the unusual charge this film packs.In the best-case scenario, Death Wish 2 is no masterpiece, but the perfect Novocaine to apply after a particularly rotten day. It will numb you into a state of apathy and wash your troubles away (that's a compliment). "},{"Title":"He's Doing This...For You","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's hard to believe that anyone who didn't like the first one wouldn't like this one. Bronson is back, this time avenging the death of his daughter and he's angrier than he's ever been. This one takes more of a action hero approach than the first one, but that's okay, you see, Bronson is a bad ass and that's all that matters. Movies like this aren't made to win best picture or best screenplay, they're made to be entertaining and filled with action, and that's what this is. Bronson has a great line he give to a punk just before he blows him away; he asks the punk if he believes in Jesus as the punk clutches a cross around his neck. The punk says yes sir so Bronson pauses and then tells him you're going to meet him. Then he shoots him twice, it's great. Classic. I found no insight in this film, all I found was an awesome character who you can't get enough of that gets away with killing pieces of trash that rape, mug, and murder civilians. This formula is timeless, and the whole Death Wish series should be appreciated for proving so, because I'd watch one of these films before I watch any action film that may be produced today. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As Critics Say","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Of all the Death Wish sequels, this was the best. I think once they got to up part 3 with all the machine guns and rocket launchers, then it started to get a little stupid. The story almost has an identical plot outline as the first one and the action is just as good, if not, then even better. The shootout at San Pedro park was awesome!!! The only difference is that they make Paul Kersey have more emotional interaction with the creeps he kills which makes it seem to be more Hollywood. In the first Death Wish, Kersey would just kill them stone cold without having a conversation. That's why the original was so good as so realistic. "},{"Title":"World of depression, world of no hope","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had to see this movie after I surfed on the IMDb and read some comments on this movie It seemed like some meeting of psychoanalysts or something.Well, where to begin... I must admit that this is an interesting movie psychologically, but I don't think any five penny analysts could do anything to these sick people. Everybody is sick in this movie. It has the overall feeling of some really cheap low-life bar The feeling of disappointment and failure in life. I would say it's the overall feeling of death; This movie feels like you would have just heard, that you have an incurable cancer. It's an interesting fact that Charles Bronson is, or at least has been, some kind of popular action hero He looks like a disappointed- and tired-to-everything alcoholic. An interesting world-view and feeling. There is NO humor, joy or hope in this film; Not even before the bad guys come and ruin it all. The bad guys names tell all Nirvana, Stomper, Cutter, Punkcut, Jiver. They are the bad guys, and nothing else. They even smoke the herb and become psychotic and aggressive killer-madmen after that! I didn't know that that stuff makes that, but it's always good to learn. The bad guys first dance, chill out and have fun, and all of the sudden start to rape and kill people. (After that they forget about it.) It seems that the main character (Bronson) is a real psychopath, at least he fits perfectly of the description of one. I have to correct what I said before Not everybody is totally sick in this movie; Just the ones that are involved in THE WAR. There is some (very few) good-looking pictures in this film; for example when the antihero walks in the streets at night. It's funny how he judges people that are unknown to him For example when he sees somebody drinking alcohol, he looks at him with an expression of total repulsion on his face. Some police story also goes in the background, but it doesn't have much to do with the movie.But after all, this film manages to represent some peoples (the filmmakers) very strong feelings, and evidently also the feelings of many viewers, and isn't that one of the main purposes of any piece of art or self-expression? Can you judge people for how they feel? If you want to see a really good movie of this genre (revenge-moral-story), I strongly recommend Tony Scott's Man on Fire (2004)(with Denzel Washington, Christopher Walken, Mickey Rourke, Dakota Fanning). Peace. "},{"Title":"Lady, you scream and disturb the neighbors, we'll cut you into little pieces and eat you for dinner!","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, we don't get the great Herbie Hancock score of the first movie, but we do get Jill Ireland, Mrs. Bronson, in one of her last films, directed as Death Wish I and III, by Michael Winner.We also get what I feel is the biggest collection of scumbags ever assembled. Thomas F. Duffy as Nirvana, Kevyn Major Howard as Stomper, Stuart K. Robinson as Jiver, Laurence Fishburne as Cutter, and E. Lamont Johnson as Punkut. It was fitting that the first kill occurred in a rat- infested building, and the last was an electrocution.Vincent Gardenia is back to track down Kersey after he starts again in Los Angeles.Unlike the serious and tragic first film, this is more focused and revenge-oriented. A good film, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Punks shouldn't enter Kersey's Matrix","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson is back as Paul Kersey. After some punks (including a young Morpheus, Laurence Fishburne) get away with his wallet, they find his house. He's not home so they rape and kill the housekeeper. When Kersey and his daughter return, they knock him out and kidnap her. After raping her back at an abandoned warehouse, she jumps out the window, killing herself. Bronson being Bronson, it's time once again for revenge, while hiding it from his new girlfriend.Not as good as the original. As sequels rarely are. But I enjoyed it. Bronson as an actor just kicked so much ass.My Grade B Eye Candy Silvana Gallardo and Robin Sherwood show much flesh, but due to the subject matter, it's not really eye candy. Leslie Graves and Melody Santangello's topless scenes are more palatable. "}{"Title":"Controversial Sequel.","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson reunites with director Michael Winner in this highly controversial sequel that sees poor Paul Kersey in L.A, and once again the target of degenerate muggers/gangsters, who viciously attack his housekeeper and daughter Carol(again!) leading to their deaths. Enraged, Paul Kersey returns to his vigilante ways, bringing on the attentions of New York cop Frank O'Choa(Vincent Gardenia again) who is sent to stop Kersey, but ends up helping him instead...Jill Ireland plays his new girlfriend.Sequel pulls no punches in the violence and assaults(too much so I would agree, difficult to watch) yet otherwise delivers the expected vigilante retribution in effective and stylish fashion, depicting the stark nature of the streets memorably. Rarely will a film deliver to its core audience exactly what it wants(Bronson killing criminals with no remorse or soul-searching.) Powerfully presented crowd-pleaser is not as well made as the first,(some of the dialogue is wooden) but remains a guilty pleasure for those who want to see satisfying vigilante drama with their favorite actor delivering it without mercy. The ending is marvelous, and a perfect coda for the mission/fate of Paul Kersey. "},{"Title":"Hard hitting trash classic.","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As we learn from this series, it doesn't pay to get close, or to be close, to Paul Kersey (the legendary Charles Bronson), as those people that do tend to suffer a high mortality rate. Tragedy is never far from this man's door.When a particularly loathsome quintet of punks rapes his daughter, and she dies in an escape attempt, Kersey is once again motivated to mete out brutal vigilante justice. When the LA cops realize what's happening, they consult the cops in NYC, knowing what happened there, and since the authorities in NYC opted never to prosecute Kersey, they have to send out detective Frank Ochoa (Vincent Gardenia reprises his role) to help cover their asses.While the screenplay, by David Engelbach, is not exactly believable, the belated sequel Death Wish II is still incredibly effective on a visceral level. Even in its cut, R rated version, it's a pretty merciless, mean-spirited exercise in sleaze. Director Michael Winner, who directed the memorable first film and who would also direct the next sequel, keeps the action coming and the pace consistent. It's always a vicarious pleasure to watch a relentless bad ass like Bronson give cinematic scum the vicious comeuppance that they all deserve.And the gang this time are monumentally creepy; hulking Thomas Duffy stands out as ringleader Nirvana, who proves very tough to take down when the cops move in on him. Laurence Fishburne is another member of the gang, but he has very few lines. Other familiar faces add to the enjoyment Anthony Franciosa, J.D. Cannon, Ben Frank, Robert F. Lyons, Drew Snyder, Paul Lambert, Paul Comi, Charles Cyphers, and Roberta Collins, while the love of Bronson's real life Jill Ireland is his love interest, a journalist doing a piece on methods of dealing with violence.With a blistering music score by Jimmy Page blasting away on the soundtrack, and much effective use of L.A. locations, this is intense stuff, and offers up some choice sequences. One of course has Bronson meeting with one of the thugs and promising the young man that he will be meeting Jesus shortly. The other has him intervening as a man and woman are being assaulted, and when they're being interrogated later, they sing his praises to the consternation of the investigating detective (Frank).Understandably, this entry in the series may be too tough for some people to take, but those who delight in seamy vigilante cinema are sure to find viewing this a pleasure. Followed by the over the top, comic book styled Death Wish 3.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"A problematic, exploitative & challenging death wish...","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Winner's first Death Wish sequel is, in a narrative sense, a stronger film than its predecessor; that is, if you forgive the plethora of coincidence on which the film's main plot rests. The protagonist, middle-class architect Paul Kersey, has moved from New York to Los Angeles and put his vigilante past behind him. The final stage in his healing should be the reintegration of his damaged daughter into his life and the wider society and his marriage to a socially conscious radio reporter Geri Nichols (Jill Ireland, Bronson's wife in reality). Yet lightning strikes twice as his doting maid and the recovering daughter are raped and murdered by a gang of street thugs and Kersey becomes a vigilante again, taking out the members of the gang one-by-one. To paraphrase Wilde, to have your daughter raped once, Mr Kersey, may be regarded as a misfortune; to have it happen again looks like carelessness&#x85; Nevertheless, this rather contrived inciting incident gives Winner the opportunity to create a film which, whilst it is certainly sensationalistic, offers a provocative challenge to viewers, whether they be bleeding heart liberals or string 'em up reactionaries. Kersey heads to the streets, disguised in working class casual labourer get-up, takes a room in a two-bit dive which he uses as a base for his revenge. This hotel is opposite and above two sparsely populated inner-city missions, from which emanate Christian prayers, preaching and hymns, looking to save the souls of the society's criminal classes and dregs. Kersey intends to get to them first. His initial revenge killing here features the cold-blooded summary execution of a young blonde thug who wears an ostentatious cross; Kersey asks him do you believe in Jesus? and the thug nods yes; Kersey ripostes well you're going to meet him now and blows him away the young man's chance at redemption for his sins has been taken from him. Rat are shown scuttling away and the film asks, are the criminal classes mere vermin to be cleaned off the streets or have they souls which can be saved? The association between Kersey's prey and animal life is continued later when he wounds one, tracking the young man by means of his blood trail.The film also contrasts Kersey's actions with an argument for criminal rehabilitation. Geri is researching the methods by which a criminologist doctor has been rehabilitating offenders and, by another ripe coincidence, the final member of the gang ends up in the doctor's clinic. Bronson inveigles his way in and metes out death to the perpetrator, by means of electrocution. An orderly who works at the clinic catches him and lets him go. There is a class argument being enacted, whereby working class men support Kersey and middle-class do-gooders think they know a better way. The film heavily weighs the argument in Kersey's favour by showing the thugs as barely human scum but the visceral nature of the debate as portrayed is food for thought. Kersey hardly ends up rewarded for his actions &#x96; he loses Gina and is little more than the ghost of a man haunting his regular middle-class lifestyle by the film's close. The idea that Kersey is making himself a shadow of his former social self is portrayed on screen by some nicely done expressionist cinematography.The film's argument is problematized further by the graphic portrayal of the violence, especially the sexual violence meted out to Rosario, Kersey's maid. A long, drawn-out gang rape plays out on screen, with the stripped woman whipped and humiliated by laughing goons &#x96; there's an extent to which Winner (and his core audience) is revelling with them in their sexual sadism. If, ultimately, the film's makers and viewers are of the same bent as the criminals, then their siding with Kersey is very much a personal death wish. "},{"Title":"Nasty 80s Fun","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 2 is a nasty piece of work, and I mean that in the nicest possible way. There is no pretence about this film, whereas the original Death Wish painstakingly presented Paul Kersey as a victim of violence who had been pushed to breaking point, Death Wish 2 finds him in John Rambo territory, as a borderline crazy person bent on revenge. Unlike the original, Death Wish 2 has no political message and never waivers in its approval of Paul's vigilantism. While this is by no means as good as the original, which I consider to be a minor classic, Death Wish 2 is a great example of the short lived early 80s embrace of ultra violent entertainment before these kind of movies were labelled video nasties and expelled from the mainstream.The main reason why the Death Wish series became increasingly ridiculous is the improbability of one man suffering so much bad luck. This time around a group of thugs break into Paul's home and gang rape his Latina maid. This scene is truly grim and more detailed than most of the more infamous rape & revenge movies of the 80s. The scene is particularly distasteful as poor Rosario gets roughed up so much worse than any other female victim in the series - all of whom happen to be white. Unfortunately, I don't think that it is a coincidence, as the entire Death Wish series had dubious racial undertones.The action becomes increasing twisted when Paul's daughter, Carol, still traumatised from the attack in the original film, is kidnapped and raped. The nastiness of this act stems mostly from the creepy smile on Carol's face. When Carol is subsequently impaled on an iron gate, the transformation from the socially aware film of the 1970s to the sleazy, pure action of the 80s sequel is complete. This time around Paul doesn't even bother with the police, choosing instead to take all of the thugs out himself.The second half of the film is fairly predictable and a bit slow in comparison with the downright nastiness of the opening half an hour. Paul walks around the streets of LA (he definitely gets around), shooting muggers, rapists and his daughter's attackers. This time around Paul doesn't hesitate shooting anyone and the conflict he demonstrated in the first film is nowhere to be seen. Instead, everyone from civilians to the police comment approvingly on his particular approach to crime control. Needless to say, Death Wish 2 is about as politically incorrect as they come and yet, endearingly of its time.Michael Winner does a good job of capturing the atmosphere of early 80s LA, with amusing glimpses of religious fanatics, coke dealers and general crazies. The 80s fashion on display is pretty funny and the scene where the thugs dance to their ghettoblaster makes me laugh every time. The acting is highlighted by Jill Ireland's extraordinarily wooden turn as Paul's new girlfriend. Her ability to lower the tone of any Charles Bronson movie borders on the supernatural. Lastly, Jimmy Page's soundtrack deserves a mention, it is different to say the least.If you are looking for cheap, nasty, morally corrupt entertainment, then you should enjoy Death Wish 2. I certainly did. "},{"Title":"Do you suppose Fishburne  would like to strike this one from his resume?","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first sequel to the legendary 1974 vigilante film Death Wish is not an easy film to watch. The film is dark and grainy, the characters are too broadly drawn, and there are some disgusting acts of violence. There are a couple good shootouts however, and it's always nice to see Bronson dish out his own brand of justice.Our story picks up a few years after the events of part one. Bronson has relocated in Los Angeles and is working as an architect and currently redesigning a radio station building. His daughter is living close by in an institution. She is still greatly disturbed by her traumatic rape in the last film. She can venture out in public under the supervision of her father, but she still cannot speak. On one such trip, Bronson, his daughter, and his girlfriend (Ireland) get into an altercation with a gang of five muggers. The muggers steal Bronson's wallet and find out where he lives. They then show up at his place and... help the maid prepare dinner.Well, that isn't quite what happens. This is a Michael Winner film, and nobody does rape scenes like Michael Winner. In one of the most shocking scenes ever found in a mainstream film, the house keeper is repeatedly raped be these creeps. Depending on the version you see, the rape lasts from only a couple minutes to nearly fifteen minutes! This film has been cut to ribbons by editors over the years as each station has their own idea of just how much of it they want to show you. Anyway, Bronson and his daughter eventually show up at the house where he is beaten and left for dead while his daughter is kidnapped by the punks. In another tasteless scene, his mute and helpless daughter is also raped and then jumps to a gruesome death from a window. I think that scene is really a lot worse than the housekeeper scene.Of course you know where we're headed. Bronson goes on the war path and tracks these five creeps and their associates down and blows them away. Not only are there some neat shootouts, but also a few good one-liners along the way. If you can get through the brutality of the first half hour, you will enjoy seeing Bronson do what he does best.Bronson's performance is calm and dignified like always. There are two outstanding supporting performances by Vincent Gardenia and Jill Ireland. They share a wonderful scene together as Gardenia (hot on Bronson's trail like in part one) questions Ireland about Bronson's whereabouts at night. He also informs her of Bronson's history of killing muggers in the Big Apple which leads to a hilarious scene between Bronson and Ireland later on. And YES... that is THE Laurence Fishburne as one of the muggers. He's the one Bronson shoots in the head through a radio. You'll have to see it to understand what I'm referring to.One may be tempted to defend this film by saying that yeah, it's pretty nasty, but so is real life crime! I won't deny that, but I don't buy the argument here. This film with its broad caricatures of street hoods, and no less than three sexual assaults is really just a piece of exploitation. The film does have its good moments, and apparently enough of them for it to gross 16 million dollars and spawn several more sequels. But Death Wish II is really not going to impress anyone who isn't a rabid fan of Charles Bronson. I would strongly urge anyone and everyone to take a look at part 3, though! That film is an absolute blast! 5 of 10 for Death Wish II. So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Very Violent and nasty.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 2 is essentially a more violent sequel to the original Death Wish. Charles Bronson resumes his role as urban vigilante Paul Kersey who sets out to kill the youth gang who rape then kill his maid and his mentally handicapped daughter. This is a graphically violent film that manages to appal and entertain in equal measure.WARNING!!! PLOT SPOILER!!! THE FOLLOWING LINES DESCRIBE THE MOST MEMORABLE SCENE IN THE FILM. READING THIS MAY SPOIL THE FILM. EXTREMELY VIOLENT SCENES ARE ALSO DESCRIBED IN DETAIL AS I FEEL DETAILED DESCRIPTION IS CRITICAL TO MY REVIEW.Death Wish 2 is a VERY violent film. In fact I found some of the violence in Death Wish 2 very hard to take. The biggest problem with Death Wish 2 is the scene where Bronsons maid, is brutally gang raped by the youth gang. This is the most violent, brutal rape scene I have seen. THIS SCENE WILL SHOCK EVERYBODY! This scene seems to serve no purpose but to titillate and includes the seediest line of dialogue which I have ever heard. When one of the gang is about to rape the maid over the sitting room couch he is told by the gang leader that if he wants her he can take her to bed.This begins a horrible sequence where the maid is flung onto the bed and subjected to a very lengthy, hot, sweaty brutal gang rape in which she bleeds from her privates (a detail missing from the current video versions but intact on older American tapes which were uncut). This scene is unwatchable and really sick. You get the sense that the reason the makers have chosen to depict the rape a very busty and sexy middle aged foreign woman is to appeal to the older woman fantasies of older teens at whom this film seems aimed. The rape scene is made even worse by the fact that I found the actress who plays the maid, Silvana Gallardo to be one of the most beautiful, sexy women I have seen on screen. She is the only decent actor/actress in the movie. Its a shame that she never moved onto better projects than this. The rest of the film is nothing but more graphic depictions of shootings, impalings and rape which are moderately entertaining in a morbid way. Charles Bronson gives one of his weakest performances which detracts from the impact of the films horrific content. Being a fan of ultra-violent movies I did find some entertainment value in Death Wish 2 but could not  stomach the despicable manner in which an act of horrific sexual violence was depicted as raw, titillation. Very nasty indeed. If you are easily shocked steer well clear of this film!   "},{"Title":"DW2 is a gut wrenching, stomach turning yet immorally thrilling sequel.","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 2 is even worse than what its title suggests, and that is something that has never happened to me while I watched its other sequels. (The absolutely gung-ho 3, the fun 4, the final 5). With sequences that seems to be at home in movies like Forced Entry or I Spit on Your Grave, Death Wish 2 is definitely not your ordinary vigilante movie, dealing with themes and graphic imagery that would make the newer, cleaner vigilante movies like Death Sentence feel like Terms Of Endearment.In Death Wish 2, it's not all about the violence that makes it sick, it's the unhealthy anticipation for it to happen, both referring to the two brutal rapes/murders and the vigilante justice that precedes them. Credit goes to Michael Wimmer for portraying this to the utmost degree, making the calm before the storm as unbearable as the actual storm itself. In here, he beautifully shows us the peaceful and hopeful life that has befallen Paul Kersey (Bronson) ever since the events of the first film; he now has a new job in Los Angeles, his daughter has shown signs of recovery from her trauma in the first film and of course there's the obligatory love interest (Jill Ireland Who Else?). All of that is destroyed when a group of totally immoral, evil, horny, violent and downright nasty punks (one of them being Laurence Fishburne) do a nasty house invasion, with Bronson's Latina housemaid being the first victim. Needless to say, she becomes the subject of as-nasty-as I Spit on your grave gang-rape. Not long after, the daughter gets it too, with the aggravating fact that the gang engage in the rape of a mentally retarded woman. She then gets an even nastier fate; she gets brutally impaled on a fence spikes while trying to escape them.Now you wonder why I had to go further in describing the sordid details of the movie. The simple answer to that question is that is it those scenes that serve as the engine of the entire juggernaut of a movie, the driving force behind all the well deserved-vigilante killings. If the first one tried to shy away from the cause of Kersey's outrage, here it splashes it on your unbelieving face. But to my great surprise the effect of these events seem less on Kersey himself. Instead of going down on his knees and trashing on the floor, he remains calm, stoic and as determined to kill. And where does that leave the viewer? Taking the emotional brunt not experienced by Kersey, they silently cheer him on as he proceeds to brutally wipe out the gang responsible.Like what I said above, this is the Death Wish that fully indulges itself in the cathartic need of the people to dish out vengeance on people who deserve it. This film succeeds because it is very successful in creating that need and reinforcing it at the same time with the acts of brutality found in the second part of the film. I also said that it is immorally thrilling because of the entire nature of the film itself. The rapes are presented in a graphic and voyeuristic manner that while some people might turn their eyes from it, some will be confused as to whether they will enjoy it or not. If anything, it adds to the bleak nature of the film, a crude way of making the viewers participants in the atrocities.Overall, a great cross of a vigilante thriller and an exploitation movie. Only thing that mars this movie is its attempt in making a romantic angle. But then again it fails in the movie, a clear indication that viewers came to see the rapes and the muggings and Charles Bronson killing those responsible one by one. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel with Bronson in Top Form","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson reprises his role as architect Paul Kersey, the vigilante who decimated muggers in New York until the NYPD cornered him in the park. The Big Apple authorities knew that they would fare better if they ran Kersey out of town rather than prosecuted him. At fade-out in Death Wish, our protagonist is shown helping a lady in Chicago after some miscreants bully her. Kersey smiles and makes a pistol of his fingers and aims it at them. When Death Wish 2 opens, our hero is residing in Los Angeles. He is having a relationship with Geri Nichols (Jill Ireland of Cold Sweat) who works in radio news at the station he is designing. Although a lot of time had transpired between the time that Death Wish (1974) came out and this belated sequel (1982), director Michael Winner does his best to bridge the years by getting actors like Vincent Gardenia and J.D. Cannon to reprise their roles. The action seems twice as brutal. Kersey daughter is raped by a gang of low-lifers. Afterward, she impales herself on a fence spike. The same sleazy dastards assault Kersey's housekeeper and rape her. These scenes will undoubtedly mortify the squeamish. Laurence Fishburne plays one of the punks who tangles with Bronson. Jimmy Page's rock music soundtrack adds a touch of atmosphere to these grim event. Basically, Death Wish 2 is the apex of the franchise. Death Wish 3 was virtually a battleground with no memorable characters. J. Lee Thompson took over the helming duties on Death Wish 4 and it veers from the formula enough to make it seem optional as a Death Wish movie. "},{"Title":"Just as Good as the Original","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Architect Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) once again becomes a vigilante when he tries to find the five street punks who murdered his daughter and housekeeper, this time on the dark streets of Los Angeles.Early on, we have a nasty rape scene with Larry Fishburne. I mean really, really nasty. So much so that this film goes above and beyond the darkness from the first film.That aside, I would say this is every bit as good as the original, and now with more of the 1980s feel (for good reason). We have Bronson kicking more butt, and even with more of a focus (and less moral ambiguity) than before... and Mr. Gardenia returns to really cap off the pure awesome of this series. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the Original","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found the story in Death Wish 2 to simular to the original.  Maybe, if I saw 2 first I would give it a higher rating.  This film is brutal, but crime is brutal; I think the director did this, as in the original, not as a selling point but too show the brutality of crime on the victim, and the remorselessness of the criminal. This make me understand why Walsh does America Most Wanted.  Criminals, the dogs they are, do these things, and gives the more protected liberal minded person and idea of the kinds of animals the police deal with.  This movie is not for kids! Should something this honest be made? I do not know the answer.  This part of the movie show why Bronson snaps.  The only difference in this film from the original is this time Bronson gets a look at the, anus, criminals and hunts them down.  One other viewer thinks the bad guys act too strange, normal people do not do these things, but crazy people act crazy.  What hurts this film, besides the script, is the editing and music.  I like the 80's LA feel, but the film is choppy or rushed.  The directing is good, but who ever edited this ouch.  5/10 "}{"Title":"Scuttling around in the darkest corners of my brain like a diseased rodent...it's Death Wish II!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Winner has never been known for his subtlety, and never has his lack of restraint or taste been more apparent than it is in this belated (and, to be honest, quite unnecessary) sequel to his 1974 breakthrough hit DEATH WISH. Whatever the restaurant critic, boulevardier and occasional film-maker spent the eight year interim doing, he certainly can't have been brainstorming, because this is little more than a rehash of the first movie, with a couple of twists. Firstly, this one takes place in Los Angeles rather than New York, which hurts the atmosphere somewhat. Secondly, because this is a sequel and has a Roman numeral after the title, someone has decided that it makes sense to have twice as much on-screen unpleasantness. And you know where this review is heading, right? THAT scene in which Bronson - the only man alive who could have the bad luck to get mugged whilst queueing for a Cornetto - finds that the horror that befell his family in the Big Apple has followed him to the City of Angels. I have a soft spot for trash cinema and exploitative sleaze in general - I grew up during the video boom in England, and a lot of the first films I saw were entertainingly dreadful, so you could say I acquired the taste early - but the gang rape scene is so lurid, prurient and revolting, especially in its uncut form (I found a precert copy of this film in a thrift shop), that it's well-nigh unwatchable. Not only that, there's absolutely no reason for its inclusion in the film other than to make the bad guys even badder and to rub the audience's nose in the grime. It's horribly out of kilter with the outrageous (bordering on ridiculous) shoot-'em-up carnage that follows, as is a similarly disturbing scene in which Bronson's mute daughter is raped (again - remember the first film?) before jumping through a (closed) window to her death, a messy and graphic impaling on metal railings. This is Winner going for broke, playing naughty boy games with the censors, and the fact that the BBFC cut three minutes out of the cinema release couldn't have hurt the publicity drive one bit. Video was uncensored in England until 1984, so the first home release wasn't subject to such officious meddling, and I can only wonder how the 'lucky punters' who bought this thing after seeing it in the cinemas reacted. I'm guessing, however, that they didn't just mutter I didn't see that bit at the ABC and leave it at that! Once you get past the opening salvo of misogynist sleaze, however, DEATH WISH II turns out to be (whisper it) pretty good fun, in a mindless, hideous, crowd-pleasing way. The violent thugs are lined up and shot down in the manner of an arcade game, Bronson is his reassuringly hard-faced, hard-assed self and it's all unrealistic enough to put a decent amount of distance between the on-screen carnage and the viewer. There's also a goodly amount of cheese for connoisseurs, such as the hilarious 'street' dance moves from the ghetto blaster-toting freaks, drug dealers straight from central casting, a FACES OF DEATH-style electrocution, rubbish dialogue from all and sundry and Jimmy Page's bizarre score which alternates between faux-classical passages, ear-splitting string-bending and weird electronic swoops...hang on, it's Spinal Tap! Let's hear it for Derek Smalls, he wrote this! In all seriousness, DEATH WISH II is a hard film to like. The rape scenes make it objectionable almost from the get-go, and the set-up for Bronson's second bite at the revenge apple is revoltingly overdone by anyone's standards. Technically, it's about average, with Winner's restless direction taking in some bizarre set-ups and disorientating editing along the way, and most of the performances are flat enough to be medically classed as comatose. But if you're in the mood to see predatory hooligans wasted in various nasty ways, the final hour may be diverting enough to give you a few chuckles on a slow night. Just don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"I may be in the minority, but I actually thought that it was better than the first film","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson)has moved from New York City to Los Angeles as a means of starting over again. His daughter has been released from hospital, although she's still in a semi-catatonic state. Kersey has a new love interest and a housekeeper and everything seems to be going OK for Kersey. However, when Kersey's wallet becomes stolen after he's been mugged, the gang find address confirmation in Kersey's wallet and proceed to Kersey's home where they kill his housekeeper and kidnap his daughter and then kill her. Following these events, Kersey goes back to his old ways and sets about tracking down the gang of muggers.I think what I liked about Death Wish 2 is the fact that it is more focused than the first film. The narrative in the first film was shaky to say the least and I found that the events in the second half never really connected with what had happened in the first half - he killed lots of would be muggers, but never seemed to pursue those that perpetrated the original crime against his wife and daughter which never made any sense to me. Thankfully, with this film it's much more straight forward - Kersey goes after the muggers that killed his wife and daughter and that's all there is to this film and it's this straight forward and focused plot that makes this a stronger film. Like the first film, it's quite graphic and brutal, but again this does give the film a very realistic feel to it. As a direct result of the stronger narrative it ultimately means that the film flows much better and it never really gets to a point where it becomes boring.The only real glaring weakness I could find with this film lay with Jill Ireland; I felt that her acting was a bit wooden and her character was probably one of the most bland characters that I've ever seen. I also never really bought into their romance either. Thankfully, her character and their romance don't make that much of an impact on the film and Winner mostly just allows Bronson to do his 'thing' which was perfectly OK with me.One final thing I'll say about this sequel is don't be put off by its current rating of 5.9. It's an underrated sequel which is much better than its rating suggests. If you liked the first film then you will like this film. As for me, I preferred it to the first film, but I know I'm in the minority on that one. "},{"Title":"Do You Believe in Jesus ? Well Your Gonna Meetem !","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sure I am not big on rape in the movies neither but the comment running now is useless.I in fact despise rape in real life or in the movies. But did I just say it MOVIES. It is a movie and nothing more and we must view it as such. We all loved Charlie and how he got even for the horror's inflicted on the innocent women. This is no different in his line of chosen genre. Give the man the respect which he deserves. He is sadly gone and made his contribution for us to enjoy so let us not take it farther than what it needs to be and enjoy it. Personally I miss the man and would I ever screw with his watermelons....not on your life ha ha. Yes I know that is a entirely different movie but just an example of his awesome raw toughness he always portrayed so greatly. Lastly with the legend Jimmy Page doing the music and some awesome guitar riffs this movie wins and wins easy. "},{"Title":"the uncut version","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There has been  a lot of talk of the uncut version, which I personally haven't seen since it was on HBO back in 1983 or so. However, if you have Encore movie channel in California, keep an eye out for the uncut version, I caught it and taped it last week, as it was on at 220 am. If you really want it, keep an eye out very late on Encore, it is over 3 minutes longer. "},{"Title":"Extremely violent","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was surprised at the explicitness of this movie.  The raping of the maid basically left nothing to the imagination, (and the Greek version of this reportedly runs 5 minutes longer too!), and other scenes too.  Otherwise this outing is just standard, this time Paul Kersey relocates to Los Angeles where this time his daughter and the maid are raped and murdered except this time, he actually finds the punks that got them.  Those with a weak stomach turn away.  Look close for an appearance from a young 'Larry' Fishburne as Cutter (the guy with the weird looking sunglasses). "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey's the wrong person to cross!","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This sequel to the first Death Wish was promising, but the right version must suit the liking. Yes, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is back along with his daughter, Carol (Robin Sherwood) and a new love name Geri(Jill Ireland, 1936-90) who lives in Los Angeles. They have an outing when a group of muggers grabs Paul's wallet, tracks down his address, rapes and kill the housekeeper, and grabs the daughter. It's more disturbing when the daughter is so sedated, one of the muggers has his way with her. That scene was sick! When she throws herself out the window and onto a fence., the old Paul is back! With a new gun in hand, the killings are very swift. His actions draws out someone from his past. But this time, he was more sympathetic. No holding back! However, this movie has been given a lot of negative feedback. My own feedback is how it was presented on TV. The movie still could have more action, it would have improved it more. It was a little too tame in some parts. But Bronson knows how to bring it on. Still good to me, I'm not letting the critics bring this movie down! 2 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"On A Renewed Mission","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After doing his best to kill off the street criminal population in New York, Charles Bronson by mutual consent of law enforcement and himself has moved to Los Angeles for Death Wish II. This is in the hopes that he'll settle down and pursue the profession he's really trained for, that of architect.But when another group of street slime attack his daughter who was raped and witness to her mother's demise in the original Death Wish and kill her, it will only be a matter of time before Bronson is back to his vigilante ways. Someone else is on a crusade too. Vincent Gardenia is the police detective from New York who tracked Bronson down in the first film only to have extra political considerations prevent him from being brought to justice. Now news of an outbreak of vigilante killings in Los Angeles has reached New York and Gardenia goes out to Los Angeles with a mission of his own.Jill Ireland, Mrs. Charles Bronson, makes her first and only appearance with her husband in one of the Death Wish series. She's a television news reporter who gets involved with him. Sad to say she's used for information, but Ireland has one unique feature uncommon to women who get involved with Bronson, she makes it through the film. Women close to Bronson have their own brand of Death Wish.Death Wish II, really is just a continuation of the original Death Wish as Bronson wins many fans among blue collar America for the direct approach he takes to solving the street crime problem. "},{"Title":"the vigilante  is back","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 2 is nearly a carbon copy of the 1st.this time,the location has changed from NewYork to Los Angelos.i won't bore you with the plot here,but let's just say Mr Vigilante Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is forced back into action,doing what he does best.and of course once again the police can't have that.there is one amusing scene where Kersey has just saved a man from being possibly killed and his wife brutally raped.Kersey flees the scene,and when the police arrive,the only thing the care about is who shot the attackers,never mind that 2 innocent people were attacked.when questioned about what their Saviour looked like, of their Saviour,they give some riotous descriptions of him,something along the lines of he was a tall black man with red beard or he was 2 feet tall and ha d ac left club foot.this movie does not have the importance of it's predecessor,but it is still a fairly good movie,and still illustrates some good points. 9/10 "},{"Title":"So crass as to be ultimately laughable","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is so nasty and inept that it actually tips over the line and becomes ridiculous. The whole thing is set up to serve the set-pieces, which in this case are a bunch of poorly staged shoot-outs and Michael Winner's infamous censor-baiting gang rape. The latter seems to have upset its fair share of people, and it is very callous, but it's only a film, these are only actors, and it's worth remembering that this was very much a product of its time - when DWII came out, home video was booming, and mainstream cinema began to show a definite streak of brutal nihilism (especially in sequels, for some reason) to tempt the jaded public back into the picture-houses. So DWII seemed shocking at the time, but nowadays it seems like an extended Chris Morris sketch.  "},{"Title":"Death Wish II!","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Death Wish films are some great movies. Charles Bronson is very good in them all especially the first and the third of the franchise. The first three are in My opinion the best in Death Wish series. In My opinion the films are not for young children. Its the trilogy directed by Michael Winner. The movies are packed with very realistic graphic violence, great music, good by acting the actors, and good directing. The second one is arguably the best of the lot. Charles Bronson is great in the film! His emotions are very believable! Laurence Fishburne is in the film. Charles Bronson's real life wife the late Jill Ireland is also in the film and is quite good. This is the one where the great music and theme by Jimmy Page was introduced! If you like Charles Bronson and want to see him bust up some punks and like to see great revenge films with great action then watch Death Wish!  "}{"Title":"Charles Bronson's wooden Indian performance and director Michael Winner's crude technique sinks repellent 'Death Wish' sequel","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson returns as the architect-turned-vigilante who takes up his gun again. This time he's in Los Angeles stalking a street gang after they brutally raped and murdered his daughter (Robin Sherwood) and maid (Silvana Gallardo).Repellent sequel has Bronson in his wooden Indian performance who is no longer convincing as in the 1974 hit, but a man on a mission to kill making him no better than the thugs that he dispatches. Director Michael Winner's technique is twice as crude as he goes to the extreme with more mindless violence (especially towards defenseless women), more blood, more dead bodies, and more graphic rape scenes (one of them pushed beyond its limits). Jimmy Page (guitarist for Led Zeppelin) composed the awful score. Compared to the following sequels and countless imitations, this one is pretty bad. Vincent Gardenia, Jill Ireland (Bronson's second wife), and Laurence Fishburne (as a thug!) also star. My evaluation NO STARS "},{"Title":"Very Violent but still Good Action Film","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!!! Despite all the differing opinions posted here, everyone agrees on one thing - Death Wish 2 is a very violent film.  It starts out with a bunch of punks stealing Paul Kersey's (Charles Bronson's) wallet. Since Kersey roughed one of them up, they get Kersey's home address from his wallet and break into his house.  No one is home except for Rosario the  maid.The scene of Rosario being gang raped is extremely graphic, brutal and horrifying.  There are 3 different versions of this.  A heavily-censored broadcast TV version, the 1982 theatrical release and the uncut version that has recently been shown on Cable TV,  which makes the theatrical release seem tame.  This is not for the squeamish. It shows each one of the 5 punks having their turn with Rosario.  She is degraded and brutalized.  One of these lowlifes takes off his belt and spanks her while another is raping her.  Kersey's daughter is also brutalized but this scene is spooky because she is near catatonic since the original film and is almost unaware of what is happening to her.  Her escape attempt leads to her death.Well, that being said, I like this movie.  I think the earlier scenes, though quite violent, are necessary for depicting these 5 gang members for what they are - unfeeling, merciless, psychopathic bastards whose redeeming qualities add up to zilch.  So, can you blame Paul Kersey for wanting his revenge?  Let's face it, his wife was murdered in the first film, his daughter was raped in both films and dies in this one. It seems that Kersey is quite justified in wanting to go after these creeps. Also, I thought his acting was quite good.  Instead of playing some angry, over-the-top character (as William Shatner is famous for doing), Bronson becomes intropspective, cold and calculating.I recommend this film for fans of action pictures.  You really want Charles Bronson's character to track down those sleazeball criminals.  Some people feel that this film is unnecessarily violent.  However, if you've ever watched the six o'clock news, I think you'll agree that the events depicted here are well within the bounds of reality.  "},{"Title":"Sick and sickening","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the most repulsive offerings in the entire history of mainstream cinema. How the extended, sadistic, horrifying gang rape scene made it past the censors is beyond me. It makes the notorious I Spit On Your Grave (1978) look like a walk in the park. To make this disgusting film even more mean-spirited, Bronson's daughter (a survivor from the first film) is raped again, and winds up impaled on railings after leaping through a (closed) window. After that, it's the usual round of gruesome revenge killings as Bronson - who later described director Winner as a very harsh man (no kidding!) - plods through his role with all the energy and emotion of a fire hydrant. This film is an even sicker exploitation of fear and violence than any video nasty you could care to mention, and it's an insult to the engaging original. Stick with the first film, at least it won't make you ill. "},{"Title":"This is just simply Great","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great Classic Action movie that delivers over and over again, you got it all here, great violence, shootings, suspense, its all here. The one-liners are second to none, i have seen this movie hundreds of times and i still get chills every time Charlie says You believe in Jesus?. They don't make them like this anymore which had me thinking as too why and i came to my own conclusion, how many great action stars are out there today? Well besides Segal about 10 years ago there are none, lets face it that talent-less Will Smith couldn't do this kind of action, heck he couldn't even be a thug who gets shot in this movie cause he has no talent and his TV show sucked too as well as his crappy so-call music career. Lately AMC has been running this much under-appreciated Classic a lot lately and i want to be the first one to say congrats, its about time this movie gets the credit it deserves. I told a couple of my friend yesterday at work that this was going to be on AMC today and one of them said they would watch it while the other one was too busy wearing his skirt and wouldn't take it off to watch this Classic. Well the one who said he is going to watch it is about it get a quiz today since i don't believe he took the time to watch this. I would give this movie 11 stars here if it would let me but 10 is the most i can give it, if you like action and violence and shootings like i do, i promise you won't be disappointed and the sound track to this is great and is done by the legend himself Jimmy Page. Do yourself a favor and watch this and forget all about crappy movies like Wild wild west which promise you action but fails to deliver the goods "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson returns as Paul Kersey who becomes a vigilante when his daughter and housekeeper are murdered in this inept and pointless sequel. Death Wish II follows such a wretched formula that everything is spelled out with blood. Filled with repugnant rape scenes and lacking the first one's power (or the other sequel's over the top bodycount) Death Wish II adds up to less then nothing. "},{"Title":"Lady, you disturb the neighbours and we'll cut you into little pieces...and eat you for dinner!","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" David Engelbach's screenplay for the second, and easily the most gratuitously offensive and downright depraved of the occasionally entertaining DEATH WISH series, is full of gruesome little gems like that. Whilst Engelbach's ear for realism and naturalistic dialogue is a little lacking, he does come up with some one-liners that are memorable for all the wrong reasons. When my parents rented this video back in the eighties, they wouldn't let me see the rape scene, and when I finally got to see the forbidden sequence years later, I could understand why. In its uncut form - briefly available in Britain when videos didn't have to get past the censors - it's as nasty, prurient and sadistic as anything I've seen before or since, and that includes the notorious Last House On The Left and I Spit On Your Grave. If you thought Johnny and Matthew and the rest of the hicks gave Jennifer Hills a hard time in Meir Zarchi's zero-budget sleaze-fest, wait until you see what Laurence Fishburne (yes, THE Laurence Fishburne) and his screeching geeks put Bronson's Spanish maid through here. Similarly, if you thought Michael Winner did a professional job on movies like THE MECHANIC and the prequel to this mean-spirited potboiler, then his cack-handed, hit-and-miss approach here will make your head spin. Add to this a thoroughly amateurish score by one of the world's greatest rock guitarists, and you have a movie that brought out the worst in everyone concerned. On the up side, there are a few unintentional laughs and it did at least pave the way for DEATH WISH 3, which must be the single greatest fascist fantasy-made-flesh ever to make it onto the silver screen. So give this one a miss and go straight from the first movie to the third. You won't be missing anything, unless you like vomiting. "},{"Title":"Different Location but a Decent Sequel All the Same","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After essentially being chased out of New York, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has relocated from Chicago to Los Angeles in an effort to start life all over again. Living with him is his daughter, Carol Kersey (Robin Sherwood) who is gradually recovering from the trauma she experienced in New York which resulted in her father becoming a vigilante in the first place. Unfortunately, as luck would have it, a gang of young men break into his apartment and after severely beating Paul and killing the housemaid, Rosario (Silvano Gallardo) forcibly take Carol with them. Later on she is gang-raped and dies attempting to escape. This event results in Paul returning to his vigilante ways and his specific targets are those who participated in the death of his daughter. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that, other than the location and the introduction of a couple of new characters, this film mirrored the first movie to a very great extent. Even so, it was certainly watchable and for that reason I have rated it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"takes a while for the revenge","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The follow up to the cult classic from 1974. Charles Bronson picks up again the role of Paul Kersey, the vigilante who goes out killing the ones who damaged his family and this time it even goes a bit further, his daughter got killed.Is it as good as the original, no it isn't but it's still worth picking up because you can see Los Angeles back in the eighties. Not only that, Laurence Fishburne is to spot as the cutter, just before he got his big roles. It's a bit more violent then the 1974 flick but being made in the heydays of gore it's in fact low on that part. And it takes a while before the revenge comes in. You have to see the original Death Wish to understand a few things with the cops. Gore 1/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 2/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"An Effective Follow Up To The Original.","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey is now living in Los Angeles, but unfortunately, trouble is never far. In a scenario almost exactly like the first film, he gets his wallet stolen from him by some muggers, and they use it to find out where he lives. When they go to Paul's house, they murder his housekeeper, and then, his poor daughter gets raped again, only this time, she's killed. Paul then goes back into vigilante mode, only this time, he does not target random muggers, instead focusing his wrath upon the five who killed his daughter and housekeeper.A sequel to the original, Death Wish II is a thrilling film that is an exceptionally effective follow up to the classic original. Considering how much I enjoyed the first film, I thought that I would also watch the other films in the series, and I have to say that I enjoyed this one too. Although this film is darker and seemingly a little more violent than the first film, it is a very good follow up. While its not as good as the original (which is understandable, considering how it is usually hard to top the original film in a film series), it still has many things about it that makes it worth a viewing or two, and it's always a pleasure to see Charles Bronson take down bad guys.Reprising his role from the original film, Charles Bronson is as good as he's ever been. In this film, Paul has a vengeance that is definitely more personal than his last one. This time around, he has five specific targets, the ones who have caused him to once again lose everything that he holds dear to him. While all five films have Paul seeking some kind of vengeance, this film seems to be the most personal of the five. I give kudos to writer David Engelbach for doing this, as it makes Paul a more sympathetic character and one that we will definitely want to see come out victorious.In addition to Bronson being his usual great self, the supporting cast deserves some mention too. Jill Ireland (who was Bronson's wife at the time) was very good in her role as Bronson's love interest in this film, and their chemistry really showed in many scenes. Vincent Gardenia returns from the first film, reprising his role as Det. Frank Ochoa, who arrives from New York to once again be on the tale of the vigilante. Bronson, Ireland, and Gardenia did the best work in the film, out everyone who appeared in the film, these three stood out the most.Also returning from the first film is director Michael Winner, who gives this movie the same kind of edge that he gave the first film. Winner also manages to keep the ominous tones that the previous movie had, giving a real sense of danger. In many scenes in the movie, where Paul is out on the streets at night, there is a sense of dread which gives the feeling that danger could be anywhere, and considering what the movie is about, it could be anywhere. Winner didn't quite achieve the same level of success as he did with the original Death Wish, but in my books, this one certainly manages to do good with that it has.Like the previous film, this movie contains quite a lot of violence in it. Mostly the break in and rape scenes in the beginning, and then of course, Paul going out on his vigilante spree. And similar to the previous film, if you are somebody who gets rather uncomfortable at the sight of gratuitous violence, then you might want to be careful, as this movie has a lot of it, and it gets pretty graphic in a couple of scenes. And lastly, considering how good he was at playing these kind of roles, it is always a pleasure to see Charles Bronson take out bad guys one after another.All in all, if you enjoyed Death Wish, then there's a good chance that you will also enjoy Death Wish II. Although it isn't as great as the aforementioned film, it still has many things going for it. And also, it's worth watching if you are a fan of Charles Bronson. Personally, while I am a big fan of Bronson, that doesn't always mean that I am predestined to like everything that he's in. I have seen some of his movies that I like more than others, but I haven't seen one yet that I intensely disliked. In short, Death Wish II is a worth sequel to the original vigilante classic, it's worth seeing.9/10 "},{"Title":"As good as DW 1","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A grossly underrated movie , as good as the first , and a far cry from 3 and 4 . Kersey's relationship with Bronson's actual wife , Jill Ireland , is quite believable , and there's no mistaking the chemistry . That a man would go on a rampage of revenge over the rape and brutal death of his already traumatized daughter is something any real man can understand ( and there are some beautifully sensitive moments here ; Robin Sherwood , as Carol Kersey , is brilliant ) . Some critics seem to regard the rapes as especially lurid , perhaps purposefully titillating , but I could not disagree more . Rape is not pretty, and regardless of the attractiveness of the two rape victims , one must really have a sick mind to find those scenes titillating . The unexpected ending adds gusto to an already solid movie . This is more than a must for Bronson fans  It's a damned good movie , period . "}{"Title":"Death wish exploitative trash redmeemed only by the presence of Bronson","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death wish 2 is the crass disgusting vulgar exploitive piece of 80s trash which has more plot holes than your average children's book anyway the story once again stars Charles Bronson as Paul kersey who has moved to los Angeles to try and get his act together and move on from the events of the first film he goes to pick up his now sane daughter carol who has recovered from the injury's she suffered in the first film from the attempted rape by the 3 disgusting perversely warped monsters that were led by jeff goldblum that were never caught by the police or Bronson after getting away with such a sick crime on both the daughter and mother who died from her injury's . Anyway the film really outdid itself in a particularly gruesome scene in which three new thugs break it Bronson's house physically assault then rape the maid this scene does not belong in any sort of film no matter what Michael winner should have been ashamed of himself for making such a piece of s***t . The only reason it gets a 2 from me is Bronson's serviceable if a little amateurish performance and the action scenes but apart from that a thoroughly disgusting film to an effective original 1974 flick that was effective in its own way . "},{"Title":"Kersey Chaos.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Winner once again pushes the buttons of Hollywood with this sequel to his controversial hit, Death Wish. Plot follows a familiar trajectory, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is now in Los Angeles living a normal life, when wouldn't you know it, some scumbag youths cross his path after administering some rape and pillage on folk close to him...The problem here, and the reason why some critics positively burst blood vessels after watching it, is that for the first half it just is pure exploitation, this in spite of some decent production value. Did it really need to be another sex crime? Could it not have been a murder et al? There gets a point in the film where you sense it's boobs for boobs sake. Though you have to wonder if Winner dared to ask Chuck and Jill Ireland (playing girlfriend of Chuck...) if Jill would do a nude scene? I think a broken nose may have come about if that subject had of been broached...Once Kersey (Bronson hard as nails again) goes about dealing out his brand of justice, the film hits its straps, teasing the viewers with moral - cum - ethical outrage or conversely, vicarious thinking. Vigilante films are always going to swim in tricky waters, provoking anger and heated debate from all walks of the political spectrum, but better to have them out there to provoke a response than not. Surely?There is nothing remotely high end here, but it's a film worthy of its above average rating on IMDb. It can shock, annoy, dismay and even induce unintentional mirth (three of the rapist thugs dance the campiest dance ever), but it will not be ignored and people are still seeking it out today to watch for the first time. Michael Winner still showing the ability to pique interest with his vigilante franchise. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Good Crime-Thriller Sequel","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish II is just as haunting and good as the first film. It is a good sequel. It's not a horrible film like some of the critics say it is. The story of Death Wish II is good. The gang of thugs find Paul Kersey's (Bronson) daughter and housemaid - this is where the movie gets graphic. I will give fair warning It is extremely violent/graphic - there is murder and rape within the film.I saw this movie when it first came out - I was 10 years old. This movie has haunted me ever since I first saw it. I've seen it several times as a teen - but I was crept out every time I watched it - it's almost a crime horror film due to the graphic violence in the film.After Death Wish II, the film franchise went into another direction... and I did not like them. I personally feel that only the first two Death Wish films are worth watching.8/10 "},{"Title":"First-ever sequel for Bronson, but not the best sequel ever","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While the first film was a dramatic classic, upon switching to Cannon Films, director Michael Winner and Charles Bronson return to the sequel, which blasts the series in an entirely different direction the sleazy action film. It's a big difference between the too, but it still works. Bronson's character Paul Kersey could do anything from shooting unarmed thugs at point-blank range to electrocuting a mental patient and you'd still like him.Or feel sorry for him. Sort of both in this case.Anyone close to Kersey dies. His daughter, who barely managed to survive the first film, was unfortunate enough to once again get attacked, kidnapped, and eventually killed off. Their housemaid was also a victim, and she didn't survive either--she arguably got the worst of it (though honestly I don't know which is worse getting bludgeoned to death or impaling yourself on a fence). This sets Kersey once again on a journey for revenge through the greasy slums of L.A., and this time he DOES find those who are responsible for the attack. They're determined to get away, but Kersey won't let the culprits who are actually responsible for attacking his loved ones get away with it this time (which is good because that was the most unsatisfying aspect of Part I).This sequel is louder, more action-y, more violent, and a little more sillier. It transforms the drama/revenge franchise into an action/revenge franchise, and it manages to be entertaining despite having even less of a plot than the first one (if that's even possible). Charles Bronson plays the character well, and the action scenes are fantastic and a step above Part I's, which is good because that's just about all this movie has going for it.It's not the worst installment in the series, but it's close. Luckily though, good ol' Bronson keeps this movie from becoming a cringeworthy sequel that, while inferior, is still quite a bit of fun to watch (in a really sick way).The uncut version is the best way to see this, just like the rest of them. It's harder to watch, but it gives you a better idea of how nasty the villains are and it helps justify even the cruelest of Kersey's actions. "},{"Title":"Second verse, same as first","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish II is a sequel that plays it very safely, by essentially doing the same story again and changing the location. This time Paul Kersey guns down muggers in L.A. rather than New York, but it's all dark alleys so it looks the same anyway. This sequel is definitely harsher than the original though, the Paul Kersey that started gagging after his first kill is long gone here. He's a full-blown angel of vengeance now, even carefully putting in some quips like Do you believe in Jesus? Well, you're gonna meet him. Because it's the same story you don't really feel much creative force, but I've got to say this one easily has the best scene in the entire franchise. Or rather, the most disturbing scene. The part where Kersey's mute daughter (a strong performance by the otherwise completely unknown Robin Sherwood) is raped is so uneasy, so bizarre, so awkward to look at that it will always be the first scene that comes to mind when I think of the Death Wish-series. I also enjoy how Kersey actually goes after those particular culprits rather than just kill random punks like in the first one (how the hell does he find them so easily though?) This sequel might give you some feelings of deja-vu, but it's definitely still very good. "},{"Title":"Brutal but compelling","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 2 is perhaps the most infamous of the sequels in the series. If you're (un)fortunate enough to view the uncut version of the movie, you'll be treated to two somewhat drawn out rape sequences that will likely have you questioning the sanity of the movie's director, Michael Winner. And even in the cut American and European releases, these scenes are still fairly unpleasant to watch (and the cuts leave more to the imagination, which may be better or worse depending on your point of view). However, that is exactly the point. The thugs who commit these vile acts are left without any sympathy, dehumanized completely and thus ensuring that when they do gain their comeuppance it is extremely satisfying. In a sense, the brutality that Charles Bronson's character Paul Kersey enacts against them is practically justified.Death Wish 2 does away with much of the social commentary featured in the first movie, so any statements made about urban decay, vigilantism and/or gun control are pretty much absent this time around. The series is yet to cross over into full-blown action movie territory as seen in Death Wish 3, but the action contained within Death Wish 2 is generally well done and fairly memorable. The (low-budget) grimy and generally dreary look to the whole movie, complemented by a soundtrack of brooding synthesizer riffs by Jimmy Page gives Death Wish 2 an overall feel that not too many movies manage to achieve, and that's a feel of utter despair. Los Angeles here is depicted as a crime-ridden hell-hole, even more so than the rendition of New York City in the previous movie.Yet, despite the griminess, there are some amusing oddities. The gangsters in Death Wish 2 are almost laughable caricatures, outfitted in clothes that look as if they were purchased from a store that specializes in the most stereotypical street-thug gear imaginable. The violence, despite its brutality, is often punctuated by what I can only call 'Bronsonian' moments, including the oft-quoted 'You believe in Jesus?' one-liner, or the more succinct 'Goodbye' that Charles Bronson delivers to one of the thugs before enacting vengeance. The shootout in the park towards the end of the movie is memorable, if only because of how over-the-top it gets. One thug gets the bright idea of holding his ghetto blaster in front of his face, as if he thinks it'll stop bullets. Charles Bronson quickly proves him wrong.As an action movie, Death Wish 2 certainly delivers. "},{"Title":"Kersey versus the world","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Bronson) returns to familiar territory in this blatant profit-seeking sequel. After his maid is brutally gang raped and his comatose daughter ends her comatose state (but not in a good way), Kersey decides to re-awaken his inner-Hulk. Having established himself in a red-light district of the city, he prowls the alleyways in search of target practice. One by one he exacts merciless revenge on those responsible for his grievances. You believe in Jesus Christ? he remarks at thug #2s (Kevin Major Howard) crucifix chain, adding well, you're gonna meet him before peppering his body with lead. Despite the high work rate, he manages to court radio personality (Mrs Bronson), while his old foe (Vincent Gardenia) has also returned to cash-in on the pay dirt that is Death Wish 2.Aside from the reverberating guitar sounds of Jimmy Page, there are a number of other peculiarities to this film. Apart from the three principles, everyone else featured is a virtual bit part or cameo. Furthermore, director Winner has employed a frenetic narrative pace, loaded with blistering scene interchanges and at times, nonsensical editing. The result is a mosaic of sex and violence, punctuated by perverse attempts to rationalise through rough justice and false sympathy.From all the attempts at social commentary, there's but one message to take from this film - beware the sequel. Bronson is one-dimensional and Ireland merely a patch of green scenery amid the blood stains. Acting kudos goes to the always alluring Roberta Collins - she plays 'woman at party', a brief but dignified role in the context of this film. Having said this, if you thrive on gratuitous sleaze, have secret vigilante ideation's, or just worship Charles Bronson, then Death Wish 2 could be your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"The sequel to Death Wish is watchable but disappointing.","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's been a few years now that Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is been living the good life in Los Angeles with his girlfriend Geri (Jill Ireland) and his daughter Carol (Robin Sherwood), who's still traumatized after the brutal rape in the past. But Carol is slowly getting better now, although she doesn't speak. When Paul gets robbed by a group of muggers by stealing his wallet, when he was taking his girlfriend and his daughter out. But Paul doesn't realized those muggers would go to his house by raping his maid (Silvana Gallardo) and waiting for him to come home. When Paul and his daughter came home, he got beat up and kidnapped his daughter. When one of those muggers raped his daughter, she escapes from them but she accidentally killed himself from jumping through a window by getting impaled by the railing below. When Paul finds out his maid has died, including his own daughter. Now Paul goes back being a vigilante in the mean streets of L.A. by night to finding these murderous, stealing, rapists thugs.Directed by Michael Winner (Lawman, The Mechanic, The Sentinel) made an OK if unnecessary sequel to the effective Death Wish. Which Winner also made the original film. Nearly none of the strong impact of the first movie is there. It's nearly played for unintentional laughs and it is often very silly. Bronsan looks bored here, he certainly did the role for the money. Vincent Gardenia, who was in the original as Detective Frank Ochoa is back in a supporting role. Ireland, who was real-life wife of Bronson.Still, fans of the Death Wish features will find some entertainment here. The lead thugs are recognizable, especially a young Kevyn Major Howard (Best known for his supporting roles in Stanley Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket and Alien Nation) and Laurence Fishburne. He gets the biggest unintentional laughter in the movie, when Fishburne tries to shield himself from a shooting with a Boombox! Charles Cyphers (Who best known in supporting roles in John Carpenter's movies like  Assault on Precient 13, The Fog and Halloween) appears as The Head Orderly during the last act of the picture. Director Winner and Actor Bronson returned for the extremely stupid but entertaining Death Wish 3. Which Death Wish 3 is the best of the sequels. Bronson's fans will cherish this, while others won't bother. (** /*****). "},{"Title":"Mediocre sequel minor spoilers","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this strictly mediocre sequel to the 1974 classic, Charles Bronson returns as architect Paul Kersey whose once again out for revenge after his daughter Robin Sherwood is raped and murdered in one of the most disturbing scenes in motion picture history. Charles Bronson's performance is the best thing in this first out of many sequels that is even more violent and graphic than the original. "},{"Title":"Brilliant soundtrack, a masterwork of mediocrity","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The soundtrack is what makes this film.   It is so disturbing.  Jimmy Page is a genius.   It is a shame that he sold his music to this film because this film will definitely not go down as a classic any time soon.   It is, however, not a bad film.  The character of Paul Kersey is very appealing and the violence is graphic and upsetting and really makes you root for Bronson to clean up the streets.   The original Death Wish is a very serious and well done picture.  This message of the original is lost in this one, but the soundtrack more than makes up for it.   A guitar synthesizer and a violin bow go a long way.   If you want to watch a bad movie, this is a very good one.  8.5 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Just a remake of the original Death Wish.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish II is just a remake of the hit original Death Wish. This time having Charles Bronson's house maid being raped and murdered and his mentally ill daughter (from the first film) being kidnapped and killed. Doesn't even have the same touch and Doesn't even come close. "},{"Title":"Needless sequel. Paul Kersey still rocks though.","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey, the vigilante from the path breaking Death Wish, is back. Then his wife had been murdered. Bad luck follows him here also and he ends up loosing his daughter and housekeeper who are brutally raped and murdered. And then it is payback as usual as Kersey gets back to his vigilante ways and kills the attackers one by one. Charles Bronson essays the tough but caring guy persona perfectly. But unlike the first part, there is not much scope as far as the script is concerned. He just finds the attackers while he is roaming the streets and kills them. there is no element of the planning and chase which made the first part such a joy to watch and the retribution such a satisfaction. You can also catch a glimpse of Laurence Fishburne, Morpheus of Matrix fame, in one of his earlier roles as one of the attackers. The action is good but the nudity is gratuitous. This is a sequel which was really not needed other than to earn some quick buck. There is no novelty and it seems like a poor rip off of its precursor. 2 out of 5 for this. Watch the first part. It was the inspiration for the Kevin Bacon starer Death Sentence. After watching this i believe i will skip the sequels. "},{"Title":"Violent and Nerve Racking but Deliver's a Satisfying ending","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 2, basically re-hashes the original's Plot once again, only this time The Violence is More Extreme and the Rape Scenes are far More shocking and Uneccessarliy more Frequent.This time Paul Kersey(Charles Bronson)Has moved to L.A With His Daughter and New Wife to start a new life, but one day his wallet is stolen by some street punks (One Played by a Young Laurence Fishburne), the punks find his address from his Drivers Licence and Decide to Rape and Kill both His Housekeeper and Daughter(Who Was recovering from the last Incident) This time Kersey Is more Determined than ever before to Catch these Guys and a lot of Bloody Carnage Ensues along the way.The Film is not as Deep as the Original nor is it as Stylishly Filmed, And this being the Uncut Version I'm reviewing, The film has Two Main Rape Scenes which Go on For WAY Too long, Which makes it Gratuitous, and they way it's filmed and acted is unpleasant but in a different way than in the original What i mean by that is it seems like the film is trying to be a Sadistic Porno at times, Which is very Disturbing Considering the Seriousness of the topic, Rape is unpleasant it's not a joke, which at times during those scenes is how its portrayed as a Joke, In which it should not be portrayed in that way.Aside from that the film moves at a better pace than the original and the Villains in this film are more Despiseable and you truly feel they deserve whats coming to them, and the Action is a few steps above the original making this film more of a traditional Action/Thriller, rather than a Drama/Thriller, Charles Bronson does well as usual but this time he seems to Camp up his character a little more with a few cheesy One Liners but they do work, and the score by Led Zeppelin Guitarist Jimmy Page is A treat.NOTE Like the Original it's very shocking this time even more so,so much in fact I think I'll be Fast Fowarding the rape scenes in this film if i see it again in the Future, So once again for those who are easily disturbed by Brutality and Rape you have been Warned, there is a slightly Censored Version out there, but its still fairly Shocking.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"a terrific rip-roaring all guns blazing sequel","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson is back in his most famous role Paul Kersey, the setting this time around is L.A The plot has Bronson who has a new woman in his life Jill Ireland, the sub-plot of his traumatised daughter also returns but is played by a different actress.Unfortunately Kersey has a run in with some punks (one of whom is played by Laurence Fishburne,)who manage to steal his wallet, Kersey fights back, but they get away. The leader, wanting to get back at Kersey goes to his house, but Kersey and his daughter are not there. The punks rape his housekeeper and abduct his daughter what happens sets Bronson off again.'Death Wish II' is a terrific rip-roaring all guns blazing sequel like them or loathe them the 'Death Wish' series are nothing but mindless entertainment which delivers solid entertainment. Vincent Gardenia also returns as the detective out to bring Bronson in, there are some terrific action sequences in this installment, unfortunately the downside to Death Wish II is that there is a brutal gang rape of his housekeeper and a rape of his daughter which is very off putting, "},{"Title":"Death Wish II","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Los Angeles is a cesspool of rising criminality and of course Paul Kersey is just the right kind of guy to help rid the streets of scum. Having somewhat recovered from her rape at the hands of thugs who killed her mother, Kersey's daughter is trying to pick up the pieces with her pops, but when LA produces some more slime who sexually molest the poor girl again, she can not take it and commits suicide. This pushes Kersey over the edge and he will exact his own brand of justice. I imagine director Michael Winner's sequel will push some buttons as Kersey's wallet is stolen by no-good hoods who seem to exist for the sole purpose to terrorize and harm. The gang intrude upon Kersey's home and savagely rape his maid, knock him unconscious when he comes home, and kidnaps his daughter. What's repulsive about this particular movie is the idea that the gang of mongrels are allowed to molest a mentally crippled young woman who had previously endured an awful rape, escaping from them through a window only to be impaled on a steel fence. What the maid suffers through is heinous, and to see Kersey's girl's fate is even more troubling.Jill Ireland, Bronson's real life wife, plays his girlfriend and Laurence Fishburne is one of the dirtbags who Kersey will eradicate like the cockroach he is. The plot essentially follows Kersey as he takes to the streets searching for those responsible for the deaths of his maid and daughter, a night predator seeking his prey. The streets are engulfed with low-lifes, gangs, drug dealers, prostitutes(and their pimps), and filth. It's like a wasteland where rats scurry about en masse, walls are decorated with graffiti, buildings of all have fallen to rot and ruin, and all sorts of cultures and creeds align the sidewalks and alley ways. And there is Kersey among them, out to annihilate the vermin which inflicted his life with further pain. Kersey is an LA architect who moved from New York due to the harassment of a cop who comes to the City of Angels hoping to catch the vigilante in the act so he can stop him.The motive of movies like DEATH WISH II is to present a gang so repugnant and revolting that they're deaths are applauded to the delight of the audience. The criminal element in LA according to Winner and company are only good for one thing and that's dying. Ireland's character is a journalist, Geri, a pacifist who believes the criminals should be rehabilitated, that the prison system doesn't stop crime, but perhaps contributes to it further.The ending tries to have it both ways. Kersey is punished for his willingness to strike back and loses Geri because of it, yet the whole movie affords him the opportunity to kill every last cretin. Is this movie supposed to question taking the law into your own hands when it seems the police are unable to deter crime? Or does it condone such vigilante actions? There's a for example scene where Kersey catches some of the gang attempting to rape the wife of a tourist, shooting them down before they were able to seal the deal. If he doesn't shoot it out with them, they will rape and possibly murder the woman, while her defenseless husband must listen from afar. When the police want his identification, the saved couple will not give it to them.Bottom line these dregs of society will continue to go about raping and pillaging, trading guns for cocaine, bullying citizens on buses, causing mischief and mayhem. Kersey is a symbol for what many of us fantasize about, but are seemingly too civilized to do. "},{"Title":"Bronson is the only punishment!","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bronson is back and this time he is in L.A he has a beautiful girlfriend ( Jill Ireland , Bronson's then wife ) nothing could go wrong. Well unfortunately something does his daughter is raped ( for the second time , unlucky ! ) then killed. Now he is out for the killers and he will stop at nothing , blow all cars up , unload countless rounds out of his gun until he kills his daughters murderers. A change from the first film , more blood and Rambo style action , worth a look for action fans but won't suit all. The music by Jimmy Page is perfect for the setting and dark gritty style of this film. However if you are hoping for something along the lines of the first film then you will be out of luck . For action and Bronson fans only. "},{"Title":"Not quite up to the original but still pretty good","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A few years after the original and Paul Kersey is happily living in LA. His daughter and housekeeper are murdered and he takes up arms once again.There are a number of differences here, chief among them is Kersey going after specific people and not criminals in general like last time. This took away that unusual element present in the first film, but then this is a sequel not a remake.Because the feel and tone are quite different to the first, it was a good idea to have Ochea back to provide a more tangible link.Kersey has become much more brutal this time, taunting his victims first although he still makes sure they are dead and not just wounded.Perhaps some of the nudity was a little OTT, but it's not on screen for very long.Not as good as the first, but still very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Proving that you can't Forge a Masterpiece, Guild a Lilly, make a Silk Purse from a Sow's Ear and Improve on a Perfection! (Don't forget not getting Blood from a Turnip!)","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SEQUELS to movies live up to their hype, nor to the level of the previous film; without which there would be no sequel. Brilliant case of deductive reasoning, don't you think, Schultz? LONG AGO we swore off of any most movies that had those telltale Roman Numerals in their titles. Admittedly, there have been some very well done, enjoyable, $ucce$$ful and Critically Acclaimed picture that continued the story begun in a successful film; but they're the exceptions to the rule. It certainly seems to be unimpeachable evidence that for every BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, THE GODFATHER PART II or THE EMPIIRE STRIKES BACK there are so many continuances such as THE FRENCH CONNECTION II, JAWS II & assorted siblings, SON OF KONG, SUPERMAN III and BELLES ON THEIR TOES.*ONE COLD Winter's night not so very long ago we fell off the sequels wagon; as there was nothing at all interesting on the 300 or so Cable Channels that were available, so we settled on this DEATH WISH II (Multiple Companies**/Columbia Pictures Corporation, 1982). Well, we watched out of desperation and a heightened sense of curiosity; if nothing else. After all, we were now considered to be some kind of half-fast Movie Reviewer and besides, in an attempt to remain 'up' and positive, we were valiantly trying to see something good everywhere.WELL in observing the cinematic pot-boiler & coat tails rider, we were inclined to be more analytical; even in this the first (and last) viewing. Familiarity with and knowledge of the original left us few surprises and none of the emotional range of the one and only, original DEATH WISH (Dino De Laurentis Pictures/Paramount Pictures, 1974).FIRST OF ALL, the ending of the original depicted Paul Kersey (Mr. Charles Bronson) leaving NYC and arriving in the Windy City. As he was disembarking the 20th Century Limited (or the Super Chief), the passenger train in Chicago's Union Station, he observes some street gang-type punks knocking the luggage from the hands of a helpless lady passenger. As the film fades out, the camera zeroes-in on and freezes a tight shot of Mr. Kersey delightfully sighting his hand as a pistol delivering an imaginary & symbolic bullet to the unsuspecting and unaware street scum.SO WHAT is it about our town, Mr. Big Shot Hollywood Tycoon? Does it smell or something? After all, we were rightfully anticipating seeing what Mr. Kersey's Vigilante could do with our fair city; besides, the Union Stock Yards are long gone. THEN, you have this sudden and unexpected switch of venues to Los Angeles. We know that they could use Mr. Bronson's machismo and marksmanship in La-La Land too, but you promised! (There, Schultz and meself just had to get that off of our chests!) ONCE established in the West Coast Office of his Architectural Company, Mr. Kersey starts out to clean up the new town. He sets out as before with his concealed fire arm to seek out, hunt and destroy the enemy street thugs that haunt our streets; wherever we may live.BUT IN THIS second DEATH WISH outing, Kersey's role is modified from the former. In the original screen story, his modus operandi was one of a decoy. He would put himself in dangerous situations; so as to invite attackers to try to take him in robbery. Once the offender(s) were zeroing in for the kill, they were shot. Mr. Kersey then split the scene.THE NEW IMPROVED VIGILANTE of this sequel seems to be more in the tradition of the Super Hero. Much like Batman or Mighty Mouse, Kersey would come in to save the day in various assorted Robberies and Rapes in progress. His escapes from the scene seemed less convincing in Los Angeles' much more spread out cityscapes than in the Big Apple's densely packed asphalt & concrete jungles. Somehow eluding detection and capture are decidedly much more plausible in the act of ducking down into the subway than waiting for a public transit bus at a street bus stop.APPARENTLY following in the tradition of Lieutenant Gerard from THE FUGITIVE TV Series, the N.Y.P.D. Chief of Detectives Frank Ochoa (Vincent Gardenia) tracks Kersey all the way out there to the West Coast. Much like Gotham City's Chief O'Hara & Company; he's always arriving just a little too late.CARRY OVERS from the original were few. Other than Mr. Vincent Gardenia, we are only to find Director, Michael Winner; whose work here seems to have little resemblance to the dark, gritty and horrifying work on the real DEATH WISH. Joining Charles Bronson in this cast are Miss Jill Ireland (Mrs. Bronson in real life), J.D. Cannon, Anthony Franciosa, Robin Sherwood and even a very young Laurence Fishburne.ME AND ME BUDDY, SCHULTZ are still smiling about watching this on that winters night; a reaction, we assure you, that no one had any such feelings and emotions in seeing the original film.OUR VERDICT make like a hopscotch girl and skip it! NOTE * One could reason, of course, that to even to have been considered to have a sequel made would seem, in it self, to be highly flattering; for we noticed that there were never any RHINESTONE II, ISHTAR II or a DONDI Series. (Although there was an APPOLLO 13, which certainly must be a record for longevity!) NOTE ** Sharing the guilt and blame for this shallow follow-up were several production companies, being 1. Cannon Films, 2. City Films, 3. Golan-Globus Productions and 4. Landers-Roberts Productions; with the release & distribution being handled by Filmways (Domestic) and Columbia (non USA).POODLE SCHNITZ!! "},{"Title":"Equally as Strong and Twice as Grisly as the first installment","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, Mr. Winner you get my vote for exploitation film of the year, and that is Death Wish II. Charles Bronson recreates the role of Paul Kersey, who we can remember lived in New York previously at the time of the first Death Wish film, now he lives in Los Angeles. Mr. Kersey has a very nice girlfriend in Miss Geri Nichols (Jill Ireland), and we also get to see Kersey's daughter Carol, who is still recovering from her traumatic run in with Jeff Goldblum and his two cronies years prior. What happens next is a more gruesome, equally as grisly rendition of what had transpired years prior to the ones Mr. Kersey loves/loved. Instead of going out to the streets and plugging away every mugger he can (like in the first film), Mr. Kersey wants to use his memory to locate the punks that did some not-so-nice things to his loved ones and even the score. Many critics shun this film for being too violent and really remorseless in its content, but I have a soft spot for Mr. Kersey and I felt this film really wasn't as bad as some say it is. Yes there is a rape scene in this movie, and trust me, I could've lived without watching that scene as much as the next person, but I understand how Michael Winner really wants the audience to be able to obtain some type of animosity towards the on-screen villains. The cold-calculated revenge Bronson exacts was well done, it's just straight up in your face violence, no B.S.. Vincent Gardenia reprises his role as Detective Frank Ochoa superbly, watch for Laurence Fishburne in the film as one of the thugs. Not the best Bronson film out there but by far not the worst either. "},{"Title":"Death Wish II (1982) **1/2","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson returns to play vigilante as the action now moves from New York to Los Angeles. As the uncannily unlucky Paul Kersey, Bronson tries to get on with his life and carry on after the tragic murder of his wife from Part One. It isn't very long, naturally, before he unwillingly crosses paths with another gang of young cretins who rape his housekeeper and kidnap his catatonic daughter, who has already been undergoing years of therapy after the trauma she'd endured from the first movie. Before long, Kersey is pushed back to doing what he must to avenge his loved ones and clean up the neighborhood for the rest of us. Wearing a silly cap which makes him stand out like a criminal himself, he takes a cheap room in the heart of the city to make extermination easier. Vincent Gardenia returns as the policeman who follows Bronson's latest escapades, and Jill Ireland is another in the line of would-be Mrs. Kersey's whose patience is tested by her lover's leisure activities.Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page comes up with some razor-sharp and biting soundtrack noises to accommodate all of this, and while Part II is not a good film there's something I like about the sheer grittiness of it. It moves quickly, and Bronson gets his job done efficiently. He's not very much of an actor though, and sometimes his disinterested and laid back delivery of some of the dialogue is unintentionally humorous. The film as originally shot was much more graphic and had to be cut somewhat for release. **1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"You believe in Jesus... Well, you're gonna meet him.","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, we don't get the great Herbie Hancock score of the first movie, but we do get Jill Ireland, Mrs. Bronson, in one of her last films, directed as Death Wish I and III, by Michael Winner.We also get what I feel is the biggest collection of scumbags ever assembled. Thomas F. Duffy as Nirvana, Kevyn Major Howard as Stomper, Stuart K. Robinson as Jiver, Laurence Fishburne as Cutter, and E. Lamont Johnson as Punkut. It was fitting that the first kill occurred in a rat-infested building, and the last was an electrocution.Vincent Gardenia is back to track down Kersey after he starts again in Los Angeles.Unlike the serious and tragic first film, this is more focused and revenge-oriented. A good film, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"He raped and killed my daughter!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Nowhere as effective as the original Death Wish II takes up where Death Wish left off. This time in sunny and smoggy L.A not cold and dark winter-time New York City. Paul Kersey, Charles Bronson, after a brief stay in Chicago has transfered his architecture firm to L.A and is planing to marry radio KABC personality and news writer Geri Nichols, Jill Ireland, and start a new life. After his old one was destroyed by a group of vicious muggers back in The Big Apple.Everything is going fine for Paul as not only that the police have stopped looking to arrested him, he was giving a free pass and ticket out of town courtesy of the the NYPD, his daughter Carol, Robin Sherwood, is recovering from the trauma of being raped and seeing her mother murdered back in NYC. One afternoon at a local amusement park a group of thugs pick-pocket Paul's wallet and with the information in it go to his home. In a home invasion the thugs brutally raped and murder Pauls live-in maid Rosaria,Silvana Gallardo. Later when Paul and Carol come home for dinner, that Roseria was to prepare for them, he's knocked out and Carol kidnapped and taken to an old deserted factory by those filthy lowlife swines who murdered Roseria. Sexually abused by the drug crazed cretins Carol makes a run for it as they try to gang-rape her and jumps out of a third floor window and falls to her death; you don't have to think real hard to guess as what's to happen next when Paul finds out what these mugger/murder/rapists scum did to Carol & Rosaria.Unlike the first Death Wish movie in this second installment Paul Kersey does track down and finish off the gang who did this dastardly act to him and those that he loved and cared for. With the body-count raising as Paul guns down the killers of his daughter and maid, Paul also puts away a number of other criminals as well, the LAPD gets in touch with NYPD Det. Frank Ochoa, Vicent Gradenia, who handled the the case of The New York Vigliante Killings some five years ago. At first trying to arrest Kersey, Ochoa knows that Kersey is the L.A Vigilante, he later saves his life by alerting Paul when he's about to be ambushed at a local park by the mugger gang, who were in the middle of doing a drug deal, at the coast of his own life.During the shoot-out with the muggers Paul puts away all of them except Charles Wilson, who shot and killed Let. Ochoa, who was arrested high on PCP's the next day.Paul impersonating a doctor goes to the prison hospital where Wilson is a prisoner/patient. Wilson isn't fooled by Pauls disguise and after a bloody and vicious slug-fest, where Wilson almost killed Paul, Pal cures his uncivilized behavior with a strong and friendly jolt of electricity. The L.A Police Department in the movie Death Wish II is as clumsy and ineffective as the NYPD was in Death Wish. Always the last ones on the scene of a crime and the first ones to try to stop decent and fed up citizens, like Paul Kersey, from trying to do the work that their not doing. Paul in this movie did get help from those you would not have expected him to get assistance from Det. Ochoa and Donald Kay, Charles Cyphers, an attendant at the prison/hospital. Kay let Paul escape after he did in his daughter's and Rosaria's rapist and murderer the violent and despicable and giggling Charles Wilson. "},{"Title":"The past comes back to haunt Charley.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the incident with Charley and his family in New York City behind them, he and his daughter move to sunny California. But even there Charley gets that itch again. When harm come to his family again, Charley goes into his old vigilante gig full tilt boogie. Those punks aren't safe on either coast. Charley puts on his old beannie and coat looking for the punks that put even more grief upon his family. A few words of advice for all you no goodniks. Don't mess with Charley!Recommended.B. "},{"Title":"An exploitative, revolting mess","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!Seven years later, Charles Bronson loads up to play Paul Kersey once again, and seems to be a poor man's vigilante in a poor man's Death Wish film (well, he was better-dressed in the original when on the streets, and there seems to be a lot of slum in this sequel).I admit that I have not seen the controversial first part of the film (it was caught on the new TNN a month or so back) which I watched roughly 3/4 of the movie after being discovered by accident. In short, this is an exploitation film, nothing special and nothing for the ages. Given the fact that I did not see the most revolting part of the film, maybe this will save the disinterested time and from having a bout of nausea.The plot is unoriginal being a rehash of the first, set in Los Angeles, where Architect Paul Kersey has moved to from Chicago (what, the place is crime-free?) after several years, to work on designing a new building for a radio station. The film's technical aspect is hardly the work of pros the camerawork and editing are not great - at times, the film looks like a grainy, slow-motion colour photostat, and the music score ranges from run-of-the mill suspense tune to headache-inducing heavy metal.Some action scenes are predictable, like Kersey's 'work' at a drug den. Others are amateurly staged, as a shootout complete with daft little dialogue - 'Don't hurt her!' Is said to the potential abductors as if they are suddenly going to think twice.  poor editing stands out in this scene; Kersey never seems to reload on-screen or on the soundtrack - he also seems to have enough bullets to kill, apart from when he misses a whole round.Yes, the violence is often repellant for those who faint at the sight or the thought of blood, beware! In one gunfight, several are turned to strawberry jam including a thug who is first shot, then practically impales himself on a switchblade (only to die after an unethical interrogation, shades of Dirty Harry).The film then turns plodding and dull Kersey is slashed in his first attempt to kill a thug (and later bleeds gorily on to the floor in front of his girlfriend Geri Nichols who remarkably doesn't seem to notice, given the conclusion) then is stabbed repeatedly with a scalpel that a thug concealed in his sneaker (and security was so poor as to allow Kersey to enter a locked ward in a mental hospital?) Anyways, I think you get the drift...and the original is a better bet.Watch at your own risk. 1.5 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Roll up for a tour of movie hell!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My God, this has to be one of the very worst movies I've ever seen. It's just so bad, I can't tell you. Right away, any hopes of this dreck being quality product are dashed by Jimmy Page's ear-splitting, discordant score, which must have influenced Spinal Tap's Jazz Odyssey. Then we get an unintentionally funny scene as Bronson (who looks uncomfortably constipated) turns out to be the only man in the world who could get mugged in a queue for ice cream! Whatever. Anything to get the squeaky wheels of the plot(!) in motion.Luckily, the scene where Rosaria gets repeatedly raped by the WARRIORS reject-looking youth gang was very heavily censored in the TV broadcast version I saw. Beats me who actually enjoys watching that kind of sick stuff anyway. At least the censor's scissors made sure we got to Bronson's revenge fest nice and quickly, and I really laughed at the ridiculously over-the-top scene in the drug den. Rats everywhere! Hardened thugs running a mile from a sixty year old man! The only semi-decent dialogue in the whole mess! (Do you believe in Jesus? You're gonna meet him. BAM!)There's another really funny scene where Larry Fishburne and a couple of his cohorts are doing a bad Village People dance number around a ghetto blaster. Who thought that one up?! And this is followed by one of the most lethargic 'action' sequences in film history, but at least we get to see Fishburne's head torn apart by a speeding bullet...lovely if you like that kind of thing! The final killing is another comic gem, as the Gilbert O'Sullivan lookalike hooligan meets his (literally) hair-raising doom. This film is BAD. Everything about it is truly rotten, yet I had a few half-decent laughs at the expense of the completely poverty-stricken nature of the production and the uniformly dismal acting. The fact that the film once contained a brutal, extended rape left a nasty taste in my mouth, and it says a lot for DEATH WISH II's grade-Z aspirations that it was included in the first place.What more can I say? Avoid this wretched effort! "},{"Title":"The Best of The Bunch","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Next to Mr. Majestyk, this is clearly my favorite Bronson flick and it was shown on TNN last Saturday.  Hence, I was prompted to write this review because I really enjoyed seeing it again.  Those morons who think the film should be Gone With the Wind or On Golden Pond clearly miss the point of wholesome entertainment like this.  Besides, the film contains my favorite line in all of moviedom next to Dean Wermer's Double Secret Probation from Animal HouseKersey asks the young punk drug dealer Do you believe in Jesus?  The frightened young thug nods in agreement.  Well, you're going to meet him.You just can't find great entertainment like this anymore.  "},{"Title":"Under-Rated Sequel","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I stayed away from this follow up for years because of the lousy  reviews it recieved. After watching it I felt I owed Michael Winner an appology, and thought where have you (Death Wish 2) been all my life. Bronson looks better then ever in this perfect sequel. Winner's direction is better then in the first. The body count is lower, but Bronson is more calculated and even more ruthless. This time around Paul Kersey seeks out the very thugs who wrongs him in the begining, a complete change of place from the random killing in the original. The final moment of the film had me screaming for more vigilante slaughter! Someone, anyone out there who can do anything about this - please, please release the remastered DVD - Paul Kersey deserves did!!! "},{"Title":"Same deal as the first one.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Basically the same thing as the first one except this one is set in a different state and isn't as good. The version I saw was either heavily cut for TV (which it probably was) or was cut for the American release (although it's an American film). Bronson has some good lines and the film isn't a total waste, especially the cool ending, which I won't give away. My favorite scene has Bronson confronting a thug in a run down hotel or something and saying You believe in Jesus do you?(after seeing the chain the thug is wearing) ThugYes, yes I do. Bronson You're about to meet him. BAM BAM BAM. Thats the end of that. It's funny that when a tragedy like this happens to Kersey he doesn't shed tears (at least not in my print), but straps on a gun. Thats justice for ya. "},{"Title":"Very underappreciated film","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  People regard this as the worst of the death wish series.  But only the true Bronson fans know this is possibly the best.  Bronson gives a real life performance that I believe has not been duplicated in any Bronson film. The whole plot was a bit thin but Bronson made it thicker.  I hope you will check it out cause it worth the time, this film proves DONT MESS WITH BRONSON!  "},{"Title":"Don't Mess With Paul Kersey!","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey is back, and once Paul Kersey is in rage, it sure ain't no picnic! Eight years after Charles Bronson had first walked the mean streets of New York as the Sidewalk Vigilante in Death Wish (1974), director Michael Winner sends motion picture's toughest architect back on duty to cleanse the neighborhood of violent scum. The first Death Wish was a masterpiece that had been widely (and unfairly) bashed by critics for its violence and its alleged promotion of vigilantism. The main intention of this first sequel obviously was to exceed the violent stereotype of its successor - and it does so in a highly entertaining manner. While the original was not really glorifying self-administered justice as some critics claimed, the (incomparably more exploitative) sequel deliberately does exactly that. Director Winner doesn't even bother to throw in a long story before the action starts, and yet Death Wish II is all a Bronson fan could possibly desire.Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has moved to LA with his daughter, who is still suffering from the traumatic events in the first film. After an attack in which his daughter and his Latina housekeeper are brutally raped and killed, it doesn't take Kersey long to return to his old ways - as the merciless avenger, who will clean the streets of scum vigilante style...Other than in the first part, in which Paul Kersey doesn't begin with his vigilante activities until the second half, the introduction is very brief in the sequel. The disturbing rape sequences are shown with exploitative stamina, but after that, Kersey doesn't take a long time to mourn his daughter, but goes directly to the vengeance part instead. The violence is way more excessive in the sequel than it is in the original (which had been bashed for its violent content eight years earlier), and it is quite obvious that director Michael Winner intended to cause some controversy. While Paul Kersey was more or less a kind everyday man who turned into a vigilante after his family had been victimized in the first part, he is now a dark avenger on a holy mission to cleanse the streets of 'scum'. This is far away from being the masterpiece the original was, but it is definitely a highly entertaining film to see. In case political correctness is an indispensable factor for you, you should avoid this like the black death. To my fellow Charles Bronson fans, however, this raw, brutal, and totally bad-ass revenge-fest is a must-see! "}{"Title":"Apparently rape is a popular theme here......","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie for the first time recently (believe it or not), and I found it to be a very good film fitting nicely between the ultra serious first film, and the carnival ride which is the third film in the DW series. I was just wondering if anyone has ever tried to count the number of gratuitous rapes (and attempted rapes) that occur in the five films. It seems like there's one in every scene, and in this one director Michael Winner seemed to enjoy filming the rape scene of the housekeeper. Paul's girlfriend was smart to give back his engagement ring at the end of this, to prevent her ultimate rape, and or murder. But seriously, I liked the way they continued the story here, although they really didn't explain very thoroughly why Paul moved from Chicago to Los Angeles, maybe he just moved there because there were more rapes per capita, but who knows? There was an interesting story line where the inspector from N.Y. was following Paul to catch him in the act, and possibly try to kill him? But for no apparent reason, he is exterminated in a gun fight helping Paul, and that storyline falls a bit flat. Overall, this was a very good film, and is a must have for those who enjoy this series. 8 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey is back at what he does best.","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey is now living in Los Angeles with his new girlfriend Geri and trying to get his life on track with his traumatically sacred daughter Carol. One day on an outing, Paul is mugged by some punks and tries to fight back with little avail. For that they want revenge, and find out were he lives through his stolen wallet. They break in and brutally rape his maid. When he and his daughter arrive they knock him out and kidnap his daughter. It's not too long when Kersey hears from the police that they found his daughter dead. So now instead of leaving it to the police, he takes it upon himself to make sure these punks pay the ultimate price. Heck if the original offended you, don't touch this one&#133; even with a stick. Michael Winner's follow up to his cynically biting vigilante thriller Death Wish (1974), is one nasty piece of work that surpasses the predecessor in its harshly sordid and violently nihilistic exploitative nature. Winner's stringent direction doesn't hold back at all and the relentlessly jarring rape scene involving a maid is a true indicator of pushing the boundaries. It was eight years before Winner reunited with Charles Bronson to bring us the first trashy sequel (of the five piece franchise) looking to eventually pickpocket the success of the original and urban vigilante films (like The Exterminator (1980)) that were flooding the screens at the time. While the premise is a basic rehash of the first, there is a change of pace of sorts within the context. Instead here we get a b-grade, cold-blooded revenge tale that's only aimed at those responsible or somehow linked to the accused punks. Most of the picture involves Kersey face hunting and oddly enough, happening to come by those involved to simply waste them. The whole moral dilemma of killing (with the addiction-like qualities) for Kersey and that of a failing law and order system effectively worked in the original (even though it wasn't perfect). This was also broken up by nice dabs of black humour. On this occasion all of this its mostly swept aside for a straight-out and unsavoury thriller of the primitively depraved kind. Where the robot-like Kersey takes no time to get on with it with varying results and really stretches creditability. Losing out too it and what could have benefited the film was a wicked sense of humour. I thought there was too little of it here. The sequel also tries to tie back into the original's roots when Vincent Gardenia (the NY detective of the original) makes a return to help out the LAPD with their vigilante problem. Gardenia is superb again in a mild turn as his grizzled Det. Frank Ochoa character. Leading the show is a reliably lean and calculated Charles Bronson performance. He truly sticks it out with great vigour and can easily create empathy for his weathered soul. His not much for words, but the heartache tells just in his actions. Starring opposite of him is his wife Jill Ireland. She's modest as Kersey's girlfriend Geri, but the romance between the two became pretty much dead-weight. The punks of this story are extremely tacky. Thomas F. Duffy stood out as one wild and unstoppable nut. Look out in the gang for a young eccentric Laurence Fishburne wearing a rather flashy pair of pink sunnies. Economical direction, without being too flashy is Winner's strong point. He manages to display such a polish tinge to something that probably doesn't deserve to be and keeps it all pretty tight. What was the film's most successful aspect surely would have to be the forebodingly uncanny and wired rock score by Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page. He carried off one sickening killer instrumental tune after another to compliment the tenaciously wounding images and overall charged up feel in the air. The very notorious Death Wish II is full of bloodlust, indecent groping and plain unpleasantness. This would be the uncut version, though. A reasonable (although repellent) addition to the series. "},{"Title":"Wish you you were dead...","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Once again violence hits too close to home for Paul Kersey(Charles Bronson) and this time the muggers kill his comatose daughter and maid causing Bronson to turn vigilante and get those responsible.(Which creates the biggest flaw) In Death Wish 2 the biggest problem is that you know who Bronson is going to kill and therefore the movie covers the same ground over and over again. Because of this it's fairly dull although it has it's moments of sheer power. Of course the drama angle doesn't work due to the movie's overall approach to distance itself from the characters and therefore it's hard to really get into the movie. Plus the rape scene is so overblown and the action lacks the overall intensity of the original. In my opinion the weakest of the five films.*1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"Very good entry in the Death Wish series with plenty of shooting..","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie, along with Death Wish III (1985), are my two favorites in the series. The first is decent but this one and the third are a little over the top (in a good way). They are meant to be entertaining. This movie has a good gang of criminals, which Paul Kersey hunts down. People who say that the movie was bad because it didn't offer any obvious explanation for why they invaded Bronson's house, or that it makes criminals look irrational, are wrong. If you were the victim of a crime, do you really care why the criminal is doing it ? Besides, it's just a movie. It may be unrealistic in that Kersey finds the criminals he's after fairly easily, but again, it's just a movie meant to ENTERTAIN. It's not a dissertation.Possible spoilers...This movie has a great shootout in the park between Bronson and the gang, followed thereafter by a fight between Bronson and the final gang member still alive. Plus the score by Jimmy Page, as others have noted, adds to the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Serving out justice when the law fails.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's an effective way to deal with criminal punks and Paul Kersey knows it. And being the upstanding citizen he is, he gladly shares it with the gang members who rape and kill his maid, kidnap his daughter, rape her, and watch her die when she attempts escape. Filled with violent action and a side of sleaze, they just don't make 'em like this anymore, and that's too bad. Charles Bronson is perfect in his vigilante role, serving out justice when the law fails. Sadly, the Region 1 DVD is cut and the disc is bare but hopefully this will lead to a better release in the future. Death Wish 2&#133;he's doing it for you! Thanks, Charles. "},{"Title":"I like Charles Bronson, but I was shocked at the violence against women!!!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***SPOILERS WITHIN***This movie sounded like it was going to be really good. Charles Bronson as a vigilante seeking revenge on gang members who attack his daughter and housekeeper.  The only thing is, it has two very vicious rape segments that they could have either toned down or left a lot more to the imagination. Of course you have to remember this movie was made in the early 80's when more of these type movies were popular.Quite frankly I was disappointed when I seen the things they force the poor housekeeper to do.  No person fictional or real should have to go through the torment that poor housekeeper did.Then they not only have one segment with violence against women, they have another segment where the daughter is then raped.Without these segments, the film is pretty good. Since the film makers choose the violence over A decent script, I must give this movie one (*) star out of five.  Good idea for a film, but very poor choice of segments.Regards,Hallowt "},{"Title":"Charles Bronson Is the DADDY","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bast seen truly UNCUT only available from Australia, Charles Bronson is back for revenge. He runs into some low life Hoodlums who steal his wallet but not before Bronson gives them a beating for their troubles.With his I.D they go to his house for REVENGE, and boy so they get it, but of course good old veteran Charlie boy gets the last word.Filled with brutality and shockingly good Exploitation elements this is one awesome REVENGE movie that actually lives upto its name.Bronson cleans up the city but police don't like vigilante's taking the law into their own hands.If there was more men like Charles Bronson around today Mugggers, rapist and arseholes wouldn't mess with innocent members of the public.Quite simply there is a lesson to be learned from this film- DO NOT F*CK WITH THE BRONSON OR HE'LL BE ALL OVER YOUR ASS LIKE A BAD CASE OF H.I.V CAUGHT FROM ONE OF THE ETHNIC CHAPPIES YOUR MOMMA WARNED YOU ABOUT.Buy this film, YOUR LIFE DEPENDS ON IT. "},{"Title":"Even better than the first","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 2 was bashed by reviewers.In Lenared Maltins review he states Made by profiteers not filmmakers. I don't know if that is true or not but I think that no matter what it is DW2 is still a great movie.PlotPaul Kersey returns with a new life, and a new girlfriend. Picking up the pieces of his life from what happened to him in the first movie. Kerseys daughter is still traumatized from being raped. One day he takes his girlfriend and his daughter out. Kerseys wallets stolen by five street punks.The five go to Kerseys house brutally rape and kill his maid.Later Paul comes back to his house with his daughter to find the gang at his home. They knock him out, kidnap his daughter,then rape her. She runs out of a window from were they were raping her. She lands on a spiked gate. Kersey hits the streets once again to find the gang then kill them! I loved the fist one, but the sequel is even better! A total thrill-ride and a knockout. Forget what the reviewers say. "},{"Title":"If you like nasty movies, this is for you. Everyone else will find their patience strained.","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Death Wish 2 makes absolutely no attempt whatsoever to pursue the interesting themes of the first movie. This is not a debate about the wisdom of taking the law into your own hands to protect yourself. Michael Winner has chosen to dedicate his first Death Wish sequel purely to an audience hungry for exploitation and blood-letting. There seem to be an extraordinary number of people on the imdb who really like this film, but in truth it caters for a minority taste. People who get off on nasty, violent, trigger-happy movies will like this. Others will find their patience strained to the limit. Bronson returns as the vigilante Paul Kersey who had to leave New York in a hurry at the end of the previous film, having gone a little nuts after the murder of his wife and eradicating various muggers and scum-bags. Now he lives in L.A. His daughter lives with him, but has not recovered from her gang-rape in Part 1 (she is now little more than a traumatised vegetable). Some low-lifes rape his house-maid and kidnap his daughter; whilst trying to escape she falls and fatally impales herself. Bronson once again takes arms against the denominators of society in order to exact his revenge. A cop (Vincent Gardenia) from New York also turns up, investigating this new outbreak of vigilantism to see if it is connected with Bronson's previous revenge-fuelled killing spree. This sequel is a poor affair indeed, made purely for the box office returns. Part 1 was a massive hit, and this leaden follow-up merely wants to cash in on the success of its predecessor. The story has little credibility, since such horrendous experiences wouldn't happen to Bronson twice in two totally different cities in the space of a decade. The underlying moral debate that made Part 1 thought-provoking is gone, replaced by an unhealthy bloodlust. I know why a lot of admirers have written comments here on the imdb, but the reality of the matter is that Death Wish 2 is a horrible and unforgivable exploitation item which the majority of viewers will find repellent. "},{"Title":"Series Takes an Exploitation Turn","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish II (1982) ** 1/2 (out of 4)Two years after the death of his wife, Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is now living in Los Angeles where he's dating a woman (Jill Ireland) working for a local radio station. Everything is going fine until a group of thugs break into his home, kill his maid and take his still traumatized daughter hostage. After her death Kersey gears back up for some vigilante revenge.DEATH WISH was an extremely underrated movie that asked some serious political and social questions and it's easy to see why it was so controversial. The film was a very well-made picture and featured a terrific performance from Bronson. With the same director and star returning you'd think that some of that quality would transfer over but that's certainly not the case as DEATH WISH II is downright ugly in more ways than one. If you're looking for a film like the first one then you can forget that.What's going to follow is going to make it sound like I hate this picture but I really don't. DEATH WISH II, from a technical point of view, appears to be from a first time filmmaker because it's just downright sloppy. There's really not too much life in the picture and I'd argue that the editing, cinematography and the overall look of the film is quite poor. Many of the supporting performances are boring and director Michael Winner just doesn't add any visual style to the picture.Another major problem is the actual screenplay, which is pretty laughable if you really sit back and think about it. The odds of the same thing happening to the Kersey character is far-fetched but hey, it's a movie so suspension of disbelief is a good thing. Still, the screenplay's only purpose is to show Bronson seeking revenge. Whereas the first film asked political questions, this one here is just an exploitation movie that has the star going from one location to the next blasting people away If you're a fan of the series then these scenes are a lot of fun and one is extremely effective. The one where Bronson asks if a guy believes in Jesus is just priceless.DEATH WISH II is 100% exploitation and needs to be judged as such. The violence is pretty graphic at times as is the rape sequence, which certainly crosses the line. The film is available in a X- rated version as well as a cut R-rated version and I think a lot of people might prefer the shorter version because the rape scene really is that distasteful and vile. Still, if you're a fan of the series like I am, it's easy to overlook the faults of the picture and enjoy it for what it is. "}{"Title":"Death Wish 2 is as good as the first and that's a great compliment","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In my late teens I became an enormous Charles Bronson fan. Obviously Death Wish is his piece de resistance some would say (including me.) The ultimate revenge flick, dark, twisted, masterful, hard to watch...it is a classic exploitation flick. It is also the furthest thing from the type of flick that would normally be serialized it but they certainly did just that. It has been a long time since I made my way through the series so its time and so far I'm glad I did. The best compliment I can give Death Wish 2 is that it holds the same style, intrigue, violent gritty style and a story that is completely rehashed BUT never feels rehashed. It is the perfect epilogue and we actually want to know what happened to Paul Kersey and his vigilante crusade. As disturbing and violent as the first film was they manage to push the envelope with this one. The body count seems exponential and the battle is even harder for Kersey. These thugs actually fight back with guns and all. The film makers really make an effort to be shocking this time around with the gratuitous rape scene (much like the first film) and the bloody deaths but they don't do it in sacrifice of the story. The political aspect is there (in fact goes into even more depth this time around), you begin to understand and see Kersey's desire for vengeance but also how it has consumed it. An absolutely worthy action thriller that is realistically as good as the first.This role was just an absolutely perfect fit for legendary tough guy Charles Bronson. I constantly found myself amazed that he was in his sixties when he filmed this. Our ageing action stars get poked fun at now but he does not seem his age at all and is a realistic and perfectly acceptable action hero and holds his own against his attackers. Bronson is perfect as Kersey and no one else could have done it like he does. Jill Ireland is decent as Kersey's new love interest. She is pretty stiff and certainly isn't a stand out performance however she does seem comfortable and has good chemistry with Bronson so she fits the bill. One of the best things they could have done was bring back Vincent Gardenia as Frank Ochoa, the New York City Detective that pursued Kersey in the first film. I felt like their rivalry was left largely unexplored in the first film and they definitely brought it full circle in a truly perfect conclusion for the second film. The supporting cast are all good and fill their roles well including solid performances from JD Cannon, Ben Frank, Silvana Gallardo and Robin Sherwood.Director Michael Winner clearly had more story to tell and he did it well. Bringing in a new director would have been a completely different experience because Winner has a gritty, dark, exploitative style that he proved with Death Wish and other collaborations with Bronson. I can't imagine anyone coming out of Death Wish 2 not at least being pleased with the film. It is everything a sequel should be. They did everything right. They took everything that made Death Wish a stone cold vengeance classic and gave the fans everything they wanted and everything they needed in a sequel. It further the characters, develops the story further, gives us more of what we love from the first one. It is absolutely a worthy sequel that on its own merits is just okay but combined with the first is just as good. Bring on Death Wish 3!!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"What was the point of doing a sequel? Rather otiose if you ask me","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey's daughter is still traumatized from the events of the original, but is show signs of getting better. While he is hanging out with her and his love interest, a group of thugs try an attack on Kersey. He manages to ward them off, but it comes with a price. Paul Kersey is forced to be a one man wrecking crew once again when a group of thugs rape and kill his daughter, only this time in Los Angeles.Yes, i'm fully aware of the three sequels that commenced after this one. I never saw the logic in a sequel, let alone three more. The original Death Wish was cutting-edge for its time and it made a big statement. Money talks and BS walks, I guess. In all honesty, there are quite a few times where I was rather disinterested in this movie. It's essentially more of a sleazy version of the original, lacking the original's intensity. This is nothing more than vile exploitation, filled with chaotic violence. I wasn't offended by anything in this movie. (I'm a huge action and horror movie fan and I've seen plenty worse than this) There is a rape scene that is very explicit and quite uncomfortable to watch. I wasn't offended by them, but I can totally see why some would find it incorrigible. There are some questionable plot holes. Kersey's daughter being murdered could have totally been prevented. How did it not enter his mind that dealing with thugs again could lead to something disastrous? You'd have think he'd have been prepared, just in case. Charles Bronson can act macho with the best of them. He makes up for his average acting talent with presence and charisma. Jill Ireland is OK and thankfully tolerable. She has a tendency to play very unlikable people. Vincent Gardenia is wasted in his return. Robin Sherwood is terrible as the daughter. I get that she's supposed to be traumatized, but she can't act worth a lick. Watch her facial expressions when she is being raped. She appears to be enjoying it! Then they have her character inexplicably run out a window and impale herself on a fence. It does have a decent finale in a hospital, but the action scenes aren't that greatFinal Thoughts It's far from horrible, just rather nasty and a tad dull. You won't regret watching it, but it'll only make you pine for the original. Time to check out the other three sequels again. 5.4/10 "},{"Title":"Out of the 70s into the action 80s","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is back this time in L.A. He is living with his fragile daughter, and has a new girlfriend Geri Nichols (Jill Ireland). A cartoonish gang steals his wallet, and when they go to rob his house, they rape and kill his housekeeper. When Kersey and his daughter come home, they kidnap her, then rape, and finally she dies while trying to escape. Now Kersey's killing again, and everybody in NY is afraid that the story of how they let him go the first time around will finally get out.Things are getting more cartoony. The thugs are dressing more silly. Bronson is even trying out a catch phrase saying Goodbye to one of the killers as he shoots him down. He's more Rambo than man. Even when the gang outclasses him in number and in firepower, he can take them all down. He best a beast of a man in hand to hand fighting, when that beast was kicking the entire police squad just moments before in the movie. The era has truly changed. It is no longer the paranoid '70s. It's the Rambo style action of the '80s. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey and his daughter Carol, who is still catatonic from the attack that included the murder of her mother Joanna, now live in Los Angeles because Paul accepted a deal from the NYPD to leave town so they wouldn't tell anyone that he was the one who was doing a better job than the NYPD at stopping criminals. Paul now has a new woman in his life, KABC news reporter Geri Nichols. One day while he's out with Carol and Geri, Paul is mugged by some punks. Paul fights back, but they get away. The muggers want to get back at Paul for fighting back, so they go to his house. Paul is not there, but Carol is. So they rape and murder Paul's cook, and kidnap Carol and rape her -- the second time in her life that she's been raped, and she didn't even have a chance to recover from the first rape. After the muggers are done, Carol escapes and jumps from a window -- and she dies when she becomes impaled on the railings below. Paul is fed up with his family being attacked all the time, no matter where they live, so Paul rents a ratty hotel room, disguises himself, and sets out to find the muggers who killed Carol. When the LAPD deduces that that they have a vigilante on their hands, they decide to consult with the NYPD, who had their vigilante problem years ago. The NYPD, now knowing that Kersey lives in Los Angeles, fears that Kersey is killing criminals again. Fearing that Kersey, when caught, will reveal that they let him go instead of prosecuting him, the NYPD sends Inspector Frank Ochoa to make sure that doesn't happen. But Ochoa gets killed in a car crash at an LA freeway ramp while Paul is still trying to find the muggers.This movie is poorly-made because they cut out so many scenes. A horrible effort from Cannon Films. Bad script cut. If you want the uncut version, buy the DVD of the film in Greece.Unrated for Nudity, Graphic Violence, Profanity and Rape.Awesomely Bad Scale * * * out of 4. "},{"Title":"Very decent sequel","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cold, shameless and stone-faced Charles Bronson made truly a powerful and unshaken return to his good bad guy role of the bitter vigilante Paul Kersey (or should I rather say bad good guy) eight years after the original movie classic. I have to admit that I really can't fully understand people who say that the first Death wish was excellent but all the sequels stink. If you loved the original you have to at least like the sequels (or some of them) because basically this is the same thing happening all over again. Of course we could ask is there really a need to make the same movie again but I guess the filmmakers needed the money and Bronson-fans hadn't lost their lust for fresh blood. By the way as wretched, cruel and brutal the sinful muggers and rapists may be I still have to state that unfortunately there's something awfully comical about them. Why on earth the baddie characters are always so overdone in these films? I'm pretty sure this isn't supposed to look silly. I wonder how Laurence Fishburne feels about his performance today... "},{"Title":"enjoyable rubbish!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  oh what the hell! i must admit that i've always found this movie an entertaining trash flick complete with dire acting (apart from vincent gardenia, tony franciosa and a lampost), predictable plot and traditional 'subtle as a sledgehammer' direction from micheal winner. the best thing about it is the superlative soundtrack by led zeppellin great jimmy page which to date is the only film soundtrack he's ever done. the violence is particularly brutal and gruesome but then theres hardly a dull moment! another redeeming feature are some of the scenes shot in the seedier sides of l.a. and at least it's marginally better than the triter follow ups. "},{"Title":"My favorite Death Wish film","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 2 is my favorite of the series. It's dark and brutal.  And it's the only one of the sequels to really have any strong connection to the first Death Wish and it's also, believe it or not, believable.This film is extremely blunt and brutal.  Charles Bronson's acting is great, and he portrays a character that you can't help but cheer for.  I find Death Wish 2 as being the best of the series. It's great. "},{"Title":"Cheap sequel","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Is it sequel or remake ? That is the question . When Cannon group bought the rights to Death wish from Dino de Laurentis it was obvious they were going to make sequel ( or sequels ) for money . That wouldn't be necessary a bad thing . Dirty Harry  had 4 more successful sequels that were worth watching ( The dead pool maybe is an exception). Why Bronson couldn't have the same thing ? They hired him and the director of original &#x96; Michael Winner , so you could expect at least some effort . You could expect they will try to continue the story of Kersey , try something new. Unfortunately , none of this happened . Instead they made a sequel which misses the point of the first movie and feels heavily like an uninspired remake.First movie had heart and substance. There was some violence , but it wasn't mindless. The hero was a true human being that could be hurt and killed . You cared about him and you could place yourself in his position. Death wish was both exciting and though-provoking.If you seen the original you shouldn't waste your precious time on this cynical sequel. The movies follows the formula so closely , that it feels like a rip-off . From what I've noticed even some dialogue comes straight from the first movie . The writer was so lazy he practically took every element from the first movie and changed only few details . There are some twists , but they are so pathetic , they aren't even worth a laugh .The problem is not only with the copy and paste  plot , but in the way this movie destroys what was achieved by the first one . The ending is disgustingly cool. Bronson in first DW was human who was hurting emotionally and could lose his life. Here his nothing more than a psycho who likes his job. There is very little of humanity in him , maybe in the first 30 minutes . The love story here feels completely fake and doesn't affect the main story or the hero in any way. Not to mention that he's practically invincible in this one . There is no tension , because there is no danger . I only feel some sympathy for hero thanks to the REALLY disturbing rape scenes . I 'm not gonna criticize the movie for trying to shock the audience , because that's how rape would look in real life . It was cheap , but still a necessary starting point for the movie to begin . Too bad that movie wasn't able to show anything more but violence for violence.I give it 3/10. Watch out for Laurence Fishburne (Matrix) in a small role of thug with cool 80's glasses . The music was composed by Jimmy Page from Led Zeppelin and it's the best thing in the movie . It really sounds good and one could regret that such professional music appeared in such bad movie. Other than that , there is no real reason to watch this movie. Boring , cheap and cynical attempt to earn few bucks from audience. "},{"Title":"Brutal exploitation thriller, the best of the Death Wish sequels.","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish II is set in Los Angeles where architect Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is busy designing new building for KABC Radio, while out enjoying time with his daughter Carol (Robin Sherwood) & girlfriend Geri (Jill Ireland) taking in some sights Paul is mugged & his wallet is stolen. Paul chases one of the muggers & confronts him but fails to get his wallet back, the mugger wants revenge & along with his gang break into Paul's house in order to kill him but only find his housekeeper Rosaria (Silvana Gallardo) & take it in turns to rape her while waiting for Paul. Once Paul arrives back home he is attacked with a crow bar, Rosaria is killed & Paul's daughter Carol is taken to a warehouse where she is raped & in an attempt to escape ends up impaled on spiked railings. Only knocked unconsciousness Paul wakes to find his life shattered, his housekeeper murder & his daughter raped & also dead, not trusting the police to take appropriate action Paul arms himself & goes in search of those responsible...Directed by Michael Winner this was the first of four sequels to the original Death Wish (1984) & is easily the best of the Death Wish sequels as far as I am concerned. Death Wish II doesn't stray too far from the original in terms of plot, again two people close to Paul Kersey are raped & murdered so he turns vigilante to even the score & dish out some suitable punishment. While his wife died in the original it's his daughter this time around, the New York cop from the original Frank Ochoa returns after Los Angeles consults New York & he puts two & two together. The script which seems to take itself fairly seriously doesn't know the meaning of the word restrained & moves along like a rocket although it doesn't do subtle, within the first twenty minutes there's a mugging, a chase, two brutal rapes, a murder & an impaling on metal spikes although the rest of the film can't quite maintain the sleazy & frantic opening there's still shoot-outs, exploding cars, chases, attempted rapes, drug deals & a good look around some seedy parts of Los Angeles to keep one entertained for it's 90 odd minute duration. The character's are quite thin, Kersey is shallow, his girlfriend Geri seems almost irrelevant, the cops are idiots & the gang members & various thugs are shown as total scum without any redeeming features. While fairly predictable & nothing deep I did like Death Wish II as pure exploitation filth, hey, I'm easily pleased I guessed.I am happy to report the sleaze levels are pleasingly high, available in a cut & uncut version the later is the way to go as the housekeeper is gang raped for about five minutes in a sequence that becomes unpleasant to watch & maybe does go a little too far. There's also the usual shoot-outs, stabbings, nudity & very 80's gangs who wear some very silly looking clothes. The script throw's in a few ideas about the rights & wrongs of punishment & the criminal system but they seem like afterthoughts (for instance, the hospital programme to reform criminals is mentioned but then ignored as it just becomes a location for another set-piece killing) but at least they tried, at least under the nudity, violence & rape the makers tried to get across a deep moral & social message (!).With a supposed budget of about $2,000,000 this was filmed in Los Angeles this has decent production values although does look a little static at times. Death Wish II was actually Charles Bronson's first ever sequel & he was sixty one when he shot it along with his then wife Jill Ireland. Led Zepplin guitarist Jimmy Page composed the music after the producer's originally wanted to hire Isaac Hayes.Death Wish II is about as unsubtle as they come, it entertains in a violent cartoonish sort of way that I liked. Don't expect any depth or sensitivity as there isn't any but as a sleazy 80's exploitation flick there aren't many better. Followed by Death Wish 3 (1985), Death Wish 4 The Crackdown (1987) & Death Wish V The Face of Death (1994). "},{"Title":"What happened to Bronson?","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first Death Wish had style and Bronson played the part of a man who you grieved with after his wife was killed and daughter was raped. In the second movie in the Death Wish films Bronson is back on the streets only this time he is in LA and not New York. In this one his daughter who was raped in the first one is now killed in this movie....very unlikely I know but it opens the door for Charles to go on a killing rampage again and does he ever. He hides his secret from his soon to be wife in the movie (Jill Ireland) who was his real wife. He is found out at the end and Jill leaves him but only after there is a lot of gun shots and dead bad guys. This film lacked the focus and style of the first film it was just like Charles and Jill showed up on the set said their lines and went home. The Death Wish saga should have ended with the first.... "}{"Title":"Mechanical !","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Surely educational, as it looks like a lesson in how NOT to make movies ! The most captivating thing about it is that outrageously dead script. If that's the way movies are made then I'll write 2 movies per day (and that will be lazy too !). It's maybe one memorable try of making the purest revenge movie ever, where there is nothing more than the main events and the main characters ONLY. That could be poetry, or idiocy, and what I've watched is no poetry ! It's predictable without even one slight chance to hear or see something different. I felt like it's a movie's trailer that last 90 min long, and was that pale too. Watching it assures that it had been made by replicants whom lack personal touch. It's all in (Charles Bronson)'s face and moves, just stony, lifeless, robotic. The only thing to be watched is (Robin Sherwood) as the daughter, she's a real treasure as so magically beautiful. Maybe her amazing talented performance as innocent victim was the only human factor here, so you've got to notice it, and love it among all that pods' mechanical world. This movie may give you the feeling that the Body Snatchers triumphed eventually, and there're making movies in America ! (Death Wish) is in my list of the worst movies ever, and the best comedies as well ! "},{"Title":"My take on DEATH WISH 2","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some comment that the villains are cartoon like. Well I have to say if you lived in L.A. at that time you would have see the crazies in the street for yourself...if you had looked. I hand it to Winner (director) for capturing the urban reality as odd and crazy as it is. Afterall our hero walks the street and what would you expect to see in LA at that time? things like that what you see in the movie is what. I find it very watchable and not cartoon....it's how Hollywood was then. So take it to heart and not judge the director. It was crazy out there if not more so but it's a hell of a job getting that on film. So I appreciate DV2 for the street captures of the crazies. "},{"Title":"Really good sequel.","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" PAUL KERSEY is now living in L.A. & dating a radio show host GERRY NICHOLLS played by Bronson's real life wife JILL IRELAND. Hoping to forget his past & start anew, Paul is soon thrust back into his vigilante killing ways when his daughter & house keeper are raped & killed by a group of punks who took Kersey's wallet earlier in the day, the difference with this vigilante killing spree than the last? Kersey actually got a good look at the punks who did it & rather than just blow away any punk who crosses his path, he instead hunts down the punks responsible, but finds himself being watched by the lead detective who let him go in the original film. DEATH WISH 2 as you may have heard from other reviews on this site or in reference books, is an extremely violent film, the rape scene was especially brutal to try & watch, in fact, I would even go as far as saying that in terms of the explict violence, this is more violent than the original, in the entire series for that matter! yet amidst the violence, we really care for Kersey & can feel the pain he's going through over losing his family. The story was also well written & Bronson as always puts in a great performance. A must see for Bronson fans & Death Wish fans. Not quiet as good as the original, since the film was really made to cash in on the original, but it is still a great film, that does not miss by much. But be warned, it's unpleasantly violent! Followed by another sequel, DEATH WISH 3 ***1/2 (stars) "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why is it that all movies that I love, Leonard Maltin always seems to give them BOMB ratings? What is a critic anyway? Somebody with an opinion! We all have opinions about movies, so why should critic's opinions count more then the everyday person's? Personally, I loved this movie. It wasn't afraid of what the audience would think of it, it was shown exactly the way it wanted to be shown. Some scenes were quite graphic, especially the rape scenes, but the movie was honest and revealing. Charles Bronson was a great as ever, playing Paul Kersey perfectly again. The acting was great, the action even greater, and the script and direction marvelous. It was as good as a sequel can get. So why did Leonard Maltin give it a BOMB rating? Who knows. Me, and a lot of other people would give it full marks, and it deserves no less. "},{"Title":"Easy to watch","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is not as bad as some say. The plot is light, yes, it probably was written on the back of a postage stamp, but if you want an action film, where the good guy comes out on top, and more importantly, if the phone rings half way through and you miss 5 minutes, it is still easy to watch and understand.This is very much a film you can watch and enjoy whilst doing other things.There are a lot of better films out there, but believe me, there are a lot of worse ones too. "},{"Title":"Fun Stuff!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before you trash this film, y'gotta take into consideration the time of its release. Comparing it to today's action thrillers would be a mistake. Yeah, the musics corny, but that's what they had to work w/ (on limited budgets) back in '82. Analog synths were still heavily in use. And at the time, Bronson was still a big box office name. No one cared if he was wooden or the acting wasn't up to par. Bronson films were shoot em ups, cars chases & thin plotted & that's exactly what his fans want.This film was just on tv yesterday & I, for one, cracked up at the scene where the 3 toughs are dancing to this generic rock music on a boombox right in the middle of the street! Talk about corny! It was like looking at the Solid Gold Dancers! Hard to believe they passed for tough back then, cause *now* they looked more like gay hustlers from the way they dressed! Interesting to see a young Laurence Fishburn as one of them.  "},{"Title":"death wish too much!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  O.k. this film has one of the most graphic rape scenes within the first 10 minutes. Paul Kersey is back, and trouble follows. This time a gang of punks steal his wallet, and follow his address. Then they rape his house maid Very explict. The cable t.v. version was worse.    watch for an early apperance from Larry Fishburne.   "},{"Title":"Who's the man? Charlie Bronson's DA MAN!","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With Death Wish 2, the unscrupulous and unequaled trash-director Michael Winner perfectly epitomizes what a textbook sequel is all about! The original 1974 film was a modest masterpiece that gave a whole new meaning to the term ambivalence, whereas the sequel strictly wants to still the fans' increasing hunger for the depiction of graphic rapes and excessively violent retribution. During the first film, you were continuously tempted to think Paul Kersey's merciless vigilante crusade was somewhat justified, because the murder of his wife and rape of his daughter obviously tore him up inside and because he aimed his 'cleansing' actions at New York criminals in general. The intent of Death Wish II was considerably different. This time set in L.A, Paul Kersey's slowly revalidating daughter (as well as his Latino housemaid) once again falls victim to a group of vicious rapists and muggers, only now she doesn't survive the assaults. The poor girl jumps out of a window in an attempt to escape and becomes impaled on a fence. That was a pretty shocking & repugnant sequence, by the way, and definitely not advisable for squeamish people to see. Anyway, reason enough for Paul Kersey to prowl the crime-infested LA streets at night, dressed like a burglar himself, and form a one man vigilante army. Especially in comparison with the original, this sequel represents pure & genuine exploitation! The deaths of Kersey's daughter and housemaid are totally irrelevant and neither of them is mentioned a single time again after the horrible events. Paul Kersey isn't nearly as heartbroken now as he was in the first film. Quite the contrary, he almost seems happy because his daughter's death gives him a cheap excuse to pick up the guns again. Kersey's vengeance spree is also extremely targeted now, as he deliberately doesn't cooperate with the police's investigation and exclusively goes after the thugs that invaded his home whilst all the rest can rape and kill all they want. And last but certainly not least, he's a legitimate executioner now who takes out his targets with clean shots between the eyes and whilst saying a somewhat cool one-liner during the process. Now, does all this necessarily have to be negative criticism? Heck no, because Winner and Bronson basically just deliver what the audiences want and it works. And why shouldn't they? The original handled about a lot more about drama and morals, but the critics hated it anyway. Death Wish 2 is a very adrenalin-rushing thriller and this time it obviously takes pride in its outrageous and immoral depiction of pure violence. The film completely lacks style and narrative elegance, but at least everyone involved in the production is aware of it. I like to think Michael Winner deliberately intended to punch the critics in the face with this film. In conclusion, I just have to point out a couple of terrific details of ineptitude and clichd storytelling featuring in Death Wish 2 1) If your name is Charles Bronson, you're allowed to park your car in the handicapped places. 2) Apparently, a radio doesn't provide safe facial cover when you're being shot at. 3) Vincent Gardenia also returns as the elderly cop Frank Ochoa, but he makes a dreadful rookie-mistake. One of the first things he says here is that he's retiring at the end of the year. Oh boy, all fans of clichd action movies just know that's like signing your own death certificate. "},{"Title":"Could have done without the Graphic Sexual Violence. ** out of *****","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Plot- Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson)is back in Vigilante mode again after his Maid Rosario (Silvana Gallardo) is Brutally Gang Raped (in a truly shocking scene which includes in the Uncut version some of the worst sexual violence on Celluloid - Anal Rape,Vaginal Rape,Oral Rape, the whole caboodle - Which is supposed to show how evil and wicked these scumbags are but I'm thinking they were included purely for the sickos who get off on this kind of thing, the scenes play on your mind through the entire trashy movie) she ends up being kick to death while totally naked by a bunch of Street punks (Including young Lawrence Fishbourne) and his daughter (Robin Sherwood) is Gang Raped again and Driven to her death by the same gang......Pretty Grim stuff!!!!The Film is well over the top and incredibly offensive to some - but If you can ignore or fast forward through those particular graphic scenes, It's quite enjoyable in a cheesy kind of way.** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Good show","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good movie.  Better than the first.  The killings were not random, but calculated, and he was after specific ones.  I can't blame the man.All you people who complain about the rape scene  Grow up.  Life is nasty. Film reflects life.  When you watch a movie, you are at the mercy of the director.  Who is the clown who complained that the rape scene was not titilating or enticing??  You're the sicko, not the directors.Good show, if you are a reasonable person, and not in favor of fascist censorship.  Violence belongs on film, not in life. "}{"Title":"meh take it or leave it","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's been a few years now that Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is been living the good life in Los Angeles with his girlfriend Geri (Jill Ireland) and his daughter Carol (Robin Sherwood), who's still traumatized after the brutal rape in the past. But Carol is slowly getting better now, although she doesn't speak. When Paul gets robbed by a group of muggers by stealing his wallet, when he was taking his girlfriend and his daughter out. But Paul doesn't realized those muggers would go to his house by raping his maid (Silvana Gallardo) and waiting for him to come home. When Paul and his daughter came home, he got beat up and kidnapped his daughter. When one of those muggers raped his daughter, she escapes from them but she accidentally killed himself from jumping through a window by getting impaled by the railing below. When Paul finds out his maid has died, including his own daughter. Now Paul goes back being a vigilante in the mean streets of L.A. by night to finding these murderous, stealing, rapists thugs.Directed by Michael Winner (Lawman, The Mechanic, The Sentinel) made an OK if unnecessary sequel to the effective Death Wish. Which Winner also made the original film. Nearly none of the strong impact of the first movie is there. It's nearly played for unintentional laughs and it is often very silly. Bronsan looks bored here, he certainly did the role for the money. Vincent Gardenia, who was in the original as Detective Frank Ochoa is back in a supporting role. Ireland, who was real-life wife of Bronson.Still, fans of the Death Wish features will find some entertainment here. The lead thugs are recognizable, especially a young Kevyn Major Howard (Best known for his supporting roles in Stanley Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket and Alien Nation) and Laurence Fishburne. He gets the biggest unintentional laughter in the movie, when Fishburne tries to shield himself from a shooting with a Boombox! Charles Cyphers (Who best known in supporting roles in John Carpenter's movies like  Assault on Precient 13, The Fog and Halloween) appears as The Head Orderly during the last act of the picture. Director Winner and Actor Bronson returned for the extremely stupid but entertaining Death Wish 3. Which Death Wish 3 is the best of the sequels. Bronson's fans will cherish this, while others won't bother "},{"Title":"It isn't good.....","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's stupid...just stupid....don't watch it unless you want a good laugh....this movie sucks....god I don't like it! I wish AMC would stop showing this piece of dog crap and show the original Death Wish! I didn't like that rape scene...Don't watch it! I'm serious! Please I beg you! But there is a few good scenes, but it's still not worth watching this crap! Anyway, it starts off with some nice music by Jimmy Page then Charles Bronson goes out with his daughter and Jill Ireland and then he gets robbed at an ice cream stand, then he chases a guy then he does some stuff then he shoots some people. The best part is when he shoots a guy in the head and the guy's in a car and it crashes and blows up. After that, it's not good. "},{"Title":"Just vile","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Like the abysmal original, 'Death Wish II' relies on exploitative rape scenes and gratuitous violence to get its kicks. The first film was so stark staring mad it was like watching a movie from another dimension but in retrospect at least it had SOMETHING to say. The sequel easily tops the original in the bad taste stakes and has not one satirical, rabble-rousing or thought-provoking idea to justify its distasteful set-up. It's just foul.In the first movie architect Paul Kersey, played by Charles Bronson, became a gun-toting vigilante when his wife was murdered and his daughter was raped. Presumably following the rule that sequels must be bigger and better, this instalment's plot sees his maid raped and beaten to death, while his daughter, now mute and in a care home, is kidnapped, raped again, and then jumps through a window and is impaled on railings below, blood pouring from her mouth. Did no one involved with this ghastly spew have the sensitivity to rein all this in? Is it really necessary? Did no one think it was excessive and cruel? Michael Winner seemed like a likable enough buffoon, so why did he make such grotty, hateful films? Once the scene is set and my stomach had been duly churned, Kersey wrestles with his conscience for the requisite zero seconds before he pulls on his woolly hat and goes after the scumbags. Now, it's not as though they don't deserve what's coming to them, but if for no other reason than to provide engaging drama, shouldn't we get some sense of what's going on in Kersey's mind? Does he agonise over his actions? Who knows? He isn't even empty and remorseless in a sad, broken way, like The Punisher. The film-makers aren't interested in examining him, and neither is Bronson if his lifeless performance is anything to go by.The film's approach is wrong, wrong, wrong. If we're supposed to side with Kersey (and we are), cast an actor capable of delivering a performance with depth. If we're supposed to be outraged by the crimes that set him off, make us horrified at the events rather than the leering way in which they're presented. If we're supposed to have a cathartic reaction when the villains are killed, make them something other than cackling cannon fodder. This is all assuming that the film is supposed to have any effect on you besides sadistic glee, and I'm not sure it is. On a moral level, then, the film is a wasteland. On a technical level, it's inept to a breathtaking degree. Winner edits about as well as he directs and displays no awareness of how to pace a film, no sense that scenes can be anything other than shapeless and jerkily hacked together; the dubbing is poor and papered over sloppy cuts, while the droning score irritates. The script flatly offers such bon mots as 'Goodbye' before Kersey despatches his latest victim, and the rest of the dialogue is just wind. Bronson is joined this time around by his real-life wife Jill Ireland, and congratulations to her for playing a female character who gets from one end of the film to the other without getting beaten, raped, murdered, or all three. Vincent Gardenia's cop from the original film, continuing his character arc of having a cold, isn't so lucky he dies during a shootout between Kersey and his prey, choosing as his last words 'Get the f***ers for me' rather than 'It's your fault I'm dead', which seems like an odd choice under the circumstances.This cheapjack garbage might have been in some way watchable had it been made with a trace of dignity, or satire, or taste, or talent, or integrity. But no. It pretends to be gritty while using explicit rape scenes as an excuse for a thin plot and exploiting weak characters in reprehensible ways. It's a horrible, horrible film. "},{"Title":"Definitely a step down from the first movie.","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish was a movie with a purpose. It wasn't just an action movie, with as much blood and violence in it as possible. It was actually a movie with a deep story, that made you feel for the main character and didn't tried to glorify anything. It was a simple movie but yet it also was so much more than just a revenge flick. It was movie that actually made you think.This rather late sequel to the 1974 classic is basically the opposite of its predecessor. It's very little involving and basically the movie is purely about getting revenge, after Bronson his character's daughter and housekeeper get killed by a couple of punks.Despite these horrible events, the movie remains shockingly distant and empty with its emotions. The character of Bronson seems to be very little effective by the death of his traumatized young sweet daughter. He just keeps joking and fooling around with his girlfriend, which all makes the revenge plot very hard to get involved with really.It all makes Death Wish II a very little interesting and also little original action movie from the early '80's. Charles Bronson still gives the movie some certain flair and a little bit of extra but it still remains a far from perfect sequel. Perhaps its best to stick to the original and forget about all of these sequels that got made (four in total).The movie still manages to create a good atmosphere, though Los Angeles certainly ain't no New York City. Still the movie has a bit of an '70's atmosphere over it, which is a good thing. It certainly ain't as generic looking as other '80's action-flicks do.Nevertheless I would far from recommend Death Wish II. It basically lacks about everything that made the first movie still such a great and original one to watch. 4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Better than Death Wish 1, but not as better as Death Wish 3","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, this flick is better than the first Death Wish movie. It tells what happens when an innocent family is ruined by rape and murder, with the police doing virtually nothing. That is, nothing---until Paul Kersey (played by Charles Bronson) comes in and metes out his famous vigilante justice in a way Paxton Quigley had wanted--with a firearm.Only Sudden Impact, where Sondra Locke plays an already-raped woman who metes out justice against the rapists by deadly force--has some relation to Death Wish II.Jill Ireland (who plays Geri Nichols) is still my third favorite innocent-looking movie actress in my lifetime. Only Karen Lynn Gorney in Fever is my first favorite.In the famous arrest scene involving character Charles Wilson, it seems like he is some type of criminal superman, impervious to police taser darts and officers trying to arrest him for 25 seconds---until he is finally gang-tackled by police to the ground.Yes, Lawrence Fishburne is in the flick as one of the muggers...much different than that of him being in The Tuskegee Airmen.It was lucky that this movie, filled with the usual gun-wielding violence by character Paul Kersey, also has twinges of any James Bond movie---there is the love interest mechanism when Geri Nichols, who works at a broadcast radio station, realizes that Paul is more than just a vigilante in an incognito way. He was also a very handsome person on the outside.Wedding bells between Geri and Kersey were in the air as they conversed outside a cafe while Charles Wilson was confined to a state hospital. He kept secret from her his own plan to eliminate Charles Wilson, who killed character Frank Ochoa (a New York police officer who was planning to put an end to Kersey's vigilante violence). He did keep that thing classified but the big mistake was that he left a photocopy of the State Hospital ID in his living room--he should have ripped it and threw it out.And so hurtful that the marriage that was going to be was not to be when Geri found evidence (that mentioned photocopy) that Kersey disguised himself as a McClaren State Hospital psychologist and electrocuted Charles Wilson in the hospital's electroshock room with, I guess, 20,000 to 30,000 volts of current, in the final fight of the flick. Geri took off the engagement ring, got out of Kersey's house, went to her car and sped off without saying a word to Kersey. And you probably cried for Kersey---because when Kersey finished off Charles Wilson, you think the movie would end happily. But it didn't end happily. "},{"Title":"These Movies Warped American Politics","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mildly entertaining, the whole Death Wish series had a greater effect on it's audience than just a B-movie thrill. Your typical white suburbanite pretty much views cities the way Charles Bronson depicts them in these movies and as Clint Eastwood depicted them in his Dirty Harry series, as hellholes occupied by healthy but menacing thugs who are looking for any chance to harass law-abiding citizens, presided over by bleeding-heart liberal politicians who do not have the stomach to keep the streets safe. There's a huge number of middle-class educated people who live close to some of the most wonderful cities in America, who never go in there because they are afraid. It's not just Bronson and Eastwood, they just made the most money off it, but local TV news, the NRA and right-wing politicians love to keep that fearngoing because that's how they make a living. So go ahead and enjoy the Death Wish movies, but remember, Ferris Bueller's Day Off is a LOT more realistic in showing what downtown is like. "},{"Title":"Offensive trash","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The First Movie (death wish (1974))was a likeably trashy film, The sequel is terrible explotation crap.Charels Brosnan once again despactches more scum of the Earth after is maid is Gang raped and murdered and his daugher is raped and driven to her death. (he's a very unlucky guy).The acting by all concerned is apalling, it's cheaply made and the direction by Winner is poor, he made Death wish 3 five years later which hammered the final nail in the coffin of his Hollywood career.The first movie was slickly made and had funny lines and questioned kersey's vigilante acts, but the sequel seems to see him wrongly as a good guy,rather than a cold blooded killer no better than the thugs themselves. it would be terribly offensive if it was'ent so OTT.all in all VERY POOR,for Brosnan fans and trashy exploitation fans only.NOT for the faint- hearted or the easily upset!Death wish 3 (1985) MORE UN-PC VILOENCE 1/10Death wish 4 THE CRACKDOWN (1987) JUST AWFUL 0/10Death wish 5 THE FACE OF DEATH. Brosnan at 73! kicking scum ass for killing his girlfriend. Canadian Movie with lots of torture and violence suprisingly not as bad as 2 or 3. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Why, oh why?","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Like the Rambo films, this drivel is a prime example of why NOT to make a sequel to perfectly good original. Indeed, as Margaret Hinxman wrote in the Daily Mail, Death Wish 2 is The sort of sequel that makes you realise that the original wasn't half so bad as you thought.In this one the plot is identical, the twist is that it's set in a different city. A bunch of crooks attack his family again. The difference is that whereas in the original the rape scene was a not too graphic short sharp shock, in this film it is leeringly drawn out. Is this to show how vile crime and criminals are? Perhaps. Does it feel shoehorned in for pervs? Certainly.After this Kersey goes on the rampage again, and this is where the film gets really silly. Part of the strength of the original Death Wish film is that Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) never actually tracks down the crooks who attack his family. Whilst condoning vigilantism, it still feels a little hollow that those guys got away.Here, Kersey is trawling Los Angeles looking for targets. Now I haven't been to L.A., but I imagine it's pretty big. You know, you're not too likely to keep bumping into the same people at random. Well, you're not Charles Bronson. While out one night, Kersey stumbles across the same hoodlums who attacked him earlier in the film! Fancy that. As if this stroke of luck was not enough, later on he's strolling around when he hears a scream. He goes to investigate and, in the peculiar haze of sexual violence in which this film operates (there is one gang rape, one rape and another attempted rape), he comes across a rape. But, get this, the rapists are some of the gang who attacked him earlier! Now how's that for luck! It gets one mark for two reasons. First, the hilarious bit when Laurence 'Othello' Fishburne tries to shelter from machine gun fire behind his ghetto blaster (it doesn't work), and second, I cant give it less. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies Made","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everything about this film is great, it's a shame movies like this are no longer being made. The soundtrack really gives the movie an incredible atmosphere and this movie is good to watch on any occasion over and over. Micheal Winner's Death Wish Trilogy simply got better every sequel with Death Wish 2 being an improvement of the original and Death Wish 3 being the best hands down. Of all 5 movies this is my second favorite. Unlike the rest, this one has Charles Bronson's real life wife as his love interest which gives their relationship on camera a very natural feel. I didn't know they were really married until after seeing the show so I already thought their interaction looked genuine and finding out they were married really made it clear why it looked so natural. Death Wish 2 really draws me into Paul Kersey's hunt for the criminals who have wronged him and I doubt this film will ever be boring to me. If you have never seen any of the Death Wish series I recommend Death Wish 2 first, then 3, 4, 5 and finally Death Wish 1 to see how it all began. "},{"Title":"A disgusting piece of garbage","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Basically this is a remake of the first film done without the class and style and upping the violence to a truly sickening degree.Bronson's wife was killed in the first film and his daughter viciously raped into a vegetable-like state. In this film she has improved. She's mute but is walking and functioning. Then it all happens again. A bunch of punks break into Bronson's home and, in a totally disgusting sequence, gang-rape his screaming, crying maid. Then when the woman, totally nude, tries to get to a phone to call for help they kick her to death. But the fun isn't over yet--they get Bronson's daughter and gang-rape her AGAIN causing her to jump out a window and get impaled on a fence. Then Bronson goes into vigilante mode.The double rape/murder is not needed and did not have to be so graphic. After that sequence I couldn't concentrate on the movie--I was so disgusted and those scenes wouldn't leave my mind. I saw this movie back in 1982 and I still remember them! Also all the moral implications of the first movie are gone--this is just sick exploitation.Disgusting and sick--do NOT see this movie. "}{"Title":"Bronson is back looking DUMBER THAN EVER","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This had to be one of the worst pieces of sh** I have ever seen. Why nobody has realized that Charles B is one of the worst actors around is beyond me. The movie (if you want to call it that) has no meaning, no interesting characters, and one of the most brutal and disgusting rape scenes ever shown on film. If you see it, be sure to bring a barf bag.  "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly, the worst movie I've ever seen !","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is an angry white male,Fox News pundit's vision of reality right down to the disgusting and disturbing racist stereotypes on the rampage. I watch the Death Wish movies for the sheer redeeming entertainment pleasure of watching Bronson (aka Kersey)getting his revenge on the bad guys by blowing them to hell in various methods of violence especially this bunch. But what really boils my blood was the fact that the only African-Americans in this whole movie were thugs that raped and murdered his housekeeper while making jungle noises. What the f*#k?! ARRGGHHHH! Only someone whose knowledge of Black people is confined to seeing them as criminal degenerates in handcuffs during a segment on the 6 O'Clock news would direct such a film. I thought the first film confirm this director's prejudice against certain people now this just seals the deal. But this wasn't the sole reason I hated this movie...oh no!Tell me something Why the hell would a bunch of whacked out thugs just target you and only you, rob you then follow you home kill and rape your housekeeper, along with your daughter for no apparent motive whatsoever? Give me a god damn break, please! Put some reason behind those assholes' rampages to balance it out. Why? This is a right-wing middle-aged white-male gun-nut's fantasy come to life. A world where liberals are dead and dead wrong and all extremist conservatives are in the right(no pun intended). This type of plot is vague to the extreme and leaves too many questions unanswered. If you want to watch something like this...just watch the news. Finally, I wouldn't be surprised if the director made a 21st century remake of the racist and insulting Birth of a Nation complete with actors in blackface. "},{"Title":"A disgrace","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my first Death Wish film and probably my last, although, I might catch the original since it has to be much better than this sequel.The plot is simple, you don't require a brain to figure out the story and the obvious conclusion. The film is brutal, the rape sequence is the worst I've seen on film, it's pretty shocking, I was surprised that this was passed by the censors! I don't mind brutal violence when its backed up by some sort of moral, but this film doesn't have any reasons, doesn't challenge itself. The film is a black hole, an empty void, devoid of feelings and emotions.The acting is horrendous, Bronson is so bad in this, no emotions, his performance is dull. Jill Ireland is bad too, I was cringing!The screenplay is horrible, nothing for the actors. The direction is horrid as well! Winner injected nothing into the characters, what a waste! The scenes are so badly edited and it seriously affects the cohesive flow. The music is pretty bad, too! Useless noise!Avoid this piece of trash!  "},{"Title":"Wish I never saw this","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm going to be brief on this one. The evidence is overwhelming - this movie is disgusting. One minute I see a girl who I think is quite cute - the next minute she is being raped, semi-explicitly. And if that's not gross enough, some instants later she makes a run for it, jumps out of a window and 'into' a fence. It's also the stupid way in which it is all portrayed that results in the following judgment.Rating from the Dutch judge 1 (out of 10). "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  !!!! SPOILERS !!!! The original DEATH WISH was fairly good but soon found itself surpassed in intellect by TAXI DRIVER and entertainment value by THE EXTERMINATOR so it seems somewhat pointless making a sequel to the groundbreaking vigilante drama . The problem with the sequel is that it asks us to suspend our disbelief enough to imagine that Paul Kersey`s daughter is gang raped a second time and then brutally murdered . You really have to wonder if anyone is that unlucky , but it gets even dumber , according to this script if you rent a seedy hotel room in a sleazy part of LA you`ll have no problem bumping into the scum who raped and murdered your daughter . Must be a very small town ? And apparently if the cops seal off a street a vigilante can still easily turn up at a criminals doorstep to execute him and manage to escape if he fails to do so .I could go on about the ridiculous plot holes but I won`t bother . DEATH WISH 3 had even more plot holes but at least it was great entertainment unlike number two in the series . The only entertainment to be had is watching Laurence Fishburne ( Yes that one ) body popping while wearing pink sunglasses     "},{"Title":"Death Wish II","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first film twelve years ago was a success for returning director Michael Winner and the lead actor, and this was the first of the unfortunate trend that followed it. Basically Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson), the vigilante, now the lives in LA with his daughter Carol (Robin Sherwood), still recovering from the previous film events, and he has a new woman in his life. One day some muggers break into his house, rape and kill his maid, then attack him on entering, and kidnap Carol. She is raped a few times by the muggers one at a time, and then she seizes the opportunity to escape and leaps out of the window, landing on a fence spike. Of course Paul is angry about this, so he gets his gun out and plans to go after the muggers responsible, and this time, he actually manages to find them, one by one. The police know that there is a vigilante on the loose, and they find Detective Frank Ochoa (Vincent Gardenia) who dealt with and found Paul before. Near the end, Paul manages to kill all the muggers that got his daughter, and unfortunately they manage to kill Ochoa trying to help him, and when is left alive, Paul manages to use false identity to finish the job. Also starring Jill Ireland as Geri Nichols, J.D. Cannon as New York D.A., Anthony Franciosa as LA Police Commissioner Herman Baldwin, Ben Frank as Inspector Lt. Mankiewicz, Silvana Gallardo as Rosario, Robert F. Lyons as Fred McKenzie, Michael Prince as Elliott Cass, Drew Snyder as Deputy Commissioner Hawkins, Thomas F. Duffy as Nirvana, Kevyn Major Howard as Stomper, Stuart K. Robinson as Jiver, young and not very well known Laurence Fishburne as Cutter and E. Lamont Johnson as Punkut. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Musical Score for Jimmy Page. Bronson is not convincing as he may have been in the previous film, the gun play is a bit repetitive at times, and the only bit that shocked me was the daughter falling on the spike, apart from that it is an easily forgettable crime thriller. Pretty poor! "}]