[{"Title":"Arguably the best of all nine sequels.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So many refer to this as the debut of Jason Voorhees. It wasn't...simply the debut of him killing people. He left that to his mom in part one! Steve Miner didn't mess around too much with Sean Cunninham's successful formula simply adding some quite inventive kills and bloodletting.No-one could be accused of using method-acting here, truth is its all pretty embarrassing. The high-school script though probably isn't that much out of place - they are schoolkids after all.Jason himself, though still slightly diminished of stature is one creepy little dude, still without his hockey mask but wearing a burlap sack with holes cut out for his eyes. What appears to be his demise is of course anything but...as parts 3 to 10 will attest. The final 15 minutes are quite tension-filled and better than anything in the original.A must-see for devotees of the series. "},{"Title":"Whoa! A good sequel!!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I say that, of course, in reference to the expected quality of a movie like this. In general, horror series like the seemingly endless Friday the 13th series are composed of one hugely successful original film (generally, by today's standards, inexplicably so, despite the abysmal standards of today) followed by a lot of stomach-turningly awful sequels that try in vain to recapture the success of the original film. The first sequel in the Friday the 13th series, however, seems to escape that trend, although it never manages to be much better than the original, which wasn't that great in the first place. But at the very least, even the Austin Powers series went more precipitously downhill than Friday the 13th.The movie takes place several years after the original ended, and since Mrs. Voorhees was the real killer in the original (which we all know because we've all seen Scream) and was beheaded at the end, we now have to have a real killer. The thing that helps this movie escape the treacherous realms of the sophomore effort is that it presents the story so well. Jason has lived in the woods since his mother was killed (a horrifying event which the young Jason witnessed), not interacting with a human being in any way in all those years. In order to seek revenge for his mother's murder, he has been savagely stalking and murdering anyone who comes close to his area of the lake.Not exactly the most intricate storyline, but at least it's not some mindless killer running around killing any teenager daring enough to get involved in any kind of sexual behavior (an extremely popular motive in cheesy horror movies). In this case, promiscuity is punished because Jason supposedly drowned because the counselors who were supposed to be watching him were making out when he was screaming for help.There is a cheesy fireside scene where one character explains this whole thing to all of the teens who are out there training to be counselors, which obviously ends with one person in disguise jumping out of the bushes screaming and scaring the hell out of everyone around the fire. The movie then jumps into auto-pilot for most of the film, becoming your typical slasher movie, but at least they took the time to explain why all these killings were happening, right?This makes me wonder, however, why they would cover Jason's face with a cheap piece of bedsheet with a little hole torn in it for one of his eyes. They've seen Halloween! They know the effectiveness of an expressionless mask, so why not be a little more creative here? The only reason I can think of is that Jason lives in the woods and doesn't exactly have access to things like the costume store where Michael Meyers got his mask, but he did have access to axes and machetes and candles and whatnot. Surely in all those years he could have come up with something at the very least a little more comfortable to wear or easier to see through.At the very end of the film, by the way, we are treated to a close up and slow motion look at Jason's real face (something that we never get to see of Michael Meyers, although we almost do in one of the films), as he leaps through a window to grab the last girl left alive. And what a face! No wonder nobody wants to play with him!As far as the killings themselves, Friday the 13th Part 2 fits in with most other 80s slasher films, which are little more than exercises in coming up with new and interesting ways to kill people, because we already know the formula from countless slasher films made before. In this case, there are certainly some creative murders, and the film even confused me with feelings of sympathy for Jason near the end, particularly when he is holding his arms up trying to get away from the chainsaw.The poor guy! Someone killed his mom for avenging his death, and he's lived in the woods alone his whole life! He's the victim here! Okay, I wouldn't go that far, but I definitely felt badly for the poor guy when he fell off the chair and then almost got chainsawed. But luckily he's soon back on his feet (even after almost being cut completely in half with a weak swing of a machete) goring people with big scary knives and reminding us of the dangers of messing with him. Or, as it were, being anywhere near Camp Crystal Lake.This is also, by the way, the last time that any sympathy can be felt for anyone dumb enough to go up to the lake. The rest of the sequels are filled with people who deserve to die anyway for being so dumb. Well, at least his mask improves from this point on. "},{"Title":"Simple horror at its best.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"28 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 2 is a great horror film and is the best in the series. Has its share of sex drugs and blood easy to follow with a great opening. Amy Steel gives a good performance as our heroine and the rest of the cast is fine as well.This film moves at a nice pace has its jump scares and builds up nicely to the final chase. I think this film has stood the test of time nicely does not ever seem too dated in anyway no crazy hillbilly music score (such as in the Burning, Bloody Valentine from the same time.Simple horror at its best. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Sequel","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While most sequels cash in on their original movie's fame, the second part of the Friday the 13th series lives up to its name. Unlike the first movie, Jason stars in this movie while his mother has the cameo. The gore and the kill scenes surpass the original. The characters are true teenage stereotypes. Much like the ending in the original, the ending here is great. A jump out of your seat moment that lives up to the original. This is way before Jason wears his hockey mask. Here we are witnessed to a masked killer that uses a pillow case to hide his scary identity. From here on, the fame of PART 2 made it possible for the next bunch of films to happen. It is pretty much all down hill from here. While some of those films lived up to being great horror movies, most fell short and could not recycle the same effect that PART 2 had on its audience. "},{"Title":"As good as any film in the series.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you've never seen this film, or it's been a while since you've seen it, then do yourself a favor and check it out. This is the film that really put the name Jason Voorhees on the map. It seems that another camp has opened on Crystal Lake a few years after the original takes place. Now Jason is fully grown, and out to get some revenge for his dead mother! A young Steve Miner was handed the reins for this one and part 3, and he did a very respectable job. With only about a million dollars to use, he created a frightening and more than profitable film which set the table for many more down the road. Since it cost so little to make the earlier films in this series, it just goes to figure that ANY public demand for sequels was bound to create one after the next.Part 2 is somewhat less gory than others in the series. One particularly graphic death was trimmed way down to avoid the X-rating which would have spelled death at the box office. There are some other graphic deaths to make it worth your time, however. One unlucky cop gets the back of a hammer through his cranium. Another man is hung from his feet and his throat slashed. A poor guy in a wheelchair gets a machete in the face, then rolls down a long flight of stairs. Overall, there are still enough killings to keep your interest.The suspense is the strongest aspect of this film. Jason is a smaller and quicker adversary in this film than in the others. The guy they cast for him originally auditioned for John Furey's role, so he wasn't some gigantic beast like Ted White or Richard Brooker. The last fifteen minutes when Jason pursues Amy Steel around the camp are incredibly scary. The moment when Jason comes crashing through the window at the end is perhaps the biggest single scare in the series. And maybe I'm in the minority here, but I think Jason with the gunny sack over his head may have been scarier than with the hockey mask. With the sack, you have absolutely no idea what he looks like under there until we see him unmasked. And what a sight that is!! This is a very good horror film. Do yourself a favor and take another look at it.8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Great Slasher Flick","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This one has got all the things that make up a fun slasher flick. Pointless nudity + pointless sex + blood-o-rama +cheap scares. All in all I was more entertained by this one than the original. I also like how it was the perfect length for a thriller, it didn't get tiresome. It's hard to make these types un-predictable, but they've avoided that here to my surprise. My only complaint is the ending, I didn't get it. Maybe its cleared up in #3? Anyways, See it for some scares! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Here Comes JASON!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After the brilliant Friday THE 13TH, Hollywood of course got greedy and rushed in a sequel with the help of writer Ron Kurz and director Steve Miner. What they deliver is a good installment and top notch death scenes not surpassing the first, but still shocking.Five years after the events of the first film, the survivor of that horrible day is killed by JASON, the boy believed to be drowned for the last 25 years. So now he's finishing off what mama started. Making sure no one goes to Camp Crsytal Lake. But when a new summer camp is opening up right next to his domain, he decides to kill first and ask questions way later.No the hockey mask dosen't come in folks, and no this is not better than the first one. But this one has a playful mode than one, which at it's time was serious. The acting by Amy Steel and John Furey is more of something to root for, because we do care if THEY do die or not. And JASON performance seem lock on, although KANE HODDER is a saint when he plays JASON. And the death scenes are toned down a bit, but still leaves us with that strange feeling in our stomach. Especially the bit involving a wheelchair, what will just make you say Now that's just plain wrong. "},{"Title":"better than the first","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Five years after the horrible massacre at Camp Crystal Lake, all that remains is the legend of Jason Voorees and the death of his demented mother who had murdered 7 campers until one get her.It starts of with Alice (Adrienne King) the survivor of the first one, having nightmares about the events of 5 years ago at camp crystal lake. She's living alone in a spooky house and talks to her mother on the phone about trying to put her life back together, unaware that Jason is lurking around outside, she jumps in the shower and gets phonecall, a hang up from Jason, she goes into the kitchen, opens the fridge door finds a human head and Jason pops up and rams a screwdriver through her head.Then we meet Sandra (Marta Kober) and Jeff (Bill Randolf), on a payphone to they're friend, then Crazy Ralph from the first one appears warning them like last time I Told the others they didn't believe me, you're all doomed, you're all doomed.Eventually they join the other campers at a camp site near camp crystal lake, we get the new meat head councilor Paul Holt (John Furey), Terri (Kirsten Baker) one of the early victims, Ted (Stuart Charno) the funny one, Jeff and Sandra the carefree lovers, Mark (Tom McBride) wheelchair guy, Vicky (Lauren Marie Taylor) the nice girl, Scott (Russell Todd) the charmer and last but not least the main heroine Ginny (Amy Steel) who's the best last girl out of the entire series in my opinion.Overall, much better than the first one, the deaths are wicked especially the one with the 2 people in bed together getting speared, and even the guy in the wheelchair gets it, in the face with the machete, Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney) makes a final appearance as crazy ralph before he gets garotted with barb wire and the one with the guy gets caught in the trap and has his throat slit hanging upside down.The only standout performance is from Ginny (Amy Steel) who was also impressive in April Fools Day, really goes for it with Jason in the final showdown between killer and heroine. "},{"Title":"The Best Friday","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My friend and I saw this movie years ago when we were teenagers. We both love scary movies, and have seen a variety over the years. Whenever the topic of scary, or horror, movies comes up in conversation, this one is always at the top of our list as the best of the best. The reason (s) being, the story was original enough to stand on it's own, even though it was a sequel; It is the first movie of the series that introduces Jason as the killer; and most importantly, Amy Steel starring as the movie's sole survivor was PERFECT casting . She by far, 'makes' this movie, and her acting is exceptional, making her character, Ginny Field, memorable... In my opinion, she sets the standard for all horror movie heroines. (She was also great in April Fool's Day.) Steve Miner's directing is also worth noting, as there are several effective scares throughout scenes of the movie. The chase scene in the last half hour of the movie is as adrenaline packed as a roller-coaster ride, and is more suspenseful than most big budget movies made today. This movie is not often given the credit it deserves by critics, etc. (you know who you are,) since it is a sequel and a horror movie, but Friday the 13th Part 2, starring Amy Steel, is at the top of my list for the genre. Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"Much Better Than the Original","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The sequel to the woefully remedial Friday the 13th improves on the original film, which is sort of like saying slightly curdled milk is an improvement on really curdled milk, but I digress.Part 2 is better if only because Jason is the actual killer, not that weird androgynous mother lady. He wears a really creepy pillow case or something over his head instead of his hockey mask, and it's actually a scarier effect than the more iconic image--he should have stuck with it. There's a long prologue in which the only survivor from the first film eventually gets an ice pick in the forehead, but only after she's been repeatedly scared by the phone, a cat, etc. This opening is actually pretty nerve-racking, and it sets the tone for the rest of the movie, in which the kills are more original than the first (I'm a particular fan of the handicapped kid who gets a machete in the face and then is sent bouncing down some garden steps in his wheelchair) and the nudity is more bountiful and gratuitous. I'm not even going to try to justify my enjoyment of slasher movies---they speak to the basest instincts in all of us and are really morally repellent, but, hey, I like what I like.One of the better episodes in the interminable series.Grade C+ "}{"Title":"My second personal favorite movie!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When you thought you got a latter favorite FT13th movie, not all are that bad. The first one was a thriller and a chiller. The second one is better. More babes, more fright, the more intense. My favorite character in the movie is Ginny(Amy Steel). This is her start before the TV show The Powers of Matthew Star. Ginny is one of the best looking babes in the movie, second is Terri, whoever's next? Who cares. A new killer is out and about wreaking havoc in The Crystal Lake area. And for Jason Voorhes? He's here, without the famous hockey mask. This is a start of a the terror that haunts Camp Crystal Lake. With Pamela Voohees headless, the new threat is worse than Pam herself. I like the people who hooked up with one another, I liked the one who changes her top and her panties. That scene is one of the biggest teasers in the movie. Terri is the one with Muffin the dog was a real athlete, she got popped with a pea-shooter, then gets her clothes stolen while skinny-dipping in the moonlight, at least she was still alive at that time, that scene worried me a little bit. She looked good with her hair all wet. I'm glad that Muffin was the other survivor in the movie, the question is, Who was the other dog that got killed? Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The carnage continues.","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 is good, straightforward slasher fare that plays a formula for all it's worth. Its story (mostly) takes place five years after the events of the first movie, when a camp counsellor training centre has been set up in the Crystal Lake area. For five years the area has been quiet, but that's about to change, as the arrival of a new batch of nubile victims will spur Jason Voorhees to murderous action, as he inherits the mantle of crazed backwoods mass murderer from his late mother Pamela.This sequel announced the emergence of Jason as a prominent slasher icon in a big way, and he's a truly evil creep in this one, and still more or less human, as opposed to the unstoppable zombie he would become in later sequels. While not ignorant of the iconic status of the hockey mask, this viewer has to say that he really likes the pillow sack covering of the face in this entry. The Jason face makeup is good if not too consistent with the way he looked in Part 1. Sadly, the trimming down of key gore scenes definitely dilutes their impact, although there's still a delight in the way he stalks his victims as the preludes to the kills.Director Steve Miner keeps the story racing forward; if it weren't for that extended, 12 minute plus pre-credits sequence that reminds the audience of what has come before, this would be quite the short movie indeed. Even so, it runs a mere 87 minutes. The woodsy setting works just as well as before, and Harry Manfredini's instantly recognizable score adds to the fun just like it always does.The cast does acceptable work, with Amy Steel as Ginny making for an appealing and intelligent final girl; the best in this series in this reviewer's humble opinion. A psychology major, she actually attempts to mess with Jason's mind in order to get the upper hand, and doesn't do too bad a job. John Furey is likable male lead Paul Holt, a guy scrappy enough to give Jason a good fight. Stu Charno is great as geeky comedy relief guy Ted, and Kirsten Baker as Terry supplies some wonderful eye candy, especially as she goes skinny dipping. A treat is in seeing Adrienne King, Betsy Palmer, and Walt Gorney return to their previous roles; Gorney is just as hysterical as ever as doom sayer Crazy Ralph. Fine cinematography (by Peter Stein) and production design (by Virginia Field) are assets - Jason's isolated decrepit dwelling is truly a marvel to behold.All in all, Part 2 is one of the best sequels in this franchise by far, a solid continuation to one of the definitive slasher movies, delivering enough laughs, shocks, and thrills to make this a fine hour and a half or so of no-fooling-around entertainment.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mommy has a reward for you.","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Before the blood was dry on Pamela Voorhees' machete the producers were already at work on this sequel, which is basically the same thing all over again. Though I prefer the characters in this one and it does move a lot faster.Alice Hardy has apparently not recovered from the emotional stress of lopping Jason's Mommy's head off. And apparently the not-really-dead Jason was watching from the woods when she did so. Doing what any loving son would do, Jason shoves an ice-pick into Alice's head.Set five years after the first (Why five years? Did it honestly take Jason five years to walk into town and kill?) the film has a bunch of camp councillors go through training at a facility not too far from Camp Crystal Lake. Some of them wander a little too close to Jason's woods and end up getting splattered. Thin on plot, but thick on eye candy.Part 2 is much more attractively shot than the drab, grubby original. And the girls are much more attractive and wear wonderfully revealing clothes. Especially the wonderfully lithe Norwegian actress Kirsten Baker, who's 'death' scene is the most pointless in the whole film. Does she die or not? Who can tell? The deaths are bit more creative this time around too. But it's a bit cruel of potato-sack wearing Jason (who usually kills by a set of rules) to axe a crippled guy in the face. Though most of the gore was censored (as was the case with EVERY Friday the 13th film). I suspect that is why we don't really see what happened to Kristen Baker.I saw the Friday the 13th movies completely out of order and this is the one I got to see last. I was expecting it to be crap but it was surprisingly good. Give it a shot and you'll see. "},{"Title":"These kids smoke better dope than I do.","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first Friday the 13th sequel follows the formula with more camp counselors showing up at Camp Crystal Lake and being slaughtered one by one. This is the first of the series where Jason is the killer, although he doesn't yet have his iconic hockey mask. He wears a sack over his head instead. He also gets kicked in the nads. Pretty funny, honestly.The cast is full of young actors playing obnoxious teens and twenty-somethings. Adrienne King briefly reprises her role from the first film before Amy Steel takes over as the 'final girl.' Acting-wise, Steel's an improvement I think. This one also has more cute girls than the first movie and more nudity, which would become a prerequisite for the series. The tracking shot of Kirsten Baker's rear end as she walks through the woods is priceless. As with the first movie, I really liked the locations they filmed at. Gives an authentic atmosphere to the film without appearing cheap, like most of today's low-budget horror films do. If you like old-school slashers, you'll like this one. It's solid entertainment that you don't have to take seriously, despite the macabre subject matter. "},{"Title":"Better than some","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Like most low-budget horror films, Friday the 13th Part 2 is not a well-made film. The cinematography is bland, the dialogue laughable, and the acting...oh, the acting. However, of all the Friday the 13th films, this installment contains the most interesting story elements and the scariest scenes. Consider this A deformed homicidal man-beast stalks unsuspecting counselors wearing a potato sack over his head; one crazy eye stares through a hole. He is territorial, keeping others off his land as an act of revenge over the decapitation of his mother (which he witnessed). He survives off the wilderness and lives in a dilapidated shack in the woods where his mother's head sits amidst a circle of candles and an increasing pile of dead bodies.If the filmmakers had handled the material well, it could have been a monumentally scary film of Exorcist and Blair Witch scale. Unfortunately, the underdevelopment of most of the characters and the noticeably lackluster aesthetic qualities drag this down into Bad Movie Land. On the other hand, there are parts to this film that are as scary as anything out there. Most of these moments are singular shots or images, and there's usually not enough fright to last an entire sequence.If you like the series though, you will probably enjoy this sequel as well. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This really isn't a bad horror film sequel. It lacks the atmosphere of the original but is effective in creating chills. The kills are creative enough.The early films in this series are notable mainly for firsts. This is the first time we see Jason, who is understandably upset by his mother's untimely death in the original. He doesn't have the trademark hockey mask yet, instead donning a far more scary, but not near as iconic, bedsheet.He seems rather axe happy in this one, and is given plenty of annoying teenagers to slice up.Nude scenes once again, a good dose of blood as well. Decent horror film, but by no means essential. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" - It's been five quiet years since a group of councilors were murdered at Camp Crystal Lake. But when a new group of councilors arrives to open a nearby camp, the killing starts all over again. Who's behind the murders? The original Camp Crystal Lake Killer is dead. Could it be her son who was believed to have died in the lake years earlier? By the time someone figures out who the killer is, most everyone else is dead.- Friday the 13th Part 2 has always been my favorite installment in the series. I've always thought that Jason was more frightening before he found the hockey mask and became the unstoppable iconic killer zombie. This Jason is human and that makes him more real. And, to me, the horror factor is increased when the killer is based in reality. He's a primitive being (not unsimilar to the inbred mountain men I recently wrote about in Wrong Turn) capable of extreme brutality, out to avenge the death of his mother.- Most of the movie is about what you would expect - grisly murders, an absence of logic, woeful dialogue, and iffy acting. Friday the 13th Part 2 also features just about every horror cliché that fans have come to expect in a teen slasher. When I saw this movie in 1981, a lot of what we consider teen slasher clichés were still being developed. Back then, a lot of this was still fairly new and fresh. And whether I should or not, I still see the movie the way I did in 1981. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This installment in the Friday the 13th series one of the darkest. It has a feel to it that the others don't have. Jason isn't an invincible, killing machine, he is just the bastard creation of crazy 'ol Mrs. Voorhees, seeking vengeance. You don't see Jason a whole lot like you do in the later movies, he's sporting a nice potato sack/burlap bag on his head and a dirty pair of overalls.It has some good kills, especially when the wheel chair kid gets it ohhh man, thats worth rewinding a couple times.Overall, its an awesome movie,definitely worth buying. My 3rd favourite in the series. "},{"Title":"A great sequel! Worth the watch!","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13th  PART II is a definite sequel to the original 1984 film.The plot is very similar to the first film, young camp counselors are setting the site getting ready for young campers when all of a sudden an unseen assailant starts picking them off one by one.Eventually, we see the killer as a man wearing a potato sack over his head. The movie starts with the lead character from the first one getting killed in her apartment. It really sets the eerie tone for the whole movie.There is no mystery to solve here with regards to the killer's identity. Jason Voorhees starts killing counselors after seeing his mother beheaded in the first film.Amy Steel is the heroine in this sequel and her character Ginny is not one of my favorite Jason girls in the film series and Jason does not even where the hockey mask until the next film, which we will get to. PART II needed more scenes of violence and gore in this feature film and it doesn't do too much to scare the audiences.The creepiest part for me was when Ginny and Paul got back to the camp after a night out and Jason was hiding in the darkness of the living room waiting to kill them all. I and all of the other people didn't know he was there until Ginny whispered that she thought there was someone in the room.This is one of my favorite Jason movies and this is a must-see horror extravanganza for all horror fans and non-horror films and future filmmakers.10/10. "},{"Title":"The story continues,....without some its good parts from the original","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Even though Friday the 13th (1980) was not the most original of ideas, it still maintained a level of entertainment that came as a surprise, considering that it took the main premise from Halloween (1978). Although the style was also parallel, the story was different which helped it stand out from other horror films at the time. Jason Vorhees - who would've known that would become a common name? Of course this wasn't revealed until close to the ending of the first film. Plus, by the ending viewers were introduced to a melancholy ending about where the remains of Mr.Vorhees were. It wasn't the fullest of closure but it did end the tragic story rather well. Apparently Paramount felt that wasn't enough closure.What Part II decides to do is bring the story full circle. This idea is successful in some respects, while at other times the execution leaves more questions instead of answering them. One of the best parts about this sequel is its continuity. If there's one thing a sequel should get right, it's sticking to the story it originally told. It has got to and thankfully the filmmakers accomplished that. This is accomplished by showing and explaining to its audience what happened to the girl from the original. Then, the story sets itself up with a new cast of camp counselors. Unfortunately this is where things began to head south. For one, the characters are flat. There is barely a character that makes themselves feel any different from the last bunch of counselors fans viewed from the first film.Along with that are individual story lines to these characters that go unfinished. Unlike the first entry, which ended with a decent amount of closure (with a few loose ends), this entry misses even more, with absent explanations on a few of the main characters. Ron Kurz writing is very uneven. He keeps continuity but forgets to keep this work in line. As Steve Miner's debut, his direction is fairly predictable sadly on a lot of cases. Much of the execution relies on copying its predecessor with no creativity or uniqueness this time. Not even its cinematography by Peter Stein grabs the attention. Stein likes to keep his cameras hidden in the brush so that its impossible to get a feeling for all the surroundings. There isn't much to be see this time.Besides continuity being one of its strong points, the violence, background concept and music are commendable. Although the gore has been edited quicker, the bloodshed is still heavy and gruesome. The background concept to what happened to Jason and being expanded upon is interesting. It dilutes Jason's motivations a bit and lacks clarity but it still is an eye grabber. Music was again produced by composer Harry Manfredini. For the most part, Manfredini keeps everything the same. Still screeching strings and whispering ghostly voices. It is nice keeping the signature feeling but incorporating some tunes would've been better. It's not a terrible entry but it could've had the bumps smoothed out.The sequel manages to keep clear continuity with its parent yet fails to clear up anything for the current entry. With a cast resembling a carbon copy of its first set of characters, the execution feels too similar except for a few parts like its violence and background concepts. "}{"Title":"Serious retread of the first film with some differences","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a gorehound at all and only occasionally watch slasher flicks, but I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th franchise. Why? It has nothing to do with nostalgia since I didn't become a fan until I was well into adulthood when I saw 1985's Friday the 13th Part V A New Beginning on TV one night. I think I like these movies because they typically involve young people in a fun camp-type environment in the woods, which naturally stirs fond youthful memories (not that I'm that old); the presence of a lunatic unstoppable killer -- who becomes more and more of a hideous monster over the course of the series -- implements an air of danger and suspense to the dramedy and adventure. Add scores of gorgeous females and various filming locations around North America and you have a fabulously entertaining franchise that has yet to end.Released in 1981, one year after the first film, Part II is basically a retread of the first but with different characters, a different killer and a different camp on the same lake, not far from Camp Blood, i.e. Camp Crystal lake. In reality, the film was shot on an entirely different location&#x97;Kent, Connecticut.It's interesting how none of the films were shot at the same location even though, typically, the location in the story is the general vicinity of Camp Crystal Lake. The locations of the films in the series include Blairstown, New Jersey (I), Connecticut (II & IX), California (III, IV, V), Georgia (VI), Alabama (VII), British Columbia (VIII & XI), New York City (VIII), Toronto (X & XI) and Texas (XII).It's the camp-like settings of most of the franchise and the unstoppable monster that is Jason Voorhees that especially sets Friday the 13th apart from similar franchises.Concerning the tone, the first two films are serious in nature with the expected antics of youths on vacation in the woods, but the series introduced a campy element in Part III, which pretty much plagued the rest of the series until the reboot in 2009. Not that I'm complaining much, as these films are only quasi-believable anyway; still, I prefer the serious tone to the cartoonish. Speaking of which, the only thing questionable about the first film&#x97;as far as realism goes&#x97;is how the killer is able to throw an adult corpse through a window or hang a body from a door, etc. But I suppose these things can be attributed to the powerfully psycho Voorhees gene.Many people find these films scary and shocking and the first two movies have some slightly chilling aspects, some of the others as well, but--with the exception of the 2009 reboot--I don't find these movies particularly scary. They're sometimes creepy, sometimes suspenseful, sometimes exciting and always fun & entertaining, but not scary. In fact, I usually bust out laughing at the inevitable death scenes. There are numerous jump-scares, of course, but that's not what I'm talking about.Part II doesn't overstay its welcome at a mere 87 minutes. It introduces the adult Jason Voorhees, but he's noticeably smaller in stature and more human than in later sequels. A couple of times the main protagonist, Ginny (Amy Steel), is able to deter him fairly easily (like opening a car door or kicking him in the groin). Speaking of Ginny, she's a fine heroine in the manner of Alice in the first film and Pam in Part V. Kirsten Baker plays the requisite hottie, Terry, and the filmmakers take advantage of her beauty. Unfortunately, the ambiguity of the ending is inexplicable.GRADE A-(If you're wondering why I rate a film of this nature so highly, I'm rating it according to what it is -- a slasher film. No genre is beyond redemption or above contempt) "},{"Title":"Unlucky 13 continues in first sequel.","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the first sequel of the Friday the 13th trilogy, where a new camp built next to the forbidden Camp Crystal Lake is visited by a new group of camp counselors. One by one, they fall victim to a new menace, the alleged Jason Voorhees.Like the first movie, there are plenty of scares, screams, gore and running around. The acting performances were a notch-up from the previous film and even though it's still a typical teenager horror flick, the characters, I thought, were a little more likable and heroic, especially Amy Steel as Ginny and John Furey as Paul.The plot is pretty basic, with a lot of running around, slashing and screaming, and the elements pretty much match the first movie. But, there is still enough tension and excitement to leave you entertained.Grade B- "},{"Title":"A decent sequel to a classic slasher","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This installment is not my favorite, but it does not mean it has nothing to offer to a horror fans. The most important thing about this part is, of course, the emergence of Jason Voorhees (albeit not in his iconic image yet). The plot is quite simple, characters are plain, and killings are well-made. Unfortunately, story is focusing more on character relations (which is not very interesting matter here anyway), than on Jason's origins. But it is interesting enough to see this film as a part of a growing franchise you'll see some trademark elements, which will be repeated in almost every other sequels. I don't know how many fans of a modern (post-Scream) horror films can appreciate this one, but I think anyone who wants to explore the roots of a Hockey Mask Killer should not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Yes, we Meet Jason and boy is it a great time","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As I am reviewing each film in the series I have noticed a trend. Almost everyone loves this one or Part Four The Final Chapter. I openly admit that of all the Jason movies that this one scared me the most when I was younger because the knapsack over his head was extremely effective in making him scary. While I love the hockey mask he gets in Part 3, he is at his scariest in this film. The movie starts with our group of counselors trying to fix up Camp Blood again and there is a nice night time fire story about what happened in the first and how the legend says that Jason walks the camp looking to kill any counselor he finds. It is a nice set up and the fact Jason came to be because of a joke by the first films ending is amazing when you think about it. The story is nice and simple meaning the kills are what matters.I love the kills in this movie and the wheelchair kill is one of the best in the series. I also admit that Gina is one of my favorite heroine's in all the series and she is great in this one. Some of these kills are brutal by even today's standards which speaks volumes to how crazy it must have been to seen this in theaters and having a good time. While I love this one I have to admit my favorite in the series is Part 3,4,6, and I love the remake. I know that is against the grain but check out my reviews of those for my reasoning. This one is still great though and is great time all the way through. There is nothing more to say, watch this after watching the first and you will see why Jason fever is an amazing thing to catch. Great kills, great thrills, what more could you want out of a movie? I give it 4.5 outta 5 just like the original. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2 (1981) **1/2","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A worthy continuation in the series. A new group of camp counselors set up business in an area right next door to the old Camp Blood of Part One, where young misfit child Jason Voorhees had drowned in the '50s, and which was only recently plagued by a series of gruesome revenge killings. Now the adult and maniacal Jason, still alive and wearing a white, one-eyed sack over his head, hunts and slaughters the naive intruders. Director Steve Miner does a decent job at the controls, and injects some old-fashioned suspense into the festivities. Fan favorite Amy Steel is an asset to the new cast as the tough heroine who gets to confront Jason on his own turf. At the time this sequel was made, nobody knew what an icon Jason would ultimately become, so members of the original team opted out. This included absent makeup maestro Tom Savini, so the makeup effects here were competently done by Carl Fullerton. The best effect of Part II involves a machete embedded into a character's face. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Same old stuff and even more vulgar","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The concept of this film is more or less the same as part 1 - Only that there are more characters and it is more vulgar.So of course the story is about a group of summer campers this time who go to the forest under the guidance of a couple of tour guides,after being warned to stay away from Lake crystal camp(which has been shut for the past 5 years after the incidents in FTT part 1),when something or someone unknown begins to attack them.The special effects are perhaps good for the 80's- nowadays even a kid won't be scared of them. The acting is unremarkable.It is a film totally unsuited for young minds owing to the vulgarity.Why I watched?? Because I like horror films, that's all. "},{"Title":"Great flick marred only by a lame ending","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In this, my favourite in this now lengthy series, the sole survivor from the first film, still traumatised and suffering nightmares after the events of the first film, unaware that an unknown figure lies lurking in the darkness outside her house. In such a lengthy pretitle sequence, the film tricks us into thinking that she will be the focus of this film, before pulling the rug out from underneath the viewers' feet and brutally killing off her character 20 minutes into the film. The real heroine is not introduced until about 30 minutes into the film, when we are taken back to the shores of Crystal Lake, where another group of people are attempting to open another summer camp on the opposite shores of the lake, five years after the events of the first film. A lull in action while we're introduced to the current group of victims-to-be is quickly forgotten when the carnage begins again. But who is to blame this time? Jason's mother again? Or did the little goofball grow up and follow in his demented mother's footsteps? Its unusual structure is uneven it has a 20-minutes long pretitle sequence; followed by a joke sequence involving a two truck; but then a lengthy lull in action while we're introduced to the characters, before kicking back into gear for the second half- but then a letdown with a pointless, nonsensical ending (jumping through a window, possibly stolen from Phantasm?) marring an otherwise great horror flick. The film should have ended just as Ginny and Paul walked out of the shack Jason lived in.But the good outweighs the bad in this film, and I think it manages to top the first film. The writers tried to get a bit psychological here, with the heroine hypothesizing about what made Jason's mother kill, and what Jason would be like if he had lived- it was an interesting twist. The seemingly higher budget also helps, as does better photography, and more attempts at suspense in between the bloodletting. The characters are not as obnoxious as in a lot of other slashers, which is also works in the film's favour. My favourite scene has a boneheaded cop chasing Jason into the woods, and stumbling onto, and into, Jason's house. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2 (1981)","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 57/100. Like mother, like son. Enjoyed it considerably more than I expected too. Horror icon Jason Voorhees takes center stage as the series' main antagonist for the first time wearing, not a hockey mask, but a hooded sack that pays homage to 1976's The Town that Dreaded Sundown. While Jason works as a menacing killer, the idea of a large, brooding knife wielding man was already done in Halloween. Miner does a passable job, but gets rid of many key directorial elements Cunningham used to make the original as good as it was. The cast of camp counselors once again do a fantastic job, and final girl Amy Steel equals and maybe even surpasses Adrienne King. Would have given serious consideration of giving this a higher grade but the film was bogged down with plot holes including never answering how Jason survived drowning or if he ever reunited with his mother and if so why didn't he attack the last bunch of teenagers himself. Beginning sequence is atrociously long and commits my least favorite horror movie cliché of killing off the previous survivor(s) in the opening. Film follows the original almost to a tee including having one of the most predictable unpredictable endings ever. Return of Crazy Ralph was a pleasant bonus. "},{"Title":"Good sequel of blood and gore we now learn that boy Jason has been passed the torch to become camp killer!","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In 1981 we returned to Camp Crystal Lake for Friday the 13TH Part 2 as just one year earlier we had been introduced to the start of the gore slasher series which would become legendary and memorable. As with the original an angry mother started to kill sex crazed teens at Camp Crystal Lake, as we all learned she blamed everyone for the apparent death of her little boy Jason.Now we see a new group of camp teens who come to Crystal Lake for fun only one by one you guessed it they start to be axed off in the most bloody and gruesome manners. Most memorable is the wheelchair ramp scene of the stabbing to the head! It's remembered too for revealing that Jason all grown up now is the masked killer! Overall good sequel well worth a watch if your a horror film fan or horror historian, Friday the 13th Part 2 is one film that's a cut above most in the slasher series. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th 2 is a definite step up from the original. The plot is similar, young camp counsellors are setting up the site getting ready for young campers when all of a sudden an unseen assailant starts picking them off one by one. Eventually we see the killer as a man wearing a potato sack over his head. The movie starts with the lead character from the first one getting killed in her apartment. It really sets the eerie tone for the whole movie. There is no mystery to solve here with regards to the killer's identity. Jason Vorhees starts killing counsellors after seeing his mother beheaded in the first one.Amy Steel is the heroine in this sequel and her character Ginny was always one of my favourite characters to go up against Jason in the end. Also noted that the hockey mask isn't what Jason wears. It's a potato sack with one eye hole cut out of it for him to see. Now I always felt that the sack was creepier than the trademark hockey mask. The movie does have strong gore, but doesn't rely on it to scare the audience. I always felt that Part 2 relied on suspenseful moments and genuine scares than extreme gore. The creepiest part for me was when Ginny and Paul got back to the camp after a night out and Jason was hiding in the darkness of the living room waiting to kill them. We as the viewers didn't even know he was there until Ginny whispered that she thought there was someone in the room.The chase scenes through the woods with Ginny (Amy Steel) and Jason was very well done. One of the best Friday sequels to date and must see for horror fans 9/10 "}{"Title":"Friday the 13th, Part 2 - More of the same, but you know what?  Here's Jason!","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm no fan of the Friday the 13th series of slasher films; I think they're pale imitations of the Halloween series and were only made as cheap competition, but have nonetheless been highly influential over the years and have earned their own devoted, more-than-obsessive cult followings. Jason Voorhees has to be the most boring screen slasher ever. I don't particularly like Friday the 13th (1980), but I did like the first sequel in the series, 1981's Friday the 13th, Part 2. To get this out of the way, Friday the 13th, Part 2 is a superior follow-up to the original film; I really like this sequel, even though it is a stretch to say that it's a lot better than the first film.The reason this film succeeds is because it has better writing (by Ron Kurz, based on original material from the first film's screenwriter Victor Miller) and way better direction from Steve Miner. While this film still has many faults - due to it rehashing many elements from the first film, production problems that are most likely a result of a limited budget, and a horribly MPAA-butchered picture - Friday the 13th, Part 2 stands on its own as a superior film to the original.Friday the 13th, Part 2 is set five years after that bloody night in Friday the 13th. A group of camp counselors have opened up their own camp not far from the now-infamous Camp Crystal Lake, the site of the original bloodbath in the first film. Someone - Could it be Mrs. Voorhees's long-believed-dead son Jason? - is offing the poor unsuspecting camp counselors during one terrifying night at the camp.Friday the 13th, Part 2 is a slickly made little gem of a slasher flick. I commented earlier on the problems that are most likely a result of a low budget, but Miner's direction keeps the film on-track after a slow beginning, including a brief re-cap of the first film (which also happens to feature first-film survivor Alice Hardy - returning actress Adrienne King - getting brutally dispatched within the first five minutes). Here, as in Friday the 13th, you also see a lot of the cliché slasher film moments start to ingrain themselves in this series, its sequels, and every imitator that followed. You also won't find any Oscar-worthy performances here, either, but lead Ginny (Amy Steel) gets some points for some last-minute improvisation that ultimately ends up saving her life from bloodthirsty Jason.But of course, Friday the 13th, Part 2 is most famous for being the actual debut of Jason Voorhees. He has yet to dawn his infamous hockey mask (he wears a burlap sack over his head to hide his grotesque facial deformities), but he's just starting out here and, boy, does he take great delight in slicing up hormonally-charged young people. I also don't think he has any of the supernatural powers granted to him in the later sequels, but here he is still a deadly force to be reckoned with, even though the film is also genius in making this brutal killer almost seem human and frail just when it seems like his bloodbath is showing no signs of ever relenting. His many, many kills are quite gory - even if trimmed by the MPAA - but lack the creativity of special effects wizard Tom Savini's innovations on the first film; also be on the lookout for the sexiest Jaws parody ever filmed early on Friday the 13th, Part 2.Friday the 13th, Part 2 is one of the few examples of a superior horror sequel. It's a lot better than the movie that preceded it, that is true, but only by a very narrow margin. I personally enjoyed it a lot more than Friday the 13th, because of Steve Miner's direction and the film's tension-filled last 20 minutes. The climax of Friday the 13, Part 2 are some of the most intense moments ever in a horror film, and they have to be seen to be believed.6/10 "},{"Title":"Friday The 13th On Its Finest","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The sequel to the classic 1980 slasher film finally introduces Jason, but not the way you know him. Jason dosen't have his hockey mask yet, but its still, I think, the best Jason. Part 2 is everything you wanted in a slasher film, gore, scares, love, and a great finale and opening. The film opens great and a twist ending that's preditacble, but scary, because your just waiting for it to happen, and its happens when your not prepared for it. It has likable charters, and a character you will feel bad for, when you see him, you'll think Nooooo don't kill him! There are 2 surviors, and I won't say if he is one of them. Friday The 13th Part 2, I think so far is the best. I haven't seen all the FT13 movies, but I can't see how any of them could be better 7.3/10 "},{"Title":"Best Friday the 13th","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part II follows off what happens from the first Installment. Jason comes to avenge his mother's death in killing the next few counselors that come near Crystal Lake.I think Friday the 13th Part II is a better sequel and a better film than the original one and for good reason. Jason Voorheas is finally the killer the story flows like the original with the creepy, quick deaths, jump scares and great music. The Plot goes into great depth about why Jason kills the consolers and what he gets out of it. Friday the 13th is an underrated sequel with a great, dark theme behind it.Great Sequel to the Original. 8.2/10 "},{"Title":"A gem of the franchise","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm one of the people who thinks the bag is scarier than the hockey mask, so I'm a pretty big fan of this one. While I was watching it this time around though, it just reminded me of The Town That Dreaded Sundown since the killer also wears a bag over his head. I think I give both films a similar rating, as well. Weird. There were a few things that crossed my mind during this viewing though. Like when everyone in camp goes to town and only a few counselors stay behind, Paul says they only have two cars. They take the two cars and drive off into town. Then when Vickie is getting ready for her evening with Mark, she runs out...to her car. These films definitely aren't without their flaws obviously, but the majority of them are still a lot of fun. I also loved the pitchfork even though you never really got to see it used on anyone. Seeing Ralph finally get offed wasn't too shabby either. One thing that kind of left me scratching my head was the ending. Ginny gets carted off into an ambulance, but that's it. You don't see Jason's body or Paul's. Nobody is saying anything other than Ginny. Did Paul die? Did Jason get away? Did Ginny dream the whole thing? Was it Colonel Mustard with the candlestick in the dining room? Nobody knows. "},{"Title":"Not to bad of a sequel.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The reason why nobody knows what happened to Paul in the end is because that little pussy walked out while the film was still filming. He probably was afraid of the big bad boogyman. The hell with Paul, what happened to the guy who stayed at the bar?  You know, the funny one who had his friend's truck tow in the beginning as a joke.  He cracked me up everytime he was on screen.   In the very beginning of the movie Alice,the first and only survivor in the first one has dreams about what happened in the first movie and no sooner finds a head in her refrigerator, she screams, and then gets an icepic in the head.  Did notice how the boiling water covered up her scream? Flash forward to 5 years later where Jason is an adult (remember folks, he was born in 1950 something so he's not a little kid like some of you dimwits think) where there is a different camp opening up across the lake. Here we have fresh meat. I just want to know one other thing, what the hell is a cripple doing in the woods? I think they need counselors who can walk in case of emergency. I loved how he died though. The camera kept changing angles so you never know when, where, or how the crippled is going to die. That must have been scary to go down a flight of stairs in a wheelchair.  Good old stunt people, putting their lives in danger for our entertainment.  I thought Jason looked really creepy with that bag over his face.  You have to watch this movie. Not as good as it could have been, but at least it is much better than some of the sequels. 10 stars "},{"Title":" Things have been quiet for five years...I want to keep it that way","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Amy Steel is terrific as Virginia in this gripping horror flick. The remaining cast is spectacular. The costumes are suitable. One of the excellent farces in the genre, Friday The 13th Part 2 will stab the viewer in the stomach. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Best in the Classic-Slasher Series!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Though very similar in feel to the original, Friday the 13th Part 2 surpasses its predecessor with the scariest and most frenetic entry in the series. Picking up right where Part One left off, Part Two opens with the counselor who survived the rampage of Mrs. Voorhees - only to find herself the very first victim of her grown-up son Jason. Flash forward five years and there are a new batch of counselors setting up camp on Crystal Lake. Jason, looking very creepily in this film like a real person instead of a zombie, dispatches of his victims in a variety  of creative methods and at a nice steady pace. Instead of his trademark hockey mask, Jason is wearing a burlap bag tied around his head with a hole cut over one eye. He looks scarier and more realistic in this film.Amy Steel gives a great performance as the final girl in one of the longest and scariest chase scenes of all the Fridays. Part Two has a good combination of edge-of-your-seat suspense and jump-out-of-your-seat shocks. The only part of this film that really cheeses out is when our heroine pretends to be Jason's mother (and Jason believes it), but this is a small price to pay for the excellent scares and surprises that abound in Friday the 13th Part 2.Because of all the commotion caused by the release of Friday the 13th, the ratings board was extra-tough on the sequal and most of the gory scenes were either trimmed or removed all together. Paramount should really release this film with all of the scenes that had to be cut intact, considering how they made a nice profit off of these movies.  "},{"Title":"A Beautifully-directed sequel lacking nothing on the horror-movie standard","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 is an exceptional sequel overcoming it's successful predecessor by a cinch. Genuinely, I believe this film beats the first chapter. In my opinion, this is the best in the whole series. The things I liked is that there are many characters and they share nice, friendly chemistry together. Part 2 features Jason Voorhees in a graphically disturbing sack-like mask. It really scared me! I believe it had the most Jumps and the most sympathetic characters. The film was a bit brutal, but not coming close to the extreme violence of JGTH. It featured non-stop nudity, and graphic love-making. It was very excessive! The film's kills were very creative and unpredictable for a 1980's slasher flick. It was amazing! The last sequence was very frightening (to the point that could scare people badly). I believe Friday The 13th Part 2 is the best In the large franchise and it's highly recommended. If you like the first, you'll find the second better. I would rate it R For Some Strong Graphic Sexuality involving Non-stop Nudity, Some Horror Violence, Language and Substance Abuse. "},{"Title":"For once, a good sequel!","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was recently hit by a big nostalgia trip and having bought the first films of this series on VHS cassette, these had to be seen as well. They've mostly just been collecting dust in a box but watching them again have me lots of thrills... Normally I'm a bit harsh in my reviews but I really have a soft spot for this series along with the Nightmare on Elm Street series.. These films were important in the task of introducting the horror genre as we know it - wannabe followups like Scream and all the other BS cannot follow this, trust me...if you love horror but for some reason missed these films you are in for a treat!I remember this, part 2, as the infamous sequel - you know, sequels fail in 99% of all franchises, but not here. Sure, the sequel is a lot different from the original, the sequel is what started Jason's going bezerk (wherein it was his mother in the original..*SPOILER*) - but I think for once here is a sequel that is fully worthy of its previous film..It is not movie art, granted, but it is great entertainment, especially if you saw them as a kid.....  "},{"Title":"Boring, incredibly flawed slasher film.","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With the ending of the first film, it seemed only right to continue the story. I guess they figured they didn't need to improve anything. In this movie we find out that Mrs. Voorhees' son Jason never drowned, but he became a hermit in the woods. Now he's out to avenge his mother's death as some counselors open a camp adjacent to Camp Crystal Lake.This movie is basically an exact copy of the first film, only now Jason is doing the killing. The stalking scenes are the same as before, and it ends up just dragging. This movie isn't really as entertaining as the first one. It drags on and on, and you have to wait until basically the end to see anyone die. The death scenes are so terribly done that they're laughable. Did anyone actually find this scary? I really can't say anything about the acting, because like any Friday the 13th movie, it stinks really bad. But the terrible acting isn't really worth complaining about compared to how bad everything else is. Of course, I have to cut this movie a little slack, because Jason appears for the first time.Like the first film, mindless entertainment, just not as entertaining.4/10 "}{"Title":"Better then the first but still bad.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Now a sequel comes out one exact year later and it was another one that flopped but in my opinion better then the first because it feels as if it moves much more quicker then the first and tries to build tension. So this is the one that introduces Jason into the franchise as the primary killer but in this they use the first person shots again but it doesn't get raped that bad like in the first but Jason doesn't get his hockey mask yet he uses a sac which was used by the Phantom Killer in The town that dread sundown. Which is probably why they went with the iconic hockey mask afterwords in part 3 I would say the main character in this one is the best in the franchise and in the first all the characters did remain fake and boring but all the character in this you love there a lot of fun to be around.So the film starts with Jason tying the lose ends with the original and killing the girl that survived the first then we see the teens arrive at the new camp built next to camp crystal lake and then starts killing until we get the final girl. Who finds her way to Jason's shack and finds his mothers shrine and put the jumper on to try and get Jason to stop with seems like it worked until the end when Jason jumped though the window.So I would watch this one to see how Jason evolves into the hockey mask killer we all know so yeah give it a try. "},{"Title":"Terrible excuse for a horror movie","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not a real horror movie, just another entry in the stalk and slash genre. So predictable with crazed semi-immortal killer and stupid teens who couldn't make a good decision about what cereal to eat for breakfast. All of this adds up to a total waste of two hours. Unfortunately this genre is what passes for horror now and true masters such as Hitchcock are forgotten. The problems extend beyond a pitifully weak storyline. In my opinion the acting is definitely sub-par and directing is what one would expect from a first semester film school student. The problem with this movie is basically that it is the first in a long line of sequels and quality doesn't improve. The whole thing has the look of of something that had a film budget of $24.99. "},{"Title":"Even More Dangerous Than His Psychotic Mother","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie essentially takes up where its predecessor left off with the serial killer by the name of Pamela Voorhees (Betsy Palmer) having been killed by Alice (Adrienne King) who is now living on her own and trying to recover from the trauma. What she doesn't realize is that the son of Mrs. Voorhees, who goes by the name of Jason (Warrington Gillette), has somehow tracked her down and is out for revenge. He gets what he came for and the scene now shifts back to the general area of Camp Crystal Lake where some new counselors are attempting to establish a summer camp again. Unfortunately, Jason lurks in these same woods and he is even more dangerous than his psychotic mother ever was. Now rather than reveal any more of this film I will just say that I thought it was almost as good as the original movie. If nothing else it seemed a bit more polished and greatly benefited from the same general recipe for success as the first film. Likewise, all of the young ladies were certainly attractive with Amy Steel (as Ginny) and Kirsten Baker (Terry) probably standing out the most. In any case, I thought that this was a pretty good horror film and recommend it to those who might enjoy a movie of this type. Above average. "},{"Title":"Almost As Good As The Original","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part 2 directed by Steve Miner is the first Friday film to bring Jason into the series. It almost reaches the same heights as the original.Months after Mrs. Voorhees (Betsy Palmer) was killed, her thought to be dead son ( Jason) takes revenge on the girl who killed his mother by killing her. Then 5 years later a camp counselor training camp is opened. As the group does there training stuff, a vengeful Jason Voorhees (Warrington Gillette) is stalking the campground to kill those who have come near his home. The previous main character Alice (Adrienne King) is killed off in the opening of the film, so that means that there has to be a whole new cast of main characters. A few of the side character are seen a lot in the first little bit of the movie, so it is a little hard to tell who the main character is at first. When the main character does show up, it is quickly apparent that she is different from the usual final girl archetype.The main character is Ginny (Amy Steel) who is not only arrives late, but also has SEX or is at least implied. The one thing that the final girl should never do. Ginny is also quite a step up from Alice, as she is not only shows personally but she actually uses her brain during chase scene. Not only this, but Ginny has had some child psychology schooling and so she seems to know what Jason state of mind is. Ginny describes Jason in a way that makes him sympathetic and seems more like a scared little kid then a force of evil. I find that this is what will always separate Jason from Michael or Freddy.Jason himself in this movie is not what most people are used to. Jason is played by a smaller guy and does not have his hockey mask yet. Jason wears a pillowcase over his head with an eye hole cut in it. I find that this one-eyed pillowcased Jason is creepier, but is nowhere near as iconic. One particular thing that sets this Jason apart is that he sets traps. He actually catches a guy in rope snare, which we never anything like that again.The other characters in this film are likable enough, but are none of them really stand out from each other. The problem I with them is that first they are clearly not teenagers, and second they have such bland dialogue. I guess that was the case in the last film too, but it is no excuse.The camp counselors all go into town for one last night of partying expect for a handful of them. The group that goes into town gets off scot-free, but the ones who stayed are screwed. When most of the counselors go into town Jason starts to do his thing.The kills in this movie are not as bloody or as creative as the ones in the previous film, but this could be because the film had to be heavily cut to get an R-rating. This film does not show Jason much until the end and so before that you only see Jason's shadow on the cabin walls or a P.O.V which helps create suspense. I think that it is this Friday The 13th film that trys the hardest to level with Halloween. It does not succeed in doing this, but it does give the feeling that they tried to match Halloween's suspense while still sticking with the elements found in the first Friday The 13th. Once Ginny and her boss and lover Paul (John Furey) arrive back at the cabin where Jason has slaughtered everyone, Jason sneak attacks and knocks out Paul and chases after Ginny. The chase is well done and even though it is pretty long, it is paced well and never seems like it is dragging on too long. Unfortunately, this chase has that stupid The car won't start thing, but a least it was foreshadowed earlier in the film. Also when Ginny is hiding under a bed she sees a rat under there and so she pisses herself. It is just so stupid and seems like a unlikely thing to happen.The Movie ends at Jason's Shack with Ginny tricking Jason into thinking that she is his death mother by wearing Mrs. Voorhees's old sweeter. I think this either means Jason is plain stupid or in denial. Probably the first guess. Then Paul shows up out of nowhere and fights with him, and while that is happening Ginny buries a machete into his shoulder. Jason falls to the ground dead or knocked out. Ginny then takes off his mask and sees what is under it. They then go back to the main cabin and Jason jumps threw the window maskless. He looks like an adult Chucky with half his face melted.The movie does not mess with the formula that the first one made and is not that different from the first one except that it has Jason. It does do the first one justice though, and is better than most sequels of the 80's.The ending is problematic as it ends so abruptly ad never really explains why Ginny was still alive or what happened to Paul.Also the film does not bother to explain how Jason found Alice or why everyone thought Jason drowned, even though they did not have a body to back it up. You can get these questions answered in the novelization, but on it's own the movie does not answer these questions. These points alone make this an inferior movie to the original. All and all, it is a pretty good slasher film and is up there as being one of the best Friday The 13th Films.Recommend to fans of the first one 7/10 "},{"Title":"Worthwhile sequel to the original","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Reopening a summer camp to train counselors, a group of teens out in the woods finds a local legend about a deranged serial killer to be true when someone begins killing them one-by-one and must get out of the camp alive.This turned out to be one of the greatest of the sequels and is one of the best in the franchise. What really works here for this one is the rather fun and simple back-story here, giving this a great set-up that's really worthwhile in generating a fine slasher epic. The fact that the introduction to the campers here at first which isn't a rather bland, boring set-up that's actually rather fun instead is a big part of that, and when mixed with the effectively eerie stories about the legacy of the area and it's grizzly history in just the right doses this here is incredibly fun. Once the main slashing section starts off, there's a lot more fun here as the film gets in some outstanding chasing and stalking sequences, from the sheriff running through the woods towards the abandoned camp after the shadowy figure, encountering the couple searching in the woods and then to the highlight offerings of the slaughter against the campers where this one piles on a series of incredibly brutal, clever kills that are real show-stopping moments with the most noteworthy a machete slammed into a paraplegic's face and forced to roll down three flights of stairs backward as such, though on the whole the deaths are truly fun and thrilling. There's little to appease, though, of the rather exciting and thrilling final chase here which is one of the best and most thrilling chases in the entire genre as there's so much action spread throughout the scene as the chase rages through camp, out into the woods, throughout the cabins and finally back to the old campsite in a lengthy, scary sequence that gets quite fun not only for the surprisingly smart battle tactics use to try to escape while in the woods but also for the sequence of events in the cabin at the end where the psychology utilized to hold that whole scene together is a clever, unique and totally original idea that's wonderfully played off here. These here hold this one up quite well as there's not a whole lot of flaws. The biggest issue here is the rather lengthy and wholly unnecessarily long intro here, which takes up fifteen minutes of time not only offering a recount of the previous film's finale but also with her rambling about the apartment and it could really use a trim to make it less lengthy. Along with the repetition of plot elements from Part 1, it's all that's really wrong here as there's much more to like.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Full Nudity, a sex scene, and drug use. "},{"Title":"The finest of the Friday the 13th movies,","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The second Friday the 13th is formulaic and simplistic in execution, but it was also one of the first to establish that formula. The entire cast is fresh, and the pace is near perfect. Despite MPAA requiring nearly a minute of footage to be cut, and the re-cut of the final scene which can lead to some fan confusion (Paul is dead, dying to save Ginny. No, she did not dream this sequence) the film still manages to overcome its flaws to solidify the blueprint of an '80's slasher flick. This film is often thought of as the first first appearance of Jason, or the movie without the Hockey mask, but more than anything it illustrates how those conventions define the Villain in pop culture and yet proved not necessary to embody the spirit of what a Friday the 13th film is.Not one to miss. "},{"Title":"A great sequel! Worth the watch!","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13th  PART II is a definite sequel to the original 1984 film.The plot is very similar to the first film, young camp counselors are setting the site getting ready for young campers when all of a sudden an unseen assailant starts picking them off one by one.Eventually, we see the killer as a man wearing a potato sack over his head. The movie starts with the lead character from the first one getting killed in her apartment. It really sets the eerie tone for the whole movie.There is no mystery to solve here with regards to the killer's identity. Jason Voorhees starts killing counselors after seeing his mother beheaded in the first film.Amy Steel is the heroine in this sequel and her character Ginny is not one of my favorite Jason girls in the film series and Jason does not even where the hockey mask until the next film, which we will get to. PART II needed more scenes of violence and gore in this feature film and it doesn't do too much to scare the audiences.The creepiest part for me was when Ginny and Paul got back to the camp after a night out and Jason was hiding in the darkness of the living room waiting to kill them all. I and all of the other people didn't know he was there until Ginny whispered that she thought there was someone in the room.This is one of my favorite Jason movies and this is a must-see horror extravanganza for all horror fans and non-horror films and future filmmakers.10/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This first sequel in the popular Friday the 13th franchise is an entertaining film. The beginning recaps the events of the first, so the viewer can watch this without worrying about it if they haven't watched the first film. This movie once again takes place at Camp Crystal Lake, now the site of gruesome murders that took place in the first film. A killer with a sack over his head is stalking a group of teenagers at the camp. Will the killer succeed in murdering all of the kids, or will good triumph over evil? This is one of the best sequels of any horror film, and it only goes downhill from here. This is very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2 (1981)","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first Friday the 13th was meant to be a one-time deal, but after it tore up the box office and made Sean S. Cunningham a big time writer/director, a sequel was inevitable. The issue was, and spoiler alert for those that haven't seen the thirty year-old film, the killer in Friday the 13th was Mrs. Voorhees, and she was killed at the end. The issue now is what do you do with the sequel? One idea that was floated around was to make more films with each film having its own story, but this fell through and it's probably for the best.So, the writers decided to bring in Jason, the reason behind the carnage in the first film, back to life. Well, I suppose it really depends on what story you believe. It's never made clear exactly how Jason came to be. If the viewer is to believe Mrs. Voorhees, Jason died in the lake so many years ago. Then again, why would you believe her? She's a nutcase! Anyway, either Jason never died and Mrs. Voorhees flipped her lid anyway, or Jason lived, and watched his mother get killed that night, and decided to get revenge for himself.The only real issue is, if he watched what happened, why didn't he kill Alice, the lead in the first film, at that moment? That's the problem with bringing Jason into the fold, with no concrete reason why, it's hard for viewers to buy his story. At the end of the day, we just have to accept that Jason is here, and he's in for some killing.The film takes place five years after the first, giving Camp Crystal Lake some time to recover. Of course a group of counselors intend to reopen the resort, but instead of going back to the scene of the crime they take up shop a few hundred yards down river. In fact they're so close that people are able to wander into the old stomping ground. Jason, now out for revenge, is there to hack em up one by one.Ginny Field (Amy Steel), our hero of the film, actually lays down some good analysis on Jason, what he would be like if he was still alive, and how he would think like a child even though he'd be an adult. It actually adds some juiciness to the story; sure there are plenty of scares and some good kills, but it's nice to have some steak with that sizzle.The finale is one of my favorites, as we come to find that Jason's kept a keepsake from his mom, almost like a shrine to her. All but two end up dying in the end, but creates some problems heading into the next film. As expected, there's one final jump scare at the end.What a lot of people don't remember about Friday the 13th Part 2 is, its not really that gory. Turns out the MPAA had it's way with the film after the first film was able to get away with so much. I never really noticed how toned down the kills are in this one, so if you're a gore freak, this one really isn't for you. On the flip side, I think, the less gore, the better the chills.Steve Miner cuts a really good pace here, and when the film slows down we get enough story to keep us going, and of course the music is spot on again here. The creepy sounds of Ki-Ki-Ki come back to keep viewers constantly afraid of what's around the corner.To me this is probably the creepiest Friday the 13th in the entire series. We don't have a lot of gore, and Jason is running in this one (not walking) and has a sack with one eye hole for a mask, which is far more realistic then the hockey mask from the third installment.Basically, Jason could be some crazy backwoods hillbilly out in the woods. The less supernatural about the killer, the scarier he is. Friday the 13th Part 2 is a great follow up to the first film, even if it introduces a problem with Jason returning from his supposed grave in the first film. Worth a watch for sure. "},{"Title":"Wreck it Crazy Ralph......","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After killing Mrs. Voorhees, Alice can finally relax. But there is just one problem. Jason never drowned at Camp Crystal Lake and lived in the nearby woods all this time. The day that Alice beheaded his mother, Jason saw everything and his heart filled with thirst for revenge. Two months later, Alice disappears. Five years later, a camp next to Crystal Lake is built and the counsellors start snooping around the old, abandoned camp ruins......It was inevitable that a sequel would be made for one of the most iconic horror films ever made, back then Halloween was its only competition, and as it's been proved over the years, Jason has had the staying power, or is it because it's set in a deep dark forest,the kind where you were told ghost stories at night.This is where the story stems from, those campfire stories.But after seeing the movies over and over again, I've resigned myself to the opinion that the ones with the bag instead of the iconic mask, are a bit, boring.Yes, purists will say that in this he can run, and he was a more believable killer, but hey, I like my eighties slasher movies over the top, so sue me if I like slow Jason, over the top Jason, Manhatten Jason.It's still watchable stuff though, and its perfunctory to the narrative.But it hasn't aged well, and its a bit dull. "}{"Title":"The bloodshed continues as we return to Camp Crystal Lake for the second time","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the first sequel to Friday the 13th (1980) and in many ways it's a retread of the original. We're back in Camp Crystal Lake, where a new gang of teenagers have had the less than sensible idea to try and become camp counsellors. Most of the films in the series follow a basic formula, and there are about ten more of these, each with their own idiosyncrasies that define them, for better or worse.Friday the 13th, Part 2 stands out for a number of reasons. For one thing, it's the first sequel, and the first to directly feature the killer who would go on to define the franchise Jason Voorhees. Notably, he hasn't even acquired his signature hockey mask yet, and instead obscures his face with a sack. Unfortunately, it looks a little stupid and impractical, and it's nowhere near as iconic as the hockey mask or even the white mask of Michael Myers in the competing Halloween franchise. But otherwise clad in a plaid shirt and dungarees, this Jason comes across more as a shady backwoods killer than the relentless undead monster of later sequels.The story is set up quickly and simply. After a direct flashback to the ending of the previous movie, we get a tense, jump-filled introduction which ties up the one loose end from the first film, the lone survivor Alice. Back at Crystal Lake, new counsellors are attending pre-camp training, led by Paul (John Furey) and his girlfriend Ginny (Amy Steel), who are the main protagonists. The other counsellors are merely fodder for Jason.This fact is obscured at first, as Paul takes most of the counsellors out for a last night on the town before camp begins. As a result, we see little of Paul and Ginny until later in the movie. Unsurprisingly, those who choose to say behind at the camp are sitting ducks, and for the next act, there is no clear protagonist.The director, Steve Miner, retains the atmosphere of his predecessor, but with slightly tighter pacing. He would direct the third instalment in the franchise; as a result, the first trilogy has some of the strongest continuity in the series. Thematically, this film is linked with the original in ways that the other films aren't.I liked the way that the story of Jason and his mother was told around the campfire early in the film. This tale encourages the characters to head into the woods to find evidence of Jason or the original Camp Crystal Lake, and it does not end well once Jason realises they have trespassed on his hallowed ground. This Jason is still haunted by the ghost of the late Mrs. Voorhees and we also see where he lives in a ramshackle cabin in the woods behind the lake, and this is where the final chase and fight end up.Ginny is revealed to be studying child psychology and discusses the effect Jason's upbringing and the death of his mother may have had on his behaviour. Cleverly, Ginny eventually uses her knowledge to manipulate Jason in the finale and buy time.Another recurring theme is that characters mention what they're going to do with the rest of their lives (using those words) which is deeply ironic, considering the fate that will likely befall them. One character declares she needs a couple of months to sort her life out, one idly muses about what he'll do for the rest of his life, another promises that she will never be 'late' again, and a disabled character declares he doesn't intend to spend the rest of his life in a wheelchair.Save a hockey mask, there's here everything that a Friday the 13th film suggests, including some good action (at one point, Ginny attempts to fend Jason off with a chainsaw), inventive and gory death scenes and plenty of neglectful sexcapades which lead to the arrival of Jason. So it does the job. "},{"Title":"Atmosphere goes great with a kick-ass lead","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really like the atmosphere here. I feel like all the sequels were a lot more like action films in a way, Jason being shown fully in bright light doing his killing. While I love that kind of Jason (Jason X is just kick-ass), but this type of Jason has the Michael Myers vibe, it makes him a lot scarier and more mysterious. This was before the hockey mask kids, before Kane Hodder turned Jason into Horrors Jason Bourne, and before Freddy Kreuger made your nightmares uninhabitable. This is the best Halloween rip-off since Halloween 2.Ginny, god I love her. She's your average nice goody goody two shoes for the entire film and you kind of want her to die because of it, but then she kicks Jason... ready for this... in the nuts, she straight up kicks him in the jingle bells. Thats awesome, she is awesome, her and Kay-Em 14 from Jason X are the most bad-ass girls in the entire series, no doubt. I don't know why but after every death they fade into white, I kind of like it too. It takes you right out of every kill and right back into a scene of nudity or pointless talk. Speaking of death, they kill a guy in a wheelchair in this movie, and its hilarious... I don't know whether to feel bad or just be disguised with myself.The soundtrack is Psycho, well its not, but it sure sounds like it. Does it make the film better?, yes it does, would I have preferred a more original soundtrack?, yes, yes I would have.The acting is actually quite good for a slasher flick, all the characters are written with slightly more depth and you do kind of like all of them but of course, they are all going to die and you are going to enjoy watching them die, marvelous.Overall, I like part 2, its got a really creepy atmosphere that the other films lacked and most of all, It actually had some moments that scared me, mostly jump scares but still. "},{"Title":"This time it is Jason","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The pre-credit sequence shows us Alice (King), the only survivor from the original, opening her refrigerator door and seeing the decapitated head of Mrs. Voorhees! She quickly gets an ice pick shoved into her skull by a faceless killer. It turns out to be Jason (Gillette), the deformed son of the deranged Mrs. Voorhees who is now avenging her death as she did his in the original. How Jason survived the drowning of the original film is never explained. Five years later Paul Holt (Furey) is opening a training program at the camp across from Crystal Lake with a new crop of teenage counselors and Jason begins his rampage. Staying exactly in the vein of the original, Part 2 is a body count film in its truest sense. You know the counselors are there to be slaughtered and Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney) is back warning of doom, so the question is how does it play out? With a good looking cast, and decent acting for the most part, this sequel has some nice slasher moments in it. Paul's background story of Jason around the campfire is so chilling and intense Part 4 in this series would use it to recap the series to that point. Director Steve Miner, an associate Producer on the original, directs with a sense of flair and adds some suspense to the stalk and chase scenes with Ginny (Steel) at the end which is a lot of fun. The overall production is glossier this time around and the ending in Jason's shack is a good one. Jason with a sack over his head and armed with a pitchfork most of the time impales two lovers together, and a vicious machete to the face of a man in a wheelchair could be the highlight kill of the movie. Great effects work by Carl Fullerton rival Savini's work in the original, even though the MPAA made them trim a lot away before it was released. An energetic score by Composer Harry Manfredini helps too. Part 2 adds nothing new other than Jason who really doesn't make any sense. If you just go with it, Part 2 is a solid slasher film. "},{"Title":"(MAJOR SPOILERS) I won't deny that it's fairly enjoyable, but it feels like dejavu","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The survivor of the original, Alice Hardy is doing some much needed decompressing after the traumatic shock she went through in the original from beheading Jason's mother. Alice is suffering from nightmares from the events, though she appears to be in the clear. There is one thing Alice doesn't realize. Jason isn't really dead. He survived the drowning, and he's been living in the woods for years. A mere two months later, Alice is killed with an ice pick. Five years later, Paul Holt opens a camp next to Camp Blood, aka Crystal Lake, despite ample warning from authorities. Paul hires a bunch of counselors to help him run the camp. After explaining to the counselors that Camp Crystal Lake is prohibited, and that Jason is a myth, Jason goes on a murderous rampage. I like this movie to a certain extent. It is quite entertaining, and has all of the stuff you love in a Friday The 13th movie. I'm a humongous fan of the franchise. I know it by heart, because i've seen it so many times. My problem is that it's a watered down version of the original. It delivers the same formula from the original in a lot of ways, only with Jason as the actual killer. They use the same tactic they did in the original. For much of the movie, Jason is concealed. We get plenty of shots of him walking, but not many closeups until the finale. It was an effective tactic, but it was used more efficiently in the original. Jason isn't all that threatening in this one. He doesn't have the notorious goalie mask that would become a trademark for him. That wouldn't happen until the next installment, F13th Part III, and it was actually Shelley who is responsible for Jason getting the mask in the first place. But I digress. Jason has the Town That Dreaded Sundown look in this one. He has a mediocre looking potato sack over his head, and uses various weapons to kill. It isn't all that suspenseful until the memorable finale. It is entertaining in a lovable 80's way, but not much happens.We get deaths, but a lot of them are bland. We get a forgettable slit throat, two people are impaled simultaneously, and a severed head. Someone gets an icepick in the temple, a machete in the face, and more, but it's all rather bloodless. They cut away before you get to see much. Adrienne King returns succinctly in the beginning. I would like to think her role would have been more substantial if it wasn't for her real life stalker. She deserved a much better send off. Amy Steele is an ideal heroine. As far as females go, she is the best heroine in the series. She just seems like a woman you can hang and chill with, somebody normal. She is also a top notch actress. I'm rather shocked her career didn't take off. It is also a bit of a shame she turned down F13th Part III. I would love to see her come back for a future installment. John Furey is solid as Paul. He's got some great hair, as well as some above average acting chops. His campfire tale always give me chills with the way he does it. Stuart Charno is engagingly goofy as Ted, despite an idiotic laugh. Tom McBride was terrific as the dude in the wheel chair. As a matter of fact...Mark (McBride) & Vickie (Lauren Marie-Taylor) had a cute romance. It is one of the rare times where I felt sad when a couple of characters died. The way Mark dies is rather nasty. The finale is by far the most memorable thing about this movie. It is highly suspenseful with some great boo scares, and excellent psychology (I loved when Ginny acts as Jason's Mom, sweater and all). The scene of Jason crashing through the window, unmasked is legendary. My only complaint is that it runs a tad too long, and the ending has too many loose ends. Paul disappears with no proper explanation. We aren't really sure if he's dead or not, despite that he's presumed dead. It was far too ambiguous for my liking. There were rumors that John Furley (Paul) got heated, and left before filming finished, but that was said to be debunked. Whatever the case is, it kind of tarnishes the ending a bit. Final Thoughts I do like this movie. It is enjoyable in an 80's slasher type way, but it's one of the weakest films in the series. The average first half, and the ending kind of hinder the overall impact. There is still plenty of things to enjoy about it, though. If you're a slasher fan or a F13th fan, you will more than likely find things to enjoy. If nothing else, it did give us a classic heroine in Ginny!6.4/10 "},{"Title":"Here's JAASON!----Seriously, its a good film!","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't normally rate the Friday the 13th films high even though I certainly enjoy them as its the same thing again and again... However, this was one of the better slasher-sequels I've seen. It certainly wasn't scary but it had a few jumpy scenes and I thought the opening scene with Alice was cleverly done. It was the spookiest part of the film for sure because you wouldn't be certain exactly how dangerous Jason could be. After that, the film does slow down tremendously to the point it actually got boring for a while. However, two quick kills get us drawn back to the film and away from unnecessary scenes and dialogue. The scene where the two people are having sex and Jason comes in was awesome as he suddenly comes in and kills them off. The awesome thing about this scene comes from when Ginny decides to check out her friends and why everything is quiet. She opens the blanket and Jason just jumps out like a BOSS! Then we see the two being brutally killed and this was by far the greatest Friday the 13th moment to date. After that, the last fifteen to twenty minutes was actually very exciting and it wasn't scary, but was kinda funny for me. From here to the end of the film, its all filled with tension. I, especially liked the scene where Ginny dresses up as Pamela to distract Jason, proving that despite he doesn't say a word and despite the fact that you can't see his face, you can CLEARLY see that he loves her so much. The scene was beautifully done, especially for a horror film. But as soon as Jason wises up, things get intense. There's some moments that briefly made me jump but it was really great at the end, giving it a solid 7/10 "},{"Title":"Banjo Duel","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I like Jason. He's similar to Michael Myers in that he's basically a little boy trapped in a monster's body, horribly murdering any representative of the outside world that dare impede on his territory. He guards his forest sanctuary like an avenging angel, delivering swift old Testament justice to all trespassers that don't bother to heed the legend of Crystal Lake. From his POV these lost lambs are obnoxious, empty shells unworthy of life; they taunt him with their loose morals & care free attitudes. Tormented as child, he strikes back at the rootless society that rejected him. A monster like Freddy is impure, sexually aware unlike the solemn purity of Michael or Jason (he also never shuts the &%$# up). Both are golems, silent and implacable. There's a spoiled innocence to them, while the bastard son of 100 maniacs was basically damned from the start. You can almost sympathize with Jason, like all good monsters. They are true outsiders.This is the 2nd entry in the epic Friday anti-saga & the first to star our resident boogeyman, still unrecognizable from the legend he would eventually become. He isn't a hulking zombie here, festering slowly into oozing pieces. Clad in flannel & sporting a burlap sack where the hockey mask should be, several inches shorter & creeping through the woods like a greasy bushman, housed in a shack worshipping the severed petrified head of his dead mother he's a congenitally deformed mongoloid. Yee haw. Part 2 veers closer to drive-in territory than any other entry, of all its siblings it deserves to be seen on a outside screen the most, surround sound crickets chirping at you in the humid night air. When the big reveal comes Jason is shown to be a backwoods elephant man sporting a shock of ginger hair(!).It makes me think of every bad inbred redneck joke & campfire sing-along about hook-handed slashers and that's what's great about this much maligned series its one of those silly fireside yarns that refuses to die, that you get mad at yourself for being creeped out by on the way back to your tent. You make fun sure, but you still enjoy yourself. Its shoddy & no frills like an over recited folk standard, treading the same tired ground again & again with dogged determination. Its goals are modest but it never fails to deliver. And it may speak in the grunts of the short-bus traveller but that doesn't make it less valid. I guess you could say that of a lot of 'bad' movies though; there can still be a sort of poetry there. Even for a Jason movie though this is scaled down & minimalistic, laid back like a summer vacation in the roasting sun. It all sort of hangs out loosely, lazily, pausing occasionally for a quick death then getting back to the fun loving teenagers, your typical cast of walking spam. It begins on a perfect note with a childhood rhyme, the man-child's boots clomping swiftly through rain puddles. The standard recap that would later play like a 'greatest hits' is here a nightmare by way of part 1's final girl. We follow her through her empty house, damaged by her experience at Crystal Lake. Jason's sharp eyes track Alice slyly from around shadowy corners in the stalker's POV good old fashioned, jump-scare slasher stuff. The fun n games climaxes with the discovery of Mrs. Vorhee's severed head laying in her fridge like a spoiled entrée, right before an ice pick enters Alice's skull from behind & the pre-credits explode onto screen with a flurry of screaming strings. Lean, mean introduction. We're privy to the usual hedonistic past times from there skinny dipping, drinking, horseplay- the watcher in the woods always lurking nearby, staring out from the bushes, occasionally claiming a victim then melting back into thin air. Until he moves in for the kill, Jason haunts like a ghost.There is a couple great iconic shots in this flick that make for series standouts. The first is the paraplegic rolling down the steps backwards in his chair, thunder lightning & rain pouring down with a big ole meat cleaver buried in his skull- a great image and one of the best kills of the mythos, right up there with sleeping bag-meets-tree & pureed banana. It's so callous & harsh that it reminds me of the fantastic slow pullback on the rocking chair girl with the bag over her face in BLACK Christmas; you can really feel the ice water in this show's veins. Most kills in slasher movies are perfunctory, with only a couple memorable offings in any one entry, maybe more if it's authored by a hack of uncommon talent. This is one of those that your mind's eye can retroactively flashback to in the dead of night. I like how these kill scenes white-out like a camera taking a photo too, underlining them. You'd expect gimps to be spared the awful Kentucky fried payback of DELIVERANCE era Jason,right up there with preggos, pets & little children but no.The other is the constant reappearance of Pamela Vorhees's beef jerky head. Its a spooky little detail that contributes a lot to the hick bleakness of this one, long before the cheese of the Kane Hodder years. Its presence in the final sequence, seated like a talisman at the center of Jason's home base makes for real eeriness, a bit of texture that unfortunately wouldn't live on. An incestuous shrine of motherly love that Jason must pay homage too... "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Sequel!","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Amy Steel, John Furey and Adrienne King star in this 1981 horror sequel. After surviving the grisly murders at Camp Crystal Lake, Alice (King) is having trouble getting over them. Soon, she's found and killed by deformed man, Jason Voorhees who avenges the death of his mother, Pamela. Five years later, a group of teen counselors led by Paul (Furey) and his girlfriend, Ginny (Steel) decide to open a camp near Crystal Lake where they talk about the murders that took place there and question if Jason is a legend or not. When the body count grows, Ginny and Paul discover that Jason is real. Steve Dash & Warrington Gillette portray Jason and Betsy Palmer also makes a cameo as Mrs. Voorhees. The year of 1981 gave us many slasher flicks like The Burning, Just Before Dawn, My Bloody Valentine, Final Exam, Graduation Day and Halloween II. This is a pretty good sequel I recommend for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Mommy's boy","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In my review on Friday the 13th, I vehemently criticised it and refused to hold back in branding it with my distaste and disappointment with what I thought to be A blatant rip-off of a far more superior work, and by that I meant John Carpenter's Halloween. The remake wasn't much better... however, the first sequel in the franchise I'm happy to say has completely changed my view on Jason Voorhoos and this franchise. Friday the 13th Part II is not only a brilliant sequel that is subsequently superior to the original, but on it's own, I think is an excellent, creepy and suspenseful horror film with a decent body count as Jason - not yet sporting his iconic hockey mask, but instead, a burlap sack, terrorizes and slaughters teenagers at the abandoned Camp Crystal Lake. Featuring one of the longest pre-credit sequences in film history (Almost fifteen minutes) we see the sole survivor of Mrs. Voorhee's rampage from the first film a couple of months after the horror trying to get her life back together. She is stalked around the house, before Jason kills her, after she discovers Mrs. Voorhee's decayed head in her fridge. Five years later, a camp is built beside the abandoned Camp Crystal Lake, now a place of urban myth and ghost-stories. So it's inevitable that the teenagers who come along for the camp counsellors training are going to end up investigating the old camp to see it for themselves. The training is led by Paul Holt (John Furey) and his girlfriend, only not much training ever takes place as they all head off into town to get drunk, leaving a handful of them at the camp. Jason, wearing a burlap sack, leaves his shack where he worships the decaying head of his mother, to enact a savage revenge on these young people for his mother's dead at the hands of a young woman five years earlier. And we are in for one hell of a night of it...This is a very suspenseful and creepy film, finally given justice to Jason after his incredible absence from the first film (apart from his ghoulish assault launched from the bottom of the lake at the end). Directed by Steve Miner, his directorial debut, he would go on to direct the next sequel in the franchise and with him at the helm, I look forward to watching it. In the style of a TV series, the start of the film recaps the ending of the first, which is a good idea, considering the majority of people may have forgotten the details of that ending, and it was always nice to see possibly the only redeeming thing in the original, where Jason jumps out of the lake at the end and drags your one into the water (That was terrifying, and had impressed me enough to bring the rating of the first film up a star). The characters in Part 2 are pretty likable, including the jock in the wheelchair after a motorcycle accident, but unfortunately, his death came too quick when I had hoped for a struggle and his murder seemed very blurry and quick due to the film becoming a victim of the censors rampage during the 80's when it received an X-rating due to it's violence (Very tame nowadays of course). As a result - the fallout felt even today - some of the violence comes across as choppy and hard to make out .... anyway, Miner directs it very well, re-creating the atmosphere of the first film and upping the tension a couple of levels. Mrs. Voorhees's head is awfully ghoulish looking, and the little shrine Jason has made for her is pretty cute. Poor Jason... a crazy, blood-thirsty lunatic, but at heart, he is nothing but a mommy's boy. The ending is kinda confusing, but it's a salute to the ending of the first film and is quite decent. It had to leave it open for another sequel, after all, it was made on a budget of just over $1,000,000 and it earned just over $20,000,000 upon it's release. Not a bad take. Crazy Ralf (Walt Gorney) is back again, and not prematurely he is finally killed after laying his final warning to this fresh pile of young meat - I told the others, they didn't believe me. You're all doomed. You're all doomed! Well said Ralph... ironically he has the most sense. "},{"Title":"A good follow up to the original","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I like the original one alone but I like watching the sequels for fun.The Good- Great storyline, great characters, great acting especially from Amy Steel and the other actors. The(SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT)death scenes were inventive and original. The music score was pitch perfect one of the best soundtracks I've ever listened too.Okay now here's the Bad or for this movie disappointing.The beginning of the movie was great but what I didn't like was how Alice (Spoiler Alert Spoiler Alert) got immediately killed off. It made her character seem weak I mean she defended herself from the killer in part one.Another thing was the effects which were good but we didn't get to see the finished product which was the death scenes they practically got cut! such a shame 7/10In the end this movie is definitely worth buying on DVD and it is one of my favorites. Also get the deluxe edition although the special features are a big disappointment, still get it! "},{"Title":"Second Time's A Charm!","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the early days of Friday the 13th there was almost an innocence surrounding the first four. Granted a viewer was guaranteed certain things bloody deaths, sex scenes and nudity. But still there was an innocence that was lost as the series would go along. Enter Part 2. Taking place five years after the events of the first one, and after killing off the sole survivor from that first film, we're introduced to a new bunch of stereotypical camp counselors. Hormones are raging, pranks are pulled and everybody has a care-free attitude. (*Dramatic music*) That is until a deranged, sackcloth-wearing killer finds them on his turf. What follows is much like the first, however this time the identity of the killer is no secret. Yes, this is officially the movie that introduced Jason Voorhees to the world, minus his iconic hockey mask. But we can forgive them for that, after all the series was just getting started. In many ways I like it almost as much as the first. Finally throughout a night of bloodshed, we're left with Ginny, a cute blonde, and her boyfriend Paul (one of the worst names to have in a horror movie.) For the remaining twenty minutes, we get to witness the couple repeatedly attacked and terrified by Jason. The finale in the decrepit, ram-shackled house is pretty eerie. And I really like Ginny's solution to ward off Jason's final assault, using a combination of child psychology and an old sweater. It's quite inventive! Speaking purely from a guy's perspective, this movie has got one other reason to watch. The skinny-dipping girl is truly a sight to behold! So enjoy anyway you can!!! "}{"Title":"This under-appreciated sequel deserves a more objective look","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While most fans consider this to be one of the tamest entries in the franchise, Friday The 13th Part 2 is actually a very worthy successor to the classic original, and when judged on its own merits as opposed to its significance within the series as a whole, this holds up as an extremely well-crafted slasher offering.The tone of this sequel is similar to the first film, and while subsequent F13 outings would be primarily defined by their increasingly elaborate death scenes, Part 2's atmosphere is shaped by more traditional horror elements. Without FX guru Tom Savini on hand to handle the kills, the film-makers wisely refrained from trying to make this follow-up an inferior retread of Savini's classic work in the original. While this results in a much less gory movie, the murders are still shot and edited with great care, and even a relatively bloodless scene like the claw hammer to the cranium bit plays out as effectively explicit.Despite Part 2's reputation for being light on the special sauce, the film still boasts some of the most memorably macabre moments in the series. Both the double spear impalement and wheelchair-bound Mark's machete-driven backward plunge down the stairs are indelible and shocking moments that have only been diluted over time because of of how trained splatter fans later became to expect gallons of blood in every horror film.The film adds some great touches to the original story, and the glimpses we get of Jason's dilapidated make-shift shack sweet shack offer a logical and feasible extension of the Jason mythos. Likewise, his gruesome shrine to his beloved mother is a fantastic addition that enhances Jason as a character rather than simply an unstoppable killing machine, and it's a shame that none of the following sequels ever referenced it again.The most unfair criticism levied at this film is the notion that Jason's appearance is somehow not as iconic as it is in the later films. Again, perspective is key here. When this sequel was made, the idea of incorporating Jason's hockey mask hadn't even been considered yet, and the burlap sack over his head is actually a very fitting adornment in the scope of his story as it had been shaped up to this point. In Part 2, Jason is still just a deformed, mentally challenged psychopath living in the seclusion of the woods, so him using a crude, simple cloth sack to cover up his monstrous features actually makes perfect sense from a character stand-point. As for Jason himself, Steve Dash does an excellent job of bringing the character to life (the credits erroneously name Warrington Gillette as Jason, but Gillette actually only appeared in a single scene; for the bulk of the film, when we see Jason on screen we're seeing Dash). Kane Hodder is rightfully considered the best Jason, but in terms of sheer physicality, Dash gives the killer an imposing presence that we wouldn't see portrayed as impressively until Hodder donned the mask several sequels later.Amy Steel is a great heroine, certainly one of the most likable and capable in the series, and she heads a notably strong cast that largely eschews stereotypical teen archetypes in favor of acting like real people. The climax is tautly executed and brings the film to a satisfying close, and while the final jump-scare plays out like a copycat of the original, it still stands as a nice little ending jolt.Yes, Jason shouldn't have hair when we see him revealed during the denouement. Yes, the five-minute flashback sequence that opens the film causes the plot to take a while to get going. But otherwise, nearly every element in Part 2 is well-crafted, and while die-hards may bemoan the dearth of splatter here, as a pure horror film, Friday 2 is a thoroughly solid offering. For what it's worth, I would rank it as the 3rd best entry in the original eight-film Friday franchise, just below The Final Chapter and the original F13. Those are two lofty benchmarks to surpass, and considering how close this inaugural Jason outing comes to doing just that, I have to respectfully argue that Friday fans are selling this one way short. "},{"Title":"My first Friday the 13th","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen a horror movie for a long time. And watching this one reminds me that these type of movies aren't to be taken seriously. The purpose of watching a slasher movie, is to watch usually obnoxious characters meet a grizzly demise by the hands of a scary killer.I already know everything about Jason Voorhees, that he dons his infamous hockey mask in part 3, that he doesn't show up until the end of the original, and that he is virtually indestructible. This doesn't quite show yet, as Jason doesn't seem very powerful in this film. The body count is average, though when i look back on it, it seems low. Most of the deaths weren't very memorable, and the characters were pretty stupid. But I guess you have to expect that in a film like this. There were several parts that I thought could have been fixed up.One that I can remember distinctly, was toward the end of the film, the 'final girl' stabbed a machete into Jason's shoulder, which he responds by laying down 'dead'. Any person will know that Jason will not die from this, in fact, can a real human being die from being stabbed in the shoulder? I'm not a doctor, but I'm pretty sure it would take more than that, and especially on Jason. So of course later he pops back up attacking the 2 remaining survivors and a dog who I thought died (I still don't get this).Also, there is no main character in this film. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but usually the main character of a slasher film would be somehow connected to the killer, whether it be a distant connection or just that they've been in contact before, or she has had the most luck escaping him, etc. Since there is nobody, you don't really feel much for any of the victims, and usually it's most effective when you want the people to escape, but here, I just wanted to see them all die. And they did! So I guess I'm wrong here, this movie was entertaining, but as hard as I try to nit-pick it, there isn't really any valid arguments, since it's a 1980's slasher movie.All I have to say is that it's a 1980's R rated slasher movie', and once you have accepted that, it is easily enjoyable, and NOT to be taken seriously. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Solid follow up","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13TH PART II **** Out of 5 Release Date- May 1st, 1981Running Time- 87-Minutes Rating- R Screenplay- Ron Kurz Director- Steve Miner Starring- Amy Steel, John Furey, Adrienne King, Kirsten Baker, Stu Charno, Bill Randolph, Lauren-Marie Taylor, Marta Kober, Tom McBride, Walt Gorney and Betsy Palmer as Mrs. Voorhees Many fans of the franchise cite Friday the 13th has being overall better than the original and while I do enjoy part II I don't think it's on the same level as the original movie. The one thing forgotten by a lot of people is the early Friday the 13th movies while were made as cash ins with a large body count they still tried to create suspense and scares. I break the series down in two. The first few were Friday the 13th films and the 2nd half Jason films.After the unexpected success of Friday the 13th the sequel was pretty much rushed into production and opened just under a year after the original. This time around Jason Voorhees makes his debut as the killer, which really doesn't make any sense. If he did drown as a child how did he come back? And if Jason didn't drown as a child than where as he been all this time? I suppose it really doesn't matter and since this movie turned a profit it didn't matter to fans either. Friday the 13th Part II was the debut with Jason as the killer and the rest is slasher movie history.In many ways Friday the 13th Part II is almost a remake of the first film. The basic structure is the same, the characters are a lot like those I the original film Ted is sort of a take on Ned, and Jeff and Sandra remind me a bit of Jack and Marcie; even the final chase scene is shot for shot the same only with new characters.Writer Ron Kurz does fairly decent with the script; apparently he did some rewrites on the original, but was uncredited. I suppose that is legit seeing as the screenplay here is nothing more than a rehash of the original script just change the name of the characters and add a few more in. The characters lack depth like those in the original and while not totally faceless they lack the identities like the original characters. Overall for a slasher flick, Ron Kurz does write a decent little script even if it mostly rehashes the original.Steve Miner made his directorial debut and pretty much sticks to the formula that Sean Cunningham did with the original. Steve Miner is an interesting director, despite some success in box office he never really came up with a style of his own. In all his horror flicks he follows the format of other filmmakers like Cunningham, Craven and Carpenter. Though despite not having much of his own style, Miner has been able to make some enjoyable movies and Friday the 13th Part II is one of those enjoyable movies.Steve Miner never strays from what Sean Cunningham did with the original; he follows the same exact formula and pretty much takes scenes from the original and has them here in the sequel. Despite the total lack of originality, Miner is able to build some decent suspense and tension while able to provide a jump scare or two. Unlike Cunningham, Steve Miner never really sets a creepy tone like Cunningham was able to do. I suppose that is in part due to having his scenes play out the same. But again despite all of that Steve Miner does craft an enjoyable and some what creepy movie. Though the death of Mark was excellent and really set the tone for the remainder of the movie.Jason Voorhees was played by Steve Dash despite the credits; Gillette only played him in one scene at the end. Jason was actually rather creepy and is always lurking around and unlike the later installments he takes his time and is a bit more methodical sort of like Michael Myers, which works well. Ginny played by Amy Steel is one of the fan favorites of the series with good reason and Paul played by John Furey was also a solid character. Adrienne King returns as Alice in a very small role that is unconnected to the rest of the movie.Overall Friday the 13th Part II is a fairly solid sequel and while it's nothing more than a rehash of the original with new characters it actually works well and is at times fairly creepy. A lot of fans cite this one as better than the original and I can't help but feel that is due to Jason since with all the sequels it does seem weird without Jason in the original. But regardless, Friday the 13th Part II is a fairly strong slasher flick and comes highly recommended to fans of these kinda movies. "},{"Title":"Not best movie in series","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie start of with showing what happened in the first Friday 13th movie.The girl from the 1st is killed by someone, we can't see who the killer face at this point before Friday 13th Part words come up.Then we are introduce to a number of teenager who are going to Crystal Lake Camp even be warned not to go there by a stranger, later that night they all go on camp out and one of the guy tells them a story about Jason who has come back from dead after he mother was killed.Soon after kills start and people die one by one, some of the deaths like the Axe in face for wheelchair guy was really nasty and also creative for the time.I didn't find Jason scary in this movie at all , why would anyone find someone with bag over their head scary. I liked the fact this was not that long movie, which made it bit better.I going to give this movie 5 out 10 "},{"Title":"The Legend Continues Friday the 13th Part II","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Can anyone explain success? Does it make any sense? I doubt it. Mostly, success seems to be all about timing. Friday the 13th wasn't a perfect movie but it would have been a smash success just based on the advertising campaign. Because the accounts of crowds of movie-goers lined up around the block to see this film was all for opening day. They didn't know what they were about to see, but they knew they wanted to see it. That movie did its' job raising public interest. And the movie delivered exactly what the trailer promised. Cheap gratuity, a little sleaze, excess (the 70's meets the 80's head first!), and lots of violence and death! It is a horror, after all. Understandably, this would motivate any major studio to pump a lot of energy into a sequel if it would be easy to make. If the formula was easy to re-do. The story pretty ran into dead end. It was a classic mystery - the only survivor of a brutal massacre thinks she's safe but is attacked by an illusion. Was it real? Is it still where she left it?If you haven't seen this movie before, you should be really let down by something in the logic department. The son of the killer from Part I is dead. He drowned. In 1957. This is the entire motivation for the massacre in the 1980 film. His body was not lost. Jason didn't disappear. The mother had to have hard evidence that he in fact drowned. What's really debatable is whether or not the counselors who weren't watching him were actually making love or not while he was drowning. If Mrs. Voorhees was not able to save her dying son, and was working while it was happening, how could she have known what the counselors were doing while he was dying? In all likelihood, she was simply very angry because the counselors wanted to ignore Jason. He was deformed as a child. Unable to grow hair, he was completely bald. And the shape of his actual head was malformed too- teeth misshapen and crooked, lips and eyes and all objects on his face not symmetrical. And people in that era weren't expected to be very sensitive. Hell, just look at the 1985 film Mask and all the stuff that guy went through.This film is kind of all-ad campaign, just like the first. It knew the main appeal of the original was a formula that the makers of this sequel stuck to very closely. So, like the original, story was not considered that important. What they decided to do was change the original. Jason is a legend by local lore. So, forget what happened in the first movie. Because here, the whole town knew about Jason drowning and turned him into a bit of a ghost murderer urban legend even before his mother showed up to massacre the counselors from the first movie. There's a whole new story that goes along with it, too. Officially, only some people know about the whole massacre in the first movie. Others think the police have condemned Camp Crystal Lake because Alice fell out of the canoe at the end and for no other reason. And then, there's Jason himself. He was dead in the first movie, but before this movie starts- he's alive. And somehow, he was able to witness his mother's death and decide he must get revenge. Even though he was dead at the time.Is this where things get interesting? It should be. The movie mainly decides it wants to outdo the first in terms of sleaze and nude scenes. That's where I find myself being disappointed. There is a lot more sex talk and scatological dialogue, and even a skinny dipping scene showing the woman's entire lower half, front and back. If I really want to see female nudity and sex, I'll go get a porno. The blood and gore are trimmed to virtual non-existence, which is another downer. And Jason's look is copied from the infamous bagheaded killer from The Town That Dreaded Sundown. The movie does rack up a few legitimate points for atmosphere, another great music score, and slick new camera-work. But it's not as dense and scary as the original was at times. "},{"Title":"Jason Takes Over!","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Somewhat to my surprise, I enjoyed the first movie of this series. It had, of course, something of a psychological thriller bent to it as well as being part of the slasher genre, the killer there being Jason's mother, who wants to avenge his drowning death which was caused by the negligence of camp counsellors. This sequel loses the psychological bent. The killer now is Jason himself, this being explained by the fact that his body was never found, so he didn't actually drown. Apparently he was just wandering in the woods all that time (which makes one wonder why he didn't make his survival known to his mother, since in the first instalment she really didn't seem to know he was alive) and now he wants revenge, having watched his mother get killed. (The opening scenes apparently tell us that Alice, who in the original movie killed Jason's mother, does herself get killed in a rather bloody fashion - and although it wasn't made entirely clear to me that it was Jason who did it, it still made for a good addition to the story told around the campfire!)In any event, without the psychological angle around his mother, this movie is a bit less interesting than the first. It's set at a neighbouring camp (Camp Crystal Lake now being off limits) that's being used to train camp counsellors. As slasher films go, it's pretty standard, with all the normal components you find in such films (although not as bloody as it might have been) a lot of young women in various stages of undress, a lot of young people making out or getting ready to make out, a lot of young people getting killed, a lot of things going bump in the night, and acting that while not terrible is also not great. Routine stuff all this may be, but the movie still has some pretty effective chills and thrills to it. Jason's hockey mask is missing - here, he wears some kind of sack over his head - and now that the typical slasher genre is introduced, one wonders where the series can go - although it obviously did go! As slasher film series go, however, this particular movie isn't a bad sequel at all. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Old One-Eye","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I always found Part 2 the creepiest in this long-running series. Jason the child has not drowned, but grown up to be a very demented killer living deep in the woods, his mother's heed given a place of prominence in his shack. He wears a sack over his head in this one, making him resemble the Elephant Man, only with a machete in hand. Campers are returning to Crystal Lake, and Jason doesn't like having neighbors. The hockey mask will come later, of course. One of the best, if not the best, in the series. I always thought the actor playing Jason in this one was a match for Kane Hodder's immortal Jason. And Part 2 is now being remade for a 2010 release. "},{"Title":"Camp Crystal's living myth.","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After the success that was 'Friday the 13th', a sequel was inevitable with Part 2 coming out a year later hot on the heels of the slasher boom (and also Part 3 which was done in 3D by director Steve Miner). Part 2 basically continues on where the original finished, having Adrienne King's character return&#x85; but not for too long. And this is where the legend Jason would make his mark as the unstoppably merciless killer, after scaring audiences in the original's shock ending&#x85; but before the iconic hockey mask entered the picture this tall, lanky figure wore a simple potato sack with one eye hole that I found far creepier. As for the instalment itself, for me it was the most eerie of the lot, as unlike the latter films, I didn't entirely find it just a body count set-up but more so playing out like a spooky cautionary campfire tale of consistent atmospherics and cheap shocks. After 'Part 5 the New Beginning', I thought the series just lost that raw, primitive edge that made me simply adore the early catalyst films of the series. Part 2 and 3 would be my favourite of the lot with a more human-based, but dangerously scavenging Jason who wore some nicely polished black shoes on this occasion. Yeah the down-to-earth photography seems to focus on his legs and shoes. Miner's cheap looking entry has obvious intentions of exploiting its clichéd formula of violence, sex and drugs. However after it's opening recount and booming jolt it goes on to settle down (time the fresh meat&#x85; ah I mean teenage counsellors to muck around with Jason ominously lurking about), but eventually after setting the mood it comes off its leash to open with a quick one by one concession of unsparingly brutal deaths and storm up an exhilaratingly non-stop cat and mouse chase between Jason and the central female heroine (an affably strong Amy Steele performance). As for the baffling ending, make what you want of it&#x85; dream or not its unnerving. Harry Manfredini's highly effective score is pulsating, but at the same time chilling with a knife cutting through the air like quality. Miner's competently taut and precise display is basic to limiting itself to the budget restraints, but suitable with moments of little tension, even though it's constantly telegraphed and modest make-up FX work. There's a real authenticity to the performances with the likes of John Furey, Stuart Chano (a fun comical turn), Kristen Baker, Lauren-Marie Taylor (truly adorable and one of my favourite Friday 13th girls), Marta Kober, Bill Randolph (with these being look-a-likes to Kevin Bacon and Jeannine Taylor's characters from the original), Russell Todd, Tom McBride and Walt Gorney returns as crazy Ralph who ends up not following his own ominous warnings&#x85; too bad.Unpleasant trash&#x85; maybe, but its passable stalk-n-slash. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As The First","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is pretty much a carbon copy of the first film. If you enjoyed the first one you will probably enjoy this one. This is a strength and a weakness. It works in its favor in that the first film was good and this is almost exactly the same (including the ending). It works against it in that you pretty much know whats coming and everything seems to be done with a little less finesse (which is unusual because this film had a larger budget).In my opinion Jason looks a lot scarier with the bag over his head albeit not as bitchin as the hockey mask.Annoyances Jason is really uncoordinated, Some of the deaths are just wimpy (TOM SAVINI WHERE WERE YOU), Too many fake-outs, Ending was just lame and felt tacked on Good things Jason's debut, Some of the death scenes are O.K, Ralph is pretty funny, The final girl can actually act (god forbid) "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel.","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" He stalks the woods of Camp Crystal Lake.He watches you while you mind your own business.He kills you without a warning.He never utters a word.The way he kills people are gruesome and sometimes gory.He can never die.Do you know who I'm talking about? If you haven't seen any of the Friday the 13th films, then you definitely don't know.If you are very aware of the series, then you do know.It's Jason Voorhees.He is a horror icon that will never die out, despite the awful reviews from film critics and other people who think that these are the kind of movies that are ruining society.These people really need to grow up and just have fun.Sure, the deaths can be quite gruesome, but just let it flow through your blood and just enjoy the movie for what it is.Jeez.There's nothing wrong with 'Friday the 13th Part 2'. It may not be my favorite movie in the series, but it sure is a lot of fun.Speaking of Part 2, I hear that there's going to be a remake of this movie somewhere in 2010.Don't believe me? Go look it up on IMDb.I assure you that there will be one.The project may be untitled for now, but soon it will have a name, and that name will be 'Friday the 13th Part 2'. Apparently, the series will never die.That's the way it should be like from now on, countless sequels that just keep coming and coming until you can't even count how many movies there are.Just like Jason Voorhees himself, the series is unbeatable and will never die.In short, this is a good sequel. "}{"Title":"An improvement but still mediocre.","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Now this was a much better horror than the first one. The main reason that it's better had to be because the addition of the great Jason Voorhees who eventually became an icon and he deserves it because he's scary as hell.Jason is a much better killer and simply has a scarier look. Even without the hockey mask I have to agree with that. He goes through the whole movie wearing a sac on his head. The sac was really a nice touch to make him look so much more like a lunatic and he would be the kind of person you would be terrified of, especially since he runs in this movie as well.The movie was satisfying but still not great, but it will pave the way for some great ones. "},{"Title":"A little better, a little worse, still good","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To be honest, Part II is pretty much the same as part I. Too frequently does this sequel from first time director Steve Miner directly resemble its predecessor. The plot, the setting, the character types, the music, and even some of the shots are virtually identical. Do not however let these faults discourage you from seeing this movie. Just as it was promised by the first (and is pretty much expected by the viewers), we get to meet Jason Voorhees, although he has yet to get some proper facial wear. He wears a Ku Klux Klan hood instead of the hockey mask, but the effect works the same. As for the horror, I was a little disappointed but not terribly. Instead of solid suspense, Part II resorts to a lot of cheap and predictable shocks (including the famous jumping cat)What I found most interesting about Part II is the way in which the viewer feels a little empathy for Jason. Considering he was left to drown by his counselors, witnessed the decapitation of his mother by one of them, and considering he has nowhere to go in the world, One cannot blame him for wanting to kill the people who run camps on Crystal Lake. (to put it one way, they make him feel uncomfortable). I guess this is a bit of a bias on my part, but I'm sure many would agree with me that Jason is more interesting than another cast of cardboard cut outs to be picked off one by one. As a protagonist, Amy Steel is a little less painful to watch than Adrienne King, because her delivery is much better, but she is still pretty much the same character; a heroine who must survive by running as fast as she can (or something like that).In the end, Part II is more of the same, but somehow it entertains. A fairly good job. "},{"Title":"Great slasher sequel ruined by a couple plot holes","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From Steve Miner, the director of Friday the 13th Part III (D) (1982), House (1985), Warlock (1989), Halloween H2O (1998), Lake Placid (1999) & Day of the Dead (2008).Five years ago, Miss Voorhees returned to Camp Crystal Lake to avenge her poor son Jasons death again. That time she was caught & decapitated by one of the counselors.2 months after the massacre, the survivor was murdered by a maniac in her own home.Now, a number of teenagers & young adults including Amy Steel (April Fool's Day (1986) have started to attend a nearby summer camp. Soon, the head counselor warns everyone about Jason, his land & his horrific backstory including his overprotective mother Pamela. Despite the above, everything goes well.Meanwhile, a madman commits a couple murders than heads to the camp where the half of the counselors have gone down town to party. The other half are messing around with each other in the cabins/campgrounds when the maniac arrives & starts to kill them in the usual fashion.Friday the 13th Part 2 is part 1 all over again. But this time, it has been improved. While there is no story or suspense or script like the original, the acting is still OK. Unoriginal & clichéd like the Friday the 13th (1979), but.Anyway, the movie is played out in the usual fashion but the reason i like it is that it is fast paced & entertaining UNLIKE the first.The score is the same as the number 1 & the atmosphere is the same as number 1 & the direction has improved. Still, the film is really effective & strong & is set in a very grisly mode. Also the film has lots of jokes & most of them unlike the other Friday the 13th films work. & for some reason, the flick just attracts me.The characters help too. Jason make his first main role & his outfit/mask is really freaky & realistically raw. This gives the picture a hillbilly theme which adds onto the tension. Another thing, the final girl Ginny (Amy Steel) is one badass chick which is different to the other final girls in the series (especially Alice from the original).This girl knocked Jason over, waited IN FRONT of a tree only to knee him in between the legs. Amy Steel also nearly cuts his arm off with his own machete. The girl harms him other times too but the above are the most notable ones. So...i guess the girl has balls.Yet despite all that, like most Friday the 13th films, this one has some big flaws/plot holes about Jasons background. I could ignore them but they make the plot...I mean if Jason didn't drown then why didn't he contact his mother?.........it just doesn't make sense.At least we get gore. Good gore Most of the good death scenes are offscreen but the ones that aren't are OK & these scenes are effective so what can i say? Anyway we get lots of violence so gore fans won't be too disappointed. Good gore-strong violence.All in all, Friday the 13th 2 is a bad movie complete with a nice ending but IS underrated & IS better than the original...it gets better every viewing, though.I give it 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Jason Celebrates his Murderous (But Quite Unspectacular) Debut","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Warning SPOILERS!!! (Not only of this film, but also of the predecessor, Friday The 13th)Though I've never been a great fan of the Friday The 13th series I recently decided to watch the films again after several years. I never fully understood what made the Friday films so immensely popular among some of my fellow Horror fans, but I still admit that some of the films are very entertaining if one is in the right mood. This first sequel to the immensely popular (but, in my opinion, mediocre) original is the first film to introduce the iconic Jason Voorhees as the actual villain. And the fact that an iconic villain is introduced is actually the main reason to watch this film, which barely reaches mediocrity otherwise. The whole premise of this film, as well as the further sequels, contradicts the story of the original. Otherwise, the story could not have continued. In part one, the murderess Mrs. Voorhees was a mother gone insane after her son Jason's death. After she was (very visible) beheaded on screen in Part 1, she couldn't re-appear in the sequels, of course, which is why Jason 'resurrects' in the sequel. Gore-master Tom Savini, who was responsible for the special effects in the first part, refused to be part of the first sequel because he found the idea to be stupid. The villain who was resurrected for Part 2, however, turned out to become one of the most popular Horror villains ever.The plot of this first sequel is quite simple. After Mrs. Voorhees was beheaded in the end of part one, Jason begins by murdering the only survivor, Alice Hardy, who killed his mother. He then goes on a killing spree murdering annoying teens working at a holiday camp near the original Camp Crystal Lake... The second part may be just as influential as its predecessor, but, as far as I am concerned, it is only remotely entertaining, and not the least bit scary. The most interesting aspect of the first part were the killings, many of which were copied from the Italian genius Mario Bava's milestone Reazione A Catena aka. A Bay of Blood (1971), and the lakeside location, which was just as obviously inspired by the aforementioned classic (in my humble opinion, Bava was arguably THE greatest Horror director who ever lived). The same is (even more obviously) the case here. The killings in this sequel are a lot less explicit than in the first film, however. This may be both due to the lack of Tom Savini as the gore-guy, or to calm film censors after the first film was criticized for its violence- Especially the 'double impaling' sequence is very obviously inspired by A Bay of Blood, but even more obviously tamed down.Jason does not yet wear his trademark Hockey-Mask in this one yet (The third part was the first one for him to appear in that outfit), but wears a bag to cover his face. The teenagers at the camp are entirely annoying, which lessens the suspense, but increases the impatience to see them killed. Overall, Friday the 13th should arguably be seen at least once for its cult-status, but, personally, I really don't think this cult-status is justified. The few rewarding moments in the film include - Mrs. Voorhees' severed head in a refrigerator. - Mrs. Voorhees' severed head on a shrine built by Jason. - Foxy young Kirsten Baker going skinny-dipping - A guy in a wheelchair getting a machete hacked in his face.Otherwise, the film is only recommendable for its being somewhat of a classic. As far as I am concerned, this is a weak entry to a generally overrated series. "},{"Title":"no horror and only a bit of nudity","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am going to try to prove this sequel is not a good one, because it lacks creepy scenes and doesn't have much nudity.I came to a point in my life where I was thinking 'hey, maybe it would be great if I would see the entire Friday the 13th series all over again' and yes, it's true, very often opinions do change on different times. with this sort films it doesn't matter at all when you watch it if you're into some horror, you will enjoy it, but if you're not, you will be disappointed.I remember very well the first time I saw this sequel, I was still very young. like all young kids, I was more interested in the nudity and shocking gore of this movie. on both levels I wasn't very pleased the few nude scenes are only enjoyable with a DVD player (which I hadn't at the time) with a zoom function and the shocking gore scenes, well... there aren't.yes, you read it right there are totally no shocking gore scenes! this was (and still is very) strange, because on the end of the original Friday the 13th, we discover 'poor' Jason is a scary monster with lots of blood on his body (propably from lying too long and too much in the water of the lake). I was forgotten this. but where is the blood? where are his mutilations? In the original, we see a hugely deformed body, in this sequel, we see Jason as a normal man with only a weird formed face (with a paper bag on it - how could he see a thing?). yes, it was a big disappointment.but hey, it's still creepy. the end, however, is worthless. it's a stupid ending. I was hoping to see Jason killed, but he just survives. not only that, but we don't see the final battle. not only that, but if everybody except a guy and a girl are dead, and we find out the guy has been killed and Jason is disappeared again, than why didn't he kill the 'dangerous' girl too? this first sequel was a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Body count continues is right...just more bodies stacking up","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The tagline for Friday the 13th Part 2 really says it all. The Body count continues. While there are some significant points to this sequel ultimately it is simply an epilogue to the first film. There isn't anything wrong with that but the story in this second film is barely existent. It's just Jason going on an enormous rampage following the actual story of Part One. There are two significant things about Part 2. First of all we get the finality of Jason catching up with Alice Hardy from the first film. And secondly you have the fact that Jason Voorhees becomes the sole psycho killer for the rest of the series. Basically they simply wanted to show this fact so the story line for this installment is weak, even more weak than the usual slasher story lines. The cast is there simply to get picked off and have no personality or even the guts or style to go up against the killer. Nonetheless Friday The 13th Part 2 gives fans plenty of killer gore, plenty of Jason and that's really what it's all about. Unfortunately a sequel should be more than an epilogue especially under the pretense of serializing and Lord knows they serialized Friday the 13th.What can really be said about the cast? Much like the first installment the cast is very campy and they aren't really looking for any solid acting parts. Adrienne King returns briefly from the first film. She was terrible in the first film and proves to have learned nothing about acting in this installment. Still she doesn't last long and it's good to have the main character from the first film come back. With a background in Soap Operas Amy Steel plays free spirited Ginny in her first film role. She does okay but there is still some element of really cheesy acting to her, maybe it's the script. A gentlemen who went on to Soap Operas, John Furey plays her love interest and the male hero Paul. Honestly he barely lifts a finger and never really plays hero in any way. Still they are decent together but I think he could have been and done a lot more. Warrington Gillette takes over the role as the hulking killer Jason. He shows the strength but somehow lacks the personality that others have managed to show with emotion and body language. I would go through the rest of the cast but honestly none of them stand out one bit. They all have their roles as victims but ultimately they don't do themselves any justice.Considering this was director Steve Miner's first film, but certainly not his last, it might have taken him this film to really learn the horror genre. I think he might have struggled picking up the film where the first one left off but he gets to try it all over again for a third installment which I will review very soon. The bottom line is simple if you're willing to sit down for the entire series which any horror fan or slasher fan or Jason fan must and will do then you have to watch this installment. It isn't awful, and it is entertaining, it just isn't the best of the series but every series will have it's speed bumps and you have to watch all of them, the good and the speed bumps. Still part of a classic series with some important classic moments for Jason. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome sequel!","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was an awesome sequel. It was in fact way better than the original Friday the 13th. It had enough tense and suspense scenes to make you scream. Enough gores for those gore lovers out there, good direction and cinematography. It would have been better if this ended up being the first Friday the 13th because the first one did not manage to scare me at all. Most of the Friday the 13th movies have more or less the same plot, kill or be killed. Run, scream, chase, ponder, die. But it would be much more thrilling if they had people live much longer and in fact instead of killing the characters, making them run for their lives. I think thats where the thrill lies and most of the 1980's Friday movies are not very intense and characters are killed almost immediately which can be boring because when you're waiting to be spooked, some guy running his knife across the character's throat in a split second isn't scary but can be funny.These movies are thoroughly often enjoyed by the teen folk/young adult and why not? It deserves an 8/10! "},{"Title":"A little less than it's predecessor, a little more than it's followers.","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the better Friday The 13th sequels, Friday The 13th Part 2 is an often sleazy, always fun and sometimes suspenseful sequel that gives birth to one of the most notorious and celebrated horror villains Jason Vorhees. Directed by Steve Miner (production manager on the first film, and director of other genre fare such as House and Halloween H20) and featuring the return of much of the crew that brought us the original film, it should come as no surprise that the film carries an unmistakable feeling similar to it's predecessor.Truth be told, Miner has hardly the visual panache that made Sean S. Cunningham's original film work so well, but for what he lacks in visual stimulation, he more than makes up for in suspense. Unlike many of the sequels that would follow, Friday The 13th Part 2 tries and succeeds (mostly) at building up genuine suspense before dispatching of it's cardboard characters. Yes, unfortunately this film is sorely lacking character depth. Aside from the leading lady, Ginny (Amy Steel), and an unfortunate wheelchair-bound victim, the unhappy campers in this film are a rather weak batch. Steel's character more than makes up for that fact, though, as she is one of the more intriguing women in slasher films. She parties up with the rest of the camp -- even partaking in the prerequisite premarital sex -- and yet lives to see another day.The birth of Jason is a somewhat awkward one. His appearance in this film hardly matches his appearance in others, and it's not just because he wears a bag over his head instead of a hockey-mask. This Jason appears to be a very simple, yet very deformed human who has survived by dwelling in and feeding off the wilderness. When he stalks Alice (Adrienne King, reprising her role from the first film) prior to the opening credits, he comes across as more of an every-day killer than an unstoppable monster, or even a zombie, as he would be later portrayed. What that means is that this Jason is actually much more effective and believable than the Jason we have all come to know and love. Praise Kane Hodder and the like to no end, but for my money, Warrington Gillette and Steve Dash (who played Jason out of and into costume, respectively) delivered the most true to life and creepiest Jason to date.The film is not without it's ups and downs. Nevermind the fact that he never really made a great film after this -- it's pretty obvious that Steve Miner was an untested and inexperienced film-maker at the time. He tries many times to ape Cunningham's look, but barely succeeds. The film looks and even feels kind of cheap, even for it's time and budget. The make-up effects are a sad step down from the first, but -- as mentioned before -- the film's saving grace is that it's got some truly suspenseful scenes and some rather unsettling moments. It's got a real mean streak, which probably led to may heartless clones in it's wake, but which makes for a unique movie in it's own universe. As far as the other Friday The 13th films go, this is one of the better ones. Despite it's meager production values, it still gets the job done and delivers a nice creepy dosage of 80's horror fun. "},{"Title":"Jason is a legend","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a cult movie for me. Unlike the first Friday THE 13TH which I had never seen before, this movie is one of those which I had already watched in my teenage years, and which introduced me into Horror films (together with other sequels of this series, Nightmare on Elm Street series, among others). It's also the first movie where JASON really starts getting some action... This film has some remarkable scenes (at least for me!) like the death(s) with the spear (when JASON kills the couple in bed with just one spear) or that scene near the end where we see the girl imitating JASON mother. I think this sequel is more suspenseful than the original and is better done. It is better acted and better produced, even though it has a similar plot and clichés. The soundtrack is also similar but quite nice, with those unforgettable and distinctive creepy sounds. "},{"Title":"Long","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A few young kids spend a summer around a Camp which called Camp Crystal Lake. Concurrent Jason horn in the forest. One by one disappears and it become to be worrying and horrifying.It is very beautiful nature and nice environment.The director by Steve Miner it in this way and the acting is well.It is a good continued after the first Friday the 13th - movie. Friday the 13th it is a classic of the 1980'th.I can recommended Friday the 13th - Part 2 if you like horror-movies with much exciting and horrifying moments! Warning for sensitive persons! "}{"Title":"Killer Kameras from outer Kamp","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Here we go again &#150; the killer kameras from outer kamp. To me, growing up on the series, and now, as an adult, the scariest scenes in horror films, are the ones where I can actually see the killer. Part 1 did the killer's POV the most and 'Friday the 13th Part 2' follows suit, but focuses more on his, well, shoes, if that's scary. I loved the revenge/reminder of Part 1 opening, but it was a bit long at about 16 minutes into an only 86 minute film, or basically 20% just for an intro. Five years, or one to us, after the killer was hacked (loved how the blade is delivered from right to left, but the head falls to the right) in Part 1, a new group of unsuspecting 20-somethings start up a camp for underprivileged youths. Okay, that's just a set up to a slaughterhouse. My main question is if this killer, (no spoiler here) Jason Voorhees, is so bent on avenging his mother's death &#150; which he already did 2 months prior to the events in this film &#150; how does anyone get anything built in these woods? If these woods are so cursed then how come the construction crew and delivery people can come and go, supplying the grounds with new cabins & stock and leave alive? Joke! That's not what these films are about. It's about nude females, sex and horror, and to me, the horror begins with the proximity of where they show the killer (well, killer's shoes) to all the nobody victims and really picks up when we finally get to see 'The Town that Dreaded Sundown'-copycat killer Jason. Just as part 1, this could've been the finale and speaking of which, it does contain the most frightening and creative ending in the series. "},{"Title":"slightly better than the original (6.2/10)","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" for me,this sequel to the original was just slightly better,and only because there is some suspense in this one.i don't think the first one had any.if it did there was very little.otherwise,it's not that much different,just a different group of people that end up getting slaughtered.there are no acting stand outs in this one,but i get the feeling that Amy Steel was supposed to be the next big thing.this movie was slightly more graphic than the original,but not much.there's a bit of nudity,and one instance of the F word being used,but that's it for coarse language and nudity,as far as far as i can tell.for me,Friday the 13th Part 2 is a 6.2/10 "},{"Title":"The same suspense as in the previous film","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" On 1978, we were on the edge of our seats as John Carpenter created one of the most markable horror masterpieces ever made. Two years later, we were entertained with another serial killer -flick including a now cult classic character. A year later, we got the sequel that offered us the same amount of suspense as the previous one, although not as much entertainment.Now, the last survivor of the massacre at Camp Crystal Lake, gets killed by the revenge-seeking Jason Voorhees, who is out of his mind after seeing his own mother killed before his eyes. After getting his revenge, he returns to Crystal Lake right when new counselors are staying at another camp nearby. It's Jason's turn to get even...There is slightly more creativeness in the killings, for example the cripple in the wheelchair getting a machete in the face and rolling down the stairs, but it isn't enough to entertain the audience more than the previous film did.Before getting his trademark hockey mask, Jason uses a potato sack to cover his deformed head. Although the potato sack inspired many later horror films and games (for example, Resident Evil 4's chainsaw-waving character) it isn't enough to give Jason the appearance he gets in the next sequel, part 3-D.All in all, Friday the 13th -series' two first movies are on the same level, although the first film one step higher in entertainment and second in creativeness. Part two was an okay film, but it still doesn't reach the level of part one when talking about entertainment. 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Here's Jason!","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" We open with a tension filled sequence as Alice, the only survivor from the bloodbath of Camp Crystal Lake, dreams about her encounter with Mrs Vorhees, the murderer responsible for all her friends getting killed. An eerie atmosphere exudes from the picture, the sense of dread hangs heavy, and sure enough the dread is about to be realised........Sadly it's all down hill from that moment on, Friday The 13th Part 2 appealed to me many many years ago when i was a spotty teenager, back then any sort of blood and nudity was the pinnacle of cinema as far as i was concerned. Revisiting the film now, it's clear that it really doesn't have a great deal going for it. One thing the modern horror audiences learnt from Wes Craven's Scream franchise, is that teens in horror films are stupid, all lining up to be bloody blade fodder at the hands of a maniac. Formula remains the same, the girls run around in ridiculously short shorts, their bosoms bouncing with care free abandon, the blokes get horny and as we now know, any sort of sex results in a horribly grizzly murder. The deaths here are at least a bit inventive, and the first presence of Jason Vorhees at least gives the film a more solid, and decidedly evil axis to work from, whilst the score from Harry Manfredini, a sort of Psycho/Jaws fusion with wisps of death, is highly effective.It just gets bogged down by characters nobody cares about and acting that belongs in a Russ Meyer picture. The Friday franchise does have the odd picture that scores high in in the horror entertainment stakes, part 2 falls somewhere in between OK and dreadful, an uneasy 5/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Stop me if this sounds nuts","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There has been a lot mentioned about several issues continuity wise with the end of the film, I think I have finally figured it out. There are three issues that people seem to have1) What happened to Paul? 2) Why does Jason's appearance differ so much from the other films? 3) How did the dog (Muffin) manage to turn up at the end if two characters find what appears to be its body (right down to the purple bow) earlier in the film.Treat everything from the moment you see Ginny strike Jason with the machete (which is in slow motion) as a dream. Paul is dead after his encounter with Jason in the shack (I mean, how can someone survive TWO encounters with Jason without a scratch?) but Ginny needs to have a happy ending, so her mind creates a memory of Paul helping her back to the cabin, when in reality she dragged herself there. She also creates the memory of Muffin (who represents innocence) surviving.Then the memories of Jason's attacks come crashing in. She imagines her own version of Jason (as she described at the bar) as she had never really seen his face (her taking off the sack he was wearing on his head was part of the dream sequence).Any comments? "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Five years after the original massacre at Camp Crystal Lake, another group of counselors has converged at a spot on the other side of the lake. The leader, Paul, (John Furey) and his assistant Ginny, (Amy Steel) relay the story about Jason to the camp's counselors, Jeff, (Bill Randolph) Sandra, (Marta Kober) Terri, (Kirsten Baker) Vicky, (Lauren-Marie Taylor) Mark, (Tom McBride) and Scott, (Russell Todd) which effectively scares them about Jason. The next day begins the counselor's training sessions, and Ginny begins feeling uneasy about the woods for some reason. As several of the counselors go missing, this peaks the interest of the remaining ones about the Jason legend. When Paul and Ginny go into town with half of the camp, the remaining counselors are murdered. Ginny is still worried about the legend of Jason and Ginny and Paul return to camp. They find the bodies of the wasted counselors and discover the culprit.It may have the exact same plot, but this is still a very entertaining film. It is one of the better slasher films and could be the best sequel to an original classic film. Slasher fans will want to check this one out, as will fans of the series.Rated R for Nudity, Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"More of the same, but still fun","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite the harsh words of the critics, the 1980 slasher flick 'Friday the 13th' was a big hit at the box office. Add to that an open ending, and a sequel was inevitable. The wait wouldn't be long, for part 2 hit screens the following year and didn't do too bad for itself. But you have to admit, there really isn't much you can do with the concept of a killer at a camp. So it's no surprise that 2 is a lot like it's predecessor and other films that came out at the time. Does that make it worthless? Not in my book. Read on to find out why.Pros A strong opening sequence. Pace is quick (It better be when the film is 85 minutes long). A likable cast that's a bit better performance-wise than the cast in the original. Some really great kills, my personal favorite being Crazy Ralph's. Great sense of humor, mostly from the cast. Another exciting and chilling score. Jason is one terrifying monster. Steve Miner seems to have a better grasp on directing than Sean Cunningham did with the first one. A knockout finale.Cons Mostly a rehash of the original. Fans expecting the amount of blood and gore in the others will be a bit let down. Totally lacking in suspense and surprises. Believe it not the plot is even thinner this time.Final thoughts This sequel is proof that a talented cast and director can make recycled material still enjoyable. Not the best of the sequels by a long shot, but worthy enough and certainly never dull.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Good Sequel","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was a good movie. I enjoyed it very much. This movie has probably been heavily bashed already for not being original, try it before you bash it. This movie takes place 5 years after the first. No one has returned to the Crystal Lake camping area since the massacre in the first film. A class of counselor recruits are at a camp for training. Unfortunately, the camp is located right across the lake from Camp Crystal Lake. Although Mrs. Voorhees is dead, that does not mean the killing has stopped. The survivors of the first movie are the first to be killed. Alice (Adrienne King) Is killed at home only 2 months after the first movie had ended. This is Jason's first kill ever. 5 years later, at the counselor camp, Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney) returns to stalk this new set of campers. However, Jason catches on and he is killed off fairly early, only the 2nd death in this movie. Also, 2 teens, Sandra(Marta Kober) and Jeffrey(Bill Randolph) decide to explore Camp Crystal lake but are caught by a sadistic cop, Deputy Winslow (Jack Marks). Soon after, Winslow encounters Jason and gives chase after him into the woods. He reaches a shack that Jason has made and enters, only to be killed from behind. Not only is he the first cop ever to be killed in the series, he is the first to make it to Jason's home...alive anyway. Over all, this was a good movie. Not my favorite in the series, but good all the same. Starring Amy Steel, John Furey, Stuart Charno, and Warrington Gillete "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One jab constantly hurtled at the Friday the 13th series is that all of them are the same. Fans of the franchise know that's not true, though there's no denying this first sequel is as close to a remake of the original as you'll find. But for all the similarities to its predecessor, Friday the 13th Part 2 is a surprisingly good horror film that, dare I say it, improves upon what it followed.Friday the 13th Part 2 is, obviously, where the iconic Jason got his first real start. And it was a humble start. Not the mindless zombie of the latter films, the Jason here lives in a cobbled-together shack in the middle of the woods, his mom's decapitated head on candle-lit display. This look into the inner sanctuary of Jason is quite fascinating, and probably tells us more about his personality than anything that has come since. Here he's not so much evil, but a deranged loner out to avenge his beloved mother's murder.And Jason gets that chance when a fresh crop of horny teens prepare to open a new camp not far from his old stomping grounds at Camp Crystal Lake. Consisting of another group of no-names, these would-be counselors are surprisingly well-defined and real. Director Steve Miner, who would go on to direct Part III, had said he wanted to give his characters more depth and ensure the film had strength even without Jason's presence. In that he succeeded. In too many horror films, the audience is left impatiently waiting for the killer to show up. Here, the story is engaging enough that the build-up is not a chore.The movie does liven up, of course, once Jason arrives. Miner chose to take the less is more approach to horror, with Mr. Voorhees making relatively few appearances. This generally works well, though a bit more Jason wouldn't have hurt. Jason's bag over the head get-up can't hold a candle to the hockey mask that would follow, but it does serve its purpose of cloaking the killer in an aura of mystery and, more importantly, building the suspense for the moment when it finally does come off.Friday the 13th Part 2 is not all that scary or thrilling, but it is a fun little horror film that should please those for whom it was intended. "},{"Title":"Jason Is Alive","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK, so I just watched this movie again the other day. It had been a while since I last saw it. I have to say that I don't like the way Jason was brought back into the movie. There is no real clear answer to this at all throughout the film. I mean, the best you get is that he never drowned and had been living in the woods around Camp Crystal Lake. So if he never drowned, then just why did his mother kill all those people? Doesn't make much sense to me, I mean, unless they want to make you believe that his body was never found and his mother just assumed he was dead and decided to take revenge. Anyways, I think they could have come up with something better...Now, I won't complain too much more because Part 2 did help create one of the best slasher movie series of all time. So on with the show...We start out with the only survivor from Part 1 having a dream. It flashes back and forth from the ending of Part 1 to her in bed squirming around. So we get a little reminder of what happened at the conclusion of Part 1. ...and we know what is about to happen at the beginning of Part 2.The rest of the film focuses on some camp counselors staying at another camp across the lake from the original Camp Crystal Lake. We get introduced to the characters and the acting is fairly good. There are few characters that we really care for (maybe 3 at the most). You don't see Jason until close to the end of the movie, I mean, his face. All the kills earlier in the movie all you see is part of his body and his weapon. They took this angle from Part 1, IMO trying to create a doubt that it was actually Jason doing the killing. It could have easily been someone else...Part 2 is not a bad follow-up to the original, although it of course could have been better. I was pretty satisfied with the acting. Jason, as an adult, was introduced and ultimately became an 80's household name for slashers. The bag over his head with the eye-holes cut out was not scary at all. I'm glad they improved that with Part 3, and created an image of Jason that has terrified little kids to this very day! I give this film a 6 out of 10. It's nothing spectacular, but it did give life to the adult Jason, even if the way they did it was not believable at all... "}{"Title":"Disappointing but still decent","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Rated R for Violence/Gore,Sexual Content,Nudity,Language and Some Drug Content. Quebec Rating18+(should be 13+) Canadian Home Video RatingR(Should be 18A)Friday The 13th Part 2 is the first sequel to the Friday the 13th horror franchise.This film is the start of at least nine sequels for this series.In the first film which I have not seen, it was Jason's mother getting revenge for her son drowning.In this film however, we meet Jason who will be the main antagonist for the rest of the series.He wants revenge on camp counselors for letting him drown back in 1958.This film and Jason X are the only films in the Friday The 13th series I have seen.I also saw Freddy Vs Jason which I thought was very entertaining and good.I have seen all the NIghtmare On Elm Street films and loved all of them.I prefer Freddy as an antagonist rather than Jason.Freddy was very evil in the first film and in the other films he has plenty of funny one-liners.Jason however does not speak.The film starts off with a recap of the events of the first Friday the 13th film.Then we see that the woman who survived in the first film has been killed by an unknown person.We then see a bunch of camp counselors in training.They are all basically having fun and everything until one by one, they each start getting murdered.So what follows, like in most slasher films, they all try and stop Jason before they all get killed themselves.Now as I said in previous reviews on this site, I usually like slasher films.The original nightmare on elm street is one of my favorite horror films.This movie however just didn't do it for me.I mean the score was pretty good and there were some cool death scenes but I found the film to be a little too short and fairly boring for a slasher film.I thought the film was decent and its worth checking out for slasher film fans.Also, in this film, Jason does not wear the hockey mask he is known for wearing but rather a bag with holes for eyes. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise...never expected to find it here!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Of all the schlocky horror movies I'm into, this is the only one that managed to surprise me...so that there is saying something, but let me explain in revisiting the horror films I grew up with (Re-Animator, Nightmare on Elm St, Halloween, etc) I always knew what to expect. No real scares anymore, but some really good film-making and interesting, if somewhat dated, special FX.Never did I actually expect to be SCARED. But then the final 15 minutes of F13th Part 2 had me on the edge of my seat. Something about Ginny (Amy Steel), all alone, in the dark, and the demented-nature of Jason (very effective hessian-bag thing over his head - genuinely believable as the complete psycho who's been hiding in the woods for a few years) as he pursued her in the cabin and then to his shack in the woods. Highly effective scenes here, as we just see Ginny's terror, and we, as well as she, DO NOT know exactly where Jason is...that really amps up the fear-factor...likewise Amy Steel's performance...I really believed her fear.It's a shame these films went the way they did, descending into silliness and out-staying their welcome, much like the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise - I mean, Freddy started out as Fred Krueger, just a demented sicko child-murderer, which is heaps scarier than the wise-cracking, cartoonish fool he became in the later movies. Likewise, when Jason Vorhees became a superhuman monster who could essentially breathe underwater (even if left there for years on end) he lost that true psycho quality that made him such a frightening killer in this film.To conclude, I absolutely love the setting of this movie...the deserted, (seemingly) peaceful campground...log cabins...a nice lake...picturesque holiday destination if you manage to avoid the machete-wielding madman...my advice is just to stay indoors at night, something most of Jason's victims neglected to do...and you know what happened to them! "},{"Title":"Just as good as the original","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Steve Miner brought a new life to the original Friday the 13th with this first sequel. Sean S. Cunningham shot the original film along with Miner at his side but now Miner (with a new vision) took over the reins for this film. Five years after the initial bloodbath at Crystal Lake, a counselor-training facility is opened up just down the lake aways from the old campsite where Jason's mother went on a killing rampage, and like before, still unwilling to heed the words of Crazy Ralph, the counselors-in-training are stalked one by one by a mysterious individual/psychopath. Manfredini's score is just as good as the original, bone-chilling violins screeching and whatnot. The myths of the Jason legend come to rest in this installment in the Friday series. The pace for this film moves a lot quicker than the first, possibly one (of many) reason(s) why this film will not attain a rating like it's predecessor, although I believe it should rank just as high as the original. Very underrated slasher, definitely deserves as much praise as the first film. 9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Surprise, surprise...","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just as good as the first, if not, a BETTER film than the first, I think. It's got all of the expected goods- the sex, the gore, the suspense, and the thrills, as well as the grotesque scenes of bloody carnage. Jason Vorhees, the son of the killer in the original, is back from the grave to kill all that dare defy the warnings of the wise and step foot on Camp Crystal Lake.This sparked the beginning of many, many more sequels, but is just as well as the first, a significantly remember-able film, and one of the best slasher/stalker films ever made. (Especially in the series...) "},{"Title":"entertaining but  incredibly plot-hole ridden sequel.","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you liked the original F13 you'll like this if for no other reason than the repetition from the original.We open with a too long pre credits sequence where we get a recap of the original via some dreamt flashbacks from the survivor of F13. However, we get to see Jason (for it is he we later learn)first give her a silent phonecall and stick a knife in her brain. Now as watching this today after seeing another 8 sequels we know all about Jason, like may you may have wondered just how Jason was able to track Alice down, phone her and travel possibly many hundreds of miles with the mind of a simpleton and a sack over his head. But if you're looking for logic, this is the least of your worries here. We then fast forward 5 years and a batch of anonymous teens turn up on the lake to attend a sparsely attended camp counsellors training camp. However, they aren't in Camp Crystal Lake, but in another camp on the same Lake. CCL is off limits, but after hearing a spooky campfire story of how Jason didn't drown and watched Mrs Vorhees take her revenge and then be killed, Aice disappeared a month later and since then the legend of Jason has grown of him living like an animal in the woods ,a couple of teens decide ti check it out. Surprisingly they aren't killed but taken back to camp by the local sheriff who is inexplicably at a long abandoned summer camp. The sheriff then sees someone (Jason) run across the road and chases him to a rather large and unhidden cabin where he is dispatched by the clawed end of a hammer. Also the crazy drunk guy Ralph is killed by Jason at the new camp sometime around here. Anyway, after the usual evening of beer ,illicit sex and weed the teens decide to go into town, and it is the teens who haven't featured much so far/extras who go, leaving just the teens who have had some (minimal) character development, although the 'joker' does go and avoids the bloodbath. Needless to say the half dozen or so are one by one picked off by jason, including a wheelchair user who is stabbed and plummets the many steps on a steep slope, begging the question how he managed to navigate the rough woodland trails and steps up to every cabin thus far. Anyway, in a reference to Kevin Bacons death in F13 a copulating couple are speared together thru the bed. Id lost track of who was left by then but these must have been the last 2 cos the camp leader and his teen girl leave the bar and come back. It follow the now familiar formula - dscovery of bodies, chase, with more popping up en route. The gut is attacked and we think killed and the heroine finds Jasons cabin and there the decaying head of his mother in a shrine. Here, I wondered how the police didn't wonder where her head had gone but there you go. Oh yeah before this there's a fight in the cabin and at one point Jason is on the ground and there for the taking with the chainsaw she has but she inexplicably puts it down and hits him with a chair and runs out the cabin. Now this was really the worst example of slasher stupidity I've ever seen. Just chop hsi head off and its all over.So anyway, they fight in jasons cabin and she absurdly puts Mrs V's jumper on and tries to fool him its her.As jason is about to kill her Paul, the fella from before turns up,(being the 3rd person in 1 day to wander across jason's secret cabin where hes been 'hiding' for many years) rescues her and stabs him. they unmask him and assuming hes dead go back to their cabin where a freakishly deformed jason jumps thru the window and grabs her. Cut to the ambulance crew loading her into the ambulance her asking Wheres paul?. What is this all about? was the previous scene a dream, and if so where did it begin? at least in the shock ending in F13 it was clear she fell asleep in the boat or was flashing back in the hospital ? so we end up basically not knowing what happened to paul or jason. or if they did stab him, or if he did jump thru the window. If he did, did her leave her alone and kill paul? this scene just didn't work. It may have done if paul was dead and she was on her own. Anyway, the main problm with the film is that the idea of jason not drowning and instead of just climbing out the pool and carrying on as normal, deciding to live in the woods the rest of his life and become psychotic. And then years later watching his mother kill loads of people and being killed instead of saying mum, I didn't drown!. however, this continuity is small fry when you look at a later film where Jason is dinsitegrated by toxic waste in a New York sewer and then reappears complete at the bottom of crystal lake in the next film! "},{"Title":"Average slasher movie","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not much to really say about the first sequel to the huge hit Friday the 13th, except it gets the job done and that's about it. Sole survivor Alice (Adrienne King) is trying to put her life back together after nearly being killed by the psychotic Mrs. Voorhees in the first film. After some flashbacks to the original to catch viewers up (they are spliced in here as nightmares), Alice is brutally killed with an ice pick. Jumping ahead a few months, a whole new batch of counselors arrive at Camp Crystal Lake in a second attempt to reopen the camp. By now the place has earned its nickname Camp Blood but not even bicycle riding prophet of doom Crazy Ralph (Walter Gorney) can scare these folks away before it's too late. A few of the people are briefly introduced, and then it's business as usual as a hooded, hulking figure goes around chopping everybody up. The gore effects from Carl Fullerton are pretty good but not quite up to the original. The death scenes aren't too original this time out and include your usual throat slashings and stabbings. What most people assume is the most original death is a double impalement with a spear. However, the same exact death was used in Mario Bava's superior slasher movie Bay of Blood from way back in 1971. The entire Friday series drew inspiration from Bava's movie and anyone who is a fan of this series should also see that film. Anyway, about midway through the movie becomes a little too boring and repetitive for its own good. However, things pick up nicely again during the last 20 minutes or so and there's are a few great scares thrown in at the end. Overall, pretty good for this series, but just average and typical for the horror genre as a whole. "},{"Title":"Part deux","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The young people return to Camp Crystal Lake (well, across the lake at the very least) no worse for the wear, dimly envisioning another seven sequels and a monster mash up with Freddy down the road. Even poor old coot Ralph is on the sore end of his warning that doom awaits those who enter. Ask not for whom the bell tolls, Ralph. As for the kids they frolic, smoke weed, copulate and die, generally in that order. Steve Miner makes Part 2 the most self-consciously stylish of the sequels using Jason's P.O.V. to directly implicate the audience in the violence, but also turning us into voyeurs, leering as the scantly clad Terri (is there a cinematic character with tighter shorts and tinier tops? Not that I'm complaining) goes skinny-dipping. Later she throws a towel on the leering camera (and by transference, us the audience) presumably so we can clean up after ourselves.Pre-hockey mask Jason makes his adult debut here and is particularly nasty as the sex=death focus of the series is established in full. One couple is skewered immediately post orgasm. A handicapped fella gets a machete to the face pre-sexafied, presumably sent blue balled to the afterlife. And dig how that wheelchair maintains its balance all the way down those stairs.The lead this time a tomboyish female who fends off Jason using her child psych degree to fool him into acquiescence (well, sort of. It ultimately leads to another 'Carrie' ending rip-off). Jason, ever the good boy, is fooled by the girl donning his mother's sweater. He then sees his mother telling him to put down his weapon. This is used again in Freddy vs Jason, where Freddy impersonating mother again, resurrects Jason by admonishing him into raising from the dead. Jason, buddy, cut the umbilical cord. "},{"Title":"So far the worst Friday Installment, but still decent","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I started out really enjoying this movie, but then came horribly done deaths. The double impalement was crap. All it showed was a shocked face and a bloody spear. I just wanted to say I hated that death scene. They could have done better than that. The machete splitting the face also could have done better. It just shows it happen from behind and then he rolls down the stairs. I was disappointed with that death too. Finally, the end was so random! I was waiting to see this film for a long time and I found a spoiler that Paul disappeared and was presumed dead and I thought that would be an interesting thing to see in a slasher film. What I got was extremely disappointing. It was just where's Paul? and that was it! Disappointing!Other than that, I enjoyed it. It had some funny lines. I guess I'll give it a 6 out of 10 and a grade of around C+. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Almost a copy of the original, this stands as one of the strongest sequels in the long running series, mainly due to the character of Jason Vorhees. The story takes place 5 years after the original and gives us a son hell bent on avenging his mothers death and/or continuing the acts he witnessed his mother commit.Taking the natural progression of having Mrs Vorhees son continue the work his mother carried out in the first movie, this is the film that introduces us to the horror icon Jason, however his character in this movie differs considerably from the hockey masked killer that would grace the next 7 episodes and the spin off Freddy Vs Jason.The 3 act structure of the movie is identical to the first movie (introduce characters, kill characters, and final chase) with a prologue and great shock ending (essential in horror movies since Carrie in 1976)it is in the prologue and final chase that this movie improves on the original.The prologue which gives us the back story before taking care of the one remaining survivor from the first movie is an unrelenting study in suspense with a great payoff. Sadly the next two acts fall short of the original; though the budget is improved the characters are not as likable as the original's and it seems to have had the power in most of it's kill effects edited away to indulge a 80's-era MPAA (compare the cruelty, violence and gore in this with such 70's fare as The Last House on The Left, Texas Chainsaw Massacre and The Hills Have Eyes). Act three however is where Part 2 stands above any of the other movies in the series, mainly due to the characterisation of Jason.Jason Vorhees in Friday the 13th Part 2 is a believable and rounded character, not the slow moving unstoppable Frankenstein's monster like powerhouse that we witness from part 3 onwards. From the moment that our heroine Ginnie (a great performance from Amy Steel) notices that There's someone in this F'ing room!! and Jason lunges towards Paul, we are confronted by an out of control madman who fights, runs and throws himself into his task with an energy unseen in any of the other movies. He is also not unbelievably unstoppable, being floored by a kick to the groin or falling off a chair, this incarnation of Jason Voorhees seems much scarier as he comes across as an out of control animal who is defending his territory rather than the kill for the sake of killing Jason of future movies. The design of Jason's world, from his ramshackle home to the improvised sackcloth mask all add to the grimy and believable world of a psychotic hermit who has lived in seclusion in a forest for years.Fans of the slasher genre should see this worthy follow up to the original and witness the birth of a true pop culture icon before he gets his hockey mask and becomes more machine than man. "},{"Title":"Mildly Realistic","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Everyone has heard of the Friday the 13th series. Jason comes, Jason kills, Jason gets killed, Jason comes back, repeat the process. The first movie in the series featured Jason's mom killing people, and it was a decent movie, but not that great. In the sequel, Jason kills people! He isn't wearing the hockey mask though, he's wearing a bag over his head. Anyway, it's a good movie. It's actually sort of realistic. In the other Friday the 13th films, Jason is like the Hulk. He can't be stopped. If you kick him, he rips your leg off. If you punch him, he breaks your wrist. In this film, you can kick him, and he actually falls down like a real person. There are some cool killings in this, and overall, it's a fun popcorn horror movie. One of the better films in the Friday the 13th series. "}{"Title":"As Good As The Original, But That's Not Saying Much","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERSFriday the 13th Part Two is as about as good as the first one, but since the first one was pretty average, well, this one was pretty average also. Still, it's pretty good to watch on Halloween.Friday the 13th Part Two opens with the heroine from the first one, Alice, being killed in her house with an ice pick. Amazingly, there was no blood in that scene! It's a miracle! Then, five years later, some teenagers go to Camp Crystal Lake again. Why? I don't know. Then the murders start to happen. What a surprise. First, Crazy Ralph. Barbed wire is wrapped around his neck, thus killing him. Then a police officer. A hammer claw hits him in the back of the head. Then Scott. While he is dangling, a figure comes over to him and slits his throat. That happens to you when your dangling at a camp where brutal murders happened five years before. Then comes Terry. I don't know what happened to her, she was killed off screen. Then comes Mark. While he's outside in his wheelchair, a machete comes out of nowhere and hits him in the face. He falls down some steps, to his death. Then Jeff and Sandra. They are both impaled at the same time. They die instantly. Then comes the last victim, Vicki. She is stabbed. Good last death, right? Then Paul and Ginny come back to the camp and find everyone's dead. Then the killer comes after them. Mark is hurt and the killer goes after Ginny.After a chase, Ginny finds a shrine built around Mrs. Voorhees's head and identifies that the killer is in fact Jason Voorhees, who supposedly drowned. She pretends to be Mrs. Voorhees. It confuses Jason. Then Paul comes out of nowhere and struggles with Jason. Ginny hits Jason with the machete. He falls down. Ginny and Paul return to their cabin. Then something happens that angered me. Jason appears in the window and takes Ginny with him. Yes, it's like the end to the original Friday the 13th. That's why it angered me. It fades to black. Then it shows Ginny being carried in a stretcher, and she has no idea of what happened the night before.It's like the original, but that was decent.7/10 Recommnded Films Scream, Friday the 13th, and Halloween. "},{"Title":"More Friday the 13th","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 starts off where the first stopped, giving us a brief ending of the first movie, in case we forgot. It has been four or five years since the first film, and enough time for Jason to cope with his mothers death. The survivor of the first film is driven crazy by her dreams and thoughts that she will be killed next by Jason or his equally psychopath mother.The setting is the summer of 1984, and yet, a new set of counselors reopen Camp Crystal Lake now, hoping to generate business based on the legend of Jason Voorhees. Part 2 is actually the first part of a continuance sequence of events that ends in The Final Chapter, when Jason starts his rampage of murder. After seeing his mother decapitated, he loses his mind, and murders the campers in his own right. Of course, he is tamed (for a brief moment) by the thought that his mother may be alive. Only to find out that it was a camper that put her shirt on.Part 2 is somewhat better than the original, but it is not the last good Friday the 13th movie. If you watch this installment, you can not miss the next two, or even the next eight. "},{"Title":"A Classic Horror Sequel","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge fan of the horror genre and have always preferred Jason over the comical Freddy Nightmare movies or Micahel Myers' stale franchise. People seem to always knock sequels of any genre but this sequel is one the best in any genre not just horror. It picks up after part 1 and it doesn't suffer from continuity problems as far as the storyline is concerned. In my opinion Friday the 13th is all about parts 1-4. But part 2 is just awesome all around. It has the same creepy atmosphere that part 1 and is topped by one of the greatest endings in horror cinema. The endings to part 1 and 2 in this series are some of the best. They just seem to go so well hand in hand. Friday 2 has always been my favorite in the entire series. As you all know it marks Jason's debut, and what's kind of sad is that Jason is identified with the hockey mask and his best movie is with the sack over his head. This one is a much more credible movie. It doesn't have a supernatural Jason who looks like a monster. He's a lot more human here and not so robotic. I love watching this movie on a breezy or stormy night. It's just a perfect slasher film. People should know that the horror genre especially the slasher kind are never going to win Oscar nominations, awards or have it's cast members win em either. Horror movies are a special treat of their own and Friday the 13th Part 2 is Jason's murderous rookie of the year foray into horror films. This movie is horror gold. From Jason's mother's head in the fridge, to the crash through the window classic ending. If it doesn't get a 10 from me, it's only because nothing is ever perfect. "},{"Title":"This sequel to Friday the 13th is well made and entertaining.","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Five years later... A new camp is built near the old Camp Crystal Lake. After the disappearance of a young woman (Adrienne King), who survived the brutal murders on the night of Friday the 13th. Now has become a legend and also the body of Jason Voorhees is still never been found. Now this mysterious maniac is stalking the new counselors one by one. Some of the counselors wonder, if Jason has survived for all these years.Directed by Steve Miner (HalloweenH20, Forever Young, House) made an suspenseful, occasionally scary sequel to Friday the 13th. This sequel is a slightly bigger movie than the first one and better photographed also. This film has a nice lead performance from Amy Steel (Best known for April's Fool Day and Walk Like a Man), likable supporting characters, a few solid shock scenes and some exciting moments. But the ending is somewhat confusing and that's the only flaw of this sequel.DVD has an fine anamorphic widescreen (1.781) transfer and an good-Dolby Digital 2.0 Mono Sound. DVD's only extra is the original theatrical trailer. The latest DVD Box Set from Friday the 13th series. DVD includes interviews with the cast & filmmakers. Miner, who worked with filmmakerSean S. Cunningham before and after as a Production Assissant, Associate Producer, Producer and Director. Which Miner did a good job making this sequel and he has a quite successful career with major studio films and television work. Which now Miner has directed the re-imagination remake of George A. Romero underrated Day of the Dead picture due in 2007. Since this sequel has an open ending, Miner continued the film with the popular Friday the 13th Part 3-D. Besty Palmer, who played an memorable villain in the original. She appears in a cameo towards the conclusion. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Hello Jason","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part 2 is probably the best of the early Jason films (1-4) and is definitely different considering that most people unfamiliar with the films will not realize that this is Jason's first appearance (minus the scene at the end of the first movie) and that it was Jason's mother murdering everyone in the first one. Also, Jason's trademark hockey mask isn't anywhere to be found here. Instead, he wears a pillow case over his head (that is what I always thought it was).As you can probably tell that this is standard in the fact that another group of naive teenagers decide to open another Summer Camp and pay for it horribly. Though, this one has a nice sort of twist in the end when Ginny (Amy Steel) dresses like Mrs. Voorhies and tries to calm Jason down.Of course, the killings in this movie aren't quite as good as they were in the first movie but there is still a few scenes that will grab your attention. Most notable is the poor fellow in the wheelchair. That was probably the best/worst scene in the whole movie or in any of the Jason movies.Also, the way Jason looks without the pillow case over his head is interesting. He is deformed, of course, but he has long hair and is wearing overalls with a plaid shirt on. He looks like a mutated killer farmer. He isn't very big either which makes his appearance somewhat more realistic.Well, if you haven't seen this movie and you are a fan of the series check it out. This is probably my favorite of all of them but it is hard to say since most of them have their moments. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Movie To Live By 2","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wow a second Friday the 13th in just a little over a year after the release of the first one. I wish I had been alive during this time so I could have seen this and the original and all the subsequent sequels on the big screen. Alas I was not born until 1985 and have only seen Jason x and Freddy Vs Jason through the light of a projector bulb. This film however is a little less impactive then it's predecessor. This film was rushed and it shows. The dialog is the worst in the series and this includes the fifth installment when I say this. It looks as if when Miner was told he was to direct this he only had like a week to cast because this cast seems as if they don't have clue. Amy Steele is the only one shows any sign of comprehension to the script. She is a lovely successor to Adrianne King who does reprieve her role here, if only for short time, making her inly the forth actor in the series to do so, so far. Steele however works well with what she is given (not much). All she is able to do is run and scream. Her speech about Jason's past in the bar scene is marvelous. That is the only insight we are given about Jason in this film and that is what holds this and the next installment back. The film should have delved into the Jason mythology and now it would be harder for the current directors to screw it up. Miner himself is a incompetent director who takes liberties with characters that are not his own, even if it is against the fans wishes. This is most evident in his film Halloween H-2-0 where he only works to the lowest common denominator of people. That being teeny boppers and jocks. The earliest signs of what is come from Miner can be seen in this film. He chooses not to tie up any of the plot threads of the previous Friday and leave it to other directors. (I hate you Steve Miner you are the one killing the Horror) "},{"Title":"Definitely better than the first,, but potato sack didn't work for me!","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Friday the 13th Part 2' is more of the same, but with Jason now being established as the killer- but minus the trademark iconic hockey-mask. Instead, a potato sack will do sufficiently for this film! We see the original survivor, Alice Hardy (Adrienne King) killed off in the prologue in a kind of over-the-top scene. Sadly, according to IMDb's trivia section, Adrienne King chose to end her acting career after this film due to being stalked by an obsessive fan. Amy Steel is the main protagonist of the film, and she plays Ginny in this sequel, and I think she works better in this one.I liked this one better than the first, cause I guess I have an easier time believing it, and not taking it too seriously. The usual clichés are rampant throughout such as gory deaths, teens having sex or attempting to have sex, and shocker ending. The 80s seemed to spawn these types of movies, and this one is no exception. I can't claim to be a fan of this series, but it's hard to ignore Jason Voorhees as a horror icon. This one is a little more grounded than the sequels to come but is less entertaining, and number two is overall an improvement on the first film.**½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"A boy and his machete...","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After the survivor of the first movie is slaughtered, new teens surface at Camp Blood where the warnings fall upon deaf ears now six years later the same thing that happened in the first is going to happen again. Friday The 13th Part 2 works about the same as # 1, however the tension of the finale is lost in what becomes mainly a slaughter house of teens killed one by one. There is no real plot and indeed this entry does feature the most survivors mainly due to the wisdom of a couple kids staying in town. However the shock ending in this one is easy to see coming and it's interesting to note that the killer in this film wears a pillow sack over his head. It's all fairly goofy although the movie does open well with legit suspense. However all the attempts at character development often get in the way of the carnage.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"War With MPAA","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When the original 'Friday' came out into theaters, some people (read, the MPAA) were outraged at the level of the gore effects that were in the film. So, with Gene Siskel at the helm, the MPAA began a crusade to tone down the effects in horror movies. 'Friday II' was an easy target. At least one death (with a beer bottle) was cut out completely. The double impalement is seen in the film only from underneath the bed (when the arrow comes through) - however, the VHS box always tantalizes you with a shot of the spear from the top of the impalement - never made it in thanks to the MPAA. Not to mention the poor guy hanging from the tree. Although many slasher films were released the same year as 'Friday II', 'Friday II' got most of the MPAA backlash on the effects. Too bad these effects have never been put back into the film. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 8/10. As I said, this is a worthy sequel to the original Friday the 13th-movie.This one has most of my mine favourite kills in it and it had the same great music. And Jason is mine favourite horror-icon so it was great to have him on the screen.So why don't I rate it higher? Two things1 The characters Jeff, Sandra and Ted is just copies of the characters from the first movie, Jack, Marci and Ned. 2 You don't get to know how goes to a child to a grown-up in two months.But still this is a good and worth to spend your money on if your liked(/Loved) the first one. "}{"Title":"Friday The 13th Part 2 Is As Good As The First Movie","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 2nd movie in my Friday The 13th movie marathon.This movie is the sequel to the good movie Friday The 13th and this movie is as good as the first movie in some ways better but i will always like the first movie a little bit more.The plot for this movie is sort of the same as the first movie and the movies about how its a few years after every one died at camp crystal lake and the camp next door to camp crystal lake is going to open and a new bunch of councilers are setting it up and once again they start to die one by one once again but this time its not Pamela Voorhees (Betsy Palmer) killing them its her son Jason Voorhees.There are heaps of great kill scenes in this movie but there are to many to mention and in this movie Jason is not wearing his trade mark hockey mark he is just wearing a white bag with an eye hole in it.Over all if u want to watch a good horror movie with some good gore and kill scenes u should watch this movie.My rating for this movie is six out of ten. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good sequel","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After the box office success of the original, Paramount wasn't stupid enough to stop, so they made the first sequel in 1981. Although low on plot, Friday the 13th Part 2 has a little bit more than it's given mention of. Most of the characters are actually pretty likable, which in the slasher craze of the 80's was pretty rare.The direction by Steve Miner is very good. He knows how to film a stalk scene with perfect ease. This is on of the few sequels that managed to create some sort of tension. The final chase between Ginny and Jason is one for the books. You really do not know if she will make it out alive or not.The film does suffer some blows in the violence department. All the fans know that this was probably the sequel the MPAA chopped up the most and it shows. The scene abruptly cuts before anything too visceral is shown. 1981 did seem to be the year that the MPAA was it's worst.All the cuts aside, Fridya the 13th Part 2 still raises some goosebumps, has a great atmosphere, pretty good acting, likable characters, inventive murders, and creates some good tension. "},{"Title":"Made my Grandma scream...","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" My Grandmother took a school buddy of mine and me to see this one at the theater. She wasn't quite sure what it was about, and we weren't going to tell her. Friday the 13th II, is by far my favorite of the series, for a few reasons 1. Moms that kill don't scare me. 2. Gratuitous nudity for 13 year olds. 3. Jason is introduced as a murderous zombie. 4. More gratuitous nudity. 5. My Grandma jumped 3 feet out of her seat. Steve Miner directed this one and the 3rd installment (which I enjoyed as well), with Jason Voorhee's at the helm, we know we're in for a ride. The film is an early Slasher flick, and in my opinion amongst the best, solid story line, dumb teenagers looking to score and an undead guy looking to butcher them (how can we go wrong). Whenever I see this film, I always have fond memories of my Grandma'a high pitched scream and her 80 pound, 4 foot nothing frame leaping out of the theater seat. I asked her about it years later and all she could say was Uuuggh! Camp Crystal Lake will live forever in this cult classic horror romp. Sorry Grandma. "},{"Title":"Decent follow up to the first","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part two begins much the same way as the first one. A girl is brutally murdered by a faceless killer and leaves it up to the viewers to decide if the perpetrator is none other than Jason Voorhees, back from his watery grave for revenge? Well, unless you have been hiding under a rock for the last 20 years you know the killer IS Jason and this is the movie where he takes his rightful place in the hearts of horror movie aficionados worldwide.Friday 2 was Paramount's big follow up to their sleeper hit of the same name the year before. After the success of Friday 1, Paramount realized they had a cash cow on their hands and quickly gave the green light to director Steve Miner to make a sequel. This film takes place 5 years after the tragic events of the first. Crystal Lake is open again (albeit a few miles away from the crime scene of Camp Blood) for business. We meet several new, pretty young people who are ripe for the slaying and represent every cliché thinkable. But god you have to love these films! They're so bad that they're good. Watching a Jason movie is like watching a car wreck. You just can't seem to look away.Curiously, Jason appears in this movie wearing a burlap sack rather than the hockey mask we have come to love over the years. He doesn't get that until the third installment. I think the burlap sack sort of adds a hokeyness to this film; some much needed levity. There are some brutal kills in this outing, particularly the one involving the poor kid in the wheelchair (OUCH!). Aestically, the movie looks good and the new DVD does a wonderful job in restoring quality. I remember having this movie on VHS and it literally looked like it was filmed from a personal camcorder. I wish they had not killed off the character of Crazy Ralph. I really enjoyed watching him warn the characters about going to Crystal Lake. All his death did was add another body to Jason's overall tab. One burning question I have is when the police officer goes into the woods to pursue Jason. He leaves his car parked right in the middle of the road. Wouldn't the police have organized some sort of search mission for him? The car was there for several hours at least! Maybe Jason got them, too. The acting in this movie is definitely a notch lower than in the first one. The only person who did a good job was the guy who played Jason. Perhaps it was because his face wasn't shown ). I'm giving this movie a 5/10. Average installment in the series, but it is brutal, nostalgic and important in the franchise because it marks the debut of Mr. Voorhees. "},{"Title":"The legend is born!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As a young lad, Friday the 13th Part2 never really quite satisfied me as much as the movies that followed.Not enough killings, blood, nudity....and no hockey mask!! A recent viewing of this classic sequel provided this reviewer with a much needed refresher course in Camp Blood trivia. Part 2 has a lot going for it. Most notably, it is a nice look at the beginnings of a horror cult icon in his heyday.While many of the killings in Part 2 go unseen or unbloodied, there are a few goodies that work nicely. We get a great psychological profile into the mind of Jason, which proves to be quite compelling indeed. Solid scripting, great production design and some good acting help this sequel to work masterfully. And although I have always been a long supporter of the hockey mask, there is just something truly dreadful (in a good and scary way) about seeing Jason run around with a burlap sack over his head.This is the young, impressionable, hillbilly Jason... a character whose anger, rage, and depravity make him hard not to love. ;-) It's all very creepy ...and very effective!! While still not my personal favorite, Friday the 13th Part 2 proves to be a solid, insightful, and very entertaining sequel in the long running successful franchise.Highly Recommended!! "},{"Title":"Here comes Jason...","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This second installment in the Friday the 13th saga is quite good. It's all amateur night in terms of acting and writing, of course, but director Steve Miner keeps viewers interested for the most part. Granted, it's middle section is nearly totally worthless, absolutely nothing happens. These fill up scenes aren't all that good but things get interesting once Jason finally shows up and carnage begins.The kill scenes are pretty good, no Savini here but they're good all the same. Some are total rip offs (like say...Twitch of the death Nerve) but others quite inventive (wheelchair guy...ouchh). And Miner actually manages to build some suspense and shocks from this ohh so simple premise.It's not as good as the first one and some sequels are superior (parts 4 and 6 leap to mind) but if you're a fan, such as myself, it's well worth watching.I'll give 5 out of 10. These horror films don't rank easily on a cinematic scale, but in Friday's terms, this is easily a 7. "},{"Title":"Decent Sequel","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 is a decent sequel to Friday the 13th. The acting is typical for a horror sequel.This is set right after the events in Camp Crystal Lake. Another group of counselors are setting up a camp but are falling prey to a masked killer.This is a good enough sequel. It doesn't take itself seriously. There is no attempts at originality or good acting. There is a good amount of gore, blood and nudity. This is definitely a better sequel than the average Parts 5-7 and the downright dreadful Parts 8-10.For an enjoyable night in rent this, you won't be disappointed. (Just don't expect anything great).3/5. "},{"Title":"Very fun sequel","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13TH PART 2 (1981)starring Amy Steel, John Furey, Adrienne King, Stu Charno, Walt Gourney, Kristen Baker, Marta Kober, Bill Randolph, Tom McBride, Lauren-Marie Taylor, Russell Todd.plot Five years after a psycho mother murdered seven camp councilors at Camp Crystal Lake, Paul Holt (John Furey) and his girlfriend Ginny (Amy Steel) decide to open up a camp across the lake from Camp Blood. There, another massacre begins at the hands of a killer in a pillowcase mask. Who is the killer this time? Crazy Ralph (Walt Gourney)? Or perhaps Jason Voorhees, who may not have died from drowning 26 years ago?my thoughts This is a very fun sequel, although it does have zero originality and a mystery which is easy to figure out if you've seen the following sequels. But there's more to love here.The opening scene with Adrienne King reprising her role as Alice is great and sets the standard of whats to come throughout the rest of the movie.The climax which has an extended chase/fight sequence between the killer and Ginny is very suspenseful and exciting. Steel gives us a very brave and down-to-earth performance.The only part that's bad is the middle of the movie is mostly just like the first one. The killer spies on his/her future victims, stalks them around, and then kills them one by one. There's some pretty good gore though.*** "},{"Title":"Ready or not, here Jason comes!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *********MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE ORIGINAL*********This movie was definitely a sequel that lived up to its predecessor. I quite liked it and thought it was at a good level of horror and gore, even though now I'm sort of over Friday the 13th. I think that they should of made this with Mrs. Voorhees but since they killed her off in the first movie, Jason gets revenge on the horny teenagers. The movie would of been better if Sean S. Cunningham returned to direct, but sadly he didn't and that was a bit of a downer for me. When I first rented it on VHS at my local video store, I couldn't help but notice if it was brought out on DVD, it would be better (as most times, it is) but since they only had the VHS tape there, I gave it a go. (I later rented it on DVD and seen the HUGE difference it made). A bit obvious from the start who will survive, but still, watchable.******* out of ********** (P.S. If you want best viewing, rent or buy it on DVD)! ) "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 is a great sequel and we finally meet the king of horror Jason Voorhees, The Plot is Two months after the events of the original, Alice, the sole survivor of the Camp Crystal Lake massacre, is trying to pick up the pieces of her life. But when she opens the refrigerator door to find Mrs. Voorhees' severed head, an unseen assailant stabs her through the temple with an icepick.Five years later, Paul Holt opens a Counselor Training Center at Packanack Lodge, adjacent to the now-defunct Camp Crystal Lake. Crazy Ralph again tries to warn of the coming danger, but is again ignored. Around the campfire, the counselors are told to ignore the local lore that Jason Voorhees, whose mother was responsible for the earlier murder spree, is alive. Crazy Ralph watches Paul and Ginny in her cabin, and is strangled with barbed wire by the killer.The next day, two of the counselors, Sandra and Jeff, slip away to the off-limits Camp Crystal Lake and are caught and escorted back to the Center by a police officer. On the way out, a figure darts in front of the officer's car and into Camp Crystal Lake. In pursuit, the officer discovers a ramshackle cabin and is killed with a hammer to the back of the head.That evening, most of the counselors go to a local bar, leaving six behind - Sandra and Jeff, Scott and Terry and Vickie and Mark. Scott spies on the skinny-dipping Terry, but when he tries to get away with her clothes he's caught in a rope trap. Terry leaves to get a knife, only to discover Scott's throat has been slit before her return. Terry runs back to camp, only to be killed herself.Back at the bar, Paul, Ginny and Ted discuss the legend of Jason Voorhees and what he would be like if still alive. Ginny guesses he would have seen his mother decapitated by Alice, and that seeing the only person who had ever loved him killed would leave an indelible mark.When Vickie leaves the wheelchair-bound Mark is killed with a machete. Sandra and Jeff are impaled together with a spear while having sex, and the killer -- now revealed as the bag-wearing Jason Voorhees -- murders Vickie as well.Paul and Ginny return to the camp, and after finding the lodge empty, Paul is attacked by Jason. Ginny flees through the woods, finally coming to Jason's shack, now filled with the bodies of the dead counselors. Seeing Mrs. Voorhees' severed head and sweater on Jason's makeshift altar, Ginny puts on the sweater and readies herself for the final confrontation. . .A truly Great sequel I recommend this to All Horror fans. "}{"Title":"Move Over, Mom!  There's A New Killer In Town!","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two months after surviving the massacre at Camp Crystal Lake, Alice returns to face her fears, but instead, ends up getting killed when she discovers the head of Mrs. Voorhees in her refrigerator. Five years later, a new breed of campers set up shop next to the shut-down camp. After unheeding warnings about the camp again, the killer, who is revealed to be the not-so-dead, fully grown Jason Voorhees, makes his way through a variety of sexually active campers and cops until he goes against a steely counselor who tricks him into believing that she is his mother (via wearing his mother's bloody sweater). After defeating Jason, Ginny and Paul, the only;y survivors, find a cabin and rest for a second, until Jason crashes through a window and attacks. The next day, Paul has disappeared and a barely alive Ginny calls to him. The movie ends with a shot of Pamela Voorhees' decomposing head "},{"Title":"Steve Miner takes it up a notch","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After killing the crazy Mrs. Voorhees, who was avenging her son Jason's death, Alice can finally sigh with relief. But there is just one problem. Jason never drowned in Crystal Lake and lived in the nearby woods as a hermit all this time. The day that Alice beheaded his mother, Jason saw everything and his heart filled with thirst for revenge. Two months later Alice disappears. Is Jason behind this? Then five years later a new camp that has been opened across the lake from the infamous Crystal Lake. The counselors begin to be killed one by one until there is only one survivor.Better than the original (6/10) this one benefits from better direction, (Steve Miner) and gets a solid rating of 7/10!!!! "},{"Title":"7/10 for first F13 sequel","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The second installment of the Friday the 13th series is definitely endearing you have poor old Jason wearing a potato sack on his head and the horny guy in the wheelchair who really doesn't stand a chance(R.I.P. Tom McBride) and several other trademarks that make this sequel likable. The opening sequence is great and it involves the lone survivor from part one(Adrienne King)and features some very scary moments from the film(like perhaps Jason is calling on the phone...Is that a Head in your fridge?). Part 2's lead female character Ginny Fields(actually one of the more intelligent characters from this series)is one of my favorites. She's logical enough to consider the fact that maybe Jason isn't just a legend. But can she convince anyone else before it's too late?F13 part 2 also has some fairly creative death scenes(much like the first)which really helped with the success of the entire franchise. For example we have the double impaling of the two lovers in their bed, and the one truly classic scene that I always remember is the haunting death of Mark(in his wheelchair)with a machete in his face falling backwards down a very long stretch of stone steps. Great stuff! I also enjoy the chase scene in the end where Ginny is hiding in the trees and she jumps out and kicks Jason in the *!#$& and he actually recoils in pain! Then there is the scene where she is hiding under a bed in one of the cabins and Jason pretends to leave so she crawls out(chh chh chh ha ha ha ha). In the final scene there is a great moment where Jason jumps through a window looking like a total beast! I remember it as being one of those jump scenes and it really scared me because it was so sudden. Overall Friday the 13th Part 2 is a fun horror/slasher film. 7 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Jason's big debut in one great F13 movie!!!","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie is called Friday the 13th Part 2 and it is the big sequel of one of the best horror movies ever made.In the first movie the killer wasn't Jason as everybody thought till the end of the movie.The killer was his mother-MRS.Voorhees.He does great as the psycho mom of the strange boy who drowned 11years old.He appears at the end of the movie and this leads us to a sequel.Interesting fact is that Sean Cunningham never thought about a movie with Jason.But Part 2 proves that he was wrong.The movie is great and i personally think that it is a little bit better than the first which is a great record for a horror movie.The greatness about this movie is the fact that it has the same formula like the first one.Dark movie with a killer who kills kids but this time Jason appears for first time but he does't wear a hockey mask,he wears a sack on his head.This is not a problem and besides we sees his whole body at the end of the movie.He is just a shadow for us until he chases the main character.Gore,suspense,funny characters.Great horror film for everyone. "},{"Title":"The Best Sequel of the Franchise.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 is my favorite sequel of the whole Friday the 13th series, it's the first film to actually introduce the Jason character that has become so legendary. Part 3 is okay, but from there on the films start to go downhill one by one.The film starts off with Alice, the survivor of the first movie, getting knifed through the head at her house, and then it goes on to some camp counselors trying to fix up a summer camp not far from Crystal Lake. Everyone is enjoying it, having a good time like all those who have come to the camp before them. But then people start disappearing, and the body count begins to climb, and pretty rapidly I'd say.Steve Miner (who later directed Halloween II and Halloween H20), does a good job here with the directing, setting a good mood throughout the film. The score is pretty much the same (ki ki ki ki ma ma ma ma). The acting is mediocre, but when I watch a Friday the 13th film I'm not looking for great acting, I'm looking for a good ol' slasher movie, which doesn't rely on good acting. The special effects are decent, the ending to the movie was really great, and the murder sequences that take place in Jason's little shack out in the woods were well plotted.The original Friday the 13th is by far the best of this series, you don't get any better than that. But all in all, this is the best sequel of the series, and is enjoyable all the way through. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Better than the first!","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Five years after the first film massacre, a group of camp counsellor trainees, at a camp across the lake from the original films massacre, decide to sneak over to see some of that camps sites, only to be followed back by the hooded maniac named Jason, who was believed to have drowned in that very lake years prior & who brutally dispatches them all, one by one. Far superior sequel is arguably better than the first film in a variety of ways. Released barely a year after the first films financial box office success, Friday 2's film-makers decided that instead of coming up with anything new for a plot, to recycle the first films instead, making it a better story, with a bigger budget & yet the film remains slightly different than it's predecessor. This time the original killer's son Jason take centre stage. What I liked best about Friday 2 & why I think it's a far superior film, is in it's atmosphere, like the first, the film has a very claustrophobic look & feel to it, mainly due to the films sparse budget & limited lighting. The nighttime & day time shadows almost feel like they are about to leap out at you, its got what I liked to call a scary ghost story like feel to it. Like the first, the film also displays some creative kills, but due to the first films moral backlash from critics, church groups & parent groups who complained of it's gory nature & brutal killings, has caused the film-makers to cut back on the gory mayhem & as a result, Friday 2, lacks the visceral impact that Tom Savini's bloody dispatches were able to provide in the first film. As in the original film, the film does have a few things that I thought weighed it down just a little, I guess my biggest pet peeve about the film would have to be it's opener. The film opens up with the survivor of the first Alice, being finished off in her apartment by the crazed Jason who then heads back to the woods for more grisly slaughters. Now don't get me wrong the opening is very suspenseful & tight, technically it's a fundamentalism of the earlier Friday films itself, tense setups executed with style, leading up to a bloody impaling. But the whole sequence feels out of place with the film, like Jason making a phone call to Alice & yet never answering her when she says hello, how did he find Alice? How did he know where she lived? & more importantly, how does he know her last name? this also goes double for the ending as the fate of the camp's owner Pault Holt also goes unanswered, after Jason smashes through the window to capture his intended victim Ginny Field, who passes out over terror only to awaken the next morning while being taken to hospital. Another thing however is that, as already mentioned, Friday 2 is a complete remake of the first films story & that goes double for it's characterization as well, the characters of Sandra & Jeff are complete rip-offs of the Jack & Marcie characters in the original, while Ted is clearly a Ned clone. Paul Holt is a Steve Christy like character with the same refusal to believe that the events that took place five years prior are just some horrible incident that was blown out of proportion. The fact that Sandra, Jeff & Ted are all friends & going up to the camp counsellor training centre in a truck (Like Jack, Marcie & Ned in the first). Crazy Ralph popping out of a pantry with his throat slit (he steps out of a pantry in the first) the shocking ending of the first with Jason jumping out at a victim etc. STEVE DASH plays Jason with a certain sense of flair & is pretty terrifying on screen, able to display all of Jason's rage in his body movements & I really liked the Jason make-up which made him look like a backwoods hillbilly mutant like in WRONG TURN. Speaking of special effects make-up, the film is also blessed with what has to be one of the best special effects teams to ever grace a horror film of the era, CARL FULLERTON, HARRY SMITH, (Legendary make-up effects artist Dick Smith's son) JOHN CAGLIONE JR. (Who won an academy award for his work on DICK TRACY) & the late STAN WINSTON (Uncredited), which in many respects is ironic, given the fact that in it's early years, Friday 2 was considered a less interesting film from the first, due to the heavy cuts the film suffered which cut out a lot of, no doubt, ghastly bloody effects the special effects artist conjured up. STEVE MINER, the director, wisely avoids such silly sequences as strip monopoly games that don't get played out to full fruition & wisely keeps the film at an even pace & manages to give the film a better polished look than what the first had & the film's stunts & climax are very well orchestrated for maximum effects. AMY STEEL is a great actress & makes the lead heroine role she plays really fun to watch, she's tough & sassy & is easily one of the more favourite of the Friday heroines. The acting is also better here. One of the best entries in the Friday cannon & one of the best sequels in horror film history, Friday 2 is fun, scary, suspenseful, has a great cast, creative kills, great atmosphere, good special effects, creepy POV'S (as well as some voyeur shots tossed in for good measure) & a creepy killer! Highly recommended to horror fanatics, don't miss this movie! Followed by Friday The 13th Part 3.**** stars "},{"Title":"The finest Friday film of the series!","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Underrated and under-appreciated by Friday fans and Horror movie fanatics alike, the second installment to the Friday the 13th series is indeed the best. The film was a much needed sequel to the first that sheds new light on Mrs. Voorhees' son Jason. This film is darker and scarier than the first. Jason himself is scarier and more believable as a killer than his future incarnations which made him more zombie like. Although some naysayers claim this film is just a copy of the original, that is not the case at all. I understand the primary problem people have with this film is Jason's mask, a sack tied with a rope instead of his iconic hockey mask. My response to this? Skrew the hockey mask! "},{"Title":"The Best In The Series","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part Two, without a doubt, is the best film in the entire series. It is very scary, and has some pretty cool gore scenes as well. The acting is terrific, and the atmosphere rules. Basically, Friday The 13th is the perfect slasher film. Not the best, but it is a perfect slasher film. It lacks no quality, when it comes to all the qualities that you need to have a good slasher flick.It takes place a couple of years after the first film. I am not sure exactly how many years, but I think at least two. Young Jason, has now grown, and he wants revenge. He wants to make sure that if anyone steps on the camp that if anyone steps foot on the camp grounds that his mother was killed on, then that person has to suffer greatly. I really enjoyed this film. I love Friday The 13th part 3, part 4, part 6, part 8, and I like part seven and Freddy Vs Jason. I pretty much like the whole series A LOT, but none of them films in it can even compare to the second one. Watch it in the dark, and YOUR DEAD! "},{"Title":"I think F13 pt. 2 is a great horror film and a great edition to the F13 series","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" F13 pt.2 was great. This one is definitely the scariest of the F13 series. This one had the best ending of the F13 series. Amy Steel did a remarkable job in this film. In this one, Jason looks more scary than the ones following this film, primarily because of the bag over his head. This look is, by far, scarier than the hockey mask. This is the only F13 film Jason appears in without the hockey mask. Besides Ginny and Paul, there was another survivor, the real skinny red-haired kid who scared everyone at the campfire scene. He never came back to the camp from the night club. I guess he was too drunk. The rain that came down that night made this a much scarier film than if it hadn't have rained. I really liked how Ginny used her psychology skills to manipulate Jason at the end. This one definitely had a higher body count than the original. The most creative death scene has got to be the double impalement when Jeff and Sandra are having sex in the upstairs bedroom. Too bad that the skinny, red-haired kid left the spear leaning against the wall at the bottom of the stairs. Another scene I that really stuck out was when Mark(the kid in the wheelchair) rolled down the outside stairs during the storm after being hit in the face with a machete. That was a great idea to put that scene in; it was very creative and it made the movie even more suspenseful. I really liked the characters in this one better than the other F13 films. The plot is very similar to all of the F13 films. There are gruesome deaths throughout most of the movie, there are one or two survivors who just barely escape getting killed, then at the very end the survivor(s) come up with a clever plan to kill the killer. Though, I have been thinking; would this movie have any chance of being made in this day and age, or would it have to remain in 1981's day and age? Is there really a difference? Good question, uh. I guess you would have to factor in the trends of the early 80's opposed to the trends of today, the trends the movie makers possess, and the trends the actors and actresses possess. Personally, I think there would be a good chance that a film like this one could be made in this day and age, easily. Well, if you think about it, 1981 wasn't really that long ago. F13 Part 2 is probably my favorite of the F13 series. "},{"Title":"Jason makes his big debut","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Set five years after the first film, Jason Voorhees emerges as the star of the series, but without his trademark hockey mask and instead sporting a sack with an eye hole in it that makes him look like the killer from The Town That Dreaded Sundown. Jason gallantly ventures from Camp Crystal Lake to a neighboring camp and starts stalking all the horny teenagers, among them a psychology student named Ginny (played by Amy Steel).You know what you're getting sex, drugs, rock & roll, grizzly deaths, severed heads, shapely women swimming naked, etc. The one interesting element is the film's central female hero, Ginny, dressing up like the late Mrs. Voorhees in an attempt to confuse Jason. There's something funny about how the early Jason would run after his victims and grunt whenever you hit him with stuff (here, Jason actually gets kicked in the crotch!).  "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jason...mother is talking to you!This one was more my cup of tea since it has a masked killer, which I love. I have yet to see any of the films in which he has a hocky mask, so I can't compare the different masks. The scarecrow outfit is great though. The murders are good and the acting is much better. This one is far from the obviously cheap budget original, yet when I saw the original it seemed a little more scary. Nevertheless, we have a classic piece of horror work here. I recommended it to all fans of slashers.Rated R for violence/gore, hot nudity(!), and sexuality. Oh and some language  "},{"Title":"Is this a sequel or a freaking lazy remake???","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie lots, I'm just a big jason fan. This sequel adds nothing, is a boring re hash of the first. Even the characters are REALLY weak and that's saying a lot for a horror flick. There's not even the token slut, stoner, loser, nice girl,etc. The thinly are just there too get butchered. Jason has a semi cool look, if you enjoy seeing a elephant man wannabe running around with a pitch fork. The kills are blah, going from the basic machete kills, a kitchen knife stabbing, two lovebirds getting speared, hammer in the head, but my favorite was the ice pick in the temple, especially since it was done on the whatever heroine from the first.Only see this if your a big firday fan and too see Jason's first appearance. The first ten minutes are fun and the last 20 mins with the super cool Ginny kicking Jason's ass.* out of ****  "},{"Title":"Solid Slasher flick from the 80's. You can't get much better than this.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing about this movie is that it proves that a Slasher movie CAN be scary AND gory. Part 2 demonstrates that suspense, gore, and all of the Slasher elements can be combined and deliver great results.Part 2 came when it had to; in the time where the Slasher genre was very popular and when suddenly hundreds of movies like this came out.Friday the 13th part 2 had the BIG advantage of being the direct sequel to the movie that created the 80's love for the genre. The Friday the 13th title helped this movie to stand out from many other movies from the genre. Everyone had to watch this movie in order to confirm Jason's existence after his shocking appearance at the end of part 1.*SPOILERS* As everyone knows this time Jason is the killer at Camp Crystal Lake and it's nears. At the beginning of the movie Jason takes revenge on Alice (the counselor that decapitated his mother in part 1) by killing her and then heads to Camp Crystal Lake to start his first killing spree. Five years have passed since the camp re-opened and after the tragic events that led to Mrs. Voorhees death. A new group of counselors seem to ignore the curse over Crystal Lake and settle down just to be killed one by one by Jason Voorhees.I like this movie very much for many reasons. First and most important is Jason's debut as a killer in the genre. After this movie Jason started a legacy that doesn't seem to have expiration date. In this movie Jason is very frightening. He wears a sack with one hole and old dirty clothes. He has little but quality screen time. His appearances are filled with creepiness as he's a mysterious being. There's no proof that he died or that he's still a human and that's what makes him so scary. The acting is surprisingly good. Amy Steel as Ginny is by far the most liked Friday the 13th lead female character. She's a good horror actress and considered one of the best Scream Queens. I can say that she's among the Top 5 of the 80's. Solid performance Mrs. Steel. The other cast members weren't required that much so there's nothing much to say about them except that they did it o.k. There are classic moments in this movie that are well remembered by the fans and genre lovers. Jason's P.O.V. when killing Vicky, the double impalement on bed, Scott hanging from the tree, Crazy Ralph's death, Jason getting beaten down, the thrilling chase scene in the woods and the unexpected ending are stuff for legend.The characters were very likable to the point that you feel sorry for some of them. The death scenes are great here. There's plenty of gore and many inventive deaths. My favorite has to be the infamous double impalement on the bed. A classic in the series and in the genre.The music is perfect. It totally works for the movie. Violins and cellos were never that scary. Many have tried to copy the Friday the 13th music but nobody has managed to do it correctly.The ending is suspenseful and you can say shocking. You don't expect Ginny to wear Jason's mother's sweater and apply her Psychology knowledge on him. Ginny used her child Psychology studies on Jason and good for her that she survived because of them. This is something that deserves a special mention! Intelligence and beautiness work together and can beat a demented killer. You won't see something similar in other movies from the genre.Friday the 13th part 2 is a scary Slasher movie. Believe me, that's something that not many movies on it's kind can brag about. One of the best Horror movies of the 80's in my opinion. Watch it even if you're not interested in becoming fan of the Friday series. It's a solid Horror movie.8/10.  "},{"Title":"20 years old, but still possibly the best in the series.(some spoilers below)","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Subjectively my long-time favorite, but also very much set apart from both the barrage of sequels and even, in some ways, its predecessor. The first film, evidenced low budget and production flaws aside, suffered from the fact that it seemed to have hit onto something with untold potential-exploiting the campfire-ghost story/urban legend experience as a companion to the slash-but then not entirely knowing what to do with it, like finding money in the street, but being bewildered as to how you'll spend it(though it did become a phenomenon all the same).Had it been able to capitalize with the deftness of the successor, its shoes would have surely become much more difficult to fill. Some of part 2's strengths and highlights are the creepy fireside Jason yarn, the-now-traditional-shock dream sequence, its aptly portioned humor, the likability + three-dimensional nature of new heroin, Ginny and Amy Steele's fan-hailed performance. Over all, this spooky follow-up largely benefits from its decision to have fun probing and fleshing-out the Jason mythology further than the first.  "},{"Title":"Terrible,Worse then the First","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    After five years A conserlor training camp near camp Crystal Lake is Opened.soon,the conserlors including Ginny(Amy Steel)Paul(John Furey)Terri(Kirsten baker)Ted(Stuart Charno)Sandra(Marta kober)Mark(Tom McBride)Scott(Russel Todd) and Vicky(Lauren-Marie Taylor)Soon an un know figure is stalking and murdering them...How original(Roll's eyes)     Terrible,Terrible,Terrible!The acting was bad,The direction was bad, Very little originality,Boring,Predictable,But I did like Jason's look,And there were somevery cool kills.There was one good stalk scene,But the end was stupid. "},{"Title":"Makes the formula too specific + constricting.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers)The second movie is very important in a series like this because it often sets the trend for exactly what elements of the original movie will be taken as the formula which elements the audience needs to see to take this as a Friday the 13th movie. The elements that Steve Miner has solidified as the formula from Cunningham's movie are killer's first person POV, or we follow the killer's shoes, the relationship between sex and death, young teens on summer camp around camp crystal lake, great variety in types of deaths, no-one finds out about the characters who've already died as the movie progresses, because it takes place in such a short period of time, the CH-CH-CH HA-HA-HA, and, most important, the gradual development of suspense.Friday the 13th Part II is unique in that the part of the myth that the rest of the series took its cue from was actually this movie, not the first one ie, Jason = Friday the 13th. This time the characters aren't as annoying, and the girls are much cuter, but its just like watching the first movie again, except the killers have swapped.What Miner has done is carried over far too many elements from the first. The formula is just too much it extends to setting, character and story. Its just too constricting. There's only so many times you can watch a bunch of teenagers accidentally camp around crystal lake again and not believe Jason is real. I'll be interested to see how the makers of the next movie cope with this constraint, actually.6/10. By far less significant than the first film. Just retreads first film is only good b.c first film was good, but this time we've seen it all before. "},{"Title":"The first of the great sequels","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's common knowledge that the Friday 13th series lost its way when it moved out of Camp Crystal Lake at part 8; Jason is at his best in the great middle sequels, from parts 2 to 7. There's no point in watching these films on DVD &#150; the full experience can only be gained from a warped, fuzzy, pan-and-scan VHS that has been borrowed from the video library too many times. This is how they were meant to be seen.There are so many layers in these movies. On the one hand, they are part of the banal detritus of teen Americana, existing purely to give their air-headed audience some predictable shocks and a few glimpses of gratuitious nudity after the frat party. And yet... and yet. At the same time, Jason embodies pure hatred for exactly this type of audience. It was because the camp counselors were preoccupied with their inane conversations and having sex, after all, that the poor kid drowned in the first place. Jason's silent, hulking nihilism is completely at odds with the context in which the movies supposedly exist, as a naughty diversion for straightforward, optimistic, middle-American kids. One of the best moments in part 2 shows how aware the film-makers are of this dichotomy a girl strips to go skinny-dipping, for no obvious reason other than to titillate the audience, but when she returns to the shore she flings her towel over the camera, showing her contempt for the people watching. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"One of the Best in the Series","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the all around best in the Jason series, and I think it is because the  evolution of Jason is apparent in this film more than in any of the others.  Jason is still  alive in this one and he has hair.  He's ugly as hell, that's for sure, but he apparently  hasn't been killed yet, so he isn't the nasty zombie of the later films.  In this one he is  decidedly more human.  He is also way smarter, and in one of the film's laughable plot  holes, he uses quite a bit of his cognitive capacity.  He finds the girl that he pulled into  the water at the end of the first one, like finds her house.  He also calls her on the  phone.  This means he must have used the phone book!  Good for you, Jason.  'Attaboy.   He also apparently built a shack to live in and look at his dead mamy's head in.  He also  had candles burning in his house, so he must've gone to Yankee Candle or something.   He's faster and uses better tactics in this film than in any others, except part 3.  After  part 3 he becomes the lumbering behemoth that we are more familiar with.  Anyway,  this is definitely one of the most enjoyable and interesting of the Jason films.  I want to  marry the main girl.  She is so smart.   "},{"Title":"one of those rare occasions when a sequel is an exact equal...","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoilers Many people forget - and Kasey brutally learned in the beginning of Scream - that Jason was just a Mongoloid pup that made a brief cameo in the first Friday the 13th. Mama Voorhees was the axe-monger in the original Camp Blood massacre and impressive box office receipts made a sequel inevitable. Old Pamela literally loosing her head as a previous conclusion meant that the team needed a new maniac to reap havoc on some sexually charged campers (although it didn't stop Rick Rosenthal's dire Halloween Resurrection!). Who could be better to fill the position than a now fully-grown and horribly disfigured backwoodsman with an obvious axe to grind (precisely) as revenge for the murder of his dear, sweet mummy? Sean Cunningham passed up the chance to direct, so Steve Miner  - who had been associate producer first time around  - took the reins, which proved to be a great decision that unearthed a previously undiscovered talent for generating suspense and shocks that could easily rival that of his buddy. Miner's impressive career was launched by this follow up and he has become one of television's finest directors, even if his movie career has never really rocketed (Texas Rangers springs to mind!) His commendable work proved to be a rare occasion when a sequel could exactly rival its antecedent without being better or thankfully any worse. Although perhaps a little more archetypal for following the Carpenter influences much closer to the bone, his exquisite skill that was almost bursting from the screen throughout places Part 2 in Horror's hall of fame right next to its forebear!It begins with perhaps the longest pre-credit sequence in cinema history. A child skips along a soggy street singing 'Itsy Bitsy Spider' to himself in the rain. His mother calls him inside, and as he leaves, giant heavy boots replace his small and dainty feet. With a knowing nod to Halloween, a hulking heavy breathing presence steady-cams it up to a house extremely similar to Michael Myers' derelict abode over in Haddonfield. Inside we see that Alice (Adrienne King) is the occupier and she seems to be having a (orgasmic?) nightmare about her previous misfortune over at Camp Crystal Lake, helpfully informing newcomers of the story so far. She awakes to a call from her mother checking up on her, and then heads to the shower. When she's finished the phone rings a second time, only now there's nobody there. Still struggling to forget the horrors of her past, this puts the lonesome female somewhat on edge and finding a window mysteriously opened really doesn't help to regain serenity. After an exceptionally good false cat scare, she opens the fridge to find the decapitated head of the mad woman that so viciously terrorised her earlier, inexplicably placed amongst the groceries! The screams of Panic are cut short by a large hand pushing a screwdriver into the side of her head, proving that she may have survived one generation of revenge-hungry Voorhees, but she didn't stand a chance with the new blood! Revenge is indeed sweet. We next meet a couple that is heading for a camp that's dangerously close to Crystal Lake. Jeff (Bill Randolph) and Sandra (Marta Kober) become the victims of a particularly annoying prank by Ted (Stu Chmo), the banal joker who also informs them of the gruesome legend of Camp Blood (as it's more familiarly known). Their journey to the location is stopped by a tree that has been rather suspiciously placed in the road, whilst our still unseen psycho pulls the branches back (to note a trademark) to get a glimpse of the soon to be victims that are invading his territory. Once they arrive, we meet the rest of the counsellors that look fit only to be dismembered or worse. Most notable are Paul (John Furey), the gung-ho head of the group and Ginny (Amy Steel) his sweet girlfriend that looks like a prize picking for surviving girl duty. They all settle in and get acquainted (in the usual ways) all watched with apparent distaste by an unwelcome outsider. (Apparent because this was crazy Ralph's last chance of warning teens that they are doomed!) Later that night, half the troupe take a trip to town, whilst the rest stay home for sex, skinny dipping and murder at the hands of Jason in his movie debut.Steve Miner proved that he was paying close attention to the helmers he produced with (Wes Craven included) before finally grabbing the megaphone himself for this brilliant slasher. Helped no end by a superb score from Harry Manfredini and some decent editing and lighting, the quality of this continuation was unknowingly the groundwork for the seemingly never ending sequels that now have become regularly mocked for their over-population. The director that managed to add an unbeatable amount of jump-scares that reaches into double figures - nabs the real credit. Some great photography includes brilliant leering shots through the pursuits and some fantastic use of Jason's silhouettes as he creeps around the campsite. The suspense towards the end is riveting, especially when Paul and Ginny first return to the cabin to find everyone missing and they're left alone with the maniacal madman. Amy Steel's performance was as good as any of the scream queens that preceded her, including Jamie Lee Curtis whom she obviously attempted to mimic.Part 2 can also claim that it's a lot different from any of the other sequels. Jason is far more human this early on, he hadn't yet forgotten how to run and he even flees from Ginny when she tries to fend him off with a chainsaw. He wasn't quite the unstoppable 'million bullet man' that he would unbelievably turn into. Perhaps the most obvious omission is the trademark hockey mask that would become the series' signature piece. Instead he sports a sack with an eyehole that was borrowed from 'The town that dreaded sundown' a thriller from 1974. It's unknown why they decided to ape the killer from that movie's disguise; perhaps it was some kind of compliment? Still Jason looks much scarier here and it's a mask they should've kept.There are flaws to be found throughout the movie. Some of the acting was fairly unconvincing from the support and the MPAA's heavy handed-ness with the gore was a little too obvious. There were also a few questions running round my head when it ended, like, why didn't Ginny just kill Jason with the chainsaw when she had the chance? And why the hell did Vicky go looking upstairs for the WHEELCHAIR-BOUND Mark when she returned to find him missing? But still this manages to include everything that a good-time slasher movie needs, scares, gore, sexy women, a likeable heroine and even some inadvertent humour (the folks dancing at the nightclub was a prime example!) People who write this off are either biased to the slasher genre in general or just judging it in the same standard as the later less competent additions to the franchise. The fact of the matter is, that this is one of the best of its kind, a truly exciting and suspense-filled treat that's literally packed with innovation. Followed closely by 'The final chapter' as the best of the Friday bunch.  "},{"Title":"Enter...","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, with Pamelas death at the end of the first one, Alice had to make her comeback right? Que Jason. Jason tracks down poor, distraut, mental Alice and puts her in her place for killing Mrs Voorhies.Jason is early thirties probably and living in the woods surrounding Camp Crystal Lake. Another group of camp counselors, this time training camp for them, move onto the lake in hope of a not so wanted repeat three years ago. Start up a 'Who wants one last night out on the town?' line, drugs, sex, and alcohol, and you are just begging for Jason to come out of the wood work. He slices and dices the kids that remain behind and make the sherriff look like he didn't know anything from the start of his wonderful training till now. Then you can take Ginny and her little boy toy coming back in the pouring down rain, both drunk, but yet they still made it back ok down that windy, dirt road to the cabins. Amazing! Anyways, they get all pissy about the lights being on, like they are going to pay to electric bill or something right? And they decide to check things out. After the electricity turns off (start scary music now) they decide that they need to get it back on. Jason comes out of nowhere and beats up the boytoy. Ginny is forced to run all over the camp until she finds his home. Nice place tooo!!! She pretends to be Jasons mother to fool him and suddenly boytoy returns and they kill Jason. They go back to find that ugly ass dog on the front porch and Jason 'crashes' the party.Now my question, what in the hell happened to the boytoy? He just disappears? I guess he bit the dust and is lost forever. Anyways, its not to bad and that great. We well come Jason for the 11 sequels5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Not So Much a Sequel as an Equal","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 87 MIN- R **Friday the 13th Part 2 offers something unique that most follow up films lack.  This movie is actually better standing on its own two feet.  It starts off in standard sequel form rehashing the original for a good 15 minutes including the opening credits.  This basically means that the film is truly only an hour long.  Since an attribute of Part 2 is that it moves along nicely at a very steady pace, you can now realize how little of a story they actually have to tell.  Not that this is necessarily a bad thing mind you.  At least we aren't subjected to mind numbing scenes that offer nothing more than space filler.  Watching highlights from the previous installment is still more entertaining than lowlights from this one.  The movie opens two months after the original took place.  Alice Hardy (Adrienne King) has come back to the town of Crystal Lake to deal with her fears of what happened that night at Camp Blood.  Director Steve Miner does an excellent job of building tension to create fear and uses dark lighting techniques that at times have a style similar to that of a Hitchcock film. In essence, that is about the extent of this movie's ties to the original. It almost feels that rather than the original tag of Part 1, this should have been it as the rest of Part 2 takes place five years later. There have been many years of silence in the small town community of Crystal Lake and that is just the way the residents want to keep it!  However, Paul Holt (John Furey) maintains that this is the perfect location for his new counselor training center.  While most of the C.I.T.'s offer nothing more than hot bodies and grisly body counts, Ginny (Amy Steel) seems like the perfect candidate to make it out alive.  She's beautiful, smart, sassy, and most important, believes that Jason (Warrington Gillette) is real.  The kids are warned (by the authorities, `Crazy' Ralph (Walt Gorney) and also by Holt via a creepy campfire tale) not to trespass onto the Camp Crystal Lake grounds.  Of course this movie would be pointless if we didn't have two moronic teens who `just have to see the scene of several brutal homicides'. So Pandora's box is opened and Jason is unleashed.  Jeff and Sandra realize the error of their ways, taking skinny dipping Terri, wheelchair bound Mark, practical joker Scott, and horny Vicky with them.  While the kills are crafty and brutal, they lack the gore of the original and further more Tom Savini's style and attitude.  The motivation for Jason's recreational activities is quite simple He is avenging his mother's death five years ago.  While the hockey mask has become a Jason Voorhees staple, here he dons a potato sack with a flannel shirt and overalls.  Like the murderer in the cult classic B movie `The Town That Dreaded Sundown', Jason is far more human and creepy than he is in subsequent sequels.  Eventually, Ginny and Jason have a showdown in Jason's woodsy lair, complete with his rotting mother's head.  Ginny is not your usual heroine however, as she uses her psychology smarts to beat Jason instead of the usual `all of a sudden a can fight like Mike Tyson' nonsense.  Missing from this movie is some background on Jason after the drowning and how he can to live in the woods.  Plus, several characters seem to disappear never to be heard from again.  Ted (Stu Charno) stays behind at the bar and doesn't return to camp while Holt appears alive at the end, but paramedics say Ginny is the sole survivor. It was rumored that Furey and Miner had their disagreements on set and Furey walked off and never came back.  Betsy Palmer appears briefly as the spirit of Mrs. Voorhees.  "},{"Title":"The Arrival of Jason!!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The sequel to Friday the 13th. SPOILERS! It begins two months after part one where Alice returns to Crystal Lake to face her fears. She ends up getting killed by Jason (who is thought long dead). Then it jumps to 5 years later when a counselor training camp is opened by Paul Holt next to Camp Crystal Lake (now called Camp Blood). Soon they start getting killed in brutal ways by Jason who in this film wears a sack over his head. I did like this film and thought it was a real good follow up but some of the characters were dull. But over all the machete to the face is a classic.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A solid sequel to the original.","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Part 2 picks up six months after the original ended.  We then skip ahead five years, to a new camp set up right next to Camp Blood.  Kirsten Baker does the best job as Terri, by getting naked and also wearing tight shorts.  The suspense is built up like in no other Friday movie.  I know Crazy Ralph was crazy, but if he was so scared of Camp Blood, why was he walking around in the woods the first night?  Many questions are answered and some remain unsolved to this day.  The second best in the series behind part 1.  6/10  3 stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"Improves on the original, though that wouldn't take much...","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 2 (1981)THE GOOD--The film starts very solidly. The characters are likeable and even develop to a certain point. The film has a steady pace, and is suspense-ridden. That's good 8/10 material. Too bad the film went to crapsville after the scene mentioned in the first THE BAD point.--This movie is scarier than the first. The chi-chi-chi was used to great effect. Gore is replaced with some very good suspense (also a BAD thing) that left me gripping my couch in anticipation. Steve Miner (director) did a much better job than Season S. Cunningham at building tension and making the audience jump.THE BAD--This film goes to stupid lengths just to up the body count. For instance, a guy runs from his jeep, leaving it in the middle of the road, unlocked and with the key in the ignition, runs deep into the woods and interrogates someone else's property. Why? Because he saw someone run across the road.--Of course, the film is riddled with dumb characters. A girl gets slit in the leg and doesn't even try to escape though there is a door right behind her, she just waits for Jason to give it to her like a good little girl. The girl who runs outside in her underwear to get something random from her car takes a really long time and since when do girls run outside in their underwear in the pouring rain? The characters never noticed that their friends were missing either.--God, Jason just looked too ridiculous with that pillowcase over his head. Thank God for the hockey mask.--For a Friday the 13th film, this movie lacks gore. Crazy Ralph's death and the dude who was hung were good and gory, but the rest you can expect jack all. The film is replaced with some good suspense, but some of it is not successful, and for a film like this, I expect gore in the bucket loads.--This movie had horrible lighting. It was so dark in this movie at times I couldn't even make out what was going on in the movie! This is especially the case with the Jason vs. last female standing sequence as the end of the movie.RATING4/10 - Friday the 13th Part 2 is an improvement on the original film, but hell, that wouldn't take much. Monkeys could write a film 10x better than the original. This film is still crap, and not worth viewing unless you're a dedicated F13 fan.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDFriday the 13th (3/10) Friday the 13th Part 3 (6/10) Friday the 13th Part 4 - The Final Chapter (6/10) Friday the 13th Part 6 - Jason Lives (7/10) Friday the 13th Part 7 - The New Blood (7/10) Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (4/10) Scream 2 (8/10) "},{"Title":"Which came first?","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 2 or F13pt2?  They're pretty eerily similar to one another in respect to Jason & Miky's actions.  Whatever - whichever came first, Myers does many of the thigns Jason does . . . only better.Things that managed to stand out in this movie- Jason's the killer this time around and he has a bag on his head. yippee skippee.- Jason wears . . . flannels and overalls?  (Someone please tell me my eyes decieved me so I might regain a shred of respect for Voorhees.)- Jason ran gasp and still wasn't intimidating.- Single stupidest ending of the entire franchise.Typical Friday the 13th elements - no characters worth remembering at Camp Crystal Lake.- Jason kills.  It shows blood.- Hack job styleless, soulless, and atmosphereless presentation.- Chances favor horny teens/sex/nudity/etc, but I honestly don't remember nor do I care.It's pretty clear why Paramount was embarrassed to distribute this series, but hey, it made 'em money.   "},{"Title":"More of the same - but I don't mind. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The gore score needed to be settled - and big time after the success of FRIDAY THE 13TH in 1980. Steve Miner took up the directorial baton in 1981 with the first of many sequels and thus began a story in itself.Although it comes across as a ludicrous sequel, the film is simply entertaining enough to make you forgive the fact that it is more of the same. At the end of the day, there are two memorable killings, of Crazy Ralph and the disabled guy in a wheelchair and it moves along at a reasonable pace, until the formulaic ending that everybody expected after the first film, which went down a storm.Effective horror sequel which delivers the goods, if not artistic merit. "},{"Title":"possesses the same fast pace and manipulative shocks of the first film...","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...which isn't such a bad thing.  Sure, character development is non-existent, but the characters are less obnoxious this time out (and the girl I was hoping would get naked DID get naked!).  Steve Miner (Halloween H20) does a fairly good job building suspense through a minimalist approach, and keeps the film moving at a breakneck pace--something is always going on, even if it defies common logic (how could that overweight cop possibly keep up with Jason?  how could the male hero track the heroine to Jason's secluded cabin in the woods?).  The murders are deliciously nasty, yet lack the expert polish of Tom Savini's work in the first Friday the 13th.  And yes, there are moments in this sequel that generate genuine shocks and scares, which is something practically unheard of in our latter-day, self-aware slasher flicks.  This isn't highbrow cinema, but it's a passable way to waste an evening.5/10 "},{"Title":"'Friday the 13th' sequel remakes the first film none too well","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part II (1981) Amy Steel, John Furey, Adrienne King, Kirsten Baker, Stu Charno, Warrington Gillette, Walt Gorney, D Steve Miner.A new batch of horny counselors at a camp across the way from Crystal Lake don't listen to the locale crazy and end up regretting it with an axe in the head! Other than officially introducing a new monster of horror, Jason Voorhees (wearing a potato sack over his head), this sequel, being one of the lesser and worst in the series, bootlegs the murder scenes from THE TWITCH OF THE DEATH NERVE while offering nothing in the way of plot or quality. (Don't make a chore out of counting all the holes in the script, or you'd lose attention on the movie . . . big loss!) How would Mrs. Voorhees' son know where the survivor (King) from his mother's killings lives? Did he get directions from her severed head? Running Time 87 minutes and rated R for gore, violence, and sexuality/nudity. RATING * (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Not a good sequel to part one","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is kind of dull.  Firday part 2 starts off incoherently with deformed Jason showing up in anytown USA to kill the lead character.  A kid even skate boards by him with no reaction, missing out on an opportunity that is taken advantage of in Halloween.  Jason also seemingly goes through several costume shifts and at one point looks like he's got the sleeve of a blue business shirt.  The killings are not as grotesque and disturbing as in part 1, which is somewhat welcome.  The squeaky sound track is really creepy.   "},{"Title":"Camp Blood?","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~If Friday the 13th is the mother of all slashers, I suppose Friday the 13th Part 2 is the mother of all slasher sequels. The body count rises, the gore is increased, and there's more POV shots. Steve Miner follows in Sean Cunningham's footsteps by directing the second installment of the never-ending series. We begin with a standard flashback sequence (which starts the next few films) where we see the last events of the original film. Then the title sequence pops on with the 3-D logo coming at you and the music immediately taking me back to a time when things were cooler. Manfredini's score always brings out the kid in me. I don't think it would be a Friday the 13th movie without that memorable score. This particular entry has two of the most memorable scenes of the series 1.) The poor guy in the wheelchair flying down the stairwell and 2.) the heroine being so scared that she pees in her pants. I love both of those scenes. This installment also is the first to feature the well-oiled killing machine, Jason Voorhees, doing what he does best. Not the hockey-masked, horror hero however. This Jason is sporting a more laid-back, country look...a feedbag with an eyehole cut out. Really scary. The rest of the movie is the clichéd stuff you should all be familiar with. Of course pretty much the whole cast is killed off so the heroine, or Final Girl, must best Jason by herself. It just goes to show that you should listen to Crazy Ralph and stay away from Camp Blood.Best kill The poor guy in the wheelchair. 'Nuff said. "}{"Title":"Decent and fun slasher film","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 2 isn't that bad. There are still some great scares in it and I wish they kept Jason as the hillbilly hick with a sack over his head. He looks really creepy in this film. The MPAA cut a few great kills so that hurt the film in a way. Amy Steel is great as the heroine and plenty of great gratuitous nudity fills the screen. Good follow up and worth a look.  "},{"Title":"ALMOST AS GOOD AS THE ORIGINAL! FRIGHTFULLY GREAT FUN!","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  f13part 2 isnt as good as the original (of course)but it is very close to the formula of the first movie thrilling, chilling, terrifying, and gory. i like how sympathetic i felt towards some of these characters. part 2 is also legendary for introducing the legendary jason voorhees. ONE OF THE BEST SEQUELS TO ANY MOVIE. A GREAT RIDE! "},{"Title":"Introducing Jason Voorhees  the most brutal killer in horror history","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alice the lone survivor of the blood camp is murdered by an unknown man. This event arouses suspicions as it's believe that Jason Voorhees is the responsible of Alice's murder. Five years after the gruesome murders, and not caring about the fact that Alice was murdered a group of counselors return to Camp Crystal Lake to re-open it and begin with summer activities. Little they do know that someone is watching them with the intention to murder them. Paul and Ginny are the counselors in charge of the activities. Paul tells them about the local legend, the legend of Jason Voorhees. The legend says that Jason drowned as a boy, and many years after he watched how his mother was decapitated. Jason would take revenge with everyone that would wander in his dominions. The teens do not believe about the legend and quickly forget about it.One night, half of the group decides to take some beers in the town and have some fun. The other half stay in the cabin ,yeah in Camp Crystal Lake. Ginny, the smart psychologist thinks about the posibility that Jason, now a demented and wild creature  is still roaming in the woods waiting to attack. Ginny convinces Paul to return to the cabin believing that maybe it's too late. The teens in Camp Crystal lake got murder one by one by the time that Ginny and Paul arrived.    When Paul and Ginny arrive to the cabin they find their friends dead and they get attacked by a man wearing a sack.This man is the author of the murders, he is Jason Voorhees (as expected). Paul is physically beaten by Jason, and Ginny has little time to escape and run as fast as she can. Jason chases her for a long time until she stops in a small and creepy cabin. Ginny finds Jason's mother's head over a table surrounded by candles. Ginny, scared to death decides to wear Jason's mother's sweater and use some psychological tactics to face Jason.  Could Ginny be the new lone survivor of Camp Crystal Lake? Could Ginny beat Jason Voorhees?FRIDAY THE 13TH PART II is a great horror film. It has to be one of the best sequels to a classic horror movie. Jason looks scary and mean, the killings are brutal and gory. The score is chilling as much as the famous ki ki ki ma ma ma that is still present in this movie. There are likeable characters, better than your average slasher. This film is highly recommended for any horror fans. I'd say that it's one of the ten best horror movies of the 80's.  This is a good example where a sequel is better than the original. Jason Voorhees is introduced as the most famous killer in horror cinema history. "},{"Title":"Far better characters, far better chase scene at the end=Better than the original.","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although the characters in Friday the 13th Part 2 aren't exactly 3-Dimensional wonders, are they still heads and shoulders above the coma-inducing characters of the original. The Movie is spooky throughout, with a very suspenseful chase scene at the end. Jason makes his debut here, and he's pretty damn creepy, with that bag over his head. Friday the 13th Part 2 is a slightly underrated horror film, and the second best of the series. (*** out of four) "},{"Title":"One Kick-Ass Ride","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far my fav of the Friday sequels.  I think Jason was much scarier when he didn't have that damn hockey mask.  It became too much of a merchandizing thing.  The sack with the one eye hole really gave me the creeps.  And Amy Steel I felt was a wonderful heroine.  Smart, resourceful, vulnerable while still tough.  I found the movie suspenseful and full of tension, not just about jumping-out-at-you-from-offscreen scare tactics. From the opener(which I thought did a terrific job of running down the events of the first film and offing the survivor of that film) to the conclusion, I loved everything about this film.  And I found the lost time between when Jason burst through the window and Ginny wakes up on the gurney highly effective and creepy.  It left so much to the imagination, letting us paint our own pictures of what might have happened.  LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT! "},{"Title":"Better than the original, and way better than Jason Takes Manhattan","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (*** out of *****)This is one of my favorites of the series, because it doesn't just heap on one gory murder after another -- it actually tries to build some suspense in the scary cat-and-mouse chase scenes between Jason and his victims (particularly the resourceful Amy Steel).  That's not to say there aren't as many gory murders in this one -- there are (a couple having sex in bed are skewered together through the mattress with a spear, a death scene copied from Mario Bava's highly influential 1972 body-count thriller Twitch of the Death Nerve) -- it's just that some of the characters/victims are more appealing than usual.  In other words, they do not seem to exist solely to get their heads lopped off, their throats sliced open, their bodies skewered, etc.  There's a good and long chase through the woods and then another false ending with a final shock that (like the original) rips off Carrie.HIGHLIGHT  The really hot chic goes skinny-dipping (I didn't say all my highlights had to be horror-oriented.)  This epic moment in cinema history would go on to influence other skinny-dipping scenes in similar slasher-in-the-woods movies (The Burning, Just Before Dawn, House of Death). "},{"Title":"Best of the series!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  FT13th 2 introduces the killer Jason(without the hockey mask) He is still alive,a scared child in a man's body. When he see's his poor mom's dead. He goes to avenge her death to anybody who comes to Camp Crystal Lake. When a new camp is opened Jason goes out to kill. This movie gives the most scares in the series,and I had the best time. The plot is clever. And that Pillow Case is great! Really a wonderful horror film. See it for a great time!4/4 "},{"Title":"Average slasher sequel","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jason Vorhees returns to kill some people foolish enough to camp at Camp Crystal lake . This slasher sequel is fairly average , not bad and not good either . The acting is also pretty standard . The adults tend to be better then the teens but even they aren't that good . It should be noted that the US release was edited . "},{"Title":"the best of the bunch, which ain't sayin much","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best of the FRIDAY...series. Most modern horror movies spend a lot of time with characterization. This is supposed to make you sympathize more with the characters,.. thus the murders will seem more gruesome. Or it could just be the director stalling us. Either way it usually doesn't work, except in this case. The chemistry between the actors is actually pretty good. Also fellas, keep an eye out for Amy Steel and Kirsten Baker, they're pretty hot.   "},{"Title":"Better than the original!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a rare instance where I found I enjoyed the sequel more than the original.  It has been a while since I've seen the first movie, but I think I still remember it fairly clearly.  Like it's predecessor, this was also takes place in an isolated camp in the middle of the woods, but on the opposite side of the lake.  This has always been an excellent place to set a horror film.  One thing I liked better about this film were the characters.  They were more entertaining to watch, had more depth and more intelligence then those that came along first.  The set up before the climax is done much better, which makes the ending even the more dramatic.  Even though the ending itself was better, the fate of several of the characters is never really explained.  Perhaps in the 2nd sequel...  The reviews that say this has been toned down from the first are correct.  It is not nearly as gruesome, except for maybe one scene...  If you have never seen any of the `Friday' films, I suppose I'd recommend the first.  But if you did the first and assume you wouldn't like the rest, I'd suggest you give this one a try.  I'd give it 3/5.   "}{"Title":"Heeeeeeere's Jason!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well since Friday the 13th grossed almost 40 million it was almost natural to make a sequel.  So why not bring back Jason, who was thought to of drowned as a child.Jason has to settle for a potato sack in this installment as his mask, but that doesn't stop him from doing some serious slaughtering on the unsuspecting camp counselors.Best segment may be the wheelchair bound man who after meeting a merchedi takes a spill down a flight of stairs.I used to dislike this film, but much like part 3 it can grow on you in time.*1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Great Sequel...","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the best sequel to Friday the 13th. It reveals more to the story of Camp Crystal Lake and introduces us to Jason Voorhees as an adult. Great special effects (for the time) and some scary moments make this a great horror flick. You don't have to be a fan of the series to enjoy it...so enjoy! "},{"Title":"Best Friday the 13th!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alright at first it's a little slow,they have to go through all the introduction,but when it starts to get going it holds you. It has the most scares of the series. Jason is great,he comes out of no where. He runs in this one unlike the other movies. That pillow case is great! I don't if you call me dumb,but it's better than The Hockey Mask. The Murders are first rate. Although I didn't like the killing of the guy in the wheelchair. He followed the Jason rules. Any who very good movie,the best of the series. So darn good!5/5 "},{"Title":"As good as the original (not that that's saying much)","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This first of many sequels is about on par with the original, quality-wise. Jason Voorhees, the little boy who supposedly drowned in Crystal Lake twenty-odd years ago, has become something of a local legend, sort of a boogey-man who lurks the woods. Unfortunately, the legend turns out to be true, as Jason himself (dressed like the Elephant Man) begins hacking up the new group of counselors, avenging his mother's beheading at the finale of the first movie.Apparently marred by drastic cuts to remove what were reputedly some pretty gruesome special effects (the MPAA sucks), which leave the film choppy and uneven. However, there are a few moments of enthusiastic carnage left intact (two counselors are simultaneously impaled while having sex, a paraplegic kid gets a machete in the face and rolls down a flight of stairs in his wheelchair) and there's a good deal more nudity than in the original.And you have to respect a movie in which a character gives away her hiding spot by wetting her pants! Directed by Steve Miner, who co-produced the original and went on the direct the far superior PART III. Paramount's DVD release is top-notch as far as picture and sound quality, but couldn't they have released the unrated version? "},{"Title":"Scary and Exciting","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Honestly folks, this film is really not that bad providing that you can sit through a typical slasher formula flick. There are some surprisingly tense and claustrophobic scenes in this one, which as far as I am concerned easily make this the best of the series. It's also a lot of fun as it continues the story of the first movie with the debut of the infamous Jason Voorhees. Although I have always felt that Friday the 13th movies are really just Halloween clones, movies like this can be enjoyed as long as you don't take them too seriously and allow yourself to become too submerged in the often ridiculous elements that make up slasher films. And by the way, as weird as this may sound, I truly think that Jason's clothing and hood in this movie are much more twisted and scary looking than the garb he wore in all the other sequels. If I saw a hooded, demented hillbilly running at me with a pitchfork, I'm not afraid to admit that I might scream like a wee little school girl. Check this one out.   "},{"Title":"Weak but not horrible","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, it follows the exact same plot as the first one. 20 something's go to Crystal Lake, share in immorality, die.Only this time out Jason has suddenly gone from little boy to very large man who wears a white duffle bag and enjoys sharp objects.The acting is weak, the characters, some are likable, some aren't. The thing that saves this movie from the pit is Steve Miner's decent directing job and Amy Steel. She gives a good for a horror movie performance at the end of the movie which gives us some tension.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chk-chk-chk-chk-haa-haa-haa-haa","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a VERY scary movie. Out of the ten Friday the 13th films it ranks fourth on my overall best list, but first on my scariest list. It is much better than the first which is still a pretty good movie. The burlap sack adds a different but equal perspective on Jason than the hocky mask. The mask shows his animalistic, violent side, while the sack has a more psychotic human feel to it. I think Ginny's delving into Jason's psyche at the end was a nice touch, even if the later films make him out to be a brainless monster. Amy Steel is definately a better heroine and all around better actress than Adrienne King. This isn't The Green Mile, it's not going to make you think heavily, but that's not what it's for. It's a good, clean, fun gorefest. It is for this reason I think Friday the 13th is the best movie saga since Star Wars. "},{"Title":"Better than Original","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   This is a lot better than the original Friday the 13th. I think Amy Steel is a better heroine than Adrienne King, its also good how she manages to fool Jason near the end. The charactors are also more well developed and there are some funny scene's too. Id recommend this, its one of the best F13 in the series. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as the original.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th works in my book, but has the same formula. It comes up with a cool way to make Jason be the killer. I wouldn't recommend seeing it unless you would like to see another bunch of teens get killed in several gruesome ways. My Take 6/10.My MPAA rating R for terror violence/gore, sexuality and nudity, and for some language. "},{"Title":"Hard to distinguish from the first one","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  No really, it's like watching the same freakin' movie over again especially after midnight. You can easily get this movie confused with part one and it's not exactly Jason's shining moment either.On the other hand it is a Friday movie and you hafta enjoy these trashy movies for what they are. "}{"Title":"Second and almost identical outing.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first 'Friday the 13th' set the scene. Campers get cut to pieces. This one carries on the trend with equal suspense and some likeable characters. A group of kids open a camp not far from camp blood, the scene of the first movie. They tell stories of Jason Voorhies and his psychotic mother and wonder what did happen to Jason. This movie makes you enjoy the talky bits in it by extending the jason legend and what he would be like. After a bit of trouble with the local law some of the kids are left at the camp. Soon after everyone starts getting killed off by jason wearing a potato sack over his head. There's a double spearing, a barbed-wire garrotting on our beloved character Crazy Ralph and a machete to the face. The special FX and make-up are quite good although it's a shame Tom Savini couldn't do them again. He was working on 'The Burning'. For a Friday fan, they shouldn't miss this. It has good characters, good suspense, a good story and some good deaths. I loved it!  "},{"Title":"This film is unbelievably Cheezy, yet fun!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My pal Ryan and I recently rewatched this golden stinkburger.This film is better for laughs than for scares. We informally kept track and almost 1/2 of this film is flashbacks from Friday the 13th one!!Of course this is your typical teenager go to counsel at a summer camp, and of course it's next to Crytal Lake camp blood where all those kids were killed five years agoWell we get the usual no Jason for half the film and the fake scares and teens hopping in and out of bed.When Jason mercifully comes onto the scene(by the time he shows up your almost grateful he's there to stop all this dumb stuff)about halfway into the film.Jason did grow up really fast in five years, must be all those bugs he eats in the woods!! But why is he wearing a pillowcase with only one eyehole? Ryan and I could never figure it out..but it was hilarious!!From here on it gets side splitting funny!!! Jason has machette problems, everytime he kills someone it's with the flat (non blade) side of the machette. Man, is this guy good or what???Jason, of course, has a limping problem, and thus walks/runs kinda slow. In yet another scene from this ultimate in werid cinema, he chases ( I wouldn't even dignify it as running) a gal for alomst 15 mins, at times she STOPS and waits for him to catch up!! Nice when your victim thinks of you like this...Of course the ending, where our heroine get trapped in Jason's hideout and dresses in Jason's mothers sweater in order to delude him so she can escape. While doing this she stands in front of the decapated head of Jason mother which he has lovingly preserved via Norman Bates.Instead of running when she has him confused, she keeps yapping and mioves away so he can see she's fooling him!! I guess this was so the boyfreind could show up and kill Jason.Of course, as any Friday fan knows, Jason never dies!!It's worth a rental!! "},{"Title":"2 Reasons","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you liked FT13 part 1 then you should like this movie because it's pretty much the same movie. I think this one is a bit better for 2 reasons 1. The plot moves much faster then the first movie 2. This is classic Jason without the hockey mask and it doesn't get anymore old school then that...Fast pace and full of gore makes this one of the better FT13 movies. "},{"Title":"This is a must see sequel!Really Scary!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel to the Original Friday the 13 movies is far the scariest one of them all and all this is accomplished because Jason Voorhees has humanlike abilities, he actually runs to get his prey and not just appears out of nowhere,he uses a bag on his face and its scarier than the original hockey mask. There are some good scary scenes and in the ending there is a chase scene that proves to be scarier than the original chase scene in the Texas chainsaw Massacre,Jason rocks in this sequel,he is actually the attraction of the film. I´ll give it a 10 out of 10 on Crazy Slasher Movie Sequel. "},{"Title":"Very Good Sequel!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When you first start watching Friday #2 you can't help but wonder, what are they possibly going to try to do to please the audience without rehashing the first one.  Now although it isn't conpletely original it does hold it's own identity from the original.This installment in the Friday series is a very enjoyable film that continues on the same succesful path as the first but adds enough originality of it's own to please the audience.  The murder scenes in this film are much different from the first in most instances and we also have a much more ingenious killer on our hands as Jason is introduced and his arsenal of weapons are unleashed and as a special touch this is one instance when you do indeed get a glimpse of Jason's face.All in all to anyone who enjoys horror films this is one sequel that truly delivers without being a complete replica of the first film.  Definately worthy of carrying the Friday the 13th name! "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th, Part 2 was Paramount's first follow-up to their smash hit, Friday The 13th. The plot is only a bit less simple than the first film's plot due to its opening (SPOILERS ahead) The survivor of the first film, Alice (Adrienne King), has nightmares of the attack on her by Mrs. Vorhees (Betsy Palmer), and we are shown flashback footage of that attack. Alice is a nervous soul who can't shake the past, and winds up murdered when Mrs. Vorhees' son, Jason (Warrington Gillette), kills her with an ice pick. Next it is the introduction of the new characters, and the setting is another summer camp in the vicinity of the camp where the original massacre took place. It seems Jason never did die from drowning, and has a shack in the woods near the summer camps. The reason for his killing seems to be due to the possibility of seeing his mother getting decapitated when his mother attempted to kill Alice. One by one people are murdered by Jason. There are terror and chase scenes again when Jason goes after the main female character, Ginny (Amy Steel.) Friday The 13th, Part 2 doesn't quite develop the summer camp feel the first one had, but the movie was well filmed. It isn't exactly a solid production due to some loopholes (how did uneducated, savage Jason find where Alice lived? How did he manage the transportation to get to her?) There is also no conclusive ending (what exactly happened to Ginny's boyfriend?) The acting again is so-so with some cast members doing above average acting. Amy Steel is probably the tops here when it comes to acting, and she does very well in her scenes of panic and terror. Betsy Palmer has a brief cameo as Mrs. Vorhees when Ginny tries to make Jason have illusions of his mother. I felt the psychological twist of Ginny trying to make Jason think she was his mother was a bit far-fetched. The blood and gore effects are not as graphic as they were in the original Friday The 13th (possibly due to the M.P.A.A.) What effects can be seen are fine. Harry Manfredini's original music is again brilliantly used, but with a few alterations. Friday The 13th, Part 2 doesn't try to avoid being a semi-copy of the first film, but it does lack the atmosphere and mood the original created. Friday The 13th, Part 2 is mildly entertaining. I will say it is a lot better then many of the other slasher flicks that were made in its era. "},{"Title":"A good sequel","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've never been a fan of the horror genre, but I thought I'd finally give these films a chance nonetheless.  Given that these movies are incredibly cheesy, the film is pretty good...for a slasher film.I was really shocked to learn that Jason Vorhees wasn't even a main character in the original Friday the 13th and even more shocked to learn that neither Friday the 13th nor Friday the 13th Part 2 features Jason Vorhees with a hockey mask.  I guess I'll have to see the next installment now and see if they introduce the hockey mask there.The story in this one is pretty much what you'd expect from this sort of film, nothing terribly complex and a lot of scenes to make you jump.  I kind of chuckled a little after watching the film because the formula for this film is EXACTLY the same as the first Friday film.  I'm sure you've seen both films you will agree with me.  I don't really think that is a bad thing, just kind of an interesting observation.All I can say is that if you're a fan of slasher movies, then you should definitely see this film, but make sure you see the first installment before watching this one.  I hope that you enjoy the film.  Be sure to check out my reviews for the other Friday films.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"*** out of 5","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sequel to the smash hit of the same name adds nothing new to the story but is still entertaining as a new group of senseless teen campers get hacked to peices. Fans of the original will wat this up while non fans best pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Best in the series without a doubt.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoilers.Jason is now the killer,he has murdered the woman who killed his mum (in the opening).This time there are a new group of young people who are camping at a site near to Crystal lake. Soon that night they arrive they are all starting to get bumped off and it becomes clear that Jason is around,but where?This sequel to Friday the 13th is without doubt the best i the series,it scares me everytime I see it and I couldn't sleep properly for nights after seeing it.By now people will think it's dated,I don't care,it's a great film and deserves the awards it gets.I reccomend this highly if you're a fan of the original,it is one of those love it or hate it films.You decide.I rate 5/5. "},{"Title":"THE DEBUT OF JASON VORHEES!!!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 2 marked the beginning of one of the most well known and popular horror movie characters...JASON VORHEES!!! Although something isn't right...WHERE'S THE MASK??? Not to worry Jason would gain the well known hockey mask in part 3 but for now he wears a pillow case. Jason sure came a long way from a guy in a pillow case to a demonic monster with a hockey mask. I thought this was better than part 1. You don't even need to see part 1 to know where the story left off because in the beginning it flashes back to every scene in the first movie. Better than part 1 but still not great. OVERALL 6.5/10 "}{"Title":"Good follow up","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERSFriday the 13th Part 2 i believe starts off a couple of months after the events from the original.Alice(Adrienne King) is the lone survivor from the massacre at Camp Crystal Lake. Alice is having nightmares, and is a real mess.But that all comes to an end when Jason finds her and kills her.Now 5 years have passed and all that remains is the legend of Jason Voorhees and his demented mother Mrs. Voorhees.Across from the site of Camp Cystal Lake which residents call Camp Blood a new camp is opening up and being run by Paul(John Furey)Friday the 13th Part 2 is pretty much the same thing as the Original only this time Jason is the killer.Jason kills everyone till only Ginny(Amy Steel) and Paul are left.Director Steve Miner pretty much does the same thing Sean Cunningham did in the original.Of all the Jason's i think Warrington Gillette was the best. The reason being is Jason is not the monster he would later become but he is very human like.Friday the 13th Part 2 has some good suspense and some good scares.The only thing i don't understand is what happened to Paul? At the end when Jason does the Last scare, there is a cut to the next day, and only Ginny is found, and she is asking where is Paul.Then in Part 3 when the footage from Pt 2 is shown it makes it look as if Paul made it out alive. Cause they don't show Jason doing his last scare.I really like Friday the 13th Part 2 not much of a plot here but who cares it's a horror movie.I give Friday the 13th Part 2 7/10 "},{"Title":"Best one in the series.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th part 2 is the best movie in this series. The final chase sequence is the scariest finale in the series. Jason is really intimidating in this one. What makes him scary is that he actually has human qualities. He is not a zombie, i.e. part 6-10. In some way the sack he wears over his face is scarier than the hockey mask he wears later on. **SPOLIERS** The beginning is quite suspenseful but predictable. This is where the heroin from part 1 gets killed. This is an historical moment to the series because this is Jason's first killing. After that moment it gets boring with stupid teens and an annoying obese cop. One bright is Ginny (Amy Steel). She is pretty and very smart i.e. the sweater of Jason's mother and tricking him, etc. A sad moment in the series is where Ralph, the town drunk dies because I think he was the only remaining good actor from the series other than Kane Hodder from part 7-10. The other one, Mrs. Voorhees got killed in part one. **END SPOILERS** Overall good film. Acting sucks, kinda like the other F13 movies, but kills were awesome. Have a good time watching this movie, especially the end. "},{"Title":"This is the cult classic that introduced Jason Voorhees to millions of American film audiences.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the creepiest entries in the Friday series! In many ways, Friday The 13th Part II is better than the original. It features a more pluckier heroine in Amy Steel, a nasty and scary atmosphere courtesy of Steve Miner, who would also direct Part III and of course this is the cult classic that introduced Jason Voorhees to millions of American film audiences. This takes place five years after the original at a training center down the road from Camp Crystal Lake. This was the start of a trait that would bog down the later sequels, that is the same old routine of teenagers splitting up when it should be obvious that some thing or someone is outside lurking about. However, the many positives, including a scary killer and Amy Steel tend to outweigh the negatives. C'mon Jason, on to Part III and beyond! "},{"Title":"*** 1/2 (out of *****)","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alice, the lone survivor of part 1, is killed off in her apartment by a mysterious prowler who is then later revealed to be Jason Vorhees, avenging the loss of his crazed mother. Naturally, he takes out his anger on a group of would-be teen counselors in the woods.About as good a Friday the 13th movie you're gonna' see. Probably the best in its series, even if its not as gory as several of the other entries. Amy Steel is cute as the spunky heroine, and the intense climax will have you hugging your teddy bear.Includes one ice pick to the head, a machete to the face, one dead dude in a wheelchair, one decapitated head, two teens shishkababed on a spear, one skinny-dipping scene, one dead dog, zero explosions, one throat-slitting, no car chases, one hammer in the head, ten dead bodies.***1/2 "},{"Title":"A scary walk in camp Crystal Lake","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A great sequel in the Jason movies.The story is brilliant, now the boy who drowned in Crystal Lake in the previous film somehow survived and he wants to take revenge for his mother's death, and he's gonna be responsible for all the murders around Crystal Lake. Years have passed since the wave of murders happened in the re-opening of camp Crystal Lake, and this time a group of counselors have decided to re-open the camp for summer. Sounds like it's a good idea, but is it really? Hell yeah! That is fun for Jason, and for us.*Minor Spoilers* The virgin (?) heroine for this movie is Amy Steel (Ginny), a young psycologist and counselor. In contrast of Adrienne King (Alice, ,the first Friday the 13th heroine), Ginny knows how to deal with Jason as she's beware of the legend that states that Jason is wandering in Crystal Lake since he saw his mother being decapitated. We have a heroine, and this movie states that there has to be a male survivor character in any horror movie. This time John Furey (Paul) is the male survivor, and he will give a little battle to Jason. The teens in this movie are not as dumb as in the next Friday movies, well only half of them. Half of the teens (the smart ones) decide to sneak in the town and have fun going to a bar, the other half (the dumb! teens) decide to stay in the house to have sex and later being impaled, take a walk in the woods, or just hang out in the house.Well, the legend plays an important part here because Ginny is kinda worried about that human being called Jason. She was in the bar, but after thinking about Jason she decided to return to the house, of course with Paul. When they return they find that everybody in the house has been murdered, and before they could get the hell out of the house, they find guess who? in the house. Well, that leads us to the best chase in the Friday the 13th movies as Jason runs after Ginny stopping at his home. Expect a great, mind twisting ending where Ginny demonstrates why she is the smartest heroine in this movies.*No More Spoilers* Friday the 13th part 2 is a great sequel, it's primitive, creepy, and scary as we suspect of Jason doing the crimes but we are sure about that until he shows up. Great acting, great score, and creepy settings (specially the Voorhees house) make this movie a classic because it's the first movie where Jason appears and does the nasty job. RECOMMENDED! "},{"Title":"SUPERIOR SEQUEL","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the first Friday the 13th movie. I thought it was a unique piece of work but I think the sequel is better.In this film we are introduced to Jason Voorhees. Unlike later films, he doesn't wear that hockey mask. In fact,in this film Jason looks like a different man entirely. With each Friday the 13th film Jason put on weight (what was he eating in Crystal Lake) and his head got bigger and bigger. By the time we saw Jason Goes to Hell in 1993 Jason looked like a big fat elephant.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Anyway, you don't need me to tell you the plot. It's the same formula throughout all the films. This film is quite scary in parts. In one part, a law enforcement officer is in the woods and manages to find Jason's lair (it's no palace)and he gets killed. However, it's towards the end where things get scary. Jason seems to jump out of the shadows when you least expect it and credit must go to Amy Steel as Ginny because she looks really scared in this film.Highly recommended and in my opinion a rare example of a sequel which is better than it's predecessor. "},{"Title":"Average for its type","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  possible spoilersThe success of the Friday the 13th sequels triggered a wave of other horror sequels, a trend that continues as we speak. Of course, it isn't the first horror franchise by a long shot; there were others in the 1930's, so the 1980's simply saw the revival of an old trend. Of course by that time, film censorship had relaxed considerably.Without further ado, I present, for your consideration, the very first Friday sequel. Since then, there have been so many that it is difficult, if not impossible, to imagine the original as a stand-alone film.As slasher movies go, Friday the 13th, Part 2 is strictly average. It's not the worst of its kind, but that barely means anything. It's an uninspired rehash of the original. The only major difference is that Jason has replaced his dead mother as the killer. Granted, there are some decent shocks here and there, mostly towards the end, but overall, it's a fairly boring affair. However, I must give it points for having the nerve to rip off Hitchcock's Psycho. With that in mind, I cannot help but ponder the psychological ramifications of the climatic fight scene, which must be seen to be believed. To her credit, Amy Steel makes a fairly sympathetic heroine, although I personally preferred Adrienne King in the original.*1/2 (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watched this horror flick late at night and it was quite alright. Jason Voorhees revenges his mother's death at a summer camp. Five years back he is said to have drowned in a lake near this camp but his body was never recovered. He saw his mother getting decapitated and now he is striking back.Overall this is an alright horror flick. There is something special about these Friday the 13th movies. Jason is a legend off screen all over the world. "},{"Title":"As Good As the Other Ones...","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For some reason when you watch this movie alone it seems really scary. If you see this movie uncut on VHS or DVD it's better than it is on TV. The good thing about the Friday the 13th movies is that they always pick up right where they left off, the credits roll, and they start a new story... with the same setting... and the same killer, Jason Vorhees, with the exception of Part 5. For years my brother, who is 3 years older than me, talked about these movies that I couldn't stay up to watch because I had to go to bed. So after that I took matters into my own hands and rented every one of the Friday the 13th movies. The second part to the 10 part series starts with Alice, the main character in the first one. I won't tell you what happens, but I can tell you that she's not around very long. I have to give this movie a 10/10 and I'll also give that rating to any other Friday the 13th movie that you give me. Pick the 2nd one up though, it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Same plot outline. Same location. Different killer!!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's a sad fact that this sequel more or less has the exact same plot structure as the genre-bending original. I mean, it even has the same feel to it. Even the ending! Oh well...After the initial shock ending of the original film, this film begins with the demise of the last surviving victim. The build up and the atmosphere is used to great effect. This is one opening sequence that holds your attention. When the character finally meets her demise, we know it isn't Mrs Voorhees, so it must be...Jason! So he IS alive. Cool.Yeah...cool! Or so I thought.The director, has done the greatest mistake of all time, making a sequel that makes you feel as though you are watching the original, because it's more or less like a carbon copy!!Don't get me wrong, this isn't a worse film because of it, it's just sooooooo predictable. I second-guessed every death in this film!!!! Every one??!!! Come on, there must be something wrong somewhere!!What would have probably made a great sequel is if the film was shot using a different style. And new build-up music would have helped too. Maybe the budget was so low, he couldn't afford a new soundtrack!Yes, the new students all get killed, and yes they die very quickly and easily, not putting up much of a fight. Same-o-same-o!!!The development of Jason's psychological unbalance is a nice addition, and serves to try and develop him, and give him some justification for his killings. He and his mother were VERY close, (probably bordering on Oedipus related problems!!) and we see this bond towards the end of the film.Jason's disfigurement is hinted at, (maybe it's the sack over his head that gives it away?!!) and we as an audience want to see what he looks like. There's nothing more frustrating to an unsuspecting audience, than never really seeing the killer in a horror film, and come the climax, we are satisfied. Kind of anyway.The ending? Just watch the first film and it's more or less exactly the same. More or less.So another sequel? Yep.Could have been better, but then again, it could have been MUCH worse.Same score 6/10.I would say enjoy, but I can't bring myself to say it here. "}{"Title":"!!I LOVE IT!!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why Do People Say That The Friday the 13th Series is not Scary? I Don't Have A Clue. I Enjoy this Movie from the First Minute to the Last Second. Every Scene Was Good. I Ecspecially Enjoy The Perfect Sound Quality in the DVD Version. I Also Liked the Fact That This Was Jason's Killer Debut. It has Terrfied, Haunted, and Twisted Horror Movies as We Know it. This is one of the first films to feature an Immortal Serial Killer. It is Also One of the Best Friday the 13th Sequels. Rent it if you like any of the Friday the 13th Films or Enjoy Horror. "},{"Title":"Great film and a great followup","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not the masterpiece that the first one was, but still pretty good. This film made me understand the series. Because I saw the first film in 1994 when I was 12 years old and the first was 14 years old at the time the film had been turned into JASON MOVIES and Nightmare on Elm Street was FREDDY KRUEGER MOVIES. I had no idea how the story originated I just knew a slasher film. This sequel does a great job following up  to the first movie. I give it a 6.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Coming of Jason","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It has been a while since Alice decapitated Mrs. Voorhees and now she's relaxing in her apartment. Unbeknownst to her, someone is stalking her. Alice calls her mom, takes a shower, finds Mrs. Voorhees' head in the refrigerator and get's an ice pick rammed into her skull.            Five years later. A man named Paul Holt is opening a summer camp a few miles away from Camp Crystal Lake, a.k.a Camp Blood. Paul is a rough and no-nonsense boss. He's training camp counselors andthey consist of Jeff and Sondra, jokester Eddie, Ginny- Paul'sgirlfriend who drives a faulty VW, and more. Jeff and Sondra go to explore Camp Blood but are stopped by a surly cop. The cop is soon killed when he follows a mysterious man into the camp.             That night, the counselors were allowed to go into town and live it up before tomorrow, which was when they'd get serious. Paul makes Jeff and Sondra stay behind, also staying are two girls, a guy and a guy in a wheelchair. Ginny and Paul join the counselors. The man soon wreaks terror on those remaining. He double impales Jeff and Sondra, cuts throats, stabs, and more. Ginny feels for young Jason Voorhees so supposidly saw his mother get decapitated. The man murdering people at the camp just happened to be Jason Voorhees! All grown-up and wearing a sheet over his face.              Paul and Ginny return to see the blood bath and encounters Jason! Ginny runs to some shacks, finds Mrs. Voorhees' head and her sweater. Ginny puts it on and acts as Jason's mother, but Jason sees through the disguise. Paul comes to the rescue and is tackled by Jason. Ginny get's Jason with his machete then they discover why Jason wore a sheet over his face.          This movie is somewhat dull! I didn't like Paul! I didn't like Ginny. So the sequels to the film are better.  - "},{"Title":"A great sequel! Tie with the original.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the sequel to the film thats started the teen slashers with a camp setting. It stars Amy Steel, John Furey, Warington Gilette, Walt Gorney, and Adrienne King.plot A bunch of camp councelors are opening a camp on the same lake as the one in the original. Yes, teens still run into Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney), who still warns them about a death curse. A new killer has come, and it is Jason Voorhees (Warington Gilette). He wittnessed his mother decapitated by Alice (Adrienne King) in the original. And first he kills Alice with an ice pick. Then up at the camp, while the two head councelors Ginny (Amy Steel), and Paul (John Furey), also more councelors are at the bar, Jason gets mad at the teens who tried to go to Camp Crystal Lake to see where the murders happens. Those teens are still at the camp. Jason puts on a pillow case for a mask, and starts to kill them each one by one. Then, Ginny and Paul are on there way back, will they be able to defeat Jason? Great sequel! This is the 3rd best, after parts 6 and 1.Friday the 13th. 4/4 Friday the 13th Part 2. 4/4 "},{"Title":"Genuinely entertaining sequel","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I truly think that this film is a very worthy sequel to what is very easily one of the best of the teen slasher films of its era.  It offers more of the creepy fun and excitement that made its predecessor such a delight to watch.  If you're a fan of slasher genre, I recommend this movie to you because I think that watching it is movie time very well spent. "},{"Title":"More Madness and Mayhem Returns At Camp Crystal Lake.","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"                      ******CONTAINS SPOILERS******         Friday the 13th Part 2 is a pretty good movie with not exactly great acting, but it did okay. The movie starts off with Alice (Adrienne King) from the original Friday the 13th get knocked off by Jason by getting a knife through the head. Meanwhile, at another camp near Camp Blood (Camp Crystal Lake), where camp counselers come to fix up the camp. Everyone is enjoying themselves, when people start to mysteriously die, and as the body count rises, who knows who's next? Will Jason get his revenge? Anyhow, I enjoyed the film and I give it an 8 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"The best of the sequels","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th, part 2 has to be the best F13 sequel ever made. It does a good job of following the first. The acting is pretty good,and the gore is somewhat decent. You cant find any of this in the other sequels. I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoyed the first.  "},{"Title":"A better than average sequel which introduces the famous killer, 'Jason'; however, his hockey mask is not introduced until the next sequel.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *This contains spoilers*Friday the 13th part 2 is a good sequel which picks up right where the original Friday the 13th movie leaves off.  Other than crazy Ralph, Alice (Adrienne King), who was the only survivor from the original movie, is trying to put her life back together from that night where all of the other counselors was killed.  That night the only way to survive was to kill Mrs. Voorhees, and she did this by chopping off her head at Camp Crystal Lake.  That night, Jason supposedly witnessed his mother being killed by Alice, and that is when he decided to take his revenge out on any other counselor who ever wanted to open the camp again.  How Jason could have witnessed his mother being killed remains a mystery, because supposedly he drowned in Camp Crystal Lake in 1957.In this sequel, Alice is Jason's first victim.  He goes to her house, plants a head in her refrigerator, when she opens the door and screams, he stabs her in the head.  Jason then makes his way to Camp Crystal Lake to finish off the other counselors who want to reopen the camp.  The unsuspecting counselors tell stories of what happened there at Camp Crystal Lake when all of the murders took place, but still believe that Jason is only a legend.Overall, this is a good sequel.  Though it was filmed in Kent, Connecticut, the lake and forestry scenery appear to look very much like it did in the original Friday the 13th that was filmed in Blairstown, New Jersey.  The acting was terrific and many scenes toward the end were very dramatic.  Of coarse, there was the famous horror movie thunderstorm during the climax which added a creepy touch.  If you liked the original Friday the 13th, this is a must see sequel.Movie rating  8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"SEQUELS SHOULD BE LIKE THIS","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Taking place 5 years after the original slash fest another killer is hacking up young teens at a camp across from Camp Crystal Lake where the original murders took place. A lot of sequels don't rate up there with the original but this one does in every way.This film scared me the first time i saw it with its use of theme song CHA CHA CHA for example it makes you jump.It also introduced one of cinemas most infamous killer...GUESS WHO?  "},{"Title":"a good sequel!!!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie started it all, Jason is the killer this time.Friday the 13th part 2 is a scary movie, it has a good plot (Jason, the boy who supposedly drowned in the lake returns seeking revenge for the murder of his mother, this revenge consists of killing everybody near Crystal Lake, or anyone that steps in his way). This time Jason is a grown-up , so that means him chasing teens, and them killing them one by one. There are some good scares, Jason is scary when he comes to screen, and the atmosphere is creepy . Amy Steel is the best female character that fights Jason in all the Friday the 13th movies, her acting is very good.  This movie is recommended for horror fans.  "}{"Title":"An A for effort...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, now that I'm older I can only give F13-2 five stars out of ten. Technically it's fine. Steve Miner pulled off some solid directing for the early 80s and his use of steadicam mimics that of The Shining. You can say the acting was lame but it really wasn't...the script was. It became apparent as the Friday series continued that Paramount was concerned with one thing cash. The thing that bothered me then was, even at age 14, I thought the follow up scripts SUCKED. Back to the actors...they didn't suck. I LOVE AMY STEEL and try to catch anything that I see her name on. She's a solid pro and has a great look. I've seen JOHN FUREY in other things and he was good. As for BETSY PALMER... you can NEVER say she is a bad actress. Even if she's in the most abysmal movie (THE FEAR 2!!) she lights up the whole production and pumps up the value. Why? She's a traditional actress that knows how to act and give it her all because she's there and agreed to do the job. Maltin even revised his review for part 1 to give her credit. I encourage all F13 fans (old and new) to check out her older flicks (look her up on imdb). But the thing that scared me about F13-2 back then, and still gives me the creeps, was Jason's sheet mask! I thought it was scarier than the hockey mask (now tired). It reminded me of THE TOWN THAT DREADED SUNDOWN. I liked the fact that Ginny (Amy Steel) was a butt kicker and a truly tough chick for the early 80s. She rocked. And the score by HARRY MANFREDINI was awesome...totally tense. Someone give this guy a major flick and a huge orchestra! Will ya! Although most associated with the Friday's went on to successful careers (successful being subjective) I cannot understand why some of them weren't MORE successful (besides Kevin Bacon). I mean HELLO! Did anyone take any of these young actors seriously? LAURIE BARTRAM and HARRY CROSBY (part 1) had potential written all over her faces! It wasn't their fault they were given lame lines.  Anyway, enough banter...those are my thoughts for the flick. Hope I'm not the only nostalgia fan. It's just the bitterness over Paramount blowing what could have been an excellent series. At least the TV Series was VERY cool. And we'll see what Cunningham and his son have pulled off for the new one. SEAN.... I want to write the next one!!!  "},{"Title":"Say hello to slasher Jason Voorhees.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many people forget that in this horror series that Jason was not introduced, until the second Friday the 13th. The first had the mother of Jason doing the killings remember Mrs. Voorhees. Part 2 of this series started the highway of gore and blood as Jason just continued to slash and slash. See this one after you watch the first Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"Potato sack face avenges headless mom!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ****Warning! Some plot secrets may be magically revelead! Read at will!*Camp Crystal Lake, despite the numerous murders that have taken place over the years, once again re-opens with the current staff dismissing the well known facts as tales to spook the rookies with.  Poor 'ole Jason Voorhees, the object of fear and ridicule with the hotshot counselors, decides his mom's death was uncalled for, not nice and dammit, he should let them all know by brutally butchering their guts out.Appearing unconcerned with the fact he's chosen to advance from mere woodsy hermit to full fledge crackpot with a knife, he is painfully aware his face is too ugly to be seen with the human eye.  So he dons a sporty potato sack over his head (I suppose in case he bumps into a chick in the middle of the woods in the middle of the night who digs homicidal killers, but not ugly ones).  With objective in mind and pitchfork in hand, Jason sneaks around the woods picking off dumb teens stupid enough to go skinny dipping in an area for years dubbed CAMP BLOOD.  I blame our school systems..Still a good film to watch to feel the effect of socks being knocked off. I suggest renting the first in addition to watching this one. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Time Waster-A Decent Sequel","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 2 is certainly a weird film that includes a climax that is just plain weird.  After multiple viewings of this film, I can still not explain the weird climax that this film has.  There is no doubt in my mind that the writers of this film wanted to match the sensible ending of the original film.  But either way you look at it, they fall up short. Of note, there is more nudity than the original, and we're not JUST talking topless.  As a matter of fact, I don't think the original had nudity at all?!  As for the story itself, random unknown teens working at a nearby camp decide to venture into Camp Crystal Lake (now called Camp Blood) to party, smoke drugs and have sex, the usual...  This film marks the first film that actually HAS Jason doing the dirty work.  Directed by the original's director Sean S. Cunningham's friend Steve Minor, FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 2 makes for an all right timewaster on a Friday Night.  **out of****Scenic, but just another slasher "},{"Title":"Fair, as slasher sequels go.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are good things and bad things about this film.  First the good 1) There is a very high amount of tension during several moments in the film. The opening and closing most of all. 2) Hero Amy Steel was possibly the strongest and most capable actor from the entire series (respect to Betsy Palmer), and is not just a helpless female being stalked. Her character is smart, and she conveyed her feeling of terror very well. 3) Kane Hodder was dammed intimidating as Jason, especially considering he's wearing a hood over his head the entire film. Now, the bad 1) Steel and Hodder aside, the entire rest of the cast are cardboard characters with acting possibly on that same cardboard level,  just waiting to be slaughtered. The only other decent actor has a very small part in the film (I won't give that away). The rest are really bad. 2) There are too many direct ripoffs from Halloween. The first film was compared to Carpenter's masterpiece, but really, this one (and the rest of the sequels) have direct copied ideas from Halloween. 3) Because of the producers (or studio's) need for the shock factor (read gorey FX) with exception to the opening and closing, not enough tension and suspense are allowed to build before the characters are killed.That said, there is enough tension and scares to keep most any horror fan more than interested. This is probably the second best film in the series, behind Part 1. Part of the credit should go to Steven Miner, the director, who went on to direct House, Forever Young, Halloween H2O, and episodes on TV of many good shows. 3.5 stars (of 4) for horror fans. 2.5 for everyone else.  "},{"Title":"Scariest of the Series","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Jason's unique pillow case was creepy because you only see one eye. This movie also has the best F13 actress in Amy Steel.Better than part one just not as gory.It's really not needed though.My favorite scene is when Scooter waits for Vicky out in the storm and gets an unexpected machete-to-the-face by Jason.The atmosphere was quite eerie.I suggest turning out the lights for this one. "},{"Title":"A decent horror film, but it could have been better","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13TH PART 2 is a decent horror film, but it could have been better. The movie begins where the first film left off. The survivor from the first Friday THE 13TH movie is having nightmares about what happened to her at camp Crystal Lake. After what seems like fifteen minutes of walking around the house, she is finally killed with an ice pick. Then we meet a whole new group people to be killed at Camp Crystal lake. Sure, it's occasionally too much of a rehash of the first Friday THE 13TH, but it's a cool rehash. The acting isn't great (it's maybe slightly worse than the acting in the first), but it does not really matter because I didn't watch this movie for the acting. I watched it for the horror, the cheesy special effects, spooky music, death scenes, and the thrill of seeing adult Jason Voorhees for the first time. The character are paper thin and ultimately the film isn't as nearly well made as the first one, but in the end, I'd say that Friday THE 13TH PART 2 is still worth a look. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Great Sequel To A Great Series!!!!","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was not one of my favorite Fridays, but its still one of the best horror movies I've ever seen. It has a good plot and it's scarier than most of the other Friday movies. If you are a fan of the Friday series you have to love it because Jason makes his debut in this one. It has alot of great murder scenes, and the chase sequence at the end is great!! "},{"Title":"Jason's big screen debut!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, okay, so maybe jason had a small part in the first movie, but this is the first in the series where he actually does the killing. This is also one of the better films in the series. It starts off with a mysterious prowler killing off the first film's survivor, Alice, with an ice pick. Cut to a couple years later or whatever, with a new summer camp being opened. So we have a huge lot of teens coming in, and soon the pranking begins (a guy shooting a girl in the butt with a slingshot, the prankster guy jumping out and scaring everyone half to death, etc.). But as the night rolls on we notice someone lurking in the trees, watching the teenagers' moves. Soon, one guy is garroted. Then, the next day, two teens sneak off to Camp Crystal Lake, where they're confronted with a chubby policeman who eventually gets a pair of hammer claws in his head. That same night a few of the councellors stay at the lake while the rest go to town. In the blink of an eye, a guy gets his throat cut with a machete, another guy gets a machete in his face, and two lovers are skewered while making love. Now, I know that this all sounds familiar but the truth is, it's the first FRIDAY movie to actually capture the creepy atmosphere of the forest,and it has a really likeable 'final girl' in the form of Amy Steel. Jason looks pretty creepy, too.GORE 8/10 ACTING 7/10 DIRECTION 8/10 SUSPENSE 6/10 ATMOSPHERE 6/10  "},{"Title":"A follow up to the first movie","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 2 was a really good sequal to the first Friday. Not many horror movies seem to have good follow ups these days.This movie we were all introduced to Jason Voorhees. The son of the origonal killer Mrs Voorhees.The story was great,the acting was good. There was just one problom. The ending.What happend to Ginnies Boyfreind Paul. He is with her when they finally Put Jason down. And then the next morning we only see Ginnie.Friday the 13th was a good movie. Too bad the ending had people confused. "}{"Title":"Sequel has fine production values.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rating 2** out of fourFriday the 13th Part 2 is the first sequel to Friday the 13th a 1980 box office smash. This sequel is good because of it's notiable production values which had a bigger budget than the original. Most of Carl Fullerton's effects were cut from the film and director Cunningham avoided on making the sequels.This one begins with Alice (Adrienne King) who surived the night of terror at Camp Crystal Lake. To face her fears she returns to Camp Crystal Lake but is killed by Jason who has returned to avenge his mother's death. Five years pass and Jason is on the prowl at a summer camp about 10 miles away from Camp Crystal Lake. When the counselors arrive Jason starts by killing them with knives, spears and even barb wires. Kirsten Baker is totally nude in this film along with her stupid inept boyfriend played by Russell Todd who was seen in He Knows You're Alone. Bill Randolph and Marta Kober are over sexed lovers who are impaled to death by Jason. Amy Steel and John Furey give great performances as our new herions. Sadly good old Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney) who says your all doomed meets his doom when Jason strangles him with barb wire. Warrington Gillette is credited as the role of Jason which is wrong due to because he got his finger cut off in one scene stunt man Steve Draswaskia took over his part. Betsy Palmer, Jack Marks and Rex Everhart have cameos through this film.Steve Miner who was associate producer of one, directs which he returned to do the 3D sequel the following year. Ron Kurz's screenplay is also fine with fun dialogue. Harry Manfredini has the same old music as one and production designer Virgina Field is weak. And last word I HATE THE CHI CHI CHI HA HA HA sequences!!!! which is in every never ending sequel! "},{"Title":"It is pretty good","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the best Friday the 13th movie even though it is not that good. There are a lot of deaths and less gore. Very action packed chase scene. Jinny was the best heroin of them all but Alice comes in second place. I did not want Alice to want Alice to die though. I wish Jinny was in all of the other movies. In conclusion this is the best Friday the 13th movie of them all.  "},{"Title":"Kristin Baker totally nude ~!!!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you are coming here to see a very hot nude chick, this is the place.  Baker is fantastic and has quite a bush.  She has pretty small breasts, but makes up for it with a dynamite bod.  Look for her as a blonde in Midnight Madness.  She is not nude in this, but is hot and should be in porn "},{"Title":"Chi chi chi chi chi ha ha ha ha KABLOOEEEYYYYY","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad at all.  I think it's safe to say this was the best in the series.  Unfortunately, being that it is a slasher film it can't rise to be anything too superb, however it is one of the slicker slasher films.  Very good suspense, impressive special effects (Of course that's what you get when you hire goremaster Tom Savini), slick coordination, nice girls, stupid plot (what else do you expect out of a slasher movie!), and stupid ending.  All in all it works out fine!!!  If you liked Curtains you'll probably like this, and vice versa ; )  The chase scene at the end is a little silly, but oh well!!!  Atleast Jason wasn't discoing, which is a blessing considering it was that time period.  Horror fans that aren't going to be too sceptical will enjoy this, but if you're a Sherlock Holmes that is going to pause the movie to think the plot through I guarantee you will be so disgusted you'll be spitting left and right by the end so avoid it.  Oh yeah, it's a fun movie to watch in a group of horror fans. "},{"Title":"Not (Too) Bad, But The Original Is Still The Best","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion, the series gets cheesier and dumber each time a sequel was made.  Yes this is the first time we see Jason, and Amy Steel is good (and HOT!), but the original featured special effects / makeup from the master himself Tom Savini!  At the time the original was made we hadn't really seen many effects that gruesome and graphic other than maybe the Italian zombie movies.  And don't forget, (I'm gonna show my age here) video tapes weren't around yet so you couldn't go out and pick up most of these Italian gore films.  So I think the original did a lot more for splatter/gore/horror films (in the US anyway) than the rest of the parts.  Plus, I think it is always creepier and scarier (atmosphere) when you don't see / know who the killer/monster is until the end anyway!Don't get me wrong, Pt.2 does have it's creepy, scary moments and is far better than the remaining parts and a lot of the other garbage put out since.  The ending is kinda corny, but eerie none the less.  On a scale of ten I'd give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Jason makes his grand entrance","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jason could not have made a better entrance than this. He is portrayed as the perfect child like innocent and wanton homocidal maniac.  Although he seems to be seeking revenge, he just appears to be seeking some missing maternal attention.  The attempt to use child psychology on him on the end is classic hokey film making.The real reason to see this one is Kirsten Baken's nude scene.I have just one question  Where the hell did he get the hockey mask after they took away his burlap sack (like in Elephant Man)? "},{"Title":"Best in the Friday series.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The sequel to the Friday the 13th clearly tops the original and is the best of the 9 Friday's that have been made. First of all, it is Jason's debut, and you can see his true persona in this movie. Described as a confused boy living in a man's body living as a recluse deep in the woods. The plot of this sequel is excellent, having Jason turn to murder after witnessing his mother's death in the first one. Also, he is a more believable killer than his mother and is also not seen as undestructible as he is in further sequels. The first one may have slightly better scares and better acting, but Jason makes the series and his absence in the first film is what ultimately makes the second film superior to the first. "},{"Title":"Best of series...","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This entry to the infamous series is by far the best. The acting is better than usual and the gratuitous violence is left to the imagination. Amy Steel is great throughout the entire picture especially in the last 20 minutes. Jason's look without the hocky mask is very creepy. The rest of the sequels are not tantamount with part 2 and tend to become more vacuous as the series continues. "},{"Title":"As worthy as any slasher sequel.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Another group of brainless, licentious teens travel to Camp Blood and meet their demise at the hands of another killer.Though utterly predictable from the start and basically a remake of the first film rather than a sequel, this slasher film is wholly true to itself and the genre and manages to deliver its share of shudders, particularly the denouement.This film suffered heavily at the hands of the MPAA's ratings stipulations, having to be cut drastically of graphic violence to earn an R rating instead of an X.  How about a director's cut, Paramount?** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Arg...","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jason goes out to avenge his mamma. While it introduces Jason, this is just a duller re-telling of the original, that isn't good or scary. Just gory and exploitive. Plus - Jason has a bag or something on his head. WHAT THE HELL IS WITH THAT?!?!?!*1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Pretty cool....","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked Friday the 13th Part 2. Amy Steel is very hot, there are some great chase sequences, good atmosphere, photography, and some good kills (too bad they are pretty dry in this entry because of the stupid MPAA cuts). This sequel is better made than the original, but not as gory. The other sequels all go downhill after this one. Part 3 is too cheesy, and the other ones after that are too boring because they are so dry and the characters are dull. Part 6 stands out a bit from the pack, however. Check out my reviews for the sequels. "},{"Title":"Like mother, like son!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie is good because it's the real start of the real killer in Friday the 13th.  I also like this and parts 3 and 4 because these are the movies where Jason actually acts like he's human rather than a zombie like in the later movies.  And what's cool is Jason actually has a different disguise rather than the ol' hockey mask.  What's stupid was that he actually fell for the trick believing that Ginny was his mother and yet his mother's death was the reason why he was killing all those people.  Of course, then again, he was retarded, so maybe that's the reason why, I guess I'll never know.  A real good start on the Jason movies. "},{"Title":"The best in the series","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In a few short words..... Rent Friday the 13th part 2, forget about the 1st one this is where it all begins. Jason rises from the Lake and looks for prey. This movie is a true slasher. Unlike the friday series after part 5 it doesn't go for laughs. Its grainy, under produced, and all the actors are unknowns.... the way a horror movie should be!!!!! "},{"Title":"Best Of The Series","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best of the series in my book it should go down as a classic. Sure people say the acting in these films suck but, really it is good. This is the one to watch of the series it is the best. Heck this is the one where Jason everyone's favorite psycho makes his apperance. Sure he had a potatoe sack on his head but he is cool. He didn't get his hocky mask into the third one. But however this is the one to get it is the best this is my favorite Jason out of all them even the famous Kane Hodder that everyone says is the best but he isn't he was in the stupid one 7-9. So get this one you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Even worst than the first.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rating No stars out of 5I only liked Part 1 because of it's gore and special effects by Tom Savini. Here the effects are terrible. Jason Voorhees comes out of the lake at Camp Crystal, and goes on a violent killing spere to find who killed his Mother (Betsy Palmer from the first film) He then kills Adrienne King (who was only in the movie for about five minutes). Since Camp Crystal Lake was shut down a camp near it is suffering the same tragic deaths. However there appears to be more sex than deaths. Jason axes, spears, knifes, and strangles his victims. (Among them are Laruen Maire Taylor(Younger sister to Jeannine Taylor who was in the first film) Russell Todd, Bill Randoph, Kristin Baker, and Tom McBride. Walt Gorney reprises his role as Crazy Ralph only to be killed by Jason as well. And he does not say You're Doomed in this one. Even two people played Jason Warrington Gillette and Steve Dasrwaska. Steve played Jason most of the time. Look for Betsy Palmer and Rex Everhart in cameo appearances. And John Furey and Amy Steel are our so called Herions. The worst sequel out of them all. But if you like 3-D movies go to Part 3. Steve Miner directed when Sean Cunningham durned it down. "},{"Title":"At long last...JASON!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **  out of ****The first sequel is maybe a hair better than the original, thanks to Steve Miner's capable directing technique and the coming of age of Jason Voorhees.The formula continues, as new camp counselors get mutilated in a variety of methods, but it's slightly more fun this time around. And Amy Steele makes a strong impression as the heroine. Jason was well on his way to becoming a cult hero... "},{"Title":"Genuine scares in a genuinely bad film","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ok, let me start by saying that I grew up with this movie series, along with the Nightmare on Elm Street flicks and the like.  I've considered the original Halloween to be one of the scariest of its genre, the original Nightmare the most creative, and the Friday the 13th series the most fun (and, perhaps as a result, the most dim-witted).  Friday the 13th Part 2 is not a well-made film.  The cinematography is bland, the dialogue laughable, and the acting...oh, the acting.  However, of all the Friday the 13th films, this installment contains the most interesting story elements and the scariest scenes.  Consider this  A deformed homicidal man-beast stalks unsuspecting counsellors wearing a potato sack over his head; one crazy eye stares through a hole.  He is territorial, keeping others off his land as an act of revenge over the decapitation of his mother (which he witnessed).  He survives off the wilderness and lives in a dilapidated shack in the woods where his mother's head sits amidst a circle of candles and an increasing pile of dead bodies. If the filmmakers had handled the material well, it could have been a monumentally scary film of Exorcist and Blair Witch scale.  Unfortunately, the underdevelopment of most of the characters and the noticeably lackluster aesthetic qualities drag this down into Bad Movie Land.  On the other hand, there are parts to this film that are as scary as anything out there.  Most of these moments are singular shots or images, and there's usually not enough fright to last an entire sequence.  If you like the genre, watch it and see that while Friday the 13th Part 2 is still not easy to separate from its predecessor and many sequels, it may in fact contain the most scare for your buck.  Grade  C- "},{"Title":"Recommended for Several Choice Jolts","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sure there's no real plot, a lot of the acting is embarrassing and the dialogue will make you cringe, but there are at least five great jolts that had me jumping in my seat. It's probably better than the original only in that there really aren't as many good scares in the predecessor.  Incidentally, I remember reading that they actually filmed the double impaling scene but were forced to cut it to get an R rating.  I wish Paramount would restore the footage for DVD. "},{"Title":"Another excellent finale on this early slasher classic.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 2 is very similar to the original in feel and atmosphere. A little more of the killer is shown throughout the movie this time (stomping through the forest, hiding in the shadows...), but gone is the mystery factor that made the original so great. You know who the killer is within the first few scenes.But that doesn't matter. It's an entertaining horror classic in it's own right, and features the most inventive finale to any of the Friday the 13th movies. "},{"Title":"Isn't all that great untill the last 15 minutes","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th 2 works on some level mostly because this is the first film that features the Jason character as the killer. He's somewhat menancing but this film suffers from being kind of boring and not nearly as good as the original.The film opens on Alice, the survivor of the original film, still haunted by the events that took place at crystal lake. in the next 5 minutes lets just say she'll won't have to think about it anymore. afew years later a camp site has opened not too far from camp and jason is not to happy with this.It moves kind of slow and known of the characters are really that great except for our herioine ginny. The make up effects are still great and the last 15 minutes do satisfy.As a film of its own it's pretty good, but as a sequel to a so called slasher classic it doesn't really compare "}{"Title":"Better Than The Original","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13TH Part 2 is a very good horror flick.  Set 5 years after the first film, Jason stalks a nearby summer camp, eliminating counselors one by one until one fights back!  Very entertaining.Friday the 13TH Part 2 is Rated R for strong violence and some gore, sexuality and nudity, drug use, and for language. "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Being a huge fan of horror movies.This is one of my favorite,now we got Jason without the mask slashing some teenagers in the now legendary Camp Crystal Lake.What I really love about this flick are the scenes before the deaths.Again, like the first one,very atmospheric.Not as good as the first one but really close! "},{"Title":"Best Friday sequel","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 2 is the best sequel in the Friday the 13th series. As a matter of fact, it's just about as good as the first movie. Part 2 is pretty much like part 1 a group of young people get slaughtered in a woodsy summer camp by a monstrous maniac. It's a scary, gruesome, entertaining horror show, with some likable characters (Amy Steel is a standout as the heroine). At least this one doesn't have as much of Betsy Palmer (as Mrs. Voorhees) as the first one did. Her overacting performance in part 1 was screamingly hilarious (and ridiculous). Nevertheless, Friday the 13th Part 2 is a gory movie for people who are slasher movie fanatics like me if the film is well made. Yes, this slasher movie is well made.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Sequels Suck!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday The 13th,Part 2 (1981) was necessary as far a sequels go,since the presumed dead Jason didn't appear in the first Friday until the final scene. The word necessary is not equivalent to a good story,in this film's case. The original Friday,like most in any film series,is far superior. Part 2 does include a couple of positive points the pre-credits cameo by Part 1 survivor Adrienne King; and this film's heroine Amy Steel (as Ginny,perhaps the toughest of the Friday leading ladies). The rest of the cast is pretty awful,although the production values contain more gloss than grit (the original Friday was very grainy). One major loose end that wasn't even tied up in Part 3...what happened to Ginny's boyfriend Paul (John Furey) after Jason jumped through the window in the finale and attacked Ginny? My score 5 out of 10 (points earned only by King and Steel as the tag team heroines). "},{"Title":"Rent part one, instead of this.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A camp near Camp Crystal Lake is stalked by a new killer. This was the first outing for the now infamous Jason. But this a rather dull outing. Story, characters, direction, score, and acting fail to present anything new or interesting. The ending is decent however. Followed by several ( unnnecassary ) sequels. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jason & Fridays in General","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK, this film is old, there are a never ending string of sequels (including a new one where Jason is in space), this one is not even the original, and the series really should have ended with part 4, (but...) aside from those facts, the original Jasoned Friday is still an interesting idea with a few good scares (probably a couple more than the original of the series), lots of gore, nude...etc... This movie and the series pales in comparision to the Halloweens and Nightmares, simply because all of these movies seem to be the same (and hence all of these comments seem to be the same, with minor differences, get the irony?--> love that irony). Anyway,                               The story-line does not transition from movie to movie with ease. True, this one along with the others in Parts 1-4 had transitions, but 1-4 use flashback scenes (not cinematic). Then 5-9 skipped the transitions (using flashback scenes to connect to Jason's grave or pre-original movie) and with minor exceptions the later movies do not have (major) related story lines (even Jason (or his mother) disappears in the 5th (in reality) and 9th (basically) ones and he is the main guy).Anyway, this is one of the best in the series (top 5 anyway) because it was the first to don-Jason and it thus does have something to set it apart from the rest (but still not the best).In general, While none of the Friday's are terrible (5 and 9 probably being the worst), none of them are tense or suspensful or anything more than the routine slashing and killing. Part 3-D has juiced up music, but the same story. Part 8 has a new story twist, but no new music,etc... The better ones in the series add something (like strip monopoly, or Jason with hockey mask, or 3D, or a claustrophobic environment of a boat), but none of them seem to put it all together in one film.As horror goes, better than average, a good series, but not one of the greats.In general nothing special.Rating wise, one and two are on par.On a one-to-one basis, Part 2 does seem like a remake of part one (rather than just a sequel), but this cannot really be helped if the story line is killer stalks in woods to kill campers staying at (or nearby) the lake where mother (or son) died.  So really only part 1 or 2 is a necessity to see (so pick your poison  Strip monopoly (part 1) or Jason gets his mask (part 2). "},{"Title":"Jason's debut!!!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First off, Alice (Adreinne King) was having nightmares after, she defeated Mrs. Voorhees at Camp Blood. Adrienne King should've got a survival championship belt! Several scenes later, an assailant came behind Alice and stabbbed her in the temple, and that means, she lost the belt!!! Then, when Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney from Part 1), came around and warned the two teens about what's gonna happen, and then they got it!Sandra (Marta Kober) looked like Foreinger's Lou Gramm, and I even liked the other girls. Then, Jason made his killing debut by sporting a hood over head, overalls, and blue checkered shirt. At the end, Amy Steel became the new Survival Champion!!! It was a shame that she didn't return for part 3, and she had to forfeit the title!I say that this a good sequel!! "},{"Title":"A sequel that is a LOT better than the original","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know about the average horror film fan, but I found Friday the 13th very dull. I was not scared by it once. That didn't happen with its sequel!First off, the original heroine, Adrienne King, was a horrible actress, likable but horrible. Amy Steele takes over in this sequel and is miles ahead of any slasher film actress (save Jamie Lee Curtis). Gorgeous, likable, and a great actress! You feel for her character more than Adrienne King. The beginning is a great umbilical cord to the original, kicking off with a suspenseful stalking. The murders are more graphic, which is better in this case because that's why people see this series! And the final chase sequence is a WHOLE LOT better than Friday the 13th. You'll need someone or something to clutch during these final scenes!So, this is, in my opinion, the high point of the series. Of course, it was all downhill from there. "},{"Title":"The best one so far","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would have to say that this Friday The 13th Movie is the best one. Lets face it, the first one sucked and the sequels that came after 2 sucked even worse. This one however gives real scares and mystery as well. You don't really know that it could be Jason until close to the very end. Speaking of Jason, he's the scariest in this movie than in his sequels. The way he walks and and runs, and just his over all personality is enough to scare the crap out of someone. This movie gets a 3 1/2 stars out of four I would have to say. "},{"Title":"Jason's debut is a mediocre one","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   FRIDAY THE 13TH was no classic, but it had a certain flair that this first sequel can't match. Sure, it's Jason's debut, but it could have been much better, much scarier, and especially more original. I liked the scene where Jeanie tried to trick Jason into thinking she was his Mom, and the death scenes are good, but not very bloody or gory. There aren't any effects to speak of and there aren't any really memorable moments(Except the ones I mentioned.)in the films 87 minutes, but if you're a Jason fan then see it cause it's Jason's debut. Good acting, and some suspense, but mediocre story, and slow at times **1/2 out of *****. The series gets much better after this one(In my opinion.) "}{"Title":"A good follow up to the first one","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie. I thought the movie was going to be a bad movie. But it wasn't. It tied the first Friday,I can't deside which one i like moreAlthough I would have to say the ending of the movie had a little slip.Now they never told us what happend to Paul at the end. Then Ginnie wakes up and everyone thought she dreamed it. But she never fell asleep.That was the downside to this film. But other then that it was a good movie "},{"Title":"As good as the first one! (!SPOILERS!)","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jason gives his debut in a surprisingly good sequel. There are certain differences between this one and the original though (see below). Jason continues where his mother stopped (having lost her head), showing more intelligence and being much scarier than Mrs. Voorhees.At the beginning we see Alice (the only survivor from part one) having nightmares. Soon after she is getting killed by Jason (yes, Sharon Stone wasn't the first one to use an ice pick). There could have been a happy end now with Jason having had his revenge without too many people being wasted. But he is still upset (or traumatised?) looking for fresh blood at a newly opened camp near the old Camp Crystal Lake and so the death-rate increases at high speed.The gore scenes aren't as elaborate and creative as in the first F13 but still can make the heart of any gorehound jump. It doesn't have as much suspense as the first one but it contains the better scares. The girls are cute and of course there is more nudity in this one. It also seemed to be less predictable and the acting has improved a lot (which still doesn't mean the acting was good!). Amy Steel as Ginny is more convincing than Alice (Adrienne King) was and even the final chase scene is better with Ginny behaving smarter than Alice. Jason looks a little weird though with the pillow case (?) over his head. Thank Goodness they gave him the hockey mask in Part 3!Overall a sequel that is worth watching and (almost) as good as its predecessor!My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Slick but silly","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Silly horror follow-up that despite being a slightly better and more thoughtful film than its predecessor, ultimately collapses into the expected simplistic body-count story.Though the closing chase sequences (all helpfully shot in nice bright lighting which minimises the suspense) do generate a bit of excitement the film remains bereft of graphic gore, the selling point of the previous (and subsequent) Friday the 13th films, which kinda defeats the purpose really. Fans were happy to sit through the shoddy plotting and inept acting of the earlier film because they knew they would eventually reach the blood and gore pay-off, but here it has been toned down so much it really makes you wonder who it is they were trying to market the film to... Perhaps they wanted a lower rating to get in all the young teens who were not allowed in to see the original.As it is it plays like a slickly produced but strictly by-the-numbers TV movie. I loved the absolutely ludicrous attempts to show that heroine Ginny (Amy Steel) was intelligent and deep, particularly the laughable psychological analysis she conducts in the bar-room scene. "},{"Title":"Beware!!","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I casually looked at the last half hour of this cheap slasher flick on cable while waiting for the next movie to come on.Consisting solely of a stupid chase, I found it woeful in every department. BUT....I was awakened later that night by a terrifying nightmare. "},{"Title":"not a bad follow up","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  friday the 13th part 2 is a pretty good follow up to the original wich is a classic, the story for the movie is the same as the first part, the only difference is that this time Jason is the killer. all it is a bunch of sex crazed teens getting gutted. as the movie opens Jason kills the girl that killed his mother, then it's back near camp crystal lake, the new teens are right across from it. Amy Steel does a good job in the lead. the best part of the movie though is Jason he is wearing a pillow case over his head, with a part cut out so he can see. for some reason when i watch this movie i get freaked out why i don't know. the one bad thing about the movie is John Furey who plays Paul at the end he is nowhere to be found so we don't know if Jason killed him or not. a very good follow up good for a few good scares, and Steve Miner did a great job as the director, i give the movie 7/10. a must see for any horror fan or friday the 13th fan "},{"Title":"More of the same","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really never was crazy about this film, but it scary when i was younger and if im alone watching this in the dark, then i'll probably still be scared. This one takes place 4 or 5 years later, when dumb camp counselors reopen the camp. Then since the mother was killed off(here's the big plot twist ok! lol) Jason, the son takes her place, and his motive seems to be revenge. Then comes corny dialogue, sex, drugs, killing, corny dialogue, more killing. It's basically the same movie as the first, maybe except a couple different killings, but really this is bad filmmaking except for it seems to have that effect on many of us fans out there, that effect to scare us, to maybe even keep us awake at night because we think every little noise u hear could be an intruder. Not that its some unkillable monster, but it could just be a robber. Glad real life aint like the movies... "},{"Title":"Some of the best looking girls in the series.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best of the Friday the 13th series. (The best one is part 3 because of the campy 3D shots).  The reason why I like this one so much is because of all the nice looking girls.  There's the girl Sandra who's my favorite and looks like Natasha Lyonne.  Then there's the bombshell that skinnydips in the lake.  And a mildly hot girl is the one who likes the guy in the wheelchair.  Why do they always have to make the plain girl the heroine.  It's like that with the entire series.  The hotties die while the uglies save the day.  I cry when the nice looking girls die.  The reason I find this installment of the series so memorable (besides the girls) is because of the scene where Jason impales the two people making love.  A classic b horror movie. "},{"Title":"A good sequel with not much replay value","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say first off that when I first saw this I was very young and it scared me good. The film has a great opening sequence, and a great finale (almost all the best scenes are in the final third of the film. The main problem with this friday is that it is pretty much humourless (Humour being the only way to entertain until Jason arrives). Without humour the characters are just the boring, badly acted, cardboard characters they are destined to be. Jason makes a great debut in this one. In this he is more of a really strong man than a unkillable monster. I liked that and also Steve Miners direction is really good for these kinds of films, he is always selling you the movie every scene through and the final third of the film see's him pull out all the best sequences (This movie has some of the best sequences in the whole series). Amy Steel makes the best friday heroine. She really makes this movie very enjoyable when she is on screen. So with the best heroine and the debut of Jason, the only thing holding this movie back is the script (even more so than most friday films). It contains no good characters (Amy Steel excepted) and it is basically dull and humourless. The plotting is also flawed, with there being basically no action till the final third of the film and little build up before it. Having said that this is still enjoyable first time round. Overall i give this friday a 6. "},{"Title":"Even better than Friday 13th...","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion this one is more eerie and atmospheric than its predecessor.Although gore scenes seem to be toned down all killings are brutal(for example death by strangulation,throat-slashing,machete in the face and some more).Jason is a real person here,not a mindless zombie.In conclusion,if you are a fan of the Friday 13th check it out.This solid slasher flick is absolutely worth watching. "},{"Title":"BAD, BUT BETTER THAN THE FIRST!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jason Voorhees makes his first appearance in Friday The 13th as the killer and goes on to become the greatest killer of all time in horror movies. Although I like Jason this movie still sucks. It is better than the first, the acting is hopeless and Jason has his bag with an eye hole which makes him look ridiculous. The classic Tuh tuh tuh, hah hah hah music is used in every scene which is meant to be a scary scene, it was made in the 80's so for it's time it is a good movie but now it is just lame. Watch part 3 which is the best in the series. the Old man from part 1 makes an appearance warning the campers to be careful but soon is dead, something that Mrs. Voorhees shouldv'e done.  "}{"Title":"decent follow up","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, Jasons debut.  Its not too bad, as 5 years after seeing mommy killed, he decides all camp counselors (of the world I guess) must pay for her death.  So he starts with King, the girl responsible for moms death, then carves up some new teens who are working at a camp near Crystal Lake.  Like mother, like son is a good description, cuz the killings are the identical style as they were in the first movie.  This could go under the rehash category, with bloody murders (though done differently), the last living female being chased about the camp, and then Jason lunging at her, this time through a window.  But its still watchable, with the murders still attention grabbers and a cute heroine (Steel) to root for. "},{"Title":"Just as scary as the first movie","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you are a fan of horror movies, this sequel is very good.  It's scary, bloody, surprising and unnerving.  This movie lives up to the hype it got after the first movie was so successful.  The only problem I had with it is that viewers are never offered an explanation how Jason survived the drowning.  Otherwise, its a great movie.  "},{"Title":"five years later","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Five years later, after the bloodbath at camp crystal lake, the legend of Jason Voorhees made its way to a sequel to the horrifying series.  This one picks up where the predecessor left off.  New people go to the camp training to be camp counselors, but apparently somebody got another idea and one by one they disappear.  The cast wasn't bad and the movie itself wasn't bad either, you'd have to see for yourself.  "},{"Title":"By far most underrated Jason","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  By far the most underrated Jason movie it is both suspenseful, funny, and has full frontal nudity.  What more could you ask for in a horror movie. Not to mention that this movie is the first appearance of Jason the killer. Now I know the hockey mask doesn't appear till part 3 but that movie pretty much sucked.  Quite possibly the best Jason movie although Jason goes to Hell was a damn fine movie. "},{"Title":"The Terror continues............","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The legend of Jason Voorhees Lives is brought to life this terror ride! The film begins with Alice,the sole survivor from the previous film, dreaming of how her friends were killed that night, and how she decapitated the maniac,only to be pulled into the lake by Mrs. Voorhees' son, Jason. She was lucky to survive.She then wakes up.Only to be killed by Jason with an ice pick!We then see a group of kids heading for a counselor trainer center near Crystal Lake,or Camp Blood. However Jason doesn't want anyone in his wilderness and wants revenge for the death of his mother.Despite the warnings of Crazy Ralph,they proceed.However,this training course turns into a terror course as they are stalked and killed one after another.Can anyone stop this crazed killer.See the film to find out! I give it an A+!  "},{"Title":"Best of the Friday's...","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this one the first time when I was 14 years old. I became really scared. Earlier I had felt scares when I saw Halloween and The Shining, but now it was different. This one was so damn cruel. Especially the machete over the handicap's face. That scene was quite disturbing. I had recorded the movie from TV, but I erased it.As I grew older I came in contact with all of the Friday-movies and started to like Jason. Part 6 became a favorite when I was 16.Now when I'm 21 I have bought all the Friday-movies. And I must say I really like them. I have seen them many many times and now I know that Part 2 is the very best in the whole series. I also like Part 3, but it is Part 2 that deliver the best scares and the best scenes.I don't know exactly what it is with Part 2 that is so great. I just love it. Go rent it or go buy it at once. It's a real classic of the 80's horror movies. "},{"Title":"??????","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't konw where they were trying to go with this but I didn't like this film.  I was the same as the first but with a more stupid ending.  The ending made me so mad that I can't give this movie any justice. Mabe its cuz I have not seen the third one.  Just another typical slasher film with some blood and some parts that make you jumpOverall 5/10 "},{"Title":"Jason on the rampage!!!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Jason rises from Crystal Lake, starting his blood-soaked reign of terror, he wants vengeance, for what the teenagers (Alive from Part 1, in particular) did to his mother, in the first F13 movie. This is perhaps my second or third favorite Friday The 13th, with a greatly entertaining pre-credits scene and awesome credits scene, with the Friday The 13th title appearing, only to have Part 2 show up in the title. I like Jason, with his hockey-mask the most, but he's pretty cool with the pillow-case. Along with his overalls. The climax of the movie is very exciting!  "},{"Title":"The Scariest Of The Friday The 13th Films","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For me, Friday The 13th 2 was the scariest of the series. The pillow case over the confused killer was very creepy with that one eye looking out at you. The chase scenes were scary, you never knew when he was going to pop out. The original Friday was good too, don't get me wrong. I just find the first more of a thriller than a horror. The mother was a living person who talked and it was kind of psychological. She did not wear any mask. She really didn't pop out anywheres. Therefore, I didn't find it all that scary but rather suspenseful. As for the series that continued, I'm sorry but I don't find hockeymasks creepy, it kinda distracts from the horror. It's like oh no there's a demented hockey player after me. Sure they may be fun to watch, but they're not as scary as part 2 in my opinion. "},{"Title":"The worst of them all","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As I explained in my review of part one, I decided to watch ALL these films and have subsequentely done so. I can therefore relate that part two is undeniably the worst film in the series (part four coming a close second).Jason, the son of the psychopathic mother who slashed her way through a bunch of kids in the first film, is taking off where mom abruptly finished. Those who've seen any other instalment will know what to expect.The later films benifit from a higher budget which gives them a more professional feel, but part II is just as cheap looking as the first, if not worse. There is one tense scene, near the end, which almost ascends out of this quagmire of mirth, but it's really not worth sitting through this mess to get to it.RATING ZERO (Out of four) "}{"Title":"Call me nutty, but I love it!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I'm in the minority of folks who enjoy this movie. I am a huge Friday the 13th fan and this is probably my favorite one. I mean you've got Jason's first appearance(sans hockey mask), you've got Amy Steel from APRIL FOOL'S DAY and Stu Charno from JUST ONE OF THE GUYS. Amy Steel is my goddess. She is easily the coolest of any of the actresses used in any Friday The 13th movie. She's a badass. The acting overall in this movie pretty much sucks, but I still think it's kind of scary. The direction is mediocre to poor, but Steve Miner went on to direct a lot of other flicks(including this year's LAKE PLACID-which is a fun movie also). And how can you not like the fact that Stu Charno's character(he was the guy who owned the lizards in JUST ONE OF THE GUYS) survives this movie by staying out at the bars after everyone decides to go back to camp! This entry in the saga ranks right up there with both the Final Chapter(great 80s cast) and Jason Lives(a kind of self- conscious spoof), my other two favs. Any Friday The 13th fan is obviously aware that these flicks are not high quality cinema, but just the same this one is quite enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Series gets dumber. . . sigh.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After watching Friday the 13th Part Two, I said, Damn, what a letdown.  Because I honestly expected a lot more for a sequel to the interesting Friday the 13th.  This installation focuses on the same basic plot, camp counselers getting butchered, with somewhat, but lamer, gory results.  It didn't work as well with the stupid idea of the crazy man warning them all again.  In the first, it was ingenius, but here, plain stupid.  The end is a good series of events, but could have been done better.  And the dumbest excuse for showing a little T&A is included as well.  Maybe if Tom Savini actually directed it, and of course done make-up, it would have been better.  Too bad for director, Steve Miner, who went on to do House, Friday the 13th Part Three, Halloween H20, and the recent, Lake Placid.  He got off to such a bad start.  Like I said, sigh. . . . 2/10. "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This one is by far the best and the scariest one of the series. The last 25 minutes of this film are the best minutes in all of Friday movies. If you have not seen this one ; rent it! I'ts worth the 2.50. I give this **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Introducing Jason Voorhees, ruthless killer","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  May contain some spoilersWho would have known that the Friday's would spawn 8 sequels?  It is a testament to not only their immense popularity with the teenage crowd but to how you can make a horror film with a small budget.  While the Friday's aren't anywhere on par with Halloween and the first Nightmare, the first 4 were scary and atmospheric.  Here, Steve Miner has directed a scary tense film, especially the opening ten mintues and the final 20 minutes.  In between is a good film but the moments mentioned above really are what true horror is all about.  And what is memorable of this installment of Friday the 13th is that it introduces the horror world to the killer Jason Voorhees.This picks up a short time after the first one ended.  And it starts off in the city where the survivor of the first one is home and resting and trying to put her memories to rest.  Needless to say that she doesn't last too long in the film.  And then we get to the parts that we want to see.  A bunch of counselors at Camp Crystal Lake.  They are basically lined up to be slaughtered and all that's left to do is to try to figure out who is going to go and who isn't.What is so great about this one is that it pays attention to some of the elements that made Halloween so scary.  There is a lot of gore in here but it is background for the suspence.  There is one scene near the end where Ginny knows someone is in the dark room with her and Paul.  She doesn't know why she knows, she just does.  And then Jason strikes and we all jump.  It is a perfect scene and it deserves mention because it is a technique that early 80's horror films were good at and one that 90's films aren't.  The film also has great false scares and when Ginny is in the cabin in the woods and she comes face to face with a ?ghost? and what she has to do to survive, well it is one of the best scares in all the Friday series.  And that is because it uses so much tension, so much anticipation, so much intelligence.  We know Ginny is in danger and we are hoping that she gets out of here alive.  It is really a great scene.Friday 2 is a good horror flick.  It has all that you could hope for in a scary movie.  If you want to remember what it was like when you were a kid and watched these movies in the dark, my advice to you is to do it again.  Get your barbecue chips and Coke and turn off all the lights, get your girlfriend, wife, fiancee or dog and sit back and enjoy a great 80's horror movie.  This is one of the better ones out there.  "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but still a bad film.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I need to admit it. Friday the 13th part 2 is not as bad as the rest of the half-baked, atrocious sequels. But still, it is a bad film. The special effects SUCK! How could they be worse than the first one's if it was made a year later?! Isn't technology supposed to improve over the course of time? But anyway, it does have some decent killing scenes, but no where near the marvelous ones in the original, which was a great movie. The acting is horrible, but I expected that. One thing I was SO surprised at, which got me REALLY mad, was the fact that Jason didn't find the notorious hockey mask 'till the third film! It's bad enough that Jason has controlled the franchise even though he wasn't in the first one! Now he doesn't gain his symbol 'till the third film?! And they could have done it a little better then putting a bag over his head. Oh well, I have to give it some credit because it did a better job than some of the atrocious last sequels like 6, 7, 8, and the laughable 9. "},{"Title":"What happened to Paul?","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first of the sequels starts off with Jason hunting down and killing Alice, the plucky virginal heroine from the first movie. He even shoves his mother's head in her fridge to scare her! Pretty gross, huh? So now that they've killed everyone from the first movie, the writers decide to jump ahead five years in time and introduce a whole new group of counselors who drink, do drugs, have sex, and ignore the legend of Camp Blood.More of a remake than a sequel since the plot is virtually identical to the first. Young teens get slaughtered by crazed killer. This one differs in that Jason is the killer this time and not his mother. Presumably Jason is back from the dead to avenge his mother's death. But how then did Jason grow from a twelve year old boy to a twenty five year old man in 5 years? And wasn't he dead in the first place? Ignore the silly questions and you can enjoy this movie. It's every bit as fun as the first one with the typically dated styles of clothing and the cheap quality of film stock. But I like to ask questions and I always wondered why Jason's mother never came back from the grave too. I mean, if Jason can, why can't she? Also, isn't there any other place besides Crystal Lake to open up a summer camp? And why does Jason keep mommy's head? It shows up in this movie almost as much as naked teenagers! But why quibble? The most interesting thing about this movie is that Jason is portrayed as more of a wild animal, almost misunderstood. In the later films, he is just an unrelenting killer. In this one, Jason's getting revenge for his mother's death and he seems more like a confused kid than the psycho we are more familiar with.There are some undeniably cool moments in this one like the double impaling and the death of the handicapped kid. Even though it's cheesy at the end when Ginny uses her child psychology against Jason, it's funny in that oh so special unintentional kind of way. The funniest thing about this movie though is that when the handicapped kid goes missing, where does everyone look for him? That's right, UPSTAIRS! Now how would someone in a wheelchair get up the stairs? Little things like that make my day.One thing I did not like about this movie is the ending. One minute Jason lunges toward Ginny and then the camera cuts to Ginny being taken to the hospital. What happened in between? I guess there were some things that Friday the 13th fans just weren't meant to know...My Favorite Death Double Impaling With SpearGrade B  "},{"Title":"80's teen slasher film at its most disturbing...","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this film as a raw, gritty quality that makes it way scarier than those glossy 90's horror films.  i love slasher films and, although i think the original friday the 13th and halloween are scarier than this film, for some reason i find this film deeply disturbing.  maybe its the sight of the killer with a grocery bag over his face or the presence of that chick from the general foods coffee commercials, you know the one(remember our trip to paris...that waiter), but this movie just creeped me out when i was a kid. anyway, its the same old plot about a bunch of horny kids getting butchered but this movie seems more mean spirited than most slasher films...a guy in a wheelchair even gets hacked to death.  the movie is also unsettling with its blatant misogyny, with the camera zooming in on the naked flesh of at least two of the female victims right before they get killed.  the way the coffee chick tried to outwit the killer was totally lame and, of course, her boyfriend had to step in and save her.  and i really hated that anticlimactic shock ending that they threw out like in the first film. nevertheless, this is my favorite friday the 13th film, but for all the wrong reasons... "},{"Title":"short n' sweet","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  wow.  what a masterwork, few sequels have the power to scare as well as the first, but this was definite genius. G-E-N-I-U-S.  "},{"Title":"O.K.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This one featured some interesting deaths like a man in a wheelchair who gets a machete right in his face. Otherwise  pretty standard although Jason doesn't have his mask in this one, he just wears a stupid sack over his head! I don't agree with some people who say that once you've seen one in the series, you've seen them all. Part 4 was pretty good.... "},{"Title":"maybe the most scariest in the series!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  not as much cardboard cut-out characters as  in the first one. that's one of the reasons  it's a little better than the first one. plus part 2 is a little more scarier. i  still think that friday the 13th part V is  the most all around entertaining of the  series,and the characters in part V are the  most interesting of all characters in the  friday movies. in my opinion. i give friday  the 13th part 2 *** out of **** "}{"Title":"Horror in Crystal Lake.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film is not too bad.Acting is okay.The film is scary and a little gory.I feel the story could  have relocated to the orginal camp to more scary.Jason always has been a rotten villain.I feel this because he is a lumbering brute.Freddy,Myers,Bates, all had their own style.They were acting in the movie.Jason is a brute.The film is cruel to teens for no reason.6 out of 10 only. "},{"Title":"Pretty Scary!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had bad acting but was very scary. You never know when Jason's gonna pop up behind you or jump out in front of you. Jason looks really freaky with a pillow case over his head, but better with a hockey mask! "},{"Title":"Second one Still scary","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 2 is not as good as the original. The story is less creative and the acting is terrible. However, let's not forget the reason we watch horror movies. This one is scary! The horror movie atmosphere is successfully created. This time around, the killer is a deranged beast-man that lives in the forest. How's that for scary? See Friday the 13th Part 2, but only after you see the original. "},{"Title":"Unimaginative, but not too bad.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th, Part 2, marks the first appearance of Jason, who watched his mother get her head chopped off by Alice, the lone survivor of the original. Well, in the first 10 minutes of this movie, he ends up killing her off with an ice pick. Flash forward 5 years, another group of counselors are being trained at a camp right across from Camp Crystal Lake. Well, not long, Jason shows up (pre-hockey mask) and starts slaughtering them one by one. This film is an almost exact replica of the original. There is the insane killer (Jason instead of his mom), the secluded camp, numerous graphic murders, the big chase scene at the end (Ginny instead of Alice this time around), and the jump scene (Jason crashing though the window instead of popping up out of the lake) to grab the only survivor. Obviously this film done pretty good at the box office, as 7 sequels followed it.  "},{"Title":"It's all downhill after the first twelve minutes!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A promising start is ruined after the first twelve minutes when Alice (Adrienne King) -- the sole survivor of Friday the 13th -- gets an ice pick in her head.  Jason has taken his revenge, but five years later, he kills off more counselors at Camp Crystal Lake (a.k.a. Camp Blood). Before wearing the famous hockey mask (next sequel), Jason puts on a white pillow case to cover his hideous face.  Amy Steel is the female heroine who tries to stop Jason.  She even tried to fool him by making him believe that she's his mom.  It almost worked.  The same formula from part 1 could have worked if the producers didn't try to make this sequel so pointless and gory.  My evaluation * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Scary!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the scariest of all the Friday the 13th films. The soundtrack is great, and I loved the suspense, but the acting sucked. But what should you expect from a Friday film. The plot was marginally good, but still a good showing.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Better then the first!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th, Part 2 is better than the first! It starts off with a creepy opener with Adrienne King, the only survivor from the first movie. Then skips five years to the future to introduce us with a new set of counselors planning to open a new camp near Crystal Lake. The killer this time is Jason, seeking revenge for the death of his mother. This is a very entertaining slasher film, and probably the best of the series. I give it 7/10 "},{"Title":"The creepiest by far....","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many of the Fridays (and many other movies) can not live up to the suspense and atmosphere of Part 2.  This one was fun to watch since it was heavier on the suspense than the gore (unlike many other ones).  I guess there isn't too much else to say.  A definite nine out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad....","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked the original Friday better than this,F13 2 wasn't bad though,it had some good chills and gore.. The acting although was one of the worst in the series. But one thing that made me happy was,the Era of Jason began here....My ratings are...Acting- 2.0 / 5.0Actors- 2.5 / 5.0 Script- 3.0 / 5.0 Display-3.0 / 5.0 Gore   -3.0 / 5.0 Suspense-2.5 / 5.0 Music  -2.5 / 5.0 Overall - 2.5 / 5.0   C / C+ "},{"Title":"Jason Vorhees is the man","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this is the first time we see grown up Jason, I loved this movie, it was filled with bad acting, and a bad plot, but once you get past all of that, it was actually a great movie. I think though, you have to be a horror fan to enjoy this though. "}{"Title":"Scream 2 was wrong!  Sequels aren't crap!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was, in my opinion, more thought out and creepier than the original.  It showed less of the killer and the fact that he couldn't talk was pretty chilling when he went after people.  I think the scene where Vickie gets stabbed could possibly be seen as a take-off from Psycho but the fact that she just stood there was something which I deem stupid.  I didn't like seeing the guy in the wheelchair get killed but I can understand it (although I'm still trying to explain to some others).  The only main thing that I didn't like was that this fell into step with the others (Halloween and Nightmare on Elm Street) when it could've become something totally different.  I gave it an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"one of the better sequels...","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 2 has all of the classic slasher movie cliches, but for some reason i really liked this sequel to one of the best horror movies around.  The death scenes aren't nearly as gory as some of the more modern horror movies.  I would call this movie gory as much as i would call it a little bloody.  The, for the most part, poor acting, is not that noticeable in this flick.  The best points are the soundtrack, most of the camerawork (especially the point of view shots), and one of the most classic death scenes in horror movie history.  The plot is standard Friday the 13th, but this particular one is interesting in the revealing of Jason's new identity as a man with no sense of life or death, right or wrong.  A must see film if you are a fan of the original. "},{"Title":"This is good.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Check this one out, Jason is BACK from the lake, ready to kill everybody near the camp Crystal lake. Jason don´t have his hockey mask on this part (hmmm).It´s more gore and more bestialic murders in this part. Skip part 3, go straight to part 4 =)Ill vote 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"Acting, What's That?","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes as is traditional with all Friday the 13th movies the acting sucks badly.However this is the last of the really creepy Friday the 13th films. Jason is more scary in this with that pillow case or whatever it is on his head than when he got that Hockey mask thingy.This is one of the last of the scary Friday the 13th movies and the series went down hill quickly after what should have been the Final Chapter (Part 4).The acting may be rubbish but sit back and watch an old time scary movie that's really enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Scary and Better than the first","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a sequel that was actually better than the first, it was scarier, had a better story and I liked it better. I give it 7 out of 10 1st one 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jason arrives for the first time, but without a hockey mask?","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Here it is! the sequel you've all been waiting for. Friday the 13th part 2 isn't as good as the first. It gives Jason a first time killing spree in which he kills people in the most deadly ways. Jason wears a cloth thing over his head to cover the hideous face that he wants no one to see. It makes Jason look more like a KKK member than a killer. The acting is terrible, but the gore effects are great!!!!!!.  The original screening of the movie at the MPAA had more footage than the version seen in theaters. The extra footage had to be cut to avoid an X rating. The movie is rated R however due to extreme violence, blood/gore, nudity , and some gruesome graphic deaths. I'd say the movie is full of every violation possible, even has usage of dope.  I give Friday the 13th part 2  a  ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"A scary night in Crystal Lake.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the first sequel to the box office hit Friday the 13.This movie has a good plot for a horror movie.The story is set a few years after the orignal.A new group of campers are getting ready to open a new camp on the lake.The myth of Jason surrounds the camp.Most of the folks don't believe.Jason is out there watching them the whole time.The story leaves a few campers alone on a stormy night.A lot of the gang has gone out for a night on the town.Jason appears and begins his terror.I find this one of the most scary of the slew of Friday movies.It leaves you on the edge of your seat.The film has a good music score and the best chase of all the Friday films.Gore is mild compared to the later versions.  "},{"Title":"I Don't Know Why...","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know what it is about this movie but whenever I see it I am scared. No matter how hard I try not to be, I just am.Now, I'll admit. This movie pretty much sucks in terms of acting, but something about it that scares me silly as with parts 3,4,8, and 9. The acting is awful in every Friday film, but for some reason I like them.This one I would give *** out ****. And for some reason I don't know why! It just scares me. Besides it is pretty much a classic in my book, seeing as how this is Jason's debut. "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Scary And Suspenseful Sequel And One Of The Best In The Series.","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday The 13th Part 2 is a terrific,scary and suspenseful sequel that is filled with fine direction,a good cast,a solid score and memorable special effects. All of those elements make Friday The 13th Part 2 a worthy sequel to the original and one of the best in the series.Set five years after the original,Friday The 13th Part 2 tells the story of a group of young Camp counselors who are working at a new camp that's right next to Camp Crystal Lake(aka Camp Blood)and are being stalked by Jason Voorhees(Warrington Gillette)the son of Mrs. Voorhees(Betsy Palmer). Lurking and watching in the woods,Jason is going to give the group of Camp Counselors an unlucky,bloody and violent night they will never ever forget. After the Box Office success of the first Friday The 13th in 1980,the sequel Friday The 13th Part 2 was released a year later and was not only a Box Success but introduced audiences to one of the most iconic and memorable characters in the history of not only Horror Movies but film in general in the form of Jason Voorhees who's reign of terror would start with this film. Friday The 13th Part 2 is a great sequel that is such an entertaining and thrilling roller coaster ride that takes some of the elements in the original(camp setting,kills etc)and builds on them with ease and gives viewers an intense,suspenseful film. The scares and suspense in Friday The 13th Part 2 are well done with wonderful pacing and is very much like the original with terror coming and going with non-stop intensity that just grabs viewers by the throat whether it's the Jason POV shots,chase scenes or kills. Despite being one of the brightest looking movies in the entire series(especially during the daytime scenes)the atmosphere in F13 pt 2 is still pretty effective and creepy and gives viewers a sense of dread and fright where you feel like no one is safe from Jason's wrath and carnage. The Kills and gore in the film are creative,memorable and are among the best in the series with two killing scenes that are some of the most iconic of the franchise. The big chase scene is one of the best chase scenes in the in the franchise because there is tons of terror and fright that never stops and viewers won't be able to hold your breath. F13 P2 maybe one of the shortest films in the series(at 87 minutes)it's one of the most memorable. While the character Jason Voorhees makes his first appearance in this film he actually does well with a combination of being scary and at times clumsy(in a funny way). In this film(and three and four)Jason acts more like backwoods hillbilly and hermit wearing overalls and a potato sack on his head(no Hockey mask in this one) as an outcast of society and a demented killer. What also makes Jason great in this one is that we rarely see him until the very end because we only see his feet,hands or see him lurking in the background hiding out in the shadows waiting to kill and strike at anytime. As a result Jason isn't the Hockey Mask wearing antihero and star he became in the later sequels but Part 2 is still Jason at his very best. As for the other characters with the exception of the one main character Ginny(Amy Steel)none of the other characters while interesting aren't well-developed and let's face it the campers are just there to be in Jason's brutal slaughterhouse of death and pain. The ending of Friday The 13th Part 2 is great and filled with suspense and excitement but has caused debates and confusion among fans of the series over whether the ending really happened,did not happen or was a dream or not with no easy answers. A great ending.The cast is good. Amy Steel is wonderful and memorable as Ginny,with Steel bringing depth,courage and dimension to the role making Ginny one of the best final girls in the series. John Furey is good as Paul,Ginny's boyfriend. Warrington Gillette is fantastic as Jason,with Gillette being menacing and creepy. Martha Kober(Sandra),Tom McBride(Mark),Bill Randolph(Jeff),Lauren-Marie Taylor(Vickie),Stu Charno(Ted),Kristen Baker(Terry),Russell Todd(Scott)and Jack Marks(The Cop)give good performances as well. Also,lookout for appearances by actors from the first Friday The 13th such as Adrienne King(Alice),Betsy Palmer(Mrs. Voorhees)and Walt Gorney(Crazy Ralph).The direction by Steve Miner is great,with Miner always moving the camera and giving the film a good pace,style and atmosphere. Solid direction,Miner.The score by Harry Manfredini is terrific,suspenseful and adds to the film. Another wonderful score,Manfredini.The Special Make-up Effects by Carl Fullerton are impressive,bloody and memorable. Fine Make-up Effects,Fullerman.In final word,if you love Horror Films,the Friday The 13th series or Jason Voorhees,I highly suggest you see Friday The 13th Part 2,a terrific sequel and one of the best in the Friday The 13th series. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"part 2 is scarier then part 1","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The original Friday the 13th is a very scary movie. But still I would have to say this movie is scarier. This is on of the scariest movie made before 1982. There scarier movies like Friday the 13th III. Friday the 13th IV the final chapter is also scarier, Friday the 13th VI Jason lives it also scarier. Friday the 13th VII the new blood is also scarier. Friday the 13th VIII Jason take Manhattan is also scarier. Jason goes to hell the final Friday is also scarier. Jason X is also scarier. Freddy vs Jason is also scarier. But still a very scary movie. Very well written. Very good acting. Very good story line. Jason is not human he is a zombie. So i consider this horror fantasy. "}{"Title":"not original but...","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" after parodies and a long series, it is not easy to define each part of Friday the 13th. the second part is decent and respects the story of the first. it is a nice mixture of eroticism and thriller and, out to give something original, it has the virtue to remain a decent work. in many senses, it is a pure clone of the first part and that does it nice and almost convincing. the exercise to understand Jason is the most important point and the final has the gift to create the perfect circle of story. in fact, nothing new. teenagers, a camp, the stranger as serial killer. and the precise build of atmosphere. a film for remember the 80's and the old fashion horror. nothing special. but enough to be interesting. "},{"Title":"This movie get a lot campy as time goes on, but at least, Part 2 wasn't too stupid. The movie does have its scary moments. Jason really hates counselling.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Steve Miner, the film marks the first time Jason Voorhees (Warrington Gillett unmasked/stuntman Steve Daskawisz when masked) is the antagonists in the film series, as his mother, Pamela (Betsy Palmer) was the killer in the previous film. Jason Voorhees's motive is crystal clear in this film. It is a direct sequel to Friday the 13th, picking up five years after that film. He has to take revenge on Alice Hardy (Adrienne King) who killed his mother in the conclusion of the previous movie. After that, he must try to get rid of the rest of the camp counselors in nearby training camp. It's just another manic Friday for him. Originally, Friday the 13th Part 2 was not intended to be a direct sequel to the 1980 original, but rather part of an anthology series of films based around the Friday the 13th superstition. Like the Halloween film franchise, after the popularity of the original film, villain attacking the heroine, the filmmakers decided to bring back Jason and the mythology surrounding Camp Crystal Lake, a trend which would be repeated for the rest of the series. Stylistically, Friday the 13th Part 2 had a lot of the same elements that made the original Friday the 13th a sleeper hit in 1980, such as first-person camera perspectives, gory stalk-and-slash scenes with the same eerily music, and sex/nudity. One of the biggest problems of the film is trying to connect this to the previous film. The movie took forever to recap the last film. This film has one of the longest pre-credit sequences in cinematic history, nearly 15 minutes in some versions. The main different between this film and the last is the lack of suspense. You know, whom the killer is, this time. It's also, sucks that the movie series lacks a strong it girl. I was really hoping for a strong female protagonist like Ellen Ripley from the Alien film series or Laurie Strode from the Halloween series in these films. It kinda sucks that the final girl, Alice Hardy from the last movie was kill off, pretty quick in the beginning. Adrienne King was pursued by an obsessed fan after the success of the original Friday the 13th and wished her role to be small as possible in the sequel, because of that. I really find it very odd that the movie has her being stalk and killed as if she was being attacked by that crazy fan. In my opinion, she should had refused to retake the role, until the problems of her personal life was taken care of. Ginny Field (Amy Steel) is alright replacement. The final girl often shares common characteristics she is typically sexually unavailable or virginal, avoiding the vices of the victims, very sympathizing people that becomes masculinized through phallic appropriation by taking up a weapon. Ginny is nothing like the common final girl. Ginny has a lot of vices, sleeps with her boss and mostly catatonic and useless in the end. It undermines the notion of positive final girl. The whole idea that she can pass off as Voorhees mother by wearing her old sweater is a bit goofy. I wasn't impressed with any of the actors acting here, but honestly most of the supporting characters were pretty likable. None of them, had any of the mean-spirit traits, the later films would later put on. It's weird that the teenagers that went off to drink and party, didn't die first in this film. It's weird that the movie would even have the nerves to kill a character with a disability like Mark (Tom McBride). Kirsten Baker as Terry was very sexy, and pretty much, worth watching, just to see her nude scenes. Jason was still pretty sinister, despite, not yet, dawning the hockey mask. The potato sack mask kinda remind me of 1980's Elephant Man in how creepy it was. The movie gorn is pretty intense. The Make Up work is just as good as the first film. The movie had to be cut by approx. 1 minute to secure the R rating, and not an X rating. Some scene, the editing is clearly visible. As of today, none of the cuts have been restored in any way, even with newer release DVDs. The movie really had a cop-out when it came to the dog, Muffin. It's so weird, that the movie preach, it's alright to killed people in a horror, but don't dare, kill the dog. I guess, the movie didn't want to anger PETA. The film's ending has been a source of confusion for fans. Writer Ron Kurz has stated that Jason's window jump was intended to be, like a jump scare like the first film in reality. However, like the beginning of this film, the beginning of Part III, in replaying the end clip, showed Jason jumping into them, as if a dream. In an unused ending, after Ginny questions where her boyfriend is, the scene switches to Mrs. Voorhees' head, which then opens its eyes and smiles, indicating that Jason had killed him. Overall It's just a carbon copy of its predecessor that it's slowly turning into what the film series is known for. It's not bad, but it's not the worst. It's just mediocre. Worth checking if you want to have cheap thrills. "},{"Title":"A carbon copy of its predecessor","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 is, for the most part, a carbon copy of its predecessor with a few minor things that make it slightly worse. They both have the dumb clichés, the dumb, idiotic characters doing dumb, idiotic things, and the same format overall. The only difference is the sequel is slightly more ludicrous and hard to believe. Not once to we get an explanation on how Jason is alive after drowning, and whenever Jason sneaks up on people, it seems impossible that no one saw him approaching. Other than that though, they're exactly the same. If you liked the first one, you'll probably like this one too. At the very least, it's better than what is to come. "},{"Title":"Compared to the First, this Sequel's Not Too Great","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Taking place five years after the original film, this not-so-great sequel has a group of teens going to camp counseling camp at a camp nearby Crystal Lake. The movie opens with the hero of the first film having PTSD and we get to relive the events of the first movie...FOR FIVE MINUTES. Later on, the counselors all sit around the fire while the tale of Jason and the girl is told, making that five minutes a completely useless waste of time.This film, unlike the first, moves at a snails pace with a lot of focus on the characters. It takes a long time before anything happens (about halfway through the movie) all to get a couple of lame deaths and an even lamer ending. This time, rather than battling the mother of Jason, they battle Jason disguising himself as the Zodiac Killer.It's a poor movie but it's easy to make fun of. It's definitely nowhere near as good as the original, but it's still not quite as bad as some of the other sequels. Overall, I'd probably pass on this unless you're planning on riffing it. "},{"Title":"Good sequel!","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Part 2 is good fun. It starts out dealing with the end of part 1; a very good opening. Not much nudity here, but still scantily clad pretty girls galore. The settings are beautiful again, I'm pretty sure there were some exact same locations (gas station / village) used. The killings / gore are pretty good, too. Somehow, the whole cast appealed to me slightly less than those in the first part, but certainly Ginny makes for a worthy opponent of... Jason. Yes, Jason... I found the given of him having survived in the woods alone all those years a bit of a stretch. But perhaps a serial killer mom is a stretch, too, right?So, all the good slasher ingredients were here again, just not quite as convincing as in the original. Comes close, though! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's the same movie as the first!","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Despite me being a horror fan I really did not like the original Friday The 13th movie. I thought it was boring, overlong and just seemed like it was trying to be on the same level as much better movies like Halloween or Psycho. All I can say for this is, while it does fare slightly better I still don't like this series.The plot is that the survivor from the first movie gets killed by Jason... very slowly. Then we are introduced to a new group of camp counsellors training at (where else) Camp Crystal Lake... Okay they don't train there but the place where they're training is in walking distance of Camp Crystal Lake. Basically it's establishing these dickheads and watching Jason pick them off one by one.So there is an appeal to these movies in which I am not going to lie in saying I see why. It basically suffers from the same problem as the first one did, we have no clue into who the lead is, you can basically predict what is going to happen right around the corner. I mean when the girl walked off alone in the middle of the night and went skinny dipping - You know she's going to get killed. However with Jason... I don't know, I see why he was feared at the time but it's just a guy with a bag over his head.I really don't know what else to say about this movie. If you didn't like the first movie then you won't like this one because it's basically the same movie. There are some things though which this movie does better then the first. But is it really enough for me to watch any of the future sequels? Probably not. It's clear that with each passing sequel I'm not going to like them so I'm going to call it quits here. "},{"Title":"Better than the first ? Not quite but darn close.","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part II enters the scene in 1981. This year quite frankly should be considered the best year in horror in my opinion. The first Friday was revolutionary. I myself am a die-hard fan of the series. I think the first Friday is better than Halloween ( I realize many will disagree). The First Friday set the standards for the series and was more of a chiller/murder mystery with gruesome deaths thrown in and it worked perfectly. What part 1 did part 2 took it a step further. Granted at this point we realize quite early on that this must be Jason ( his first introduction the series). Steve Miner delivers in all areas with this film. His follow up Friday part 3 is another fantastic add to the series as well. Friday part 2 is dark , humorous , in your face at times with scares ( something that the series lacked as time went on). We get everything we get the teenagers, the atmosphere , the storm , the clichés. My only complaint with this film is the gore wasn't there like part 1. Obviously this is because of the MPAA. Other than that complaint it is a near flawless slasher film. I would even say it is up there on my list with My Bloody Valentine, The Burning , and the Prowler. I can't recommend this film enough to any horror fan. Anyone could argue that this quite possibly is the best sequel if not the best in the series. To this day it is still nipping on the heels of part 1. "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After the first movie, Alice Hardy (Adrienne King) is still haunted by Mrs. Voorhees killing everybody at the camp. Her nightmare comes true as she is killed off immediately. It's been quiet for about 5 years. A new camp is opened nearby to train camp counselors. It's not too long when the killings start all over again.This is a better movie than the original. The production value is superior. This is a no non-sense serial killer movie. Everything just look better than the original. There isn't a big future star in the mix, but Amy Steel is pretty good as Ginny. However it is still just a functional slasher movie and nothing more. "},{"Title":"Jason has arrived","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Just when you thought it was safe to go back into camp... here's even more heart-pounding terror. Five years after the horrible bloodbath at Camp Crystal Lake, all that remains is the legend of Jason Voorhees and his demented mother, who had murdered seven camp counsellors. At a nearby summer camp, the new counsellors are unconcerned about the warnings to stay away from the infamous site. Carefree, the young people roam the area, not sensing the ominous lurking presence. One by one, they are attacked and brutally slaughtered. Suspense and screams abound in this compelling thriller.This film stars Amy Steel, John Furey & Adrienne King This film is better than the first film and it's 100% because of Jason, whoever played Jason was fantastic in this film I don't know if they changed the actor of Jason in the other sequels but if they did this Jason just shows all the others up with how good he is. I do recommend this film to fans of the first film and fans of horror films.***/***** good film "},{"Title":"birth of a legend","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" its the debut of jason his mom died in the original so its time for revenge in my opinion this is the true beginning of the best slasher series ever one of the best in the series the hockey mask is the best but the burlap sack is underrated.the kills were creative for the time period the mrs. voorhees memorial was very creepy.jasons makeup didn't look great but the final scene gives you a good pop.i found most of the characters likable even though i was glad to see him get the counselor that got his mother.my favorite kill in this film was when he hit a victim in the head with a hammer.i concider this one of the best because its the debut of jason the best movie maniac of all time.a must for slasher fans!!!!! "}{"Title":"The best of the entire series....","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I first watched this film in 1982 I just loved it. This might have something to do with my love for the film The Town that Dreaded Sundown. Those burlap sacks are dam creepy but as the sequels kept piling up and the hockey mask was introduced slowly this film was sliding down my top Friday's but as I have gotten older my love and appreciation for this sequel simply states that this is the best Friday the 13th to date. The acting also in this film is by far the best of the entire series and Amy Steele as the heroine wins by a landslide. This is also the only Friday the 13th that displays full frontal female nudity and the only sequel with Jason with the burlap sack. Part 3 goes for a slightly more campy direction which I felt was the first slip in the series. "},{"Title":"Essential 80's horror film","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Really all the Friday the 13ths are essential to any horror movie fan. They aren't masterpieces but this series really captures the 80s look and feel and really captures a time on film. Campfire horror stories are my absolute favorite and the nostalgia I get from watching them is unmatched. I grew up being scared of Jason and now I'm still loving every aspect of these movies. Today's movies look and move too slick and come off as too over produced. They don't capture that eerie, weird vibe that most of these 80's horror films created so well.With that being said Friday the 13th Part 2 has to be one of my favorites of the whole series. It gets pretty weird and creepy once they show Jason's house in the woods. That is the best shot of the whole movie and makes this one unique. From that point on the whole movie gets darker and weirder. If it weren't for the popularity of the series this would definitely be one of those VHS tapes you'd find in the back of your movie store (back when they had them) that you were happy you discovered.Steve Miner did an excellent job with all the horror angles and imagery that sticks with you like the house in the woods or the mothers head Jason built as a shrine in his junk house that he built as well. Of course he has the sack over his head with one eye cut out that seems like the movie The Strangers took a thing or 2 from. Anybody who gives this movie a bad rating is looking for a masterpiece of a movie. Go watch The Shining or something if you want that. This is just a good fun horror movie that never gets boring to watch and one that definitely has its creepy moments. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Better than the first Friday","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I should say that this was better the first Friday the 13th. Truly, one of the best horror films and this one is actually creepy. Jason!! I love jason voorhees! I have not seen Friday part 3. But I know it will be great! I'm about to order this one sometime. Every time I see jason pop out, I get a big jump. I can not wait for part three. But this movie made my week! The first Friday the 13th was kinda boring. It was actually a bit funny. Kill her mommy. Kill her. Get her. Get her, mommy. I will get her, Jason. (YAWN). This one was really good and all but why, in every Jason movie there has got to be loads and loads of nudity. Just like this one. There was even full frontal nudity. It just makes me think,  Uh oh. I know whats about to happen. That is the only annoying thing of the whole Friday series. That is about all that I have to say. JASON ROCKS! "},{"Title":"Short, effective, and entertaining.","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The title of this review pretty much sums it up. This is simply a breezy, fun horror film with plenty of creative death scenes (none too gory to offend anyone sensitive), suspenseful set pieces, and one creepy-looking villain.Following on the heels of the previous film, this one takes place several years later as another group of young adults travel to the infamous Crystal Lake to attend a counselor training course. Only someone doesn't want them to finish...At just 80-something minutes (including a prologue), the film breezes by quickly and leaves no room for boredom. The murders are creative little vignettes that come along at least once every ten minutes to make sure there is always something going on.The acting is a step up from the original film and the production looks better, but this is still low-budget horror. Nevertheless, its minimal, simplistic approach works for what it is.There are some genuinely creepy moments in the film, and the creepy woods setting works wonders for the atmosphere.If you enjoyed the first one, you'll enjoy this, too. "},{"Title":"What, were you expecting a clever title?","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Following the events of the first, a survivor recalls events from it(shown in clip form, to eat up a bit of the already meagre 81 minute sans credits screen-time... also, it's not even the best of the average picture they remind us of), writhing in agony of how unimpressively it was done, ending with her waking up abruptly from remembering waking up from a nightmare. No, really. She's apparently drawing mildly unsettling images(faces with red, black and yellow on them) to get over the trauma, as well as taking five-second showers(yes, I get what it's supposed to be... it's poorly done, deal with it, don't make excuses for it). Then a new batch of 25-year-old supermodels are finding Chrystal Lake... oh, wait, no, it's one close to it(and it makes a huge difference! Like... uhm... oh... uh... nevermind), and they get warned on the way... this time only by Crazy Ralph(my favorite from these two... how can you not love this guy, he shows up, tells people they'll die, and either walks or *bikes* off), solidifying just how much this one is phoning in the build-up(we hardly get any stalking, the largely uninspired death scenes come out of nowhere and again end instantly, so we don't have time to get afraid before it's already over, with the exception of the OK opening and the genuinely suspenseful ending), also exemplified in the way the backstory is told(yes, the campfire setting is good, still, that's *it*). As such, the majority of this is forgettable and barely, if at all, works as you're watching it. The acting is awful again, if some of the dialog is better. Humor remains lousy. The chicks are hotter, and dress it(lots of butts in tight shorts, and some tops, too). I understand this is about how the rest of the films in the franchise are... sad. Jason's look is changed and it's great. The mythology is slightly expanded upon. There is some sexuality, nudity, violence, gore and blood in this. The DVD comes with a meh theatrical trailer. I recommend this to those desperate for a mindless slasher-flick. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A nice introduction to Jason Voorhees!","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In 1979 two months after the horrific killings in Camp Crystal Lake, survivor Alice (Adrienne King) has moved on with her life but gets murdered mysteriously. Five years has passed and now a new camp lead by Paul (John Furey) and girlfriend Ginny (Amy Steel) have opened up a new Camp Counselor training facility just near Camp Crystal Lake or what the locals call Camp Blood. Rumors have it that Jason Voorhees (Warren Gillette) is still alive for he didn't drown but lives in a shack as a hermit seeking revenge for his mother's death. Mysterious deaths have occurred as some of the trained counselors are disappearing one by bloody one, it's up to Paul and Ginny to unmask who this killer is behind these atrocious happenings.An exciting and well paced sequel to the 1980 slasher classic! after the first movie was a huge success for Paramount Pictures, the studio decided to green-light a sequel and a possible franchise thus it was born. This is the movie that introduced horror fans and moviegoers to the infamous Jason Voorhees as in the first movie it was his mother that was the killer but he did made a couple of tiny appearances especially near at the end of the first one. Betsy Palmer does a great cameo as Pamela Voorhees but in a mirage sequence, although Jason is the killer in this movie he doesn't don his infamous hockey mask until the next movie instead in this one he wears an Elephant Man-esquire burlap sack over his head with an eye-hole to cover his hideous face. The body count is higher this time with some good gore and death scenes such as for example the Icepick to the skull and the machete to the face of a crippled person sequence.This one offers good jump scares, gory violence and of course one bizarre ending but this installment is a solid entry that is a nice first starring role of the Jason Voorhees character who became an 80's horror icon with Freddy Kreuger. "},{"Title":"Jason takes centre stage","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *** MAJOR SPOILERS *** After Jason's startling appearance at the end of the first Friday the 13th he takes over where his mother left off in this great sequel to the horror classic. Friday the 13th Part 2 is a bit of a guilty pleasure of mine, its by no means great film making but its sure as hell an entertaining slasher movie. A new camp has opened near Camp Blood from the original and Jason Voorhees is after the blood of the councillor's and teenagers that have arrived for the summer. Its all very unoriginal and its the usual mix of teenagers smoking dope and having sex and being bumped off one by one by the hooded (no hockey mask yet) serial killer. What lifts this above the usual slasher fare is some inventive kills and some great jump scenes. I actually also think Jason looks better with the hood than the hockey mask, it looks more chilling to me somehow. The acting bar the main couple is the usual Friday the 13th standard i.e amateurish but Amy Steel makes a very strong heroine arguably the best of the series. The last twenty minutes of the movie is an incredibly tense and exciting chase scene and has some of the best moments of the entire franchise. Recommended for horror fans. "},{"Title":"Jason's body-count starts right here!","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ding Ding! It's Round Two of the Camp Counsellors vs The Voorhees Death Match, and first to bite the dust is sole survivor from the original film, Alice Hardy (Adrienne King) she gets an ice pick in the head from Jason (Warrington Gillette), who is out for revenge for the death of his mother.Having finally dispatched of this particularly troublesome teen, the deranged, straggly haired freak returns to Crystal Lake, where he bides his time, worshipping his mum's severed head at a candle lit shrine. Five years later, and Jason's patience eventually pays off a camp counsellor training centre is opened only a stone's throw from the site of the original massacre (what a great idea!), and it is full to the brim with nubile young women and men ripe for the slaughter.Steve Miner's follow-up to the hugely successful and highly influential slasher Friday the 13th might seem more like a remake rather than a sequel, since the story hardly breaks new ground, but thanks to its stylish direction, better dialogue, and likable characters, it proves to be a lot more fun than its predecessor.Miner's deft handling of proceedings means that the film never drags between kills (a major flaw of the first film), offering some entertaining and plausible interaction between the characters, plus the obligatory scenes of nudity, sex and skinny dipping featuring attractive young women smokin' hot babe Kirsten Baker's naked night-time swim is most impressive; Amy Steel's heroine is pretty yet spunky; Marta Kober sure knows how to work a bikini; and even good-girl Vicky, played by Lauren-Marie Taylor, attempts to get naughty.As far as the death scenes are concerned, they aren't quite as graphic as in the first movie (if Savini has supplied the FX, this film would've been an absolute stonker), but they come thick and fast and the film has enough scares and tension (Jason in his burlap sack mask is pretty damn creepy) for one to be a little forgiving about the lack of blood.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated; The Best In The Series","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, Friday the 13th Part 2 is without a doubt the best film in the entire Friday the 13th series. It is not only a big improvement over just about any other films in the series, but it is a big improvement over a lot of other slashers from the time period. While my favorite 80s slasher is the Burning, Friday the 13th Part 2 remains to be my all time favorite in the series, and remains in my Top 5 80s Slashers.Friday the 13th Part 2 is also something that so many other Friday the 13th films are lacking; the fact that it is actually frightening. I like the way this film builds up suspense until the very ending, which I love very much. The death scenes aren't lacking in this movie either. Some very notable deaths include a double impalement with a giant spear, a machete in a face of a guy in a wheel chair, several throat slitting, and a very fun scene involving a hammer and the back of a man's head. While this movie was destroyed by the MPAA, this movie is still a good time.One other thing that makes this film stand out from the others in the series is the simple fact that the characters are interesting. While they may still seem un-developed and pointless to the storyline, they are still given enough development so the audience is interested. Amy Steel is my all time favorite Friday the 13th heroine. She's very cute, and easily the smartest character in the entire franchise.Check out Friday the 13th Part 2. When it comes to slashers, you can go much worse. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"The best sequel.","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This remains my favorite Friday the 13th sequel, with part 3 coming in at a close 2nd.The setting is pretty much the same as the original a group of young adults gather at a lodge on Camp Crystal Lake for a counselor training course. And, as expected, someone shows up to spoil their plans.This is the first film that features the iconic Jason Voorhees as the killer, and it also happens to be the best. I don't care what anyone says--Jason was never scarier than in this film. I'm not getting down on the classic hockey mask, but the sack Jason wears in this movie is much more frightening.And as usual for a film in this series, there are some great kills and some very effective set pieces that ratchet up the tension. This is one scary little film! One scene in particular, involving two counselors that sneak off upstairs to make love, always has me squirming in my seat no matter how many times I watch it.The final girl, Jenny (played by Amy Steel) is likable and one of the series' best. You really root for her to get away from Jason in the finale, and instead of running around screaming like a bimbo, she gives him a run for his money.No Friday the 13th would be complete without the end chase scene, and this one delivers--Jason chases the poor girl all over the place.This is way better than the original, in my opinion. Rent it for a party and put it on...you'll have fun, I guarantee it. "}{"Title":"The BEST Friday the 13th","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Part two is arguably the best in the entire series; before Jason got his hockey mask and when the series was more about being scary than bloody. This movie wastes no time as it ties up all the loose ends from the original and gets going. Jason, in part two, is especially creepy you see him run, hear him grunt and the pillow case covering his face works. The climax is quite intense and will keep you at the edge of your seat. This movie is, in fact, one of my favorite horror movies and it is because of the final act. The idea of a psycho wondering around the woods killing unsuspecting victims was done to death in horror movies when this one came out (1981), but director Steve Miner delivers a slasher flick that stands out (he also directed Part three-probably the second best in the series). A final note, Jason's unmasked face is scariest in this one than any other one. Check this one out! "},{"Title":"Jason's Debut","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part II. This movie is a very decent sequel, which provides all of the essentials that Friday the 13th delivered. Therefore, it isn't very unique or different in comparison to it's original. The soundtrack is still the same, which is not exactly a bad thing, as the music was an vital part of what made Friday the 13th more tense and exciting. Friday the 13th Part II starts it's carnage by killing off the survivor of the original, which provides for an unsettling fear of never-ending revenge, and makes you feel as though you can never really escape from your worst nightmares. The storyline then mirrors the original. Camp counsellors setting up cabins in a sunny summer retreat deep in the woods, surrounded by lake. We are introduced to our arrays of characters again, pretty much the same; the horny couple, the fearless virgin, the jealous guy. This installment also saw a man in a wheelchair, which was quite original in the terms of a character. There is still a lot of suspense and tension. The camerwork still continues to 'stalk' it's victims behind trees and bushes in the way of showing us how the victim sneaks around. The carnage begins, and surely, the sexually active teens are hacked off one by one, with some really unforgettable gory scenes, which will stick with you. There is also gratuitous nudity shots, which always seem to make horror films more appealing for it's audience. The twist then starts to become clear near the end. Jason Voorhees is back for revenge. And he isn't happy. A fight for survival then ensues between the lead character, Ginny, and Jason Voorhees. The film does recycle a few of the originals techniques, for example, the surprise ending, which will make many of the audience jump. But overall this is a very fine sequel which is definitely worth watching. A good follow up to a horror classic. "},{"Title":"'you're all still DOOMED!!'","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It turns out that Jason Voorhees is alive (looking very much like the killer from Town that Dreaded Sundown) and ready to dice up some foolish teen counselors!One of the better sequels to the hit Friday the 13th (1980) this is an enjoyable guilty pleasure for slasher fans. Basically it's a re-hash of the original, only this time the murderer isn't quite so mysterious. Once again, there's plenty of gory murders to be had, in fact the murders of this film closely mirror those of Mario Bava's great Reaziane a catena (1971). Adrienne King of the original film reprises her original role early for a pretty good opening sequence, while Betsy Palmer briefly appears toward the end of the film during a tense showdown.The likable cast is pretty average, Amy Steel being best in her decent heroine role.Overall, a by-the-numbers slasher, but not without its entertaining merits. Definitely a cut above most of the Friday series. ** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Actual start for slasher formula.","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am not exactly an avid fan of Jason Voorhees, but I kinda enjoy the films and have seen all except Part-5 and JasonX. And honestly, I tend to mix up the details of each movie with one another, their basic structure being the same. But here is this part-2 which actually invented Jason and also the films' basic formula and so far, I consider this the best of the lot ( Jason Lives coming as the close second best and Jason goes to Hell being the worst). The cheesy formula of all the Friday slasher movies bunch of youngsters in Camp Crystal Lake... night falls... some have sex... one/two girls get skinny-dip in the lake... (the lead female always most decently dressed)... silent Jason with sharp weapon... killing begins... others discover bodies before themselves become victims... Now they all started from this movie, not exactly from Part-1. And here the kills, I should say, are actually creepy.Now there are few things in this movie that are completely potty. For example, first, the girl from the first movie getting killed and second, the disgusting cloth Jason used to cover his face. It's a relief they introduced the famous hockey mask later in the series. But as I said before, every content of the slasher movie formula virtually started from this movie, balancing violence, suspense, nudity, sex and also comedy quite well. "},{"Title":"Lame sequel","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Not surprisingly, a very unoriginal sequel to the financially successful Friday THE 13TH -- a money-grubbing slice of celluloid that wasn't too original in the first place.Steve Miner's direction is uninspired and he does nothing to bring any suspense to the script's clichéd murders -- nor does he handle the players well, unless they're playing dead.Harry Manfredini returns with another coarse, hacking, PSYCHO-inspired score that has no resonance or listening appeal.And thanks to R-rated content requirements, the gore (the sole reason for these movies) is almost non-existent, further lessening the limited appeal of this film.Despite its wrong-headedness, it performed well financially and half a dozen more inane sequels followed (even a turkey set in space). "},{"Title":"...the ultimate in recycling...","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As one astute critic put it so well, this series is the ultimate in recycling, so much so that after a while one tends to forget which episode they are watching. While this is less true of the latter episodes in the franchise, parts one through eight are so alike in their 1980s chic that it's hard to be surprised when one learns that the studio was cranking them out once a year. Other franchises that cranked out sequels once every twelve months include the Police Academy franchise. Need I say more?If you've seen the original FT13, you've seen part two. You've also seen part three. No doubt you've really seen parts four through eight, as well. The one feature that distinguished part one from the rest is that it tried, with little success, to create suspense with a whodunnit type of plot. When the original film found a cult audience with those too simple to recognise it as a poor man's Halloween, however, the studio and other powers behind the franchise chose to dumb it down accordingly. The one reason to watch any FT13 film can be summed up in five words - gore, gore, and more gore.In this department, FT13 as a series didn't really hit its peak until part four, which so offended censors around the world that videophiles are often locked into an endless search for the least censored cut of the film. In part two, the gore content is slightly improved compared to the original, but it is still nothing that would impress viewers who grew up with such pieces as RoboCop or The Evil Dead. In that sense, FT13 parts one through three and seven through ten are truly a walk on the mild side. It's as if the studio knew what kind of audience this franchise attracted and, rather than revelling in the chance to make a profit out of them a la New Line, did everything it could to destroy said franchise.Paramount Pictures, in spite of creating one of the most cultish horror franchises in cinema history, never really understood the slasher market. Given that they already had a cult-like cash cow in the form of Star Trek, one has to wonder how they could manage to let something with such a high profit-to-effort ratio slip away so easily. Perhaps they chose to use the series as a tax write-off? We'll probably never know, with Hollywood politics of the 1980s being a difficult beast to understand at the best of times. All we really know for sure is that the franchise had to butt heads with so many censors and pressure groups that the mildness of most episodes is more of a shock than the gore quotient of any episode.One of the more amusing details of this episode is Jason's headgear. The hockey mask had yet to become a fixture, and even if they couldn't have a different killer in each episode, it would have been fun to change the disguise every time. Sadly, this is the last of the FT13 episodes with any uniqueness, at least until the self-satirical tenth episode, and that the uniqueness comes from such tiny details as this should indicate the level of thought that was put into the plot.I gave Friday The 13th Part Two a one out of ten. You may have noticed in my comments above how little I talked about the actual plot, in spite of how many words I typed. That's pretty much what you can expect from this film. It goes on for about eighty-five minutes, and you'll be damned if you can find one plot element that isn't shared by the other nine films in the series.  "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel But The First Part Is The Best","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The second one is good but the first part is definitely the best. What I do like about the second one is the character Ted because of the way he acts especially when they all go to the bar.  He is one funny person and I will always wonder about how he died, well that is to say if he died, I mean they never show it and/or discuss it so we will never know. "},{"Title":"The Same Old Song.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The crazed murderer is now Jason and he is methodically killing people at Camp Crystal Lake once again in this watchable sequel. No one is safe in this gore-fest that is just a bunch of stomach-churning murders that are never really explained. The film does keep up its intensity and pretty much does what the first accomplished. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad, for a slasher flick, suspense, COOL killings, yet not good. You wonder why? BAD ACTING, NOPE; BAD STORY, NOPE!; BAD ENDING, YEP!!!! What the hell was that writer thinking, man, messing up a pretty good film, now, with that pretty sh..ty ending it is not as good. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Jason","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After watching the first one i was like okay,, first i was thinking well 99 percent of all sequels suck,,, not this one,, no sir,, you get to see Jason in this one,, and only mommy in flashbacks,, this time the action is jacked up to 10 plus on this one,, lots more killings,, sexy girls with nice apple bottoms. you get to see Jason do some of the killings in various gruesome ways,, also the idea of the teenagers getting killed cause they are having pre marital sex is just so freaking awesome , it's funny too,, kinda like an i told you so... this movie is a lot more face paced than the original,, and also has a killer ending that is definitely not for the faint of heart and shouldn't be missed ,, especially by the true horror fan. so all in all i would say that this is better than the original, cause we get to actually see Jason in this one,, and the girls are a whole lot hotter which makes it nice also. "}{"Title":"A disgrace to sequels everywhere","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film should be paired along with Speed 2 Cruise Control for being one of the worst sequels ever made. At times while watching this monstrosity, I could hardly believe what I was seeing. Everything, the acting, directing, editing, scares, just all awful. In between the awful dialogue and random sex scenes, you will be subjected to gory and unimaginative killings. Good thing you won't feel anything while watching this other than sick to your stomach, because there is zero character development. Each character is given a name, a few lines, probably has sex, then dies. I don't know who to blame more for this flaming bag of crap. Probably not the actors, since they're not really given much to work with. While the first Friday the 13th wasn't exactly a work of art, trust me, this one makes it looks like Citizen Kane. Avoid this at all costs. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Starting where the last film finished with a recap in case you'd forgotten how it finished is this films intro. Already you know Jason died as a child, his mother is dead meaning there is no danger and the entire point of the film is debunked before it ever starts. Trying to ask but did Jason actually die? only succeeds in debunking the ending of the original so is also pointless.Right, a camp next door to where Crystal Lake used to be is starting up. Now the 1st BIG goof is the assistant saying the phones aren't working yet. Not true as the guy who has his truck towed was talking to the camp for directions.The campfire story about Jason possibly being alive is pointless. We were told he wasn't a strong swimmer (and was far out in the lake when he drowned) and he was only a child so he'd have had to have taught himself wilderness survival in an area where there were bears.The 1st to die is a local old man peeping on a couple kissing. Next to die is the local sheriff having chased a mysterious figure to a shack in the woods (where WAS he hiding by the way?). Finally one of the camp workers is killed (he was hung by a mantrap so an easy kill) though why their considered prey I don't know, their NOTHING to do with Crystal Lake.Next dead is the guy in the wheelchair (from behind as well, what a coward!). And he then kills a couple who were in bed having sex. And the girl in the sweater. The main camp leader is next to die in front of his assistant and she is the only one alive apart from the guy left at the bar.Now she had a chance to kill him (the guy we're supposed to think is Jason) using the chainsaw, why she didn't when she'd seen him kill her boss and knew he'd killed all her other friends already is beyond me. It later appears he HADN'T killed her boss, just knocked him out as he turns up to save her in the shack where Mrs Voorhees head was.You are left with a possible but uncertain if it was fake scare at the end and the assistant being put into an ambulance and driven away. It is unknown if the boss was alive and what happened to the guy they left at the bar.A very weak ending in a very stupid & pointless film. "},{"Title":"Jason's big debut","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sporting a one eye hole sack like the killer from The Town that Dreaded Sunset, Jason Voorhees (Warrington Gillette) is on the rampage, knocking off anyone who gets within arms reach at a nearby neighbor camp. Will sweet, innocent, blond haired, blue eyed little Ginny (Amy Steel), be able to utilize her psyche class know how to defeat this hulking mass murderer?It should be noted that while Jason doesn't really have a voice in this film, he does grunt when he falls down or gets hit with something (Ginny actually kicks him in the crotch!) since he's still in his quote un quote human phase here. Also worth noting is that you don't have to have sex to get killed in these movies; all you have to do is think about sex and you'll get an axe where the sun don't shine.The usual doses of sex, drugs, rock 'n roll and violence are alive and well in this second entry, which also marks the first official skinny dipping scene of the Friday the 13th series, and what a beautiful, well built woman they chose for it...Moderately interesting climax has Ginny strapping on Mrs. Voorhees' sweater and trying to impersonate her so as to confuse Jason. Jason, mother is very proud of you...  "},{"Title":"Part 2 sets the tone for the rest of this series.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Director Steve Miner frames this plot less, body count sequel with a stylish opening and suspenseful ending, but the middle portion is boring, tiresome stalk-n-slash. Alice (Adrienne King), the sole survivor from the first massacre at Crystal Lake (or Camp Blood) is haunted by memories to barely surviving that terror-filled night. But someone is watching, as we can tell from an unidentified foot crashing down in a puddle of water in front of her apartment and lots of POV camera-work. Before we know it (and after a clichéd cat-jumping-in-from-window false alarm), the mystery assailant sneaks in and sticks and ice pick in her head. By now, we know the killer is Jason Voorhees, who then proceeds to hack away at a new batch of dope-smoking, oversexed teen campers who show up five years after the events in the original. Jason kills with a machete to the face, butcher knife and barbed wire, slashes a couple of throats and sends a spear through a lovemaking couple courtesy Mario Bava's BAY OF BLOOD. Betsy Palmer is seen in flashback footage from the first movie and in a few seconds of new footage. Carl Fullerton did the fine make-up FX, much of which had to be cut for an R rating. "},{"Title":"Slap-dash slasher....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hmmm, where to begin.  About the most interesting thing about this movie is the fact that Jason aged so quickly since we last saw him jumping out of the lake in the original Friday the 13th.  In Friday the 13th, Part 2, he must have aged at least 20 years or so, but it must have been only a year or so later, since the surviving heroine from the original hasn't aged at all.Other than that, there are just more teenagers, more sharp objects, more deaths, more acting...HA!  Gotcha!  Weren't paying attention, were you?  More acting; yeah, sure.  The best thespian in this group is that one girl's dog.  It gets the best lines, too.One star.Why no stars?  Well, Betsy Russell shows up in this one, too.  I like her. Even if it's just a head-only cameo. "},{"Title":"Better then the first, and third movies","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"       I rented this movie after see parts 1 and 3.  This film is alot better then part one considering its on a higher budget, better acting, and it looks like they had more time to film and edit it. As a result, the acting, editing, and directing is less choppy.  The mechanics of this film is done well, and a few scenes cause you jump.  No surprises in this one, it is a done by the numbers horror film, better then most  low budget films of the 80's. I give it a rating of six. "},{"Title":"Jason is here","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's been a few months since Mrs Voorhees was killed and Alice is trying to get past everything. The only mistake she makes is that she tries to heal at Crystal lake. She ends up opening up her fridge and sees Mrs Voorhees head in it than after that shes killed who did it? Could it have been the son she talked about at the end of the first movie? Could it have been Jason Voorhees? After awhile alot of the Teens at the camp next to Camp Crystal Lake start to get killed in Gruesome fashion. everything from a Axe to a Mechette. This movie is a perfect Sequal it even has Crazy Ralph which is his last appearence in the movie series. I won't give it all away but what I'll say is if you want to see a good sequal than this is perfect just remember don't ever go in the woods alone lol j/k. my ranking for this movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"It's my considered opinion that a lot of classic horror movies simply do not stand the test of time.","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 (1981) wasn't great, but it was okay. I'd give it a 6 out of 10.A psychopath kills teens one by one in a remote setting. Don't most modern videogames have more of a story than that? Sure, there's an effective urban legend-style motive &#x96; he witnessed his mother's beheading in the original film, and has since lived ferally in the woods. But does that make sense? If Jason was alive, why did his mother seek revenge for his drowning? Was she unaware he was there?Still, this movie deserves some credit. It makes an honest effort to build distinct characters and tension. It doesn't exactly work. These people don't act like any teenagers I've ever known, even if I was a nerd in high school.There are a few nice jump moments, especially when one character sits up in bed. But the director used way too many close-ups and slow-mo.I'm left with a couple of questions. In the later movies, Jason is basically an undead Superman. He can't even be hurt. He's a zombie kryptonian. Here, he appears quite human. Did they make changes to the character in the later films?Also, the goofy redheaded guy stays out drinking all night and never returns to the camp, sparing him from the carnage. Why? What purpose did this character serve in the story? Did the screenwriter just forget about him? Or is this a moral? If you party all night, will you live longer?All in all, this was strictly an average film. "},{"Title":"Probably should have been the first film","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Friday 13th &#x96; Part II' is better than the original 'Friday 13th' film. And it isn't. What it is, is EXACTLY the same film, just done again. If you were to put Friday 13th on one television and Part II on a TV next to it, you'd feel you were looking at the same film on both screens.The first film was phenomenally popular, so the makers obviously decided not to stray too far from the original concept. Once again&#x85; you have a group of annoyingly attractive teenagers who go to a summer camp to pair off and have sex then get murdered (and not particularly gorily by today's filmic standards). They get slaughtered one by one until you're left with the only girl who hasn't had sex. She is then stalked, while constantly screaming and running away from the killer until the traditional climax. Occasionally the 'action' is broken up by an ugly man wandering into the camp to try and warn the kids, only to also get murdered.You really could just watch this film as 'Part I' as it's technically better, even though it's basically the same story. Plus the 'reveal' of the killer was more satisfying this time round.I also couldn't stop thinking of 'Blackadder II' when he puts a bag over someone's head. Here, the killer also wears a bag (and is therefore about as scary as an episode of Blackadder).The early Friday 13th films are more about 'horror history' now than genuine scares. You can watch them for nostalgia value and to see how horror used to be done. However, they're filled with every cliché that the 'post-modern' horror films (such as 'Scream') make a living out of ridiculing. Enjoy them for what they were, not how they come across now.Should really be 3/5 stars for its lack of originality, but 4 stars if you haven't seen the first one. "},{"Title":"Part 2 is the best sequel to F13 no doubt and it should've ended there.","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th came about soon after the tremendous success of John Carpenter's Halloween and it was no surprise! John Carpenter himself stated the very reason many other slashers came to exist was simply because Halloween had demonstrated that you can make a movie with little money and make a a big amount. I believe even the people involved in the making of FT13 have admitted to that very reason and that the movie was made simply because of Halloween. F13th didn't really call for a sequel, just like the original Halloween but usually, when films do well with their advertising, appropriately aiming at certain marketing demographic, it has a much greater impact on the people, knowing what they're in for. With that great appeal, money comes flooding in and movie makers know they have a seller and know that they can make additional value if they make more. Look at the Halloween franchise, Freddy Kreuger, Texas Chainsaw's Leatherface and FT13's Jason.The original F13th demonstrated the modern horror shock value where we witness the carnage and slaughtering in full view, like a magic trick. And to some it astounds but to most it became a bit redundant. The term 'slasher' became official as many competed in imitating the amount of bloodshed was to be shown. And it's usually the case where sequels tend to go further until they lose their appeal as the numbers increase. However, Part 2 of it's predecessor is one that works at trying to remain as faithful and close but still entertaining enough as the first, unlike Halloween 2. F13th Part 2 came in the midst of the original and safely playing along with the successful formula used from the first. I find the first sequel's are the best of a growing franchise and Friday the 13th Part 2 just does that. It was actually a fun film to watch and it was one I watched as a double viewing along with the original when I rented them from the local video store. By watching this straight after the first put a smile on my face knowing it ended perfectly with this second part. The first featured a shadowy voyeur that turned out to be a middle-aged woman driven to hysteria because of her son's death. Whilst I felt it should've ended there, I was still happy enough to know that it was open to another and the 2nd part ended perfectly with establishing that all is not what it seemed. Throughout, there is also a good amount of mystery surrounding the killer and it did a good job of conveying the tension and suspense that built up to a unintentionally surprising climax.This movie is noteworthy for introducing Jason, but not yet hockey-masked and for me it sat a lot better than the sequels that came after for that very reason. When Jason wore the hockey mask throughout the sequels I found him to be more comical. Whereas, in Part 2 there was a more human quality to him which felt made his monstrosity the more scarier like any other maniac confined and driven by his lunacy to viciously slay. I also felt the potato mask he wore throughout to hide his disfigurement to was also scarier like it were a real person underneath. It was nice touch that pays homage to 'The Town that Dreaded Sundown'. Plus, characters whilst weren't developed but were likable (heroine including) and seemed a joy to hang around. Plus I could root for the heroine with her innocence but tom-boyish qualities that helped her to easily fend of the viciously driven killer. Part 2 I believe is also the least violent of all four films thanks to the heavy censorship which doesn't at all leave out too much for me and something nice for a change. The POV shots with minor breathing heard and unstable judder from the voyeur, stalking his innocent victims including interesting camera angles that effectively captured hammer blows, knifing, pick axes and machetes whacked in the most unexpected times were cleverly done. Overall, F13th Part 2 is the best sequel and I feel this is really where it should've ended as it's the first and last we get to see Jason with more human qualities, before the plots started becoming less a mystery-thriller and more fantasy-supernatural themed. Personally I feel he really should've stuck with the Potato sack with eye flap as it made him more creepier and believable. In this movie I consider Jason to be a highly regarded villain in the horror franchise. Other than that, Part 2 I found to be an enjoyable continuation of the first, especially when viewed as a double feature. I had a good time watching this movie and it certainly reproduces the elements that made the first movie successful. It was a movie that just had me in for a good time. One of the best slashers of the golden era and certainly as much fun as the first, if not more fun and slightly better. I give Part 2 a enjoyable 7/10. "}{"Title":"What Kind of a World Is This When Watching Teenagers Get Butchered Is 'Entertainment'?","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I was young I went to the movies and watched young people on screen having adventures, being heroic and falling in love. They were our role models. Who exactly is the role model in Friday the 13th Part 2? Why, the answer is Jason Voorhees although you could swap out any knife wielding geek from two dozen similar slasher films made that year without making the slightest difference. Voorhees summarily executes a cast of attractive kids while the actresses take turns dressing and undressing while the camera panderingly stalks them waiting for their turn to die. Oh, sure, we had grindhouses which catered to the raincoat crowd when I was young but the majority of theatre owners wouldn't even show something as nihilistic and repellent as Friday the 13th Part 2. The profitability of this cheap, artless garbage has turned every theatre into a grindhouse; a place where young role models simply don't exist and teenagers on screen are there solely to be cut down with a machete. "},{"Title":"A worthy Sequel - A cut above the first","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well, my Marathon viewing of these classics had to continue with Part 2... And anyone who knows the movies legend finally gets a chance to see Jason Voorhee's in all his glory - Though its will bee some time before he dons the Iconic Hockey Mask he is so well known for.While the film is much the same as the first in its direction and building of suspense, it manages to keep you on your toes.Sadly, more of the same is not always a good thing... And a pattern starts to follow that continues in Slasher Movies to this day. Teenage Victims are all Stoner's with Boners and not an ounce of intellect to speak of.Easily a match for its predecessor, it is once again dated but is a great film none the less. For an early effort in this type of genre, it was worthy of its time.Maybe more character could have been added to make Jason more menacing - But back then it was far from a priority.A must see if you enjoyed the first. "},{"Title":"So It Continues...","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Part II begins with the sole survivor recovering at home from her traumatic experience from the first film, only to be abruptly dispatched by an unseen attacker...then the film proper begins some five years later, with another summer camp on Camp Crystal Lake trying its luck as the counselors get their training, which few of them will ever get to use, as Mrs. Voorhees' presumed drowned son Jason is revealed to be alive and well, and now determined to finish the job his mother started...More of the same sequel, directed by Steve Miner, has little of the original's suspense, so falls back on graphic violence to tell its story. Nothing much of note here, except it does give fans exactly what they want, while Jason wears a sack on his head, though that would change in the next film... "},{"Title":"...And repeat","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" And so the first sequel the killer this time is Jason, back from his watery grave with a sack over his head like a maniacal Elephant Man, cutting a swathe through the neighbourhood's hormonal teens. As in the original film, the doomed counsellors are getting the camp ready for opening day, however in a daring departure from the original setting this takes place in a different camp on the same lake. I hope the fans weren't too alienated by this severe change of direction. Aside from that it's business as usual a spear through the back here, a slashed throat there, a machete in the head, a gory stabbing. No plot, just bloody ends. Yes, it's class all the way with this one. The tone is set by an interminable and rather unpleasant prologue in which the only survivor of the first movie is stalked and stabbed in the head, after which we suffer the formula of nudity, tame sex scenes, peering through windows, spying through bushes, and teenage pranks. All of which is dead air between murders.This boring and idiotic film has numerous scenes with Jason camouflaged behind a couple of twigs ten feet from his victim, and several more where his apparent telepathy enables him to arrive somewhere ahead of his quarry. There's even the same 'shock' ending as before and a return of the crazy old coot with his dire warnings; his character isn't wasted, though, as he's garrotted from behind a tree. That's economical storytelling, that is. And there's a scene towards the end which could be a homage to 'Psycho' but considering the film's paucity of original ideas is more likely a blatant steal.As to what little there is on the plus side there's a sexually active disabled character, not something you see too often in movies and a commendable inclusion even if he is nothing more than Jason fodder. Harry Manfredini's score and its ch-ch-ch, puh-puh-puh theme again gives the film what little eeriness it has (which is very little indeed). What more is there to say, really? If you've seen the first one then you've seen this. "},{"Title":"Not the horror classic that I remembered it being.","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge mark for horror films and most of the time, I can look past the glaring moments of stupid that spring up from most of them. The Friday the 13th films have always been the ultimate representation of everything that mainstream critics hate, and die-hard horror fans love about slasher films of the 1980's. They're filled with all of the blood, guts, nudity, moronic characters and even moments of subtle brilliance that were always packed inside every 90 minute brain cell killer. Friday the 13th Part II is almost always held in high regard by hardcore fans of the series, but after watching it again recently, it's not very good, even by Friday the 13th standards.The characters are stupider, the violence is amped up, and it doesn't have quite the same impact as the first one did. Not that the first movie is flawless (at its very core, it's a blatant Halloween clone), but it had more of a charm with its low budget, Tom Savini make-up and gore effects, and its legitimately surprising ending. The sequel does have its moments, but it feels like it's trying to rehash the first one (right down to ripping-off of the classic ending), a formula that would continue for a good number of the sequels. When I was younger, I loved this movie, now it just feels like an expensive copy of a respectable horror classic. It's not terrible, but it's considerably weak. "},{"Title":"Worthy first sequel to the original","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" We all know the drill A merry group of attractive young folks go into the woods nearby the notorious Camp Blood. Naturally, Jason shows up to spoil their fun in the most brutal manner possible. Director Steve Miner and screenwriter Ron Kurtz cover all the essential body count bases in a satisfying and straightforward manner Amorous happy-go-lucky young adults smoke weed, drink booze, do the deed (or at least get ready to do same), and die in various gruesome ways. This first sequel basically plays like a slicker and more streamlined version of the original, with Peter Stein's polished cinematography in particular utilizing a smoothly gliding Steadican with impressive results. Harry Manfredini's shivery ooga-booga score adds immensely to the overall spooky atmosphere. Adrienne King briefly reprises her role as Alice while Walt Gorney makes the most out of his regrettably limited screen time as the gloriously loopy Crazy Ralph. Moreover, Amy Steel as the smart and perky Ginny qualifies as an extremely fetching and appealing final girl. This movie further benefits from a tasty array of fine-looking ladies Yummy frizzy-haired doll Marta Kober, the insanely cute and foxy Lauren-Marie Taylor, and, last but certainly not least, the positively delectable hard-bodied stunner Kirsten Baker, whose sizzling skinny-dipping scene rates as an undeniable highlight. The filmmakers deserve extra credit for their take-no-prisoners grim approach to the material (for example, the harsh machete-in-the-head murder of likable disabled dude Scott is genuinely shocking and tragic). Alas, a majority of the goriest bits had to be trimmed in order to secure an R rating, so the kill set pieces don't quite pack the full punch that they could and should have. A solid slice'n'dicer. "},{"Title":"An improvement on the original, but still a pedestrian slasher","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After narrowly escaping death in the first film, Alice (Adrienne King) is in recovery when she is murdered by an unknown killer. After dreaming about being dragged into the water by Jason Voorhees at the end of the original, the apparently dead son of mass-murderer Mrs. Voorhees, rumours spread that Jason is out for revenge after seeing his mother decapitated. Five years later, a fresh bunch a naive horny teenagers arrive at the rebuilt Camp Crystal Lake for some relaxation time. Soon enough, murders start occurring and it becomes clear that a masked Jason is indeed out for revenge.The main problem with the Friday the 13th franchise is that every film seems to be a re-hash of the previous, and this is no exception. The basic premise of an unknown killer stalking clueless teenagers is exactly what happened in the first film, except this time it has a bit of a trump card in Jason (played by Warrington Gillette). Mrs. Voorhees was a rather lame and unrealistic reveal in the climax of the first, and although he is yet to don his iconic hockey mask (here he wears a flour bag with an eye hole), he makes for a much more effective and physically intimidating killer.But the film doesn't really have any effective or memorable murders, which, let's face it, is why you watch a Friday the 13th film. The only scene worth any mention is the killing of the boy in the wheelchair, which provides an unintentionally hilarious moment that sees him rolling down the stairs backwards after being stabbed. It also has possibly the most annoying horror character in history who not only has the nerve to survive the film after disappearing half way through, but is also ginger. Certainly an improvement of the original, but it's still a rather uninspiring and pedestrian slasher film.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2 is appropriately titled, since it is quite literally more of the same","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 is appropriately titled, since it is, in more ways that one, a continuation of the surprisingly successful and still-popular 1980 film directed by Sean S. Cunningham. And depending on one's idiosyncratic tastes and aesthetics, that will be either a good thing or a bad thing when watching Part 2. And it is my sad duty to report that I stand with the latter.Because Part 2 is really more of what we got the first time around alarming dehumanization (especially toward the female half of the human race), poorly-staged acts of gory violence, shoddy performances, and (for me) absolute boredom, mixed with bursts of anger, from beginning to end. As it opens, it is right after the final events of the first one. The sole surviving counselor from the first movie (Adrienne King) is trying to cope away from home, and her parents, when she gets the creepy sensation that she is not alone (in the house, cabin, motel? I'm really not sure what it was). The camera lingers on her in a Hitchcockian way and just when she feels safe, a figure grabs her and shoves a blade to the hilt in her skull.And then we know that it was perhaps the believed-drowned boy Jason Voorhees did not die after all, saw his mother get beheaded, came back for revenge, and is, I guess to carry on his mother's name, cut the throats of anybody who comes back to where they thought he had died and where she *did* die.Cut to our new cast of characters as they head back to Crystal Lake, the 'haunted' summer camp where throats and faces were slit the time before. From there, it's just more of the same. Would-be drives of suspense in the first act along with angering scenes of sex and drug-doing between the teens, some random killings in the second, and lots of close calls utterly devoid of excitement in the third right up till another open-window of an ending, leaving plenty of room for Part III and the many others that followed.The acting is amateurish, but then again I cannot imagine the actors had much fun being slapped around, covered with cartoonishly-lit fake blood, splattered with mud, undressed, and photographed in lewd manners so that the audience may take some joy in seeing them slaughtered. The only big difference the second time around is a decrease in directing quality. The work of Sean S. Cunningham was home-videoish in the first one, but the shots and flow of images by Steve Miner is another step down.Unquestionably, there is an audience for the Friday the 13th movies. They would not have made an entire franchise for the heck of it. Like the Japanese monster movies, which also have an appeal for a certain cult and little for the rest of the world, you either admire the aesthetics for what they are, or do not for the same reason. I personally do not. "},{"Title":"waiting and waiting","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's still strange that there was a wide audience for the Friday the 13th first one and part 2. Part two had one problem, how can we explain that Jason is still alive. so the first 12 minutes it's all flashbacks explaining who Alice is and the why and who about Jason. So if you haven't seen part one you can pick this up without a problem, but if you have seen part one then it's better that you fast forward until th e pre-credits. But again, Friday the 13th part two had his problems, a lot of the gore was cut out and was never seen afterwards. The two scenes where you can feel the cutting is the spear going through a couple. You see the spear going towards the bodies and you never see it going through the bodies. They had to cut that out. So the gory shot was left out! The ending should have been the decapitated head of Mrs Voorhees smiling but it looked ridiculous so the left that one out and didn't have a real ending, so again, they freezed on her head and edited it with the end credits. But it also takes over 40 minutes before things really starts. The first killing is after 30 minutes but again, nothing really happens, okay, a nude scene is given to keep you watching, but the killngs aren't gory, and Jason wasn't scary at all. You have to wait until part 3 to see the hockey mask. It was told that part two had a larger budget and more gore but due the problems it's just a bad entry into the franchise. But do catch the Deluxe for the gory story as an extra and the interview with the writer of Crystal Lake Memories The Complete History of Friday the 13th. "},{"Title":"Campy Jason","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday THE 13TH PART 2 is basically the same film as the first one with the only major difference being the killer's identity. It opens with the surviving heroine (from Friday THE 13TH, who killed Jason's mother) being murdered with an ice pick in her own home, and from there we jump to some nubile campers visiting Crystal Lake and soon encountering bloody executions. Parts of the first 20+ minutes feels and looks exactly like the first film, but in all its simplicity the film is one of many slasher-horrors that's entertaining to watch, especially with like-minded friends, and first of all enjoying the characters and the way they're being killed. My favorite kill; the guy in the wheelchair getting his head chopped by a machete. "}{"Title":"I liked it slightly better then the prequel","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th part II is not a bad movie at all. It still has a bit of wobbly acting, like it's prequel, but you shouldn't really pay attention to that aspect.What makes this movie is the creepy music, good scenes, creative (and sometimes gruesome) deaths and the little background story of Jason that gets a new chapter here.I didn't like, however, that they showed basically the whole ending of Friday 13th part one at the start. They could have shown bits, but they just threw in the whole thing. So you could just skip part one and watch this one if you're lazy. A real shame if you ask me. A sequel should only be watched if you have seen it's prequel. In this case you don't have to.What else is there to say? Not much really. If you liked part one, go watch this one; you won't be disappointed.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Enjoyabe genre piece and sequel.","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie continues the Friday the 13th franchise and set the standards for all of the later sequels. In this movie the killer this time is really Jason, while in the first movie it was still never the film-makers their intention to make of the Jason character a serial killer to make an entire movie franchise out of.The movie is like everything you can expect from a genre movie and it's mostly being very formulaic. Fans of the genre will find very little true originality in this one and also little surprises in it's build up and execution. Again it's mostly a movie that is all about a bunch of young people being killed one by one, while they are at a camp, nearby the Camp Crystal Lake from the first movie, despite old cycling crazy Ralph's warnings.So the movie does very little original or surprising but it also does very little wrong. That means that this movie is simply an enjoyable and also good enough genre piece to watch. As a sequel it also serves its purpose at further expanding the Jason Voorhees rampage and set the tone for its further sequels. After this movie it became all the more obvious they had all the intentions of turning this into a long running series of movies. i just wished some of the killings within this movie would had been a bit more original. It's strange that in this movie some characters are being killed in the same way. Also lots of blood and gore got cut from the eventual print, to avoid getting a X rating. It has as a result that the movie is fairly tame with its graphic killings and blood. You really feel that they were holding back, while watching this movie, also with its nudity.A typical genre movie that does very little wrong but also offers little originality within its genre6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Please check your stock characters at the door.","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What sets this movie out from the rest, and makes it infinitely amusing, is the total stock 80's characters they had. Lets see, Olivia-Newton-John lookalike? CHECK! 80's dweeb? CHECK! Wheelchair guy? CHECK! It goes on and on. The pacing of this sure ...(read more)was strange. After a refresher course of what happens in the fist movie, the first people killed are, no, not the new campers, but OLD PEOPLE STILL AROUND FROM THE FIRST MOVIE! ha ha. It's not until maybe half an hour in (maybe longer) until we start saying goodbye to the new cast members. I was surprised at how MANY counselours there were, and I was like, no way, they're not going to off them ALL are they? And true enough, they DON'T. That's sort of a cheat.. Finally, the ending is very very strange, oddly put together, and will leave you scratching your head. Sill a fun time at the movies though. "},{"Title":"Jason's rampage begins","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After a long unneeded recap of Part 1, a group of camp counselors, Stu Chano, the most goofy looking kid I've seen since Hardbodies among them, attend a camp NEXT to Camp Crystal Lake despite the ravings of Crazy Ralph. Jason avenging his now deceased mother dispatches them one by one after tying up some loose ends from the first film. This sequel while still being a fairly solid Friday the 13th film, never manages to be as good as the original thanks to the overwhelming feeling of deja-vu.My Grade C Eye CandyKirsten Baker shows all Ongoing Jason Bodycount 10 people, one dog "},{"Title":"Solid sequel//contains spoilers","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film begins with lone survivor Adrienne King at home, which somehow Jason finds her, and undramatically disposes of her with an icepick. Afterwards we are taken to a camp, near Crystal Lake, where your typical group of teen counselors arrive, complete with the stereotypes. The lusty couple Marta Kober(with her tremendous assets) and Bill Randolph, the prankster Stu Charno, the slut Kristen Baker...you get the picture, right? Jason shows up with a sack over his head and causes large amounts of mayhem.Not as gory as the majority of the 13th films, I'm just glad they didn't make a habit out of the goofy sack on Jason's head. The hockey mask fits him better. "},{"Title":"good, but first is better","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i did like Friday the 13th part 2, but i feel that the first friday the 13th movie has got to be better because it is the original movie and i think that you can't beat originals with making others based on the same topic. This one was based more on Jason, but the first was based on Jason's mother, Mrs Vorhees. The first movie was made in 1980 and then a year later the 2nd was made in 1981. Years and years later there were more and more of theses movies, i wonder when they will stop because in ever movie jason vorhees has to come back to life. To kill again. I wonder if there will be a re-make of friday the 13th, maybe one day they might be one, we'll all have to wait and see what happens in the future. Overall i give friday the 13th part 2, 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Second time around, Jason is the star!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th, Part 2 (1981) is a reworking of that old cult classic The Town that Dreaded Sundown. With Mrs. Vorhees out of the picture, her son Jason is running the show. How did a mongoloid child become a 6 foot plus weighing over 2 bills is one of the mysteries of life. All of the films in the Friday the 13th series are made to showcase gory set pieces. But the M.P.A.A. was ready this time and shredded this movie into the unwatchable category. Sadly I could not find an uncut version. The movie seems so incomplete with the altered footage. Watching this film is like eating Macaroni and Cheese without the pasta. Notable for being Jason's first appearance as a heavy. Mildly recommended.American version) "},{"Title":"This sucked!","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The killer, Jason returns to kill some more about-to-be counselors. This movie was just plain awful.  I liked the first one but this one was horrible.  Don't waste your time.  See the original not this one. "},{"Title":"I Was Scared","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th is a bad movie, yes. However, there is a frightening scene that took me by surprise in this film. If you are curious to see a movie about a maniac out to kill a bunch of teenagers, then check out this movie. The film isn't suspenseful at all and the acting induces vomiting. The only memorable scene is one that includes frightening images of the horror icon, Jason Voorhees. Other than that, the movie is a complete bore. Nothing to be taken seriously, and nothing to not be taken seriously. The movie could have been better if it had been more serious, but since it wasn't, it sucks. "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone who follows the story of FRIDAY THE 13TH knows it already. Yes, the story is cheesy and it is a little on the far-fetched side, but it did very, very well working with the story that it had. The kills are very original and exciting. The movie is just as thrilling as the first. Everything seems to be the same, the exact order of things, campers run around, get naked, get killed. Speaking of getting naked, there is one extremely hott girl who goes skinny dipping (many people will be seeing this movie now).If you liked the first film, then this is a must. Everything about this movie is perfect. Plain and simple, I loved it.FRIDAY THE 13TH, PART 2 gets 5/5! "}{"Title":"Well...it was better than the first","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Still, just an adequate film, but improves upon the very lame original.  The acting is better, the direction is better (by Steve Miner, who made Halloween H20), the characterizations are better and the death scenes are more fun to watch.  Plus, there's more nudity.But all in all Friday the 13th Part 2 is forgettable slasher entertainment.  I still wasn't locked in and still felt it was pretty dull.  My friend let me borrow all his Jason movies, so hopefully the other sequels are much better.  My score  5 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"One of the scariest","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Jason's first killing spree happens to be his best. After the murder of the woman that killed his beloved mother, Jason returns to camp to find a camp full of teen's waiting to be done in. Many fans thinks it's Jason's Hockey Mask that made him scary, I have to say the Pillowcase he wore in this film made him creepier. The acting was overall okay including Amy Steel who does a good job at getting inside Jason's head. The only flaw in my favorite Friday the 13th films is the Special FX's cut from the print. Even with most of the deaths trimmed, this is still the best.  "},{"Title":"Decent little sequel","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The films in the Friday The 13th series were never meant to be award winning films. They were made to give us a jolting good time in the theater and Part is no execpation. The film has lots of gore and cool death scenes. Although the film isn't as scary if released today it introduces us to horror's oringial bad boy. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this film was really really bad, Jason is the killer and wears a sack over his head and goes round killing campers nowere near as good as the first film if the other sequels are as bad as this i will not be watching them. do not rent or buy this film. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Jason is only dull here.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  * out of ****While I have no great love for the Friday the 13th series, I do probably overall enjoy them more than the average viewer.  I had quite a bit of fun watching parts 4, 7, and 9, which were all quite entertaining, if not necessarily what good films (I have yet to see part 6, but many have claimed it's the best in the series).  But to be honest, I never really did care much for the original Friday the 13th, and this sequel is worse.  Yeah, I realize it's nothing more than a slasher, but even on that level it doesn't particularly succeed.I did like how the movie began.  Featuring Alice, the survivor from the original, director Steve Miner sets up a fairly tense and suspenseful 5-minutes sequence that caps off with her death.  Not a bad beginning, I thought.  Oh, man, it was only downhill from there.  The rest of the film basically involves some young adults setting up a camp near Crystal Lake, get horny and have sex (or try to), and be completely oblivious to the fact that there's a madman stalking and slashing them down.  It may sound like fun, but it sure as hell isn't.Despite a decent setting, some okay atmosphere, and a creepy score that might have been the inspiration for Ennio Morricone's score in The Thing (I'm not referring to the chu, chu, chu chorus),  Part 2 is damned boring.  After the decent opening, the movie just becomes long and tiresome, featuring one kill after another, none of which provide even a visceral thrill or shock.  The movie doesn't even gain any momentum once Jason starts chasing our heroine, played by Amy Steel, around. Miner simply shows that he doesn't really know how to set up a good slash-and-stalk sequence.  Some of these scenes are too easily telegraphed and they didn't even make me jump in my seat, with maybe the exception of one sole moment where a guy suddenly gets a machete thrown into his head.  The movie overall fails to create thrills, maybe because Jason acts more like a goofball than a frightening killer.  By that, I mean he wears a pillow over his head and always conveniently can't seem to stab Miss Steel despite so many numerous opportunities.To be somewhat fair to Miner, this is his directorial debut.  However, he may be considered a horror veteran now, and after having seen H2O and Lake Placid, I'm not eager to see his next film.  It's obvious that he wants to play Part 2 straight and scare the living daylights out of his audience, but many of his decisions are unwise, and everything looks cheesier than scary.Ron Kurz's script is incredibly routine and unimaginative.  He basically rehashes the original, and the only difference is that he has a different killer.  I know screenwriting isn't this subgenre's strong attribute, but come on, as a sequel to a box office smash, I'd like to think that the filmmakers would want to do more than just look like unimaginative losers.As usual, there's gore and nudity here, which are almost always good things to have in a slasher.  But the gore here is relatively tame when compared to some of the later entires.  Plus, only one girl gets nude (she's also the only really hot one in the film) while everyone else just takes a shirt off or shows off a lot of cleavage.  These same people also show no acting abilit whatsoever.  Amy Steel makes for a boring heroine, probably on the complete opposite side of the spectrum from Lar Park Lincoln's strong heroine from Part VII, the New Blood (And hey, Lincoln could actually act).The finale is confusingly filmed (There will be heavy spoilers here).  It features Miss Steel and the actor playing her boyfriend, I think his name's John Furey, arriving at the camp.  All of a sudden, they're attacked by Jason and it looks like the boyfriend is killed.  Then Jason starts chasing Miss Steel around.  From out of nowhere, the boyfriend returns, seemingly unscathed, and comes to the rescue.  Then, there's that random scene in the finale where Jason pops through the window, grabbing Steel.  Right afterward, the scene skips to the next day, where she is unhurt and her boyfriend's missing.  Then it ends.  Huh?Well, as you can gather, I don't like Part 2, but the series did continuously improve and try different things from here on out, with the later installments generally featuring better acting, more gore, laughs, and of course, nudity.  I don't know, Part 2 has a rather large fanbase and I've never understood its popularity.  It's nothing more than a boring slasher flick that's too lazily made to work. "},{"Title":"Its ok !!!!!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"     I loved this movie . Actually I love evry Friday the 13th movie for some reason . I'm probley the only person who loves this Friday the 13th films .   The beginning of the movie starts with (a.king) (the star of the first one ) gets killed in her apartment . Jason then returns to camp crystal lake again .       Crazy Raulph (IN the first FridaY MOVIE) WARNS THEM but it does know good . Jason kills pretty much evry teen acept (AMY Steel ) who luckily lives . Jason comes back at the end only to hit to you that Part 3 is coming. Followed by Friday the 13th FINAL CHAPTER .        I give it * and a half stars of of **** "},{"Title":"A new terror is unleashed on Camp Crystal lake.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"        I have the knowlege of being a teen in the time period of the 80s.All teens watched theSE films even when they said they didn't.Girls hated them for obvious reasons.I admit us guys would watch it for the girls.Teenagers.This film was the most scary for me.I think when you watch the early FRIDAY films ALONE you feel a tingle.Did I lock the garage window?Whats that noise?Okay here comes the review.The film takes place a few years after the orginal.You must see part1 before part2.A camp is being opened down the road from the murders in the orginal.Jason is told as a myth in campfire story.He sadly is out in the shadows watching.He begins his routine.The movie does have suspense in its chase.I feel its the best of the series.Jason is not the hoak of the later films.He scares you in this one.He is relentless in his deeds.Critcal backlash is not valid.The movie does not condone violence in its theme.I don't condone children under 12 watching this movie.I was a big fan of the series.I say in aLL honesty Part1 and Part2 are the best.Part3-4 okay.Part5-9 were totally made for studio GREED.The studio nearly ruined this genre.Sit back and turn the light off.Now watch this film.ALONE.................................. "},{"Title":"It's grainy, but it's a classic","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Whatever anybody says about this movie, they have to realize that this is Jason's official, on-screen appearance (except with the drowning cameo in part I).  ANY true fan of Jason films will always consider this film a classic.  We get to see Jason at work here with the body shack and the fairly large body count.  He really does kill everyone and he certainly shows up Mrs. Voorhees.This movie is not very scary, it's just eerie.  It makes you wonder about Jason's motives for the first time.  The film is so grainy that you would think that Jason actually had the camera when he kills his victims.  It looks that real.  Movies like Texas Chainsaw Massacre I are notorious for the realism their movies portray, and I think this Jason sequel-debut should go right up there with it.  I would love to see the main character of this sequel, Ginny (Amy Steel), come back to fight the real Jason twenty years later!  I hope casting for the new Jason X brings back at least one character from the past, whether it be Corey Feldman or Dana Kimmell.  That's what makes these movies so dull.  How are we supposed to care about what happens to the characters when their a bunch of nobodies?I guess that's the FRIDAY trademark, though...  "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Counselors are warned to stay away from Camp Crystal Lake but ignore the warnings in this passable sequel that begins where it left off and tries to follow as the first did and does so admirably. Sadly, the films got worse after this.  "},{"Title":"Better than the first, but sadly that's not saying much at all.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Virtually the only worthwhile parts of this film are the dream sequence at the beginning, the bit in which the local sheriff chases a mysterious figure to its lair and the climax, which takes place in a kind of shrine.  The rest of the film is overloaded with the same mistakes as its predecessor - lack of a proper plot, obnoxious teenagers you couldn't care less about, boring padding and predictable teenage romances (if that's the right word).  This sequel's attempt at a plot doesn't even make sense.  If Jason didn't drown at all then why didn't he just go home to his mother?  The effects in this film are dire (it looks like it was made in about 1970), the music is often below average and the ending, in which Jason seemingly returns, is just muddled and badly-done. "}{"Title":"This is the biggest load of pig crap that I have ever seen!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok this maybe Jason Voorhees debut as the serial killer of the Friday the 13th series but...... I don`t know why but this is rubbish.Ok they say this is an old film, but it is rubbish, I mean Jason is acting like a normal bloke, who is just messed up, I thought he was dead, he acts like a real man, isn`t he supposed to be dead or something?He wears a sack over his head with one hole in it so he can see, instead of the infamous Hockey Mask.When he gets into a fight with Paul he is weak and isn`t even strong, but then comes Friday the 13th part 6,7,8 and 9 and he is Mr.Invincible. I don`t like this film at all and the only reason I own a copy is that it is a Friday the 13th film, and I have collected all of them.By far the worst of the series.I give this a 3 and a half out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Jason looks like really dumb with that thing in the head and not his hockey mask....","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sequel of the much more better Friday the 13th ( 1980 ), but here, another group of teenagers open a camp very close of Camp Crystal Lake, five years after the first movie. Than, another mysterious killer ( We don't know if Mrs. Voorhees come back or if is Jason trying revenge his mom's death ) start to kill the camp teenagers one by one, exactly like in the first movie. But the first one, is much more better, and Jason, don't scare a little with that stupid thing is his head !!! Where's the hockey mask ???? And the director of this film, Steve Miner, actually directed the wonderful Halloween H20, funny how the people change....  "},{"Title":"I Got What I Expected...GARBAGE!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  How can I really complain watching a film sequel to a lacklustre film to begin with.  The same lame, tired, almost geriatric horror cliches used ever so not so deftly in the first Friday the 13th are all brought back to life in this sequel.  The film lacks what few virtues the first film had such as more terrifying special effects(film makeup not done by Tom Savini here) and some better looking girls and more talented actors as a whole.  The film opens with Adrienne King from the first film finding a head in her fridge and then having her throat slit...then it's off to the opening credits and a way we go. The body count is incredibly high, the killer kills teenagers making love once again, and none of the characters are very interesting.  Director Steven Miner tries to be a little more daring seemingly killing a dog(usually not a thing you do in a picture) and having a handicapped youth struck down in his prime(again not something usually done...haven't seen the likes of it since Hooper's Texas Chainsaw Massacre).  By the way there is a also a chainsaw fired up a few times too in the film.  Trite, repetitive, uninspired, and hackneyed are words that come readily to describe this film and its script.  At least for its fans the film does not disappoint.  They go planning on seeing one senseless teen struck down with senseless violence.  And that is what they get.  The script tries to make us believe that Jason has lived in the woods and is protecting his way of life.  I didn't buy it.  Jason, however, is parading around in a sackcloth, and in the end we do finally see his face.  Big deal!  B-O-R-I-N-G! "},{"Title":"Forgettable and worthless, but moodily directed.","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While you're watching Friday The 13th, Part 2, it's important to forget for a while your normal requirements from a movie. The characters are pitifully uninteresting, the ending is super-idiotic, the whole movie is cheap-looking, exploitive and trashy in the extreme. However, what distinguishes it from the other early Friday The 13th outings is the moody, atmospheric direction and the reasonably tight pacing. Miner (who made the far, far inferior Part 3D the following year) uses many point-of-view shots that are maybe even more effective than the similar shots in the first Halloween! So, while the film is about as bad as the offensively inept Final Chapter in terms of characters and acting, it is possibly the best of the series in terms of directing. And it is a HUGE improvement over the original. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Come on. It looks like a direct-to-video movie. The acting is zero. There is NO acting. Trust me. The plot is stupid. It's the same as the first. The script. Forget it. I think the script was put together by five-year old kids. Jason isn't even that good. He kills people in dumb ways. He kills Adrienne King by doing what? Stabing her in the head with a screwdriver? That's a great idea. This is just the beginning of the cheesy slasher movies that have no point. The scares are cheep and rip-offs from better horror movies, the script is pure crap, and the acting is about as good as some small guy trying to act like a fat guy. Forget it. Just take my word, pass it up. Friday the 13th Part 2 F "},{"Title":"And then there was Jason","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 sequel number 2 in the Friday the 13th series and not too bad. I'm trying to see what is the big deal with Jason Vorhees really, there are a lot of horror movie fans who are just in love with this guy, I view him as a mama's boy, but I remember do not judge until I have seen all the Friday the 13th films, which means I have a lot of films to watch. Friday the 13th Part 2 finally introduces Jason Vorhees, but he doesn't wear his famous ski mask just yet, just a clothe of some sort. But he has returned to avenge his mother's death and terrorize young, sexy, hormonal teens who are at Camp Crystal Lake once again, you'd think they'd learn after what happened the year before.Ginny and a group of friends are going to try again to reopen Camp Crystal Lake since the killer from last year was decapitated, why not? But they might wanna change their mind when a big man in a hooded clothe comes to terrorize them and ruin their day. But we discover that it is Jason Vorhees, he's returned from the grave to avenge his death as well as his mother's. The poor and horny teens are brutally slaughtered and it is up to Ginny to get through this horrible night.Friday the 13th Part 2 is over all a pretty fun film, not as good as the first Friday th 13th film, but it's decent enough to give another watch. I really hope the upcoming sequels are just as fun. Although I'm still not too into Jason, it's all good, he still delivers a good scare with the best death scenes. He is big, brutal, and you don't wanna mess with his mama, or he'll come after you. Well, 7 more films to go, I have a feeling this is going to take a while.7/10 "},{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am really shocked-- of how bad this film is. It begins much like the first one, but is far from decent. We don't get to see Jason until the 50 minutes of film; until that, we have thousand of clichés, false scares and ridiculous soundtrack that doesn't scare at all. You can watch this by yourself at 3am in the morning, alone in a dark house and you won't be any frightened. Jason in here is a normal guy with a bag in his face, he doesn't even have a mask... how can someone be scared of this?The only not horribly miserable thing about this is the acting-- not that it's good, but is better than the rest of it all. I can't understand how anyone can praise it or even say it's remotely decent, because it plains really really bad. I'd rather be killed by Jason than watching it again. I promise myself I won't be seeing any of this series' film in the next months... "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From director Steve Miner (Halloween H20 20 Years Later, Lake Placid), this first of many sequels introduces the iconic character that would rule the series. You may remember, a younger looking Jason Voorhees jumping out of the water, pulling Alice Hardy (Adrienne King) underneath, just after she killed his mother Pamela (Betsy Palmer), and the opening has her stabbed in the temple with a ice pick. Five years later, a Counselor Training Center, at Packanack Lodge, near Crystal Lake Camp is opened by Paul Holt (John Furey), and he is joined by many other counsellors. A couple of the counsellors are getting too curious about the camp near them, especially hearing the legend that Jason (Warrington Gillette) didn't drown in the lake, and soon enough, one by one, they face the psycho's wrath. Jason may not be wearing the hockey mask yet, he is instead wearing a bag, but he witnessed his mother being killed, and he is not afraid to kill at least nine people in nasty ways. Also starring Amy Steel as Ginny Field, Kirsten Baker as Terry, Stuart Charno as Ted, Walt Gorney as Crazy Ralph and Marta Kober as Sandra. This film isn't as exciting as its predecessor, especially the copy-cat ending, but the introduction to Jason and the quite well done graphic and gory impaling of characters is worth watching. Okay! "},{"Title":"I told the others, they didn't believe me. You're all doomed. You're all doomed.","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Mario Bava influence continues in the sequel, with two scene taken directly from his film, Twitch of the Death Nerve.We see Adrienne King and Betsy Palmer reprising their performances from Friday the 13th; along with Walt Gorney (Crazy Ralph), and Rex Everhart (truck driver).Amy Steel gets her first movie role as the lead with John Furey in this sequel. She does some first-rate screaming, and wields a mean chainsaw.I am starting to get real concerned here as I have a Shih Tzu named Muffin, and she better be all right.The lighting is much better in this movie; the better to see all of Terri (Kirsten Baker) when she goes skinny dipping.Great ending and Muffin is OK. "},{"Title":"Better than the original, but that's not saying much...","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As strange as it may seem, I think Friday the 13th Part 2 is an improvement over the original film if for no other reason than it introduces Jason as the antagonist. However, he still isn't wearing his trademark hockey mask yet, he runs around wearing what looks an awful lot like a potato sack on his head.This film most certainly didn't win any awards for it's acting, but what can you really expect out a 1980s horror movie? Oh yeah, that's right, plenty of mindless teenagers meeting a grisly end. If that's what you're up for, this movie has it.How Jason went from a weakling child who drowned in Crystal Lake to an unstoppable killing machine after his death is beyond me. I guess we're not supposed to think of questions like that and just enjoy the movie for what it is, a run of the mill slasher flick. "}{"Title":"Let the Nonsense Begin...","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A camp near Camp Crystal Lake opens, and the new counselors just can't wait to get a peek at Camp Blood. Well, someone in that camp just can't wait to get more than a peek with them...I entitled this review let the nonsense begin because this is the part of the series where you have to turn your brain off almost completely. Jason is played by something like five different people over the next two or three films, so he constantly looks like a different guy. He seems capable of shopping at nice stores (look at those shoes) without being able to talk, earn money or drive a car. More than half the counselors in this film disappear and nobody ever bothers to mention this (I think the next film says there is one survivor, but I could point out at least nine, especially one man who goes to the bar before the killings). And the biggest nonsense of all a killer I have to assume is Jason that tracks Alice down to the city and is able to find her address and phone number. Without being detected. Amazing! Nonsense aside, there are some positive things to be said here. This is the first film directed by Steve Miner (producer of the first film), who also does Part Three and does later horror films House and Halloween H20 to name a few. So he is a horror icon through and through. Adrienne King returns in a weird green jumper. And we even have the return of Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney), uttering what for me is his best line I told the others but they didn't believe me. You're doomed, all doomed. (or something similar) More nonsense includes how someone can look like an old woman just by wearing a sweater, or how that person knew that wearing such a sweater would make them look like that person. But I think I have said enough about the nonsense...This film introduces the adult Jason Voorhees, although a strange version of him with a sack over his head (apparently an homage to The Town That Dreaded Sundown). We also have character Ginny Field (Amy Steel), who briefly returns in part three and Sandra Dier who plays a key role in part four. So some aspects of the next few films are set up in this one. Oh, and this also features the completely pointless six minute flashback that becomes a staple for the next few films. On the plus side, there is a reference to Mario Bava's Bay of Blood and a debut role for Stuart Charno, who later appeared in Sleepwalkers and Christine.Otherwise, this is really more of the same. Kids hacked up in a wilderness camp. Lights going out. And the same music that at times is such an obvious ripoff of Psycho that it is sickening -- even worse a ripoff than the music from Re-Animator (or at least as bad). But if you liked the first one and want to see more hacked up kids or want to find out what happened to Alice Hardy or Crazy Ralph, here you have a chance for that. "},{"Title":"Heeeeerrreeeesssss.....Jason.","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK, so Jason, a son of a #$@#, as we learned from part 1, is out continuing the damage done by the killer in Friday the 13th. Believed to be drowned as a boy, we see that obviously he survived and has been living in the woods all these years. Deformed and hungry for blood, teenagers at Camp Crystal Lake better beware!!! OK, the teenagers aren't exactly at camp crystal lake, the camp itself has been closed since it never got re-opened after the events of the first film, but a little ways down the lake, is a camp councilor training camp full of teenagers for the picking.An interesting and historical turn not just for the series itself, but film history in general. Part 3 would be even more significant.Great special effects, but not a lot of them after the hack job for the censors. "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Horrid Acting, a ridiculous plot, an overlong introduction (the DVD version was 12 minutes as opposed to the trivia's noting it as 15), and no elements of Jason that we really come to know him by leads to a movie that really is a waste of time.  Please only see this if you're just seeing the entire series for kicks.3/10 "},{"Title":"Dear God, why make me sit through this?","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Usually, as far as bad bad horror series fly, the second installment of the series is usually pretty decent, perhaps having the best chance to stand up to the original.  This film is a definite exception.  Where to begin?  Steve Miner's creation is much like Jason--deformed, ugly, and it smells really bad.  Apart from the numerous continuity errors and ridiculous cheap scares, the acting is just plain deplorable.  These elements create an incredibly weak, if not slightly humorous, movie experience.  Apart from that, Steve Miner also seems to enjoy throwing in scenes that have absolutely nothing to do, with anything.  Scenes such as the infamous slingshot-to-derriere maneuver and in general, the insertion of bad lines, jokes, phrases and thoughts presented by the actors do nothing but make the viewer want to cry and hide in a corner, if to only salvage his or her moviegoing integrity. "},{"Title":"Friday the 13th Part 2","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Camp counselors preparing for their summer camp opening for the kiddies have the unfortunate position of being neighbors to Crystal Lake where psychopath Jason Voorhies, still psychologically ailing from the death of his mother(for which he gets retribution when he kills Adrienne King's Alice at the opening of this film)calls home. Deep within the woods is a rusty, filthy shack where Jason goes to live when he isn't out slaying folks, but what he also has is a shrine built for his mother. One by one, the young adults are being killed by a silent Jason who comes out of nowhere to attack when they least expect it.Nowhere near as gory as reputed to be, this sequel is more built on shocks(such as the male confined to a wheelchair after a motorcycle accident who gets a machete in the face & a couple is turned into a human shishkebab while making love thanks to an arrowheaded spear)as the kills are immediate with director Miner moving to the next scene rather quickly not letting the graphic violence stay on screen too long..in reality, Jason's array of death is done in quick bursts of violence(often Miner doesn't even show what happens to some of the characters as the violence occurs off screen). Miner's work is stylish if a wee bit relative to Cunningham's work in the first film. It does often feel like the first film is being imitated with Jason taking the place of his mother as the rub. Thankfully, Jason is quite human and when he is hurt(mostly by heroine Ginny, played by the beautiful Amy Steel)you see him effected. He really looks like a deranged hillbilly, with one eye glaring out of a pillowcase over his head. I do think the ending was weak after a good chase between stalking, hulking Jason after poor Ginny whose boyfriend, head counselor Paul(John Furey)is knocked unconscious. I do think the scene where Ginny tried to imitate Jason's mother is plum silly, but afterward, when our heroes believe they have silenced Jason for good, there is an inspired, marvelous scare that rivals Jason's ascent from his watery tomb in the first film. It's too bad that after that knock-out punch in the gut, we are left wondering about Paul whose life we are uncertain about.While not great by any means(..it is essentially just a slasher flick), Part 2 is one of the best of the series by far. It's tame by today's HOSTEL/SAW standards, but at that time must've seemed quite violent and gory. I feel this film works best as a midnight movie at a drive-in in the 80's(..would probably be a hoot in a drive-in today). "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty much a remake of the original only with a different cast finds several sexually active teenagers falling prey to the hands of a killer. Without the gruesome special effects and Betsy Palmer (except in a few flashbacks) on board this time around, this film is a bore. An aburpt ending doesn't help much either. Rated R; Nudity, Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Horrible sequel","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I never was a fan of the Friday the 13th series and don't think I ever will be. The first film was decent and was somewhat scary, but this sequel is undoubtedly one of the worst films I've ever seen. Once again, idiotic teens camp out at Camp Crystal Lake where many before them had been brutally murdered. Does that stop them? Of course not! The gore was constant in the first one and it is the same with this one, but this time the gore seems to be used as comic relief. Sorely disappointing. "},{"Title":"Chilling,suspenseful and gory!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Friday the 13th Part 2 is a very good sequel to Sean S.Cunningham's brilliant Friday the 13th.There's plenty of shocks and scares,not to mention plenty of violence,as Jason Vorhees(Warrington Gilette)dispatches the counsellors of Camp Crystal Lake in the same gruesome fashion as was seen in the first film.Some reviewers may argue that the characters in the movie aren't very developed,but that doesn't matter because most of them die anyway.The acting is pretty good(Amy Steel shines as a heroine named Ginny),the killings are very brutal and the photography is decent.By the way Jason's character was dressed to look exactly like the killer from the 1979 slasher flick The Town that Dreaded Sundown.What else can I say about this film that hasn't been said already?Simply check it out if you love watching horror movies.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Dumb as hell.","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alice, the sole survivor of the Crystal Lake Massacre, is murdered in her house. Years later a new summer camp in spitting distance of the old camp is preparing to open. During one night, an intruder sneaks into the new camp, intending to butcher the counsellors.The original Friday the 13th was in many respects the film that popularised the slasher genre. It also set the basic formula that became the norm for dozens of cheap horror flicks. This time the directorial reins have passed over to Steve Miner, who worked on the original.As was the case with most of the nine sequels, Part 2 is nothing more than an excuse to showcase more killings. This time it doesn't stop at ten. The film has no real style, just showing teenagers in skimpy outfits before having the killer take them out. As usual the script is&#133; what script? It's just a killer on a rampage. Cut & paste that for the plot. The acting is atrocious, with the teenagers being the usual numbskulls. But the film's main problem is the fact that the killer, who wears a burlap sack over his head, is Jason Voorhees, the kid who died in Camp Crystal Lake as a boy. This would have to be one of the dumbest plot points ever introduced in a film. The music score is the same old cheesy crap. "},{"Title":"Boring sequel","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm surprised I've taken this long to tackle the Friday the 13th horror movies. I'm a huge horror fan--u think I would have done this sooner. After seeing this I realize why I was hesitating. Anyways...This film starts off with long, boring 12 minute opening going over the first film and seeing Alice (the only survivor) being killed with an ice pick to the head. It happens only a few weeks after the end of the first film and she is killed by a full grown man who turns out to be Jason---but Jason was dead AND only a kid at the end of the first one! That's one hell of a growth spurt! Five years later another summer camp is being set up NEAR Camp Crystal Lake. The new counselors are told Jason's body was never found (??) and some people say he's grown up alone in the woods (???) and attacks anyone who comes near his place (????). This contradicts everything in the first movie! Still it does contain the films only spooky scene when this is told around a campfire.Anyways Jason attacks and starts killing the counselors. Why? They're not ON Crystal Lake just near it. The film has dull dialogue and next to no plot. Here's a few observations Counselor Terri (female) has a dog named Muffin (GAG!). A guy named Scott asks her to dance--she refuses and he picks up the dog and dances with her!!! There's a tasteless shot showing Muffin (GAG!) about to be killed to a hot dog on a grill.Terri skinny dips for no reason--at night--with no one around--and no lights.There's one reasonably well-done killing.We see Jason actually MOVING the bodies--you never see this in a slasher film.Jason has a stupid sack over his with one eye hole--the hockey mask came in Part III.The final chase between Jason and Steel is actually well-done because Steel acts very smart. Good music too.Tasteless scene #1--Jason getting kicked in the groin.Tasteless scene #2--Ginny and the mouse under the bed Tasteless scene #3--The guy in the wheelchair getting the machete in the face.An ending that made me jump and made no sense either. Where is Paul? And Muffin (GAG!)? Where are they taking Ginny? There are only 8 killings (5 guys, 3 girls which is surprising) and they're all pretty bloodless. The MPAA came down hard on this picture because the original was attacked for being too gory. So--most of the murders were cut down severely--about a minute of footage is gone. One infamous scene (the double impaling) was cut to almost nothing! Even if the killings had been left intact it probably wouldn't change the fact that this is one dull movie. The cast is actually not bad--but the dog named Muffin was a bit much. Amy Steel especially was good and I admit to liking Tom McBride too. But the script is boring and the actors are given no characters to play--heck I didn't even know ones name until she was killed! The lapses in logic and Jason's age (and size) were annoying. Also this movie supposedly takes place in 1985 (it was shot in 1980) if we believe the first movie happened five years ago! It is well-directed by Steve Miner though. He has since proved that he is a good director--he just didn't have a story here to work with. Also this established the have sex=be killed (although the screen writers said it was unintentional). Aside from Steel this is not that good. I can only give it a 4. "}{"Title":"Jason-Entry 1 Essential Chapter But. Those 80's Horror Thrillers SUCKS !","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Am a new great fan of Jason Voorhees, I first saw his movie Jason X and I hated it, but when I saw Friday the 13th Part 6 Jason Lives followed with Freddy Vs. Jason I became interested in Jason character. After a long time I got the chance to see the 2nd chapter of the franchise.Friday the 13th Part 2 (Spoilers******) Produced and Directed by Steve Miner tells the continuing story of Crystal Lake locals in his debuting directional venture, this time with a new character Jason, the drowned baby boy of Pamela Voorhees from the original movie.While I am writing this comment I didn't see the first movie which inspired the Paramount studio to do the sequel (I hope it's cool). (In my view since sequels II-III-IV occurs on same continuing periods, they can closely consider as F13th SECOND PART Trilogies!). This movie begins with the footage of the first part which shows the death of Mrs. Pamela Voorhees.Years passed, now the teenage girl Alice who killed Mrs. Voorhees was brutally murdered by unknown man called Jason. When a group of young people came for a camp in the Crystal Lake, the abused childhood Jason began to hunt them down, for the revenge of his mother.Scripted by Ron Kurz marks a new milestone in the Friday series by reinventing Jason for the Cult following adult rated sequels. His vision of Jason as the mentally retard as well as the psychotic smart homicide killer was great for the continuing story. But for me the problem in this movie comes from it's lagging screenplay; it is weak not tightened, each scenes crawls and the camera-work of Peter Stein sucks.With a body count of 10, I didn't like the way of this script's intention to thrill the viewers, or is that because of 80's usual film-making styles. The editing of Susan E. Cunningham sucks a lot when it comes to important scenes. The soul for this movie is given by the previous music director Harry Manfredini, I didn't like or hate his work. The score didn't make an impact except the Kiyack..Kicyak..Kicak cue.And as for the first Jason ever to appear in Friday 13th franchise, the work of Francis Warrington Gillette III as matured Jason Voorhees and Steve Daskawisz (or may be Cliff Cudney) as the first Jason stunt double were great. Those fast walking, speed hand draws really marked the beginning of a HORROR ICON.All in all it's a great movie if I would have seen it in my '4 year old age', but hence I saw this crap this month May 2005 I give this movie 1 out of 10! Friday the 13th Part 2 = Another (But Essential) Sucking 80's movie. "},{"Title":"Somewhat exceptable","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Now, while I don't find any of the 13th films scary that much (probably my immune system has been built up against badly made horror films), I found that this fiolm was Ok by some standards, and, it is needed in case your in Scream.  Here, 5 years after the slayings in part 1, teens return to the same area for camp counseling, but find another killer is on the loose, a crazy (and un-dead) man with a potato sack on his head (creative huh).  Younger teens will probably find this entertaining, but for anyone who has seen much better than this will find it standard.  C+ "},{"Title":"Jason and the blood-stained fleece.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" So, the man synonymous with the Friday the 13th movies finally gets to do his stuff (if you've seen the original, then you know what I mean; if not, then see it so that you understand). Five years after the original, Camp Crystal Lake has closed for good, but a camp across the lake is opening, so I shouldn't have to explain what happens. There's pretty much everything that one would expect. You'll have to determine what you personally think of the wheelchair scene (you just may end up reciting the last line from Dr. Strangelove).It's weird to think. Jason was originally the man in the Greek myth who got sent to find the Golden Fleece; now he's associated with a hockey mask-clad slasher killer (actually, he doesn't wear the hockey mask here). And obviously, my 10/10 rating only applies for people who would actually take any interest in such a movie. "},{"Title":"The Slaughter &#150; Part 2","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A group of instructors having a training course are advised to go to another field in the next County, since the place where they are is close to Camp Lake Crystal. They ignore the advice and part of them is murdered by Jason, who is alive, living in the jungle with a deformed face. This film is just a sequel of Friday the 13th. The beauty of Amy Steel calls the attention of the viewer. My vote is six. "},{"Title":"The first Friday the 13th to feature the infamous Jason, solid entry in the series.","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 starts with the surviving Alice Hardy (Adrienne King) having a nightmare about the events of the original Friday the 13th (1980) in which she beheaded mass murderer Pamela Voorhees (Betsy Palmer) with a machete & had a close encounter with her supposedly dead son Jason. It's been several months since the gruesome events at Camp Crystal Lake & Alice is trying to get her life back on track, however her progress is cut short when one night she finds Mrs. Voorhees severed head in her fridge & is then brutally killed by having an ice pick shoved into the side of her head. It's now been 5 years Camp Crystal Lake has been closed & abandoned, the surrounding area is trying to forget about the horrific legacy left behind by Mrs. Voorhees killing spree. Two teenagers, Jeff (Bill Randolph) & Sandra (Marta Kober) drive into town looking for a new counsellor training centre that has recently opened in the area, just across the lake from Camp Crystal in fact. A old man known as Crazy Ralph (Walt Gorney) warns them both that they're all doomed, Jeff & Sandra ignore his ramblings & continue on their way. The new camp is run by Paul Holt (John Furey) & his girlfriend who doubles up as his assistant Ginny Field (Amy Steel, apparently her character Ginny Field is named after Virginia Field this & the original Friday the 13th's production designer), there is a good turn out & things start well. After some initial light training Paul says that the hard works begins tomorrow & anyone who wants to have a big night out do it now. Half the group go & half stay behind, those staying include the attractive Terri (Kirsten Baker) & her unwanted admirer Scott (Russell Todd), Terri's friend Vicky (Lauren-Marie Taylor), a guy in a wheelchair named Mark (Tom McBride) plus Jeff & Sandra. But there is someone else there as well, as the rain begins to fall & lightening starts to strike a mysterious hooded figure is stalking the camp brutally killing everyone one-by-one...Produced & directed by Steve Miner Friday the 13th Part 2 is a solid entry in the Frday the 13th series of films which have become my favourite horror film franchise & Jason my favourite killer, I have to say that I really missed the iconic hockey mask Jason has for the remainder of the series though as here all he gets is a bag over his head. The script by Ron Kurz is not a huge departure from what has gone before, or indeed since. It isolates a group of typical teenagers deep in the woods & has Jason kill them off in various ways. I found the stalking & slashing in this entry pretty neat, director Miner manages to create some decent tension & a few scares. The script throws in a bit more motive for Jason's killing spree than usual as it suggests that Jason is out for revenge after witnessing his Mother's death & whose head he still has on a table surrounded by candles. But what it basically all boils down to is that these films are all about the kills & they're pretty good in Friday the 13th Part 2 even though it's obvious that they are censored, which is a shame. There's an ice pick in the head, a machete slitting a throat, a double impalement, someone has a hammer whacked into the the back of their head, Jason cuts someones throat with some wire & someone ends up with a machete planted in their face. While none of these murders are particularly graphic I liked them, as usual Jason is unmasked at the end & here he looks like a deformed man rather than the rotting zombie he would latter become. The teenage character's are clichéd for sure but having said that I thought they were surprisingly all quite likable & no one really annoyed me, well except Jeff I suppose but then there's always one isn't there? The cinematography by Peter Stein in Friday the 13th Part 2 is very stylish & classy, the daytime shots are very rich in colour & the nighttime shots are well lit to create a good atmosphere. As a whole the production values on Friday the 13th Part 2 are above average & it has a nice polish about it. The cool sounding score & especially the main theme by Friday the 13th regular Harry Manfredini is unmistakably Friday the 13th & I think adds a little something all on it's own. Overall I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th series of films & this is a good one, while not terribly original it goes about it's job with professionalism & turns out to be an enjoyable slasher. You know what to expect so have a reasonable level of expectation & I'm sure most slasher fans will find something here to entertain & enjoy. "},{"Title":"Friday THE 13TH PART 2 (Steve Miner, 1981) BOMB","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've only ever watched the first and last films in this neverending series of slashers - Friday THE 13TH (1980) and FREDDY VS. JASON (2003); neither was any good, and this second instalment is, if anything, even worse! Following the stupid misadventures of a number of fun-loving teens for 90 minutes would test anyone's patience - and, with that in mind, I decided to watch this a day earlier and leave PART III for Friday the 13th itself (which is actually the only reason I lowered myself to renting such outright trash!)... While there's plenty of violence (a couple making out in a bedroom are speared right through - directly ripping off not just Mario Bava's giallo TWITCH OF THE DEATH NERVE 1971 but the original Friday itself!), this is mostly relegated to the second half we have to suffer first through a long-winded prologue (reprising virtually the entire climax of the first film) and oodles of exposition in order to pigeon-hole each and every one of the teens (but, then, a few of them get lost in the shuffle - the irritating geek, for instance, never returns from the night on the town!), plus make perfectly clear (unless it may go above some particularly feeble-minded audience member's head) the fact that their camp is situated next to the infamous Camp Blood (Brrrr!). Still, the unseen murderer (outside of the last shot, that is) device grows tired pretty quickly (where's the iconic figure of Jason wearing an ice hockey mask, anyway?!), as does the plot contrivance of isolating individual members of the cast - thus marking them all too obviously as the next victim (at least, a couple of the girls are attractive and even get to shed their clothes)! I guess you can all elicit from this negative review that the slasher subgenre, in my estimation, is about the lowest point in the horror spectrum! "},{"Title":"Well, the sequels are off to a bad start ...","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers ahead...I never really did understand the success of the first Friday the 13th film. It was enjoyable but it doesn't really deserves to be so huge as it is and after watching the first sequel... I really wonder why they even continued making more and more sequels. I guess I'm a late Jason fan. I really enjoyed parts 4,6 and 7 and I agree that Jason is a true horror icon in those movies. Friday the 13th part 2 is a rather boring movie and pretty identical to the first with the difference that Jason does the nasty himself this time. What I really missed was some sort of background or even flashbacks about Jason growing up all alone in the woods. I think a more detailed portrait of Jason building up his insanity would have added a lot of value to both this episode AND the series.  The link with the original is laid by killing the last survivor ( naturally ) but that's it. This episode ( a complete Steve Minor project) is filled with clichés and predictable twists but he doesn't seem to care. The whole thing takes place at the opposite side of Crystal Lake were a group of young people take a course of becoming a counselor. It's been 5 years since the original massacre.Movies like this are merely being remembered for their original killings or perhaps a tiny little twist. The slaughterings in F13 part 2 are nothing special to say the least ( even the ones in the original were much better ) and I hardly call that ending a twist. There are a few pretty young girls to admire in this film and - like it has to be in a slasher - they are pretty horny and barely dressed most of the time. But, if that's what you're looking for ...there are other genres to satisfy you... Not recommended !!  "},{"Title":"Good Sequel","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Friday the 13th Part 2 (1981) *** (out of 4) Friday the 13th 2 was certainly rushed into production due to the money that the first film made and in some ways this here could have been a different movie on its own. There are flashbacks to the first film as well as an opening which closes out the first movie but people usually forget about the first film since this one here actually started the Jason saga. While this film again offers us very little new it does however feature a wonderful looking villain, which manages to be quite creepy.The biggest key to this film and its success is the look of Jason, which appears to have been borrowed from The Town That Dreaded Sundown. People often also overlook this film when it comes to Jason's look but instead of the hockey mask we got Jason wearing a white bag over his face and I personally feel this is his greatest look. The white mask is used throughout the film by the director, usually in long shots where we really can't tell what we're looking at. During the climatic chase sequence, the director then goes for a jump scare when Jason jumps up from the floor and we get a good look at this mask, which is creepy and makes this one of the better films in the series.Another key point to this movie is that the cast members are all likable and make the downtime (ala no murders) worth sitting through. Amy Steel is one of the most liked heroes of the series and she does a wonderful job at playing off the shyness during the opening moments as well as playing terror later in the film. As with the previous film this one here also needs murders and this second film offers some very memorable ones. The hatchet to the face is one of the most talked about but the double impalement to the lovers is one of the most remembered from the series, although both were lifted from Bava's Twitch of the Death Nerve. "}]