[{"Title":"A true masterpiece from a legendary master of horror!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"67 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A couple of years back (late 90's), I had the pleasure of experiencing Fulci's The Beyond the way it was meant to be watched...on the big screen at the Angelica Movie Theater in Soho (NYC) at midnight, in all of its uncut glory (thanks to Quentin Tarantino's Rolling Thunder Films).For a couple of hours, I was taken aback to the greatest days of horror! It even had previous of movies like 2000 Maniacs, The Evil Dead and Zombie (aka Zombie 2) before the movie started. To truly appreciate this movie, one has to remember the era it came from. The post Exorcist and Dawn of the Dead period saw many imitations, especially from Italy. However, there were a handful of filmmakers that had actual imagination, skills and creativity to set their pictures apart from the rest. Of the bunch, Argento, Bava (father and son), and Fulci stood quite apart from the rest, each with their own talents.Fulci was perhaps the most prolific of them, adding a flare of his own Art to his works. His movies each played like paint on canvas from beginning to end. The Beyond was his greatest Masterpiece, combining a better plot than most of his works, with the high quality level of gore Fulci was and always will be well known for.The Beyond starts with a Warlock being executed in the 1930's by a lynch mob. Little do they know that the hotel where the act takes place happens to be one of the seven doorways to hell. Flashing forward about 50 years later, Liza inherets the hotel and decides to restore it. From there all hell breaks loose. The ending is as disturbing as it gets, and the deaths are both unique and horrifying (vintage Fulci).I remember walking to the subway station that night, still thinking about what my eyes had just seen (occasionally looking over my shoulder) - realizing I had been genuinely scared and disturbed by a movie that at the time was about 17 years old. Man I miss the Hey-Day of horror, and the true masters of it! "},{"Title":"Fulci's Masterpiece of Pure Imagery","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"60 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  L'Aldila/The Beyond(1981) is the film that brought interest in the cinema of Lucio Fulci.  I became a big fan of his work after watching this movie. Have seen a good portion of his films since.  The opening prologue is shot in a gorgeous sepia color.  The murder/torture of Schweick represents the censorship and repression of the artist.  Anchor Bay did a excellent job in the restoration of the film for DVD.The chain whipping scene in it is a repeat of the one in Don't Torture a Duckling(1972).  The chain whipping in The Beyond is much more gory. There are a couple of reasons why the chain whipping scene in Don't Torture a Duckling is more powerful and potent then in The Beyond.  The scenes take place in natural settings.  Goes for violent realism.  The death of Maciara is depressing to watch.L'Aldila(1981) was part of a trilogy called the 7 gates trilogy.  This started with The Gates of Hell(1980), continued with this film, and was to end with The Beyond 2.  Unfortunately, this trilogy would never be completed.  This is a shame because I would have loved to see that film to know if it was good as the first two movies of the trilogy.  The original intentions of The Beyond are different from the final results. This was because of budget and time restrictions.  I wonder how much better the pic might have been with a modest budget and a little more time.The make up effects is one of the film's best features.  Despite the low budget, Giannetto De Rossi's effects are spectacular.  The effects are done with flair and pizazz.  Giannetto De Rossi did his best when working with Fulci.  The effects for the death of Joe the Plumber are very good.  The best effects in the film is the scene involving the young girl near the end.The cinematography is spliced with atmosphere and style.  Sergio Salvalti contributes to the film's gothic flavour.  The cinematography contains a dreamish flow that makes the film beautiful.  The score is one of my favourites for a horror film.  The score fits perfectly with the scenes in the film.  As good as anything done for Argento by Goblin.The Beyond(1981) is an 'Absolute Film' where image and sound are the most important part of a film.  On the making of this, Fulci once said, (My idea was to make an absolute film, with all the horrors of the world.  Its a plotless film, there's no logic to it, just a succession of images). This is something that people who hate the film don't and will never understand. Many people do not like this because of its nonlinear structure.  He also said, In Italy we make films based on pure themes, without a plot and The Beyond like Inferno refuses conventions...people who blame the The Beyond for its lack of story don't understand that it's a film of images, which must be received without any reflection.  Receiving a movie like this without any reflection is a hard thing for many film goers to do.The works of Antonin Artoud and H.P Lovecraft play a major influence on The Beyond(1981).  Fulci was inspired by this controversial French artist. The ideas of Artoud are present in most of Fulci's work.  Schweick the painter bears a little resemblence to Antonin Artoud.  Artoud was the founder of The Theater of Cruelty which talked to Restore to the theater a passionate and convulsive conception of life, and it is in this sense of violent rigor and extreme condensation of scenic elements that the cruelty on which it is based on must be understood.  This idea can be applied to The Cinema and this film.The comment Violence is Italian Art by Fulci is relative to the movie and the history of Italian art.  Its one of the few films where atmosphere and gore mix well together.  Has good moments of spirital horror.  The atmosphere is eerie and terrifying.  The gory set pieces are satisfying. The surreal atmosphere and bloody imagery is what makes the film a classic.The Beyond would influence many later American and Italian horror flicks. One, The Evil Dead(1983).  Two, Hellraiser(1987).  Three, HellboundHellraiser 2(1988).  Four, The Church(1990). Finally, Dellamorte Dellamore(1996).The Beyond(1981) will never be a mainstream favourite because its not for everyone.  The themes are well written by Dardano Sacchetti.  Catriona MacColl and David Warbeck are very good in the roles of the heroine and hero.  Veronica Lazar from Inferno(1980) is sinister as Martha.  The director did a great job with the little resources that he had to work with. The ending will haunt your dreams for days to come. "},{"Title":"Mondo Beyond-o....","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"46 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  May I introduce you to one of the most flat-out insane Italian horror/gore movies to come down the pike.  For sheer audacity, this one has no equals (or at least darn few). E tu vivrai nel terrore - L'aldila (or The Beyond, as I fondly remember) is the beguilingly simple story of a cute little hotel in the deep South (Southern Louisiana, that is; NOT Southern Italy!) whose basement has an inconvenient little doorway to hell where undead warlocks, zombies, tarantulas and other creepy crawlies lurk to entomb man in darkness, death, despair and other such D words. I tell you, almost wall-to-wall gore FX permeate this film and the blood-drenched sensibilities of director Lucio Fulci make every scene a nail-biter, gut-wrencher, heart-stopper and probably will involve sundry other parts of your body, as well. Actors MacColl and Warbeck do their stalwart best fighting the undead and let's face it if you've seen the very end of this film, can you seriously be scared by anything else in life? Take my advice, kids rent this movie, buy this movie, do anything you must to get a hold of this film.  If you love blood, guts and quicklime, get E tu vivrai nel terrore - L'aldila NOW! Ten blood-soaked stars for this beauty. And remember DO NOT ENTRY. "},{"Title":"The Beyond = Horror.","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"45 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If someone uses as reference the IMDb rating of L'aldilá he is going to notice something particular. L'aldilá unlike many B-Euro-horror movies of the 80s has almost a 7 points rating with less than 2000 votes. The reason Many people worship this cult movie. If someone ranks this movie with a 1 on the other side there will be a 10 to compensate. We are speaking about a true cult movie. Acclaimed by a small number of fans worldwide, a movie scorned by critics and the regular viewer. One strange case indeed.The story is a disturbing mix of elements. In the first minutes during the execution of Schweick , it is clear what kind of tale is L'aldilá. Vengeance beyond the grave, an apocalypse that is unavoidable. Common people trapped in the middle. One of the merits of Sarchetti's script is the character of Katriona Maccoll a real down to earth human being, his partner is a curious but good man. Both of them tried to do things right, but in the end that won't help . The brutality of violence is another great detail, is unexpected, extreme and very, very graphic. And as the final touch, the climatic ending. The assonant music has its logic, this is disturbing terror, it wouldn't be the same with new-age, reggae, or a ballad.Lucio Fulci was an unique director. With L'aldilá he tried to create an 'artaudian' study of horror. He achieved that. He used less than 90 minutes to mix ominous menaces that are beyond this world waiting their time for return and extremely gory horror. The unavoidable tragedy strikes in the form of hungry zombies. He was a demanding director, he never let that their actors underestimate their roles. His use of zoom-effects are a trademark, the zoom in used in a completely original way. Let's say the zoom is the hand of someone that keep your eyes open in an awful or transcendental sequence, Fulci forces you to pay attention when he wants your attention. Delightful. Nowadays audiences are very comfortable watching horror movies. They expect to see some scares and then laugh with the jokes of some stupid teens avid of rave music and easy sex. Fulci in that aspect was an author beyond his time. He tried to shock people, scare them, revolve their stomachs, those were his methods to gain the public but he NEVER underestimated the audiences, he gave his 100% and made cult classics. Note for Fulci newcomers The more interesting works of this director are in the period of middle 70's to 1985. If you see two or three of his movies in this period and you dislike them then don't bother anymore because you will never like his style. "},{"Title":"Fulci A (Very) Poor Man's Argento","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"41 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" THE BEYOND is one of the later exercises in Giallo film-making that will more than likely cause two things in the viewer uncontrollable laughter in many of the gore sequences and extreme irritation at the beyond (pun intended) awful handling of the dubbed lines into English as delivered not only by the predominantly Italian cast, but even by its two leads, Catriona MacCall and David Warbeck.Which is a sad case, since in essence, the movie is a grandiose exercise in style over logic. There's the extremely effective opening sequence (detailing the cliché of the torch-wielding villagers out to get their social outcast, a painter who has delved a little too far into his own darkness and has opened a gate into Hell) which describes a tortuous crucifixion scene. Then there's the way Fulci has in introducing the character of Emily (who's also in the prologue reading a Satanic book called Ebion, who's title seems to have Lovecraftian overtones) later on in the film -- first we see only her heavily cataract-ed eyes (in two flash cuts) through the point of view of a painter working on the hotel in which this story is based on; later in a truly masterful sequence full of white dread where Liza (Catriona MacCall) is driving on a brightly lit road in one endless shot; suddenly we see the car zoom towards a point in the distance, and this is Emily (Cinzia Monreale, credited as Sarah Keller), standing with her dog Dickie, clearly otherworldly and foreboding, a detail that causes Liza's steely composure to crack a little. (That Liza doesn't seem to question as to why a blind woman would be in the middle of an expanse of what seems to be the Ponchatrain bridge is one of the many plot holes in THE BEYOND) Emily's introduction into Liza is the best part of the movie. This aforementioned scene works so well because it's slow, deliberate, preceding a minor scare involving a painter seeing her through a window, and foretells so much quiet horror. That the story later takes a hard left into absolute nonsense is its downfall because no one seems to be acting with attention to logic and the hackneyed use of the character who goes down into the cellar and asks 'Who's there? Is it you?' has been done to the death and beyond (pun again intended), so feeling any sympathy for the leads is secondary. But this quiet moment of foreboding is actually the one time the movie uses the ghost to a tremendous effect it's horror under the Sun.Fulci was, with Mario Bava and Dario Argento, masters of gore. Gore in Fulci's films had barely anything to do with plot as much as convey a pornographic view of a horrific event. He definitely loves his extremes in gore and uses it in varying degrees of success. One of the most disgusting involves a 5 minute sequence where the hotel's architect falls from the top of a ladder (I kept thinking of DON'T LOOK NOW) and gets his face eaten by tarantulas (many of them clearly mechanical), and while the viewer knows that the face is almost a cheap rendering of the actor, it is cringe-inducing while bringing nothing to plot but padding to an already overlong movie. One wonders what he was trying to tell here, but Stephen King once said in an interview, it all else fails, I will resort to gross-out to get the horror across.So, with all this said, is THE BEYOND a good movie or a terrible one? Well, that depends. There have been noted critics who have wished this movie swam in its own quicklime and disappeared from the face of the Earth. There are others who think this is the Real Deal when it comes to gorgeous gore. I'm in the middle. (Then again, I'm just someone who loves movies, good and bad.) Stylistically, it owes a lot to Dario Argento. Plot-wise, there is an idea, but it goes completely nowhere with it. Characerization is all but non-existent and to have several of them just appear for no other reason to have them later on be another statistic in the high body count this kind of movie has is lame. The dialog is cringe-inducing for an entirely different reason it's the equivalent of listening to fingernails scraping over a blackboard or a fork's screeching over the surface of a bathtub. I'll leave it to the viewer because there were times when I was engrossed (as in the Liza-meets-Emily sequence), but there were one too many times when I was just stumped to see gratuitous gore and actors badly playing zombies for the sole factor to have this as a link to George Romero movies.And if anything, if watching the movie becomes too cumbersome, just switch on the Audio Commentary by Catriona MacCall and David Warbuck. Both, especially Warbuck, have some side-splitting views on their experiences in this film. "},{"Title":"In the Afterlife....","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond is one of Fulci's best films. The film takes place in modern day Louisiana as a woman oversees the  the renevation of an hotel that she inherits. Strange and gory things start to happen and poof the hotel just happens to be over one of the 7 doors to hell. Very bloody with a slightly incoherent plot the film is a lot of fun and I suspect that no Fulci fan should be without their copy. Visually I think this is Fulci's best film (that I've seen) and the acting is what you'd expect. 7 / 10 FULCI LIVES  "},{"Title":"Woe be unto him who opens one of the seven gateways to Hell, because through that gateway, evil will invade the world.","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" - Liza Merril (Catriona MacColl) takes possession of a hotel in Louisiana. She has plans to renovate the place. But a series of seemingly accidental deaths may put a stop to her plans. She's unaware that her hotel has a past. Many years ago, a warlock was lynched in the basement of the hotel. Before dying, he claimed that the hotel was one of the seven doorways to hell and that his death would lead to its opening. Is his prophecy coming true? - I've never been the biggest fan of Lucio Fulci. Other than a couple of gialli, my experiences with his films have not left me with much of desire to see more (For example, I thought House by the Cemetery was terrible and I walked out of the theater during City of the Living Dead). So, I had never been in a rush to see The Beyond. While it has problems, The Beyond is much more enjoyable than a lot of Fulci's other work.- Two things work for me in The Beyond - atmosphere and Catriona MacColl. When watching some of his other films, I came away with the impression that Fulci wasn't patient enough to allow atmosphere to build. He always seemed to be in a rush to get to the money shot. The hotel in this movie is filled with a good amount of atmosphere. There is a sense of dread hanging over the place. You can especially feel it when the characters venture into the basement. It's all but palatable.- As for MacColl, through her acting she's able to pull together the barest of story lines and create a character I could care about. It's difficult to enjoy a horror movie when you don't care about the characters. A little more insight into the MacColl's character would have been very welcome.- As I stated previously, the movie is not without problems. The biggest is the plot. It's all but non-existent. The actual why's and how's of the doorway to hell opening are never really explored. We only see some of the aftermath. We know that the doorway to hell is in the basement of the hotel, then why does half of the movie take place at a hospital? Furthermore, the weak plot does not allow the characters to be fleshed out as much as I would have liked. I knew so little about most of the characters that I really didn't care what happened to them. The plot seems to matter little to Fulci as its main function is to string together a series of gristly set pieces. And that's always been my biggest complaint about Fulci - he throws tons of gore into his movies, not to advance the storyline, but for the sake of showing gore. Gore does not necessarily equal horror. I'll use the spider attack scene from The Beyond as an example. While I'll say that it certainly was gross and very nicely done,but it's not scary because it happens out of the blue to a character I know nothing about. Gore does not bother as long as it is presented within the context of the story.- Overall, my experience with The Beyond has made me rethink some of my thoughts of Fulci. I may need to see some of his other films that I've been putting off. "},{"Title":"Lucio Fulci's morbid masterpiece that combines atmosphere with extreme gore.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Forming a loose trilogy with Fulci's The Gates of Hell(1980)and House by the Cemetery(1981),this gruesome bloodbath is one of the best horror movies ever made.Set in Louisiana,the film opens with a 1927 prologue featuring a Satanic painter being crucified and melted alive with quicklime in the basement of an old hotel.54 years later,Liza(Catriona MacColl)inherits the hotel and sets about restoring it.Little does she know that a 4000-year old book containing the prophecies of Eibon marks her new home as one of seven gateways to Hell.The atmosphere is so thick you could cut it with a chainsaw,the music by Fabio Frizzi is excellent,the set pieces are great,and the gore effects by Gianetto de Rossi and Germano Natali are really effective.The gore is extreme for example a poor plumber has his eyeball poked out by a zombie,an architect has his face eaten by hungry tarantulas who chew out his tongue,a blind Emily has her throat ripped out by her guide dog(this scene reminds me a similar sequence in Dario Argento's Suspiria).Anyway if you haven't seen this cult masterpiece don't call yourself a horror buff.10 out of 10-what else? "},{"Title":"When the Gates of Hell Are Open, Deads Walk on Earth","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The New Yorker Liza Merril (Katherine MacColl) inherits an old hotel in Louisiana, and invests her savings to reopen the place. While repairing the building, many people dies, and local Dr. John McCabe (David Warbeck) feels close to Liza and tries to help her to solve the mystery of the hotel. Meanwhile, Emily (Sarah Keller), a blind woman, advises Liza to leave the place as soon as possible.Seven Doors of Death is a frightening horror movie from the master of the genre Lucio Fulci. The special effects and makeup used for the horrible deaths are amazing, as well as the movements of the camera. The scary story has an unexpected surprising twist in the very end and certainly this movie may be considered one of the best movies of horror ever. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Casa do Além (VHS) (The House from Beyond)Note On 05 August 2014, I saw this movie again on DVD.On 09 June 2015, I saw this movie again on DVD ( Terror nas Trevas). "},{"Title":"10 stars? Are you joking?","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I can't get my head around all the people giving this film 10 stars and claiming it's one of the best horrors ever made. I like early 80's horror films and as cheesy as some of them are, you have to appreciate that they were made near on 30 years ago. This however, was one painful watch.The Good The gore and effects were very well done for the time and still hold their own now. Credit where it's due but that's about it.The Bad The cheesy god-awful music just bellows out at the most inappropriate times and then cuts off without warning. How a horrific scene is supposed to have any effect when cheesy 70's pop music blurts out of nowhere is beyond me.The acting is atrocious, most of actors are Italian and are dubbed over in English, this is all fine and dandy but the shock horror expressions that they pull are hilarious. Their over the top facial expressions and body movements totally distract you from everything else that's going on.The plot, there isn't one. Seriously, woman inherits old hotel, said hotel is built over the gateway to hell, lots of random people die for no real reason, the end.The deaths, people just lie there and get eaten or covered in acid or torn apart by zombies without even bothering to move or trying to escape.Common sense, there isn't any. In one scene the 2 leads are being chased by extremely slow zombies and the male lead shoots about 10 zombies in the chest and gut to no avail. Then he shoots a couple in the head and they drop to the floor. Seems simple enough right? Hit them in the head and you kill them, hit them anywhere else and it's a wasted bullet. So why oh why does this bumbling idiot waste the next 20 or so bullets shooting the zombies in the chest and shoulder? The blind woman, she has to be the most annoying actress ever. In one scene she thinks someone is in her living room and she backs into a corner and she screams and shouts...And screams and shouts...And shouts and screams...And so on and so forth for a good 5 minutes, no, no go away leave me alone she wails constantly, over and over for 5 solid minutes, it completely did my head in and was totally unnecessary.The scares, there aren't any, there is nothing scary about this film at all, sure, there's a decent amount of gore in the film but none of it is scary or even unnerving. The music, acting and shoddy camera work see to that.As I said, I love early 80's horror films, The deadly spawn, Phenomena, Demons, I spit on your grave, The burning to name but a few, but The Beyond is a big pile of steaming crap. One reviewer on here wrote If you haven't seen The Beyond you are not a real horror buff Well my friend, I have seen The Beyond and if you can call this Horror then you have my sympathies. Quite simply put, it is rubbish, even for an early 80's film.My vote is 3 for the gore effects alone. "}{"Title":"Lucio Fulci's main great success is compelling directed with startling  gory visual content","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a creepy horror film plenty of brutal images and gory events . A New Yorker heir ( Katriona MacColl, Fulci's ordinary ) moves an old mansion-hotel in Louisiana and she wishes restore it . She investigates the weird deeds happened in a room and by basement of the old motel that is built on top of the door to the beyond. Bloody and purulent specters roam there. She is confronted with rare happenings as a worker has a lethal fall, the plumber is cruelly murdered and her blind friend is bitten by a dog that breaks his neck. When she escapes to the hospital along with friendly doctor McCabe ( David Wabeck ) she doesn't know what a new horror is waiting there . Early rare deeds begin to happen to them, as they start hearing noises, rare characters and tragic killings. Quote from the book of Eibon And you will face the sea of darkness, and all therein may be explored¨. Chilling Italian terror flick full of screams, chills, thrills and lots of blood and guts. Gory, gruesome , pretty repellent , and ghastly gore feast in which the stumbling stiff dead are reanimated and committing astonishing murders . This is a classic excruciatingly splatter film in which the intrigue,tension, suspense appears threatening and lurking in every room, corridors , cellar , hospital , morgue and many other places . This unrelenting shock-feast packs good make-up and special effects make-up by the maestro Gianetto De Rossi. Produced on a tight budget by Fabrizio De Angelis , Fulci's usual producer and occasionally director. Eerie musical score composed and conducted by Fabio Frizzi . Usual secondary actors as Veronica Lazar , Al Cliver and of course special appearance of Lucio Fulci as librarian clerk . This genuinely frightening story with correct utilization of images-shock is well photographed by Sergio Salvati on location in Louisiana and Italy . The motion picture is realized by one of the most controversial filmmakers of terror movies ,Lucio Fulci in his usual style with flaws and gaps but is professionally made because he is a skilled craftsman . He creates a strange horror thriller that manages to be both scary and skilfully made, deserving its cult status . Reviewers are divided over booth the morals and talents of Fulci (1927-1996) who sometimes directed under the alias ¨Louis Fuller¨. For some critics many of his movies are cruel and shockingly violent, yet their gory surface often conceals religious, social commentaries or intelligent issues. Whether he should be viewed as a cheap sensationalist or just a genius Fulci has a loyal fan base and undeniably has an important and unique influence on the terror genre , creating great works on a low budget such as proved in ¨ The black cat ¨, ¨Manhattan baby¨, ¨Gates of Hell¨, ¨Island of the living dead¨, ¨New York ripper¨ , among them. this is one more imaginative horror pictures in which the camera stalks in sinister style . It's just one long unrelenting guts-feast and passable budget horror movie that still packs a punch for those who like to be terrorized out their wits . This gore-feast that tried to disguised itself under many other titles will appeal to Lucio Fulci aficionados. "},{"Title":"Fulci's finest! Essential horror viewing.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you think Dario Argento doesn't give a damn about coherent plots, check out Lucio Fulci! 'The Beyond' does have a (Lovecraftian) plot as such - a woman inherits a hotel in Louisiana that contains one of the doorways to Hell - but that is basically an excuse for Fulci to string together a series of fantastic and frequently gory images. These include zombie attacks, eye gougings, a better dog attack scene than 'Suspiria', the crucifixion of a Satanist, and a sequence involving tarantulas which has to be one of the high points of horror, anywhere, anytime. 'The Beyond' is sensational and a bona fide modern horror classic. Absolutely essential viewing! "},{"Title":"Check out the piano score","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ofcourse this is a pretty great film; great special effects with minor exceptions, great plot, bad acting with minor exceptions, etc... What I really liked was the music composed by Fabio Frizzi. First we've got this great goblin-esque Italian horror music (for those of you who don't know, Goblin is this band that provided music for several Italian horror films, such as Tenebre.) My favorite cue is the theme for the blind lady with the dog. It has a piano playing a very haunting melody to a set background chord. The theme reappears pretty much whenever that lady appears.I first watched this film on VHS with the cut version and it was boring as hell. But yesterday in the new releases of Scarecrow Video in Seattle (some advertisement there) I found it released as an uncut version for region 1 DVD's. Plus, it was widescreen. I enjoyed it immensely. "},{"Title":"Bizarre gore drenched splatter Euro horror from Lucio Fulci.","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Louisiana, 1927. A group of men storm a local hotel on the edge of a swamp and burst into a painters named Schweick (Antoine Saint-John) room, who they believe is a warlock. They drag him down to the basement, Schweick warns them that the hotel was built over one of the seven gateways to hell, and that only he can protect them from it. They ignore him and brutally beat him and crucify him. Skip forward to 1981. New Yorker Lisa Merril (Katherine MacColl) inherits the now abandoned and run down hotel, and two creepy helpers, the housekeeper Martha (Veronica Lazar) and a general handyman Arthur (Gianpaolo Saccarola). She decides to repair the place and re open it. Unfortunately thing start to turn sour almost immediately, one of the painters falls off his second floor scaffolding. The local plumber Joe (Giovanni De Nava) finds Schweick's rotted corpse behind a wall in the flooded basement, Schweick then gouges Joe's eye out. And Lisa is warned by a blind woman Emily (Sarah Keller) that she is in great danger and must leave. Dr. John McCabe (David Warbeck) and his assistant Dr. Harris (Al Cliver) examine both Joe's and Schweick's corpses. Interested McCabe becomes involved with Lisa and they both start to investigate the strange events. Soon they realize the gateway to hell under the hotel has been opened and zombies are appearing everywhere. Thats the best I can sum the plot up, what plot there is in this film anyway.Directed by Lucio Fulci, this was the third of his zombie quartet, starting with Zombie Flesh Eaters (1979), City of the Living Dead (1980), this and finally the House by the Cemetery (1981). I think their all a bit overrated but decent solid horror all the same. Acting is OK and Katherine MacColl makes an attractive damsel in distress. David Warbeck is OK as the hero, and I liked Jill (Maria Pia Marsala) as the freaky possessed kid. The rest of the cast are just there to be killed in various gore soaked ways, nothing more. Antoine Saint-John in the opening sequence is chain whipped, crucified and has acid thrown into his face all in graphic detail. People have their eyes poked out, more faces are melted with acid, a great scene where a woman has her throat torn out and her ear bitten off by her dog, loads of rotting zombies appear, guys are impaled with shards of glass and little girl Jill has the top of her head blown off. Fulci and special effects man Giannetteo De Rossi don't shy away from the red stuff, thats for sure. For the most part the make up effects are impressive, the best being when Jill gets shot in the face, the worst is when Martin Avery (Michele Mirabella) is attacked by spiders. Not only do the spiders make a squeaking noise for some reason, but the fake spiders look awful as does the fake head which they bite and pull apart, Martin's tongue being bitten looks good though, just a shame about the rest of the scene. It has nice clear, crisp and colourful photography by Sergio Salvati. It's main draw back is the script credited to Fulci, Dardando Sacchetti and Giorgio Mariuzzo, it's bizarre, surreal and doesn't really make any sense which is a problem. There are also big lapses in logic, like the end where Warbeck discovers the only way to kill the zombies is to shoot them in the head, but he still insists on shooting them anywhere but their heads. Overall I liked it, it's stylishly made and features plenty of blood, gore and violence. I just wish the story was a little clearer and things didn't just happen for no apparent reason. Certainly worth watching if your a gorehound or horror fan. Make sure you watch one of the various uncut widescreen DVD's that are available, the only way to appreciate it properly in my opinion. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Lucio Fulci trash.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For years, I had heard so many good things about Lucio Fulci's THE BEYOND that I was simply ecstatic and overjoyed when I found an uncut copy on DVD during a recent visit to NYC. After rushing back home to watch it, I was tortured (literally) with an hour of half of bad acting, bad special effects and an extremely confusing plot-line involving a stupid woman who unknowingly opens a gateway to Hell under the house she has just inherited. So far, this sounds like a comedy, but I assure you, you will be laughing for all of the wrong reasons!While I don't exactly tune into a Lucio Fulci film for the 'acting', the work displayed in THE BEYOND is simply phenomenal. The movie starts off in the 1920s with some sort of angry town lynch mob who storm the house (pitchforks and torches in hand!) and bludgeon an artist to death, accusing him of cursing the town. They crucify him to the wall of the basement and throw lye on his face where we get to witness extremely bad scenes of a man throwing a bowl of porridge onto a man's face as it bubbles and melts.Flash forward to the 'current day' where a woman has inherited the house, along with two inept house servants and a lot of bad luck. To start the day off on the wrong foot, a carpenter on scaffolding sees a blind girl through a window and 'falls off' before spitting up gallons of blood in slow-motion. We now meet a Doctor who I guess is supposed to be the 'hero' of the movie who examines the carpenter. He strikes up a friendship with the woman and together, the two begin to explore the mystery and history of the house.Along the way, we have some truly ridiculous scenes and moments that are never fully-explained (and this is the UNCUT version!). For example, as always, Lucio Fulci delivers his gore and the first victim gets his face pulled off and one of his eyeballs popped out of its socket in the basement by a 'zombie hand' that thrusts out of a wall. The dead guy is discovered by the female house servant who also discovers another dead body that has apparently been there for many years.Somehow, both bodies happen to get transported to a hospital in a matter of minutes so we can witness our first laughable mystery. The wife of the man that was killed pays a visit to the morgue. After dressing him up in his funeral suit, she suddenly starts screaming for no reason. We see a shot of a beaker full of acid toppling off a table on the other side of the room, and the next thing you know, the woman happens to be lying flat on her back, directly underneath the acid so we can capture the gratuitous shot of her face 'melting' away beneath it. Uh, right.Next, the daughter comes into the room, only to be scared off by an extremely large volume of 'frothy' blood that edges across the floor, backing her into a room where she is greeted by a zombie.We cut away again to the woman driving down a highway where a blind woman and her dog appears out of nowhere. The blind woman tells her to leave the house immediately. Further confusion ensues when the guy who was killed in the beginning of the movie starts to show up at various different locations to kill off the remainder of the cast. The female house servant gets her head impaled on a nail, where we get to see yet another infamous eyeball popping scene. A man, whose connection with the main characters are never fully explained, goes to the town library to seek out the original construction plans for the house, only to be 'surprised' by a flash of lightning that appears out of nowhere (and for no real reason) that sends him crashing to the floor where he gets parts of his face bitten off by spiders.Some laughable special effects take place in this very scene. The face all of a sudden turns into a 'wax-like' head, and only one of the spiders look real. The ones used in the background all look like one of those cheap plastic ones with pipe-cleaner legs that you once made in kindergarten. One of the spiders 'pull' one of the eyeballs out its socket and another stings the man's tongue. But the biggest bizarre moment does not involve the spiders, but instead we get to see the floor plans of the house 'disappear' like magic ink. What was the purpose of all of that? You're probably thinking that it will be explained at the end of the film. Wrong.Somewhere in the middle of all of this, the male house servant is killed (although I don't recall this ever happening). He appears in a strange seance appearance involving all the dead cast members to date where they surround the blind girl who gets her throat and ear ripped off by her pooch! Ouch! Another unintentionally funny scene shows the woman who got her face 'melted' off by the jar of acid. The make-up effects are hideous. She has enough red and blue make-up on her face to resemble that of a baboon.More confusion ensues when the town suddenly 'empties' of all of its residents so that the woman and the Doctor are both running around with no one else in sight. They take refuge in the hospital (where else would there be any more freshly dead bodies?) where they encounter slow-moving zombies that the Doctor must insist on shooting a hundred times in the stomach. Even after he successfully slays a few by shooting them in the head, he still proceeds to cluelessly shoot them in the stomach. And all of these endless bullets are coming out of a six-chamber barrel that he never refills! LOL!There is of course, one surviving man who is hiding in one of the rooms. He is only there to show us why the Doctor would shoot at a glass door for no reason so a mysterious gust of wind would blow shards of glass into the room and pierce a 'wax-like' head, killing the man instantly.With a mob of zombies (actually, upon closer examination, it looks like it's the same group of six zombies who reappear continuously to make it look like that there are 'legions' of them) shuffling after the Doctor and the woman, they run down a stairwell and find themselves back in the basement of the house. Making their way through a hole in the wall, they find themselves wandering Hell for eternity. If you ever thought Hell would look like a dark wasteland with five bodies lying around, then you'll be pleased with this ending.So all of the missing plot points that you thought would be finally answered in a clever finale, are never explained. We never find out why the woman could see the blind girl and where she lived, but the Doctor couldn't. We never find out how the creepy male house servant dies, or why he and the female servant 'came with the house'. We never find out why the missing floor plans 'disappeared' and for what reasons. That and many other unanswered plot holes left me feeling very angry for wasting my time, hope and money. The gore was laughable if anything and there wasn't one scene that made me 'jump', even if it was the old scare tactic involving a hand on a shoulder during a tense moment. There was only one good scene and that was when the little girl got her head blown off. But other than that, this movie was very disappointing.My Rating - 2 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Typical Italian Hackjob Horror Movie","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My fault in watching a horror movie...ANY horror movie, is that I DEMAND some sense of LOGIC...JUST SOME mind you...I know, how DARE I be so arrogant....yeah, right. This movie and those of its ILK are strictly for those who have an affinity for CULT movies, with BAD ACTING, BAD DIRECTING, NON SENSICAL PLOT and CHEAP GORY SPECIAL EFFECTS...if you like that sort of thing, then this flick is right up your alley, dont get me wrong, I LOVE outright horror and gore...the problem is, while 3/4 of the population ACCEPT the crap that is put out as such, I however remain on my search. If you like your horror to make SENSE, then stick with stuff like, The Exorcist, The Omen, The Haunting (1960 version PLEASE!), yes, even Lost Souls. If you are the type who has no problem viewing crap on a stick, then Fulci films are for you. "},{"Title":"Overrated piece of s**t","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, I like horror films and have nothing against blood, gore & violence if it has any meaning to the film. But most of the gore in this film has no meaning at all, it just seems that Fulci was obsessed with overexaggerated scenes of blood & guts. For example the scene where a man falls from a ladder in the library. If it was some other director the man would have simply fallen and died when he hit the floor. But thats not enough for Fulci! After the fall the man is attacked by spiders who shred his face into a bloody mess! Really, what does that have to do with the rest of the film? Overall I think Fulci is way overrated. The reason i hunted down some of his movies (they are not too easy to get hold of in Sweden. Especially uncut) was that I had seen on the Internet that many horror-fans consider him one of the greatest horror-directors. I now have seen New York Ripper, Zombie, House By The Cemetary and this one and I find all of them to be plain garbage. It seems to me that Fulci was without any talent whatsoever. This movie is not scary, not funny, it is just ludicrous. The only way you can get something out of watching this is if you like to watch bad films like Plan 9 From Outer Space or if think it is fun to watch lots of fake-looking gore. "},{"Title":"'Never Explain Anything' -- H.P. Lovecraft","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At first- distant, a pulsing patch of contortions; a swelter, shifting pattern of familiar faces & grisly ends, circling overhead to bend & shape space-time into fabulous new contortions. Some memorable images pulled from this cavalcade of perversions, this storm of deus ex machina death scenes & stream of conscious contrivance, labyrinthine incongruity A lynch mob of angry villagers confronting an occult artist in his humid Louisiana inn, chain-whipping him in a rush of hysteria-fuelled violence before casting out the warlock to the secretive sub-basement below, crucifying our pulverized painter before launching the last blow, drowning his face in quicklime & watching as it dissolves into a puddle of warm mush....A beautiful blind girl & her loyal seeing-eye canine standing dead centre of the Pontchartrain, miles of coast stretching endlessly into the distance on all sides, the deformed rings of her retinas staring somehow knowingly into the camera lens.....A child with scarlet hair walking into a hospital morgue, her mother lying prone on the ground as a glass jar of acid turns over above her, spilling down into her face to burn away flesh & sinew, cartilage & bone in a snap crackle *puff* of acrid smoke-the growing puddle of gore spreading beneath the girl's shoes & a one-eyed zombie reaching out of the freezer to grab her in the frantic effort to sidestep the mess....A man in the library prowling amongst the stacks, startled off his ladder perch at a high shelf & crashing to the ground below by a freak strike of lightning before a parade of tarantulas slowly march on his face, tearing it to oozing shreds in a cacophony of squealing mewling insect noises, the illustration on the pages of the discarded volume beside him vanishing into thin air....Deformed by putrefaction, a recently dead plumber slowly rises from the filthy black murk of a forgotten tub in the dilapidated remains of the very same inn some 60 years hence, grabbing his prey by her face & slowly forcing her head onto the deadly point of large nail protruding from a crumbling wall, pushing all the way through her skull on impact & dislodging an eyeball, blood raining in a fountain out her hollowed- out ocular cavity....The blind girl in her parlor at twilight, pleading with a zombie horde not to take her back to the other side, their grotesque, rotten visages staring implacably down, all before her loyal dog turns in a fit of supernaturally inspired treachery, with the force of it's muzzle tearing out her throat, her ear & scalp; the screen stained again with crimson rivers.....The abandoned inn deserted by night, the silhouettes of nameless dead lurching to & fro by the illuminated windowsills, spine-tingling echoes reverberating over the soundtrack....The plucky duo of recent innkeeper & skeptical doctor fleeing a newly risen zombie horde through the linoleum hallways of the abandoned local hospital, freshly opened hell-gate again folding space-time in their wake so that a random doorway inexplicably leads, as if in a dream, back to the haunted inn from whence they started, miles transversed in seconds, their gravest efforts thwarted in a twinkle. We leave them, passing through that trans-dimensional gateway to the other side, a barren wasteland with no beginning & no end, doomed to an eternity wondering the void with retinas transmogrified like the blind girl....Some constants amid the chaos, landmarks in the void the gatekeeper blind girl uttering dire warnings to the living, the dead bringing swift jealous vengeance to the same, the dead artist & his final work, extracting blood from his canvas & of course the hotel itself, looming ominously over all- points on a singed map past reading, no true direction nor destination, doomed to wander the dreamscape like our protagonists, trying to impose order on the orderless, shape on the shapeless, meaning on the meaningless. "},{"Title":"Fulci's Masterpiece?","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A Louisiana hotel is discovered to be one of the seven gateways to hell. The other world does not wish the hotel opened, so a horde of zombies is unleashed on the town. Also, there is a character named Joe the Plumber.Starring the lovely and talented Catriona MacColl, directed by Lucio Fulci and written by Dardano Sacchetti... who has a virtual monopoly on Italian horror. This is a great cast and crew.Howard Maxford says the film's occasional visual flair may commend it to Fulci completists. I was under the impression this was considered one of Fulci's stronger films, but his comment makes me wonder.Indeed, the visuals are Fulcis' strong point. An eye getting torn out, a crucifixion, eye piercing, shards of glass, tarantulas, acid... he does the best gore one can expect from a low budget film. (Thank you, effects wizard Giannetto de Rossi.) Luca Palmerini, who calls the film first rate, claims there are many references to classic Italian horror, the films of Tobe Hooper and Winner, and the literature of Graegorius and Sidney. These were clearly over my head, but only add to the greatness of the film.My horror idol Jon Kitley sums it up best Fulci isn't interested in a coherent storyline, with all the loose ends tidied up at the end of 90 minutes. He is more concerned with creating a series of sequences meant to scare you. Horrify you. And hopefully, even gross you out. This fits Fulci perfectly, but also is not a bad way to describe Italian horror in general. (Fulci freely admits the film has no logic and is plotless.) I love the smile Catriona MacColl flashes as David Warbeck tries to put a bullet in the front of a pistol while in the elevator. Clearly, anyone who knows how to use a gun would not load it this way. But also, Fulci could have cut the film a second earlier and avoided the momentary smile that appears in an otherwise tense and terrifying scene.Any die-hard horror fan or fan of Italian horror must see this film. It is a true classic, regardless of the fact it may be overlooked by some horror historians (Italian horror has always taken a backseat to American or British horror, and even among Italian films, Fulci takes a backseat to Argento.) Check this one out. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of violent horror","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Extremely atmospheric Fulci film is a masterpiece of violent horror, and as violent horror, it works beautifully. Fulci was not a master of suspense or a great dramatic director. He was a director whose specialty was creating bloody tableaux and constructing memorable set pieces that reeked of death and putrefaction, yet possessed a supernatural vibe that chilled the heart.Some of the greatest horror film music has come from Italy, and Fulci's musical collaborators, including Fabio Frizzi, who scored The Beyond, have produced some amazing work in their partnership with the director. The score here is rich and filled with dread, yet it always conveys the sense that we are watching a danse macabre and Fulci is the conductor.The film's prologue, featuring a bloody crucifixion in which massive nails are driven through the wrists of an artist by torch-bearing villagers, establishes traditional fanaticism and prepares us for the grue to come. Fulci's approach is quite literal in this tale in that he asks us to accept that an old house is an actual doorway through which hell's bloodthirsty minions can pass.The special effects are top notch, as usual, and we get flesh tearing, facial disintegration by acid, limb hacking and assorted grotesquerie involving the living dead.A must see. "}{"Title":"More than just another walking dead film","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Movies involving the living dead were a big thing during the 1970s and 80s, especially in North America and parts of Europe. They had such devoted fans who clamored for more, and more they got. George Romero, who just recently finished another zombie film with 'Survival of the Dead,' has been dubbed the king of American zombie flicks, but who would claim that title overseas? Until 1979 Italian director Lucio Fulci had never done a full on Horror film, but finally did with 'Zombie' and it was a hit. This was the start of a major career for him in the genre and over the next few years he gave us some of his best. He didn't only do zombie movies, but did several and did them well.The one he's most known for is this film, one that was unavailable uncut in the US for many years until Quentin Tarantino and his Blue Thunder Pictures acquired the rights and held a screening. This lead to a VHS and DVD release by Anchor Bay. Though featuring living dead people, 'The Beyond' is not merely a zombie film. It's about the opening of one of the seven gateways to hell, which results in all sorts of horrifying goings on. Many feel this is the late director's masterpiece. I don't feel the same way, but I do agree it's an awesome film that's a must see for genre buffs.Pros Fulci creates a creepy atmosphere and gets some great shots. Fantastic score that's not easily shaken. Catriona MacColl and David Warbeck both give solid performances. Stunningly photographed. Moves at a good steady pace. Good job done on the make-up and special effects. A cool and scary concept. Some good gory death sequences. Predictable this movie is not. A haunting end.Cons Not much plot really, like most of Fulci's work. Some obvious fakes in the spider scene. The supporting cast members aren't awful, but the little material they're given doesn't help. Some serious lapses in logic. Sometimes these are easy to forgive, but some not so much.Final thoughts The first time I saw 'The Beyond' I was kind of underwhelmed. I didn't hate it, but after seeing some of the director's other work and hearing all the positive things about it my expectations were high. After more viewings this movie has really grown on me and is definitely a favorite. Woe be onto those who miss this Italian Horror classic that's like a bad dream come to life.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Fulci's macabre romance with the supernatural...","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When you watch a Lucio Fulci film, keep in mind that you will literally watch it only. What do I mean? There's no coherence in the story, no deep meaning. In order to enjoy a Fulci film you must think like the master himself.The Beyond features fabulous moments for those who enjoy gore. Tarantulas ripping an eyeball, tearing up a lower lip, and literally destroying a man's face is a prime example of the movie's violence. But we also have nasty gunshots (one of them makes a girl's head explode), a nail through the head, eyes ripped by a hand, a dog ripping an ear, etc.But the supernatural elements make this film different from the regular Italian gorefest. We get a creepy atmosphere, zombies from the beyond, a book of prophecies, and Fulci's favorites; female ghosts.Fulci's involvement in the occult could only mean that he thinks that supernatural events should be considered as something normal in modern society.Overall, this is a film that can be enjoyed by fans of Italian horror. Fulci is not for everyone, in fact, he could be considered as a master in bad taste but something that everybody should be recognize is that he's a sui generis director.P.S. Loved Fulci's cameo where he makes a harsh criticism towards government workers. "},{"Title":"Fulci's crowning achievement","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Often described and referred to as a 'master of horror', I've never fully taken to the work of Lucio Fulci. The City Of The Living Dead aside, which I found lots of fun and often appallingly violent, I usually find his films slow and plodding. The New York Ripper and Zombie Flesh Eaters, both banned when they were first released up until not so long ago, were unimpressive and sometimes distastefully exploitative. The Beyond, the second film in Fulci 'Gates Of Hell' trilogy (in between City Of The Living Dead and The House By The Cemetery), exceeded all my expectations. For me this is Fulci's crowning achievement - a colossal beast full of eye-gouging, human-eating tarantulas, possessed children, and most surprisingly, genuine beauty.The film begins in 1927 in the Deep South of American, where a lynch mob arrive at the hotel door of a painter who they believe to be a sort of demon. They crucify and murder him, causing a door to hell to be opened that the hotel sits upon. These doors lie all across the world, one of which was opened and caused a city to be overflowing with the undead in the first part of the trilogy. Fast-forward several decades and the hotel is inherited by a young woman named Liza (Katherine MacColl) who is oblivious to the supernatural influence that surrounds it. Despite several warnings by a mysterious blind woman, she continues to renovate the hotel and unwittingly re-opens the door to hell. Soon, the town is in chaos, with the dead in the morgue re-awakening to tear the flesh of the townsfolk.If this all sounds rather silly and unremarkable, it really isn't. Unlike his lesser films, The Beyond looks stunning. The prologue is filmed in an old-photograph style sepia, and it really helps give the film a sort of dignity. Dario Argento has always had the ability to shoot horror in a way that helps elevate the genre, and learned his trade alongside the great Sergio Leone, and here Fulci is on a similar level. The hotel interiors are shot in dark shadows and feels extremely claustrophobic, and helps create an atmosphere where you can feel the suffocation of Liza. And when the gore starts, all logic gets kicked out the window as eyeball after eyeball is gouged out of their sockets, and tarantulas emerge from a bookshelf to devour an unfortunately paralysed man investigating the hotel's history.A lot of scenes are just confusing or plain ridiculous. Certain things don't have any continuation, such as a little girl seen earlier in the film being attacked by the dead is rescued, and after a while suddenly turns into one of them with only the colour of her eyes symbolising the fact she is one the undead. Yet the other living dead can't communicate, and are half-rotting, brainless animals. But with a film this bizarre, over-the-top, and so inventively horrific, who cares? It's worth seeing for the final scene alone, which is staggeringly filmed, and hauntingly realised. Just sit back, enjoy, and ponder as to why Fulci has such a fetishistic love of people's eyes being removed from there skulls.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic and rightfully so","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Beneath a run-down New Orleans hotel lies a dark evil secret.The entrance to the underworld is waiting to be opened, and when the new residents of the hotel move in the evil is awakened.Demonic forces of all shapes and sizes are rising up and violently attacking the living one by one.Can the text of an ancient book save the tenants from a horrible death?Will mankind prevail over the demonic forces.Catriona McColl and David Warbeck star.When it comes to Lucio Fulci movies i either love them or hate them.This time Director Lucio Fulci was on top of his game, as i said in other reviews on his films he can be very inventive.And here Lucio was inventive and brought to life a cult classic.Lucio was able to create atmosphere and make a pretty creepy film.And like all of Lucio Fulci's films there is plenty of gore.I give The Beyond 7/10 "},{"Title":"New Experience","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a newbie to the whole world of the Italian horror movies, both in respect to the gaillo genre and the popular zombie movies. What i must say about Lucio Fulci's The Beyond is that it does suffer in many areas some areas where it suffers are felt by other foreign films especially from Hong Kong, this is the awfull dubbing. The dubbing detracts the veiwer from the film and the characters, they just don't sound real and so there is no sympathy for them at all. As well as this the film suffers in terms of plot due to many things being totally unexplained and making no sense. An example of this has got to be when the eyes of some of the characters turn white for no apparent reason other then they have seen some shocking images.however the film has many things going for it, firstly many of the gore effects are very well done and are in fact quite shocking, especially where we see a tarantula bite the victim in the eye turning it into slop. There are again down points to the gore, sometimes it is too obvious that they are made of rubber take for example the glass into someones head, this was far too obvious. The music to the film however is very good, it brings a destinctive style to the film which otherwise might not be there.The best thing about the film is the end, it is a wonder to behold. This incooperates the visuals as well as the music. Altogether this is an extremly well made film from the Godfarther Of Gore Lucio Fulci although there are some dissapointing factors which it could do without (dubbing) the film is overall very good and would appeal to all gore hounds as well as people who appreciate great visuals  "},{"Title":"My First for Fulci!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, I only paid $5.99 for the version of 7 Doors of Death that I now own.  It was released by Diamon Entertainment.  And I am under the impression; from other reviewers, that this is not the version to have.  It is all of about 80 mins long, but I can't see were there was too much gore cut out.(Spoilers)In the version I have, I am treated to a man being beaten with chains, and seeing the flesh tear away, blood, his melting, bubbling, puss dripping head, a man having his eye popped out by a dead thing, a woman having her head rammed into a spike, and seeing her eye jet out of her head, the horrific, and distrubing tarantulas tearing a man apart scene.  Being an aracnaphobic, this scene was probably the most gruesome in the film to me....If anyone would like to email with anything else, please do so...i didn't put everything in here, but would like to know what, if anything I missed.Anyways, the film, made for only $400,000 is superb.  It is dark, moody, and very suspenseful.  It drips with  Italian Horror flair, and delivers on the scares.  The movie, The Dead Hate the Living, by Full Moon, owes alot to this film...they ripped off most of it!  Especially the apocalyptic ending in a world of the dead!  I know have less respect for DHTL, after seeing this film, which was far superior, and original.Chilling and haunting...I have to get the Beyond, I suppose to get all the orignal music, etc that Fulci intended for his film.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Fulci Masterpiece","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci was no doubt one of the best horror directors ever. I have seen a lot of Fulci's 80's horror like 'Zombi 2' and 'House by the Cematary' and they are brilliant. 'The Beyond' focuses on a hotel given to a woman. The hotel was once used to hide an evil force that a band of Witch-hunters kept there. The evil force gets out and starts knocking-off people like Builders and Plumbers. The story interests you throughout the whole film and the gore stays Fulci style. VERY gory. I would recommend getting the UNCUT version to have the full spider scene and the bit with the plumber getting butchered. I have seen both versions. But any version will still satisfy you. Very good indeed. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Lucio Fulcis best film","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond (The UK title for this movie) is by far the best film that Lucio Fulci ever made. Fulci's trademark (extreme gore, sadism etc) is alive and kicking in this movie. In the first ten minutes you are treated to an absolutely sickening gory, face melting scene, and various set pieces throughout are just as gruesome. For those of you that love Fulci movies like myself this is great but if your at all squeamish this movie is not really for you. The movie is also very atmospheric and surprisingly for such a film, scary on a psychological level. One stand out scene will have anyone who is arachnaphobic dying from fear and the truly haunting and terrifying (yet bloodless) end scene should give everyone else a good few decades of nightmares. I rate this film a 9,as while excellent it is a little too far fetched to be rated a 10    "},{"Title":"A true horror experience.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THE BEYOND is a horror-classic!I watched ZOMBI 2 once, and I felt very disappointed, and I didn't thought NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD was any spectacular, and DAY OF THE DEAD was N-O-T great. After these notes I started to fear that I didn't like zombie-movies. Well, I was wrong.THE BEYOND is an odd horrormovie, not like any other I've ever seen. It's dark, surreal, original and with a very impressing ending. And still, in the mix, it is very frightening (that spider scene....Uuuhh...).I'm sorry for ever have doubts to Lucio Fulci. There isn't a weak moment in THE BEYOND and I can't wait to see THE HOUSE BY THE CEMETERY and CITY OF THE LIVING DEAD. If you are a horror-lover, don't miss it. And please try to watch a copy with as less cuts as possible.My rating is 8.5 for a classic moment of horror.    "},{"Title":"A gore film with genuine style","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci made many films in the nearly forty years that he worked as a director, but none is better known than L'ALDILA.  The question is, is it his best film?  No, it isn't.  It lacks the savage emotional charge of NON SI SEVIZIA UN PAPERINO, as well as the kinetic energy of ZOMBI 2.  But, it is one of the cornerstones of Italian popular cinema, so it seems approriate that it should be receiving so much attention.  Fulci's intent in this film is to capture the feeling of a nightmare, and he accomplishes this with seeming facility.  The widescreen vistas of Sergio Salvati, backed up by the eerie chant-filled music of Fabio Frizzi, create an ambience of dread and despair that is rare in contemporary horror cinema.  The gore effects of Gianetto De Rossi, though achieved on a low budget, retain their shock impact.  A literal triumph of style over substance, and living, bleeding proof that Lucio Fulci was not the hack he is soemtimes painted to be. **** out of **** "}{"Title":"Great Italian horror...","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci redefines the word Zombie in this film about the living dead and the 7 gates of hell.  Eye-popping gore and suspense establish this film as one of the best of its genre.  It could be very confusing to some, the end has some similarity to 2001 A Space Odyssey.  Also, this had some of the best acting in a horror movie that I have seen in a long time.  Being banned in two countries, this was not a popular film.  It has recently been released in the United States, however, and many consider it to be a masterpiece of Italian horror.  Next time you are in the mood for a horror flick, check The Beyond out.  It will play with your mind in a way that is somewhat enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Great Italian horror...","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci redefines the word Zombie in this film about the living dead and the 7 gates of hell.  Eye-popping gore and suspense establish this film as one of the best of its genre.  Could be very confusing to some, the end is similar to 2001 A Space Odyssey.  Also, this had some of the best acting in a horror movie that I have seen in a long time.  Being banned in two countries, this was not a popular film.  It has recently been released in the United States, however, and many consider it to be a masterpiece of Italian horror.  Next time you are in the mood for a horror flick, check The Beyond out.  It will play with your mind in a way that is somewhat enjoyable. "},{"Title":"one of the few truly amazing Italian horror films (at least outside of Argento)","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've wondered having seen a few of the films by Lucio Fulci what the big deal about him was. Zombie was decent and had a couple of moments but didn't impress, its sequel Zombie 3 was atrocious and New York Ripper, while entertaining, felt hollow and without any real grip of terror consistently. With the Beyond it's a whole other matter, and it's finally clear what (some of) the hubbub is about the prolific Italian master of the Giallo. He actually makes, for one, the story somewhat more interesting than most horror films, nevermind Italian, as if it's a descendant of Lovecraft; some of this, in all actuality minus the crazy gore, could make something for a Val Lewton script. But aside from the story, which in all actuality Fulci as never been totally concerned with, his powers as director are at their peak. There's things like, well, atmosphere and terror from the Louisiana locations and lighting in those subterranean quarters near the 'gate' of hell, and, of course, the manic gore.What surprised me most of all though after the fact of Fulci more than proving himself as a near-virtuoso with the camera and moments of great suspense (maybe not quite Argento but close enough), was how scary the film turned out to be. This is most recommendable of all it's not simply one of those guilty pleasure exports in the genre, but a legitimate work of terror out of things as simple as ghosts and demons from hell and curses and that place has been abandoned for 50 years... What starts from the set-up in the premise - a woman, Liza (Katherine MacColl) inherits a decrepit Lousiana hotel that happens to lead into one of the seven gates of hell (or maybe all seven, I lost cont) - unravels into a series of murders, shocks, attacks, spooky wanderings with the blind woman and her dog, shenanigans and rot at the morgue. And never once is something far too cheesy, save for one or two shots from the gun in the climax, or too far into the realm of it being so-bad-it's-good like in other Fulci films. This time, it's just good.So good that it should please even today's I-can-take-anything-you-dish-out horror fans. Although characterization is at a reasonable two-dimensional limit, it is never a distraction; on the contrary the horror perfectly streams out of this increasingly nightmarish place where just the introduction of the blind woman and her dog in the road is one thing... and then the eventual undoing of her with the dog something else (the kind of scene, I should add, that reminds one of I Am Legend only with *more* horror-cajones). And characteristic for an Itallian splatter pic there's gore, lots of it, usually around popping eyeballs or close-ups of gashing flesh- the sepia-toned opening crucifixion is just one such fantastically over-indulgent treat- only with the Beyond Fulci tries out some things that gain their power from the cranked-up what-the-hell factor, such as the little girl in the autopsy room walking back away from the flowing pool of blood/whatever.The Beyond isn't for the squeamish, or for the easily frightened. It's a movie for hardcore fans of the genre, and more specifically Giallo-geeks. Its truly a fantastic piece of exploitation-as-art, where such a scene as the ending, which would never be seen done as well as in a more average or less ambitious production, displays what a director like Fulci could do when put to the extremes of his talent. I'm not sure if he's a great director like Argento yet (certainly he gives other misogynists a run for their money), but he's attracted my attention more than ever to his oeuvre. "},{"Title":"Exceptionally Atmospheric Supernatural Zombie Tale.","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio Fulci's The Beyond centers on a crumbling early-1900s hotel in New Orleans, Louisiana that is inherited by New Yorker Liza Merill (Catriona MacColl). With plans on fixing the place up and reopening for business, she gets work started by hiring some painters, and a plumber to fix the flooded basement of the hotel. But things don't go as planned when one of the painters falls from a scaffold, and the plumber is found dead in the basement. Things get even weirder when Liza meets Emily, a blind girl who seems to know the hotel's dark past all too well, and claims that it is in fact built over one the seven gateways to hell. With the assistance of a local doctor, John McCabe (David Warbeck), Liza intends to uncover the hotel's dark history, before she too becomes a victim.I am a newcomer to Fulci's work, and this is the first film I have seen of his, but I must admit, I am pretty impressed. The Beyond, often hailed as a zombie classic and for its generously gooey gore scenes, is much more than just that, and those who see it as simply a gore flick are missing out on quite a bit. To me, at least, the bloody gore effects are just a sideshow to the main attraction - that main attraction being a frightening, fairly disturbing horror story that is laced with Lovecraftian scenarios and an unsettling Southern Gothic atmosphere. Throw in plenty of spooky scenes, an eerie score, and a handful of elaborate violence into the mix, and you've got all the makings of a good horror film.Atmospheric is a good word to describe this film, because that it is. The damp, spooky, southern atmosphere comes off really well in this film, with the old victorian houses, exotic foliage, and New Orleans backdrop. Another notable thing about this film is the variety of horror elements it contains, and there are quite a handful. We've got an old, haunted hotel in the swamps; a basement which holds an entrance into hell; a white-eyed blind girl who may or may not be a ghost; some nice action sequences, gore, and zombie makeup; and a bleak ending that will leave you unsettled. What more could you want out of a good horror film? That is precisely why I think this was such a well-crafted movie. The script isn't perfect, but it's written nicely enough, and despite being classified as a zombie flick, the actual zombies don't come in until the last 20 minutes or so. Everything leading up to that point is chocked full of psychic phenomena, apparitions, and ghastly supernatural death scenes - all of this accompanied by an impending sense of doom. You know from the beginning that it ain't gonna end pretty.I've read complaints on this site about plot coherency as well, but frankly I don't know what these people are referring to. I understood this flick fairly easily - sure, it does have some loopholes and does leave some to the imagination - but overall I thought that the happenings here were pretty straightforward. Catriona MacColl is our leading lady here, and has good chemistry with fellow lead David Warbeck. The two make a good team. Also notable is Sarah Keller as Emily, the blind psychic girl. The performances aren't perfect, but are mostly on-par and I didn't think it was bad at all. As for that nightmarish ending, wow! The Beyond is one of those horror movies that dares to end on such a bleak and helpless note, but I praise it because not often do horror films take that risk in fear of disappointing the audience. In some cases, a darker ending is more effective than and they lived happily ever after.Overall, The Beyond is a deservedly cherished horror movie. Sure, it is dated in some respects, but the atmosphere is sensational, the imagery eerie, and the gore fairly impressive for its time. I think the reason this film is so remembered by genre fans is because it hits both notes - it's got the makings of a suspenseful, old-fashioned ghost story, as well as some elaborate gore and zombie-related violence. I think the well-balanced combination of this alone makes this worth seeing, but I'd recommend it to any horror fan. While it's surely not for everyone, The Beyond is a classic of its own kind. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One Great Film!","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I must disagree with the person who posted in the trivia section that this film never played in its unrated form in America until 1998.This may have been true for the continental USA, but I am not sure. I'm from Puerto Rico, a U.S. Territory, and it played there in all its gory glory back in the early 80's.I also do not remember a Sepia Tone sequence, making me think I may have seen a version with the same full color prologue, like that played in Germany. I also have a vague recollection that the film was advertised as Zombie 3 The Beyond, but I'm not totally sure.I saw this film as a teenager by myself. The film distributors in Puerto Rico do not have, at least they didn't back then, the hangups regarding gory horror films, that they have in the continental U.S., especially gore in a fantasy setting such as this. I was sold a ticket without having an adult present. The film was not rated, but it did have a violence warning.I went to see the film while my mother and siblings went to the mall just a short distance away. I remember sitting in the theatre that afternoon along with a handful of adults. I was scared out of my mind right from the start. I kept looking back to see if I was the only one having this reaction. I noticed that everyone there had their legs up on their chairs, scared senseless just like me.I had known of Fulci from Fangoria magazine, but this was the first Fulci film I had actually seen and I had never seen anything like it before (I had missed seeing Zombie because the person who was going to drive me there chickened out).I loved and hated these feelings I was experiencing while watching this movie. It was a mix of fascination and absolute fright, due to the perfect combination of incredibly creepy atmosphere and outrageously well designed and executed gore effects.I was shaking when I left the theatre and vowed to never see another horror film again. That didn't last long! I do remember that, in Puerto Rico, the three Fulci classics of L'aldilà, Paura nella città dei morti viventi and Quella villa accanto al cimitero played in theatres out of order. I saw L'aldilà first, then Paura and then Quella villa. All in the very early 80's.That was a great time for horror films, a time I'm afraid is gone for good. "},{"Title":"Get over it, Billy.  This one's good...","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (aka THE BEYOND)Of course it's derivative !  What horror flick isn't ??  Especially all those slasher flicks you've reviewed.Fulci's done some schlock, no question about it, but I don't consider THE BEYOND to be part of that.  And if the viewer can suspend disbelief over some obvious plot holes, then you'll enjoy this one.Plus I really dug seeing the front half of the possessed little girl's head getting blown off as she tries to strangle McColl in the hospital morgue scene.Cool shot.         BOOOF...splat...!All manual, without the use of cgi or any of today's other gimmicks.Yeah, I prefer THE HOUSE BY THE CEMETARY (1984) and CITY OF THE LIVING DEAD (1980) but this one's not bad at all.  I think it's got a kind of atmosphere that a lot of other Italian horror of the period doesn't have.  Not to mention a bigger budget.  Obviously some money was but into it, which is more than what most Italian horror directors (Argento excepted) are used to.So Billy, comparing it to other films made by Cronenburg and Lynch is ridiculous.  Fulci makes totally different kinds of films intended primarily for a domestic Italian movie-going audience, with foreign distribution viewed only as an afterthought.  It wasn't too long ago you couldn't even see most of these 70s and 80s Italian horror flix except in censored video form.  Besides, many of these films are still banned in the UK for christ's sake, so there's an avid audience for them there as well.Instead Billy, why don't you try comparing Fulci with Umberto Lenzi or Antonio Margheriti or Bruno Mattei and you could make a more credible comparison.It's also obvious that the Anchor Bay DVD is a labor of love made by those who truly appreciate what Fulci was trying to do here.  It comes with tons of extras including interviews with McColl, Warbeck and Fulci, not to mention all sorts of stills of previous VHS editions, production shots, lobby cards and gore stills as well as printed endorsements from Tobe Hooper and author Kim Henkel praising this film.8 out of 10 for rousing entertainment  "},{"Title":"Beautiful...","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Once in a while I come across a horror film that leaves me in awe. The Beyond is such a film. It's such an immense experience that I have to write this review just to exorcise my thoughts.The Beyond starts off immediately. Lousiana 1927. A bunch of people rowing. Men on a mission. Where are they going? A girl at hotel during a stormy night looks down at the mysterious book of Eibon. A painter, Schweick, adds another stroke to his dark and desolate painting. The men arrive at their destination. The fragmented clips are merging. It's an exceptional opening. Sad and somber tones play as the mob passes the hotel clerk, who silently follows each of the men with his eyes. It is a small revelation to behold. The mob and the painter come to a confrontation. Anyone unfamiliar with the works of Fulci is likely to raise an eyebrow as the whipping and crucifixion of the painter progresses with gratuitous zoom-ins on the carnage. It really sets the tone for the level of violence we can expect during the next 80 minutes. It also makes you wonder just what this man has done worthy of such a punishment. They end it by throwing something that melts his face. Here lies my only real objection to the opening. The music used during the face-melting is too funky. It's great, but I feel it goes against the dark tone of the rest of the movie. Fortunately, this is immediately followed up by what is probably the finest opening credits I've seen in a horror film. The dark and melancholy tones are marching on, vocals scream, while fire burns in the background. Welcome to Fulci's apocalypse. The film then cuts to the same hotel in the year 1981. The sun is shining and things seem much more pleasant. This lasts for about a minute. Catriona MacColl, playing Eliza, has come to restore the hotel back to its former glory. Her and David Warbeck's performances really elevates the film, even if they make some odd choices, but more on that later. Enter Joe the Plumber. Surely they could have spared a couple of extra minutes of coming up with a more original name, not that I'm complaining. He goes down into the basement. Needless to say, Joe never finishes the job. Instead, we are treated to some of Fulci's trademark gore in such a fashion that I can't help but grin. The mysterious blind girl Emily warns Eliza about the place. As Joe's wife comes to see his body, their child is left waiting in the hall. As she waits we're treated to a torturous scene of a body being wheeled down the hall accompanied by screeching noises sending chills down your spine. It's kind of pleasant to have such a disturbing, non-graphic scene in the film. Now Fulci is famous for his trademark gore. However I find it frustrating and ignorant whenever people say that that is all Fulci is. His earlier films show clearly just how talented a filmmaker he was. But I think his gore epics, like The Beyond, House by the Cemetery and City of the Living Dead are way better than he is credited for. Sure all these films have an odd/incoherent narrative, but that is also what makes them so great. These are hellish visions. And I for one think that the vague/fragmented narrative combined with extreme gore works great in expressing what Hell is truly like. I haven't seen any film, including Hellraiser, portray Hell as well as Fulci. It's great to see how the nightmarish violence escalates throughout. The Beyond is not perfect. There are odd things. Like, why Eliza doesn't leave when she sees the crucified Schweick in his room leaves me a bit baffled. John's failure to realize that you have to shoot the undead in the head is another one. At first you think he's just a lousy shot, but no such luck. Then there is minor stuff such as hospital signs that read Do not entry. Fulci has undoubtedly made some sloppy films, but The Beyond is in the other end of the scale. A big part of what makes it so great is the moody and often brilliant cinematography. Just check out the wonderful point of view shot as one of the ladies is being pushed by a zombie onto a nail. Another great image comes as Eliza and John runs away from the hotel and we see shadows of undead moving about inside. Hell is literally loose. In addition to this the there is the lighting. There is an image of Emily in the hotel, while lightning strikes outside is just one of many scenes showing off how skillfully this has been put together. Add to that some careful editing and tremendous sound effects and you've got yourself a masterpiece.I really cannot express how great The Beyond manages to create a wholly unique atmosphere of pending doom. There is great sadness in the film, yet somehow it all feels oddly uplifting in lack of a better word. The image as they enter The Beyond remains, in my opinion, one of the single greatest shots in all of horror cinema, or movies in general for that matter. The desolate, barren wasteland where no life can exist is simple, but so very, very effective.The horrified expression on Warbeck's face as oblivion that is The Beyond is taking over his mind and body is truly the stuff of nightmares. Hell has come. I could go on and on because I've only mentioned a few of the treats in the film, but the end is near.A final thought The Beyond never holds back on the ugly and horrible, yet I've never heard anyone comment on just how beautiful it truly is. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the genre","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond is easily one of the top films of all time.**SPOILERS**Inheriting a Louisiana hotel, Liza Merril, (Catriona MacColl) begins to be discouraged by the increasing number of accidents happening around the locale, even before it opens. Still unable to come up with an explanation for anything, despite meeting Emily, (Cinzia Monreale) who tries to warn her away, the accidents and weird deaths continue, eventually finding comfort in Dr. John McCabe, (David Warbeck) who helps her continue on with the project. When others who work there repeatedly tell her that the cause of the accidents is due to the house being constructed over one of the Seven Doorways to Hell and that an alchemist who was killed there in the past has come back with an army of the dead to take over the world, she initially laughs off the stories, though she is eventually forced into believing them and races with the other survivors of the attacks to get away from the hotel before others are harmed.The Good News This is probably the greatest movie ever made. What makes it so good is the atmosphere here, which is absolutely perfect for creating an air of dread. The hotel itself, where it all takes place in, is a spectacular setting that does this one nicely. From the different rooms and their layout to the manner in which they're designed, this is fantastic. It even manages to help out from the rather fun sequences that work this dread into the film. The first attacks, from the glaring eyes appearing in the window before causing a man to fall off a windowsill to the zombie appearing in the drained bathtub are simply perfect. Other stand-out scenes, as the sequence in the basement is great, with the crumbling, moss-covered structure, water-covered surroundings and a fantastic ending to it all make it rather fun. More fun can be had at the hospital's morgue, which is set-up with the creepiness of the dead bodies mixed with the sterile location, and then the chilling chase with the acid following the one survivor around the room. Even small little scenes, as the back-story explanation through the house, complete with hallucinations of events that occurred before, to the dream-like confrontation where she vanishes into the night are just more examples of how utterly creepy and atmospheric this is. The other stand-out scene is the final resolution for the blind prophet, where the zombies appear following a lengthy walk-through of the house, followed by a rousing battle between a dog and zombies, which is a really outstanding scene all around. It also ends on a high note with one of the most rousing and enjoyable encounter with zombies in the hospital, all there's nothing but fun to be had here. With tons of zombies in a desolate, creepy location providing tons of action and gore, there's not a whole lot wrong and it just works beautifully. The fact that it's such a long encounter, filled with tons of graphic gore, close encounter after close encounter and a sense of desperation that makes for an utterly thrilling time. The zombies here look spectacular, with the rotting and distorted appearance, as well as the tattered clothes and dripping with blood allow them to be quite memorable, living up to the traditional European standard of excellence. Perhaps, though, what makes the film most enjoyable is it's utterly graphic and revolting gore. This here has just a ton of blood and gore in this one, which allows for a variety of interesting and incredibly creative violent demises. It starts right from the beginning, as the first minutes show a victim who has a chain whipped across their face, nails shoved through their hands before finally having the rest of their face melted away with acid. The rest of the film isn't worse off, and actually gets better as well, with a ferocious eye-ball removal, an incredibly extended and much more graphic facial removal with acid that burns much more away and cuts deeper, a head forced backward onto a spike that impales through the eye, another has their face eaten away by a swarm of spiders as well as bites that rip out the throat and an ear, among others. That's not to even take into account the multitude of gunshot wounds in here, including one powerful enough to blow a hole clear through the side of the face upon impact, though the other wounds inflicted are no less messy. All are also done convincingly, coming off as quite realistic and not in the slightest bit fake at all, looking spectacular as a result. These parts here make this one of the best films ever made in any genre.The Bad News There's only one real flaw to this one. That flaw is the utterly confusing and hard-to-understand conclusion, which makes no real sense. From the hospital sequence it goes into the underworld, with no explanation of how it occurred or rather the point of it all, and it comes off as just incredibly confusing, and rather than offer up any real clues or rules as to why it happens, it just ends without rhyme or reason, leading to a real headache-inducing scene to try to explain what happened. It's also a little sad to see a zombie film without them going berserk and ripping a person to shreds, but it's not detrimental to the film at all, compared to the ending at least.The Final Verdict An absolutely beautiful entry, with tons to like about it and nothing at all wrong, making this one simply spectacular all around. Highly recommended to all fans of European horror or of anyone from the crew or cast, while anyone with a passing interest in the genre or horror overall should give it a look.Rated UR/NC-17 Extreme Graphic Violence and some Language "},{"Title":"A masterclass of gore from the master of gore!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio Fulci has a reputation for making gory films, and The Beyond is one of the main reasons why! While The Beyond may not be a 'good film' in the classic sense, for the gore fans The Beyond is every bit a classic! The film is a part of Fulci's unofficial four part zombie series (the other three being Zombie Flesh-Eaters, City of the Living Dead and The House by the Cemetery), and for my money the best of the lot. The Beyond combines Gothic atmosphere and tension with some of the most disgusting and over the top gore effects you're ever likely to see! The plot is fairly simple (as you would expect from a Fulci gore-fest) and simply focuses on the idea of there being seven gates of hell. Liza Merril has just inherited a hotel, and as luck would have it, the hotel just happens to have been built on top of one of the seven gates! Liza decides to have the hotel redecorated, but unfortunately this leads to the gate being opened and many violent deaths follow as zombies emerge from the pits of hell to feast on the living! Italian film makers are famous (infamous?) for ripping off successful films, and I wouldn't be surprised to find that Fulci got the idea of this film from a certain famous Dawn of the Dead quote. Anyway, no matter where the influence came from, it has to be said that The Beyond is a great example of an Italian zombie film. Fulci's love for eyeball violence features heavily, along with plenty of other gory scenes including things such as a man having his face ripped off by a spider and a face being melted by acid! The plot itself is a bit like the gore; in that it's rather messy, and it has to be said that the film doesn't flow all that well. But I don't think anyone tunes into a film like this for the plot, and the gore is usually enough to keep things ticking over nicely. Fulci manages some really nice visuals in this film, but none are more spectacular than the ending. I won't spoil it, but needless to say it's worth waiting for! Overall, The Beyond is a fabulous gory effort from one of Italy's finest filmmakers and it's a must see film for everyone who likes their Italian horror! "},{"Title":"'Beyond' awful (spoilers relating to effects only)","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I tried to enjoy this one for what it was supposed to be. Really I did. A made-to-be-bad gore-fest, light on plot and lighter on characterization. A true B-movie, even if it didn't turn out to be the masterwork of the genre some people claim. I'd seen a Fulci film before--'The House by the Cemetery'--and been singularly unimpressed, but even Fulci fans have panned that one and 'The Beyond' is widely regarded as his best work. So if nothing else, I was expecting at least a step up from 'House.' No such luck.Lots of blood, lots of guts and fancy (for the time period) special effects, but not a lot of substance to either. And that's what's really wrong with this movie. When the plot and characters are already throwaways, what's left when the gore fails? You see, I have a hard time considering what Fulci does to be gore. For me, that implies at least some level of realism, and Fulci offers anything but that. I'm not even a gore hound, and I find his efforts in that area to be pathetic. The warlock's wounds don't correspond to the weapons used to inflict them; the splatter in other scenes is entirely inconsistent with the actual flow of blood, trickling, spurting, trickling then suddenly OMG SPRAYING IN GUSHES... all from the same wound. Somehow a three inch nail manages to pass all the way through a woman's skull and poke out her eyeball from behind, spearing it three inches out from the socket. Somehow. (Fulci seems to have some kind of fixation with the stabbing of eyeballs--which would be fine, if he could ever get it right. Which, of course, he can't.) Any time Fulci gets going with one of his gory scenes, I just end up laughing. I can't bring myself to take it seriously at all.In addition, Fulci has NO idea how to build tension or suspense. He seems to think that the longer he draws out the buildup to a kill, the more suspenseful it is, and the longer he draws out a kill, the scarier it is. In reality, all he manages to do is leave you so bored with the buildup that you don't care about the kill by the time he gets around to it, and so bored with the kill itself by the time the character finally dies that you're long past caring about the kill's function in the story. You just wish he'd get on with it already.When you add to that the fact that Fulci can't seem to do ANYTHING original, just copy scenes from other, more talented directors' films ('The Beyond' features yet another 'Suspiria' rip, the seeing-eye dog attack) and redo them poorly with his ridiculous brand of gore, there's just no redeeming value to this film, or any film of his that I've seen so far.One star only because 0 wasn't an option. "}{"Title":"A See of Darkness","Date":"15 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (spoilers ahead...)Don't you just hate it when you inherit a fine old hotel in need of a little work&#x97;and then you discover it happens to have been built over one of the doorways to hell? Such is Liza's dilemma. A New Yorker of independent means, Liza's come down to Louisiana to get her multi-roomed legacy back on its feet, no matter the worms, decay or water table. But nothing seems to be going right. The 'help' she inherits with the house, Martha and Arthur, are borderline sociopaths. Joe the plumber seems to have forgotten to take his anti-psychotics. And then there's Emily, the piano-playing blind girl cum psychic specter(?), and Dickie, her barely helpful German shepherd service dog&#x97;the two of them just keep popping up in the oddest of places. But the worst are all the dead bodies! They keep rising up out of murky puddles in the flooded basement&#x85;That really makes renovation difficult for Liza.But enough with synopsis; it won't help you much anyway. Fans don't watch The Beyond for story or characterization. As its director, Lucio Fulci, states, In Italy we make films based on pure themes&#x85;my idea was to make an absolute film, with all the horrors of the world. It's a plot less film, there's no logic to it, just a succession of images&#x85;which must be received without any reflection. This is, of course, very difficult for most moviegoers to accomplish, and thus no other filmmaker polarizes fans of the genre more than Fulci, the adulte terrible of Italian Horror. Either he's a joke, the man who ruined any chance the genre had at gaining respectability, or he came closest to creating what Italian Horror should really be about &#x96; style over, or, instead of substance. Fulci can be infuriating, what with his inexplicably lingering shots and non sequitur plot twists, but when some watch his work they don't mind all that. He obviously loves what he's doing.The Beyond was Maestro Fulci's third horror film, the second in a trilogy about the 7 Doors of Death, and his fifth in a chain of seven great films he directed from 1979's Zombie through 1982's New York Ripper. To most disciples of Fulci, The Beyond is not only the magnum opus of his 57(!) films, but also the greatest Italian Horror movie ever made. 52 years old in 1979, Fulci had already immersed himself in the making of genre films soft- core porn, claustrophobic giallos, bloody spaghetti westerns, LSD-infused lesbian- psychodramas, vampire-hunter spoofs, macho-gangster flicks, super-spy movies &#x96; you name it. For twenty years Fulci slowly mastered the art of entertaining, eventually creating some of the archetypes of the genres he reveled in A Lizard in a Woman's Skin, Don't Torture a Duckling, Four of the Apocalypse, Seven Notes in Black. But by the mid-'70s things were changing in Italy, and the reliable simplicity of a giallo, however well stylized, just wasn't enough to get audiences into theatres. After his early'80 film Contraband &#x97;which should have been just another one of his 'smuggler vs. gangster' grindhouse movies, but instead becomes a poor man's The Godfather by way of Ichi the Killer&#x97;the notorious Gates of Hell trilogy followed City of the Living Dead, The Beyond, and House by the Cemetery. Of the three, The Beyond is by far the best.But all the effects aside, the arguably true success of the trilogy lies in the three lead performances of Catriona MacColl. She commands the screen with a horror-maven gusto not seen since the days of Barbara Steele. MacColl infused all the roles, but particularly the part of Liza Merril in The Beyond, with an assurance and determination quite uncommon among the female roles of Italian Horror, or any genre of horror for that matter. You also come away with the feeling that, like Fulci himself, MacColl loves the process of making these movies. Apparently, she was such a trooper in the first film, City of the Living Dead, what with millions of live maggots blown into her face, and made to bleed from her eyeballs via a painful FX-pump, that Fulci had to have her back for The Beyond. And again he puts her through the ringer lacerating screams, voluminous blood-splatters, bubbling acid vats, severed tongues, severed heads, throats being ripped open, disemboweling, eye gouging, crucifixions &#x96; in fact few horror films, Italian or otherwise, are as systematically unsettling as The Beyond. The ending of the film is, perhaps, the most talked/argued-about part of the whole experience. With the trilogy steeped in Fulci's Catholicism, something he believed was crucial to the understanding of his films, the hell-bound ending leaves just as many people with their mouths gaping and hair standing on end, as it does those who are left scratching their heads in bewilderment. A pessimist of such extreme, Fulci's vision of Hell isn't even one you can feel &#x96; no whippings, no fire, no boiling oil, no tortures. Just a &#x85;Sea of Darkness&#x85;an absolute world, an immobile world where every horizon is similar. Cute.So there you have it people &#x96; from the flesh-ripping chain-beatings that open the film, to the climatic hospital gross-out/shoot-out, and all the spiders and zombies in between, The Beyond truly is one of the most audacious spectacles you'll ever be lucky enough to see. But The Beyond remains for most, not just Fulci's testament to his gifts as a filmmaker and, whether he'd like to be labeled as such or not, a storyteller, but also proof that Italian Horror could, in reaching such extreme and outrageous heights of stylization, perhaps find itself in an even higher realm of substance after all. "},{"Title":"Cancel my Reservations!","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film was really quite disgusting in every fiber of the definition of that word. A young woman inherits a hotel in Louisiana only to discover it is one of the seven portals of Hell. Soon the dead walk again but only after we are treated to one bizarre, graphic, gratuitous killing after another. Lucio Fulci, the so-called King of Italian Horror, has some hang-up about piercing eyeballs, and we are there to share his gory glory. One woman has her eye pushed out by a nail from the back of the head. One man has a chard of window glass stuck in his eye. Another man has a tarantula pierce his eye. One other guy has his gouged out and so on and so on. I don't mind some gore here and there- truth be told I am no great fan of it at all. I subscribe to that belief that horror can be more effective when not seen but imagined. Forget that with Fulci, and I knew that going into The Beyond. Of all his films that I have seen - Zombie, The Gates of Hell, Manhattan Baby, and The Black Cat - The Beyond is easily the worst as it is nothing more than an exercise in shock, shock for the sake of shock, and void of any real storytelling. Fulci at his best has some flashes of brilliance but lacks the creativity to combine story and plot and characterization with his gory graphics. The Beyond lacks even his most minimal attention to story and characters. This film is nothing more than an excuse to see guts ripped, eyes gouged, and people mutilated before your very eyes. I am indeed sorry that I require more than that in a horror film. I was never scared; I was just sick to my stomach that this film satisfies other viewer's needs. Did I like anything about the film? Like the dog ripping out a blind woman's throat? An overflowing beaker of acid washing over a woman's face repeatedly? The inexplicable prologue to the film that tells us almost nothing at all? No. Forget Fulci and see Dario Argento's work. he is the Master of Italian Horror. His films are very graphic and gory but always tell a story and delve into characters and who they are. He also, inheriting his palette for the eye from Mario Bava(who I think IS the Grandmaster of Italian Horror), paints a film with his camera lens. Fulci's film here only connects one brutal death to another with barely a word of dialog thrown in the mixture. Why this film is so popular is quite BEYOND me - at least I wish it were. "},{"Title":"For Fulci and gore fans only. This tale of a door way to hell offers almost no sense and a great deal of gore","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the story of a girl who inherits a hotel in Louisiana where years before all of the guests suddenly disappeared not long after a wizard was killed in the basement. The woman begins renovations and in the process unleashes a terrible evil and one of the seven doors to hell.As many of people have said about Lucio Fulci, he never let plot get in the way of him making a movie. This is the best example of that, it has almost no plot. Basically a series of set pieces arranged in order to have a loose dream logic this is a movie that makes no sense whats so ever. What ever happens happens to get us to the next thing. The warlock from the start warns the people who lynch him that he's the only one keeping them safe. He is, in effect, the good guy keeping the gate closed. Later his resurrected corpse proves to be the villain killing everyone off and raising the rest of the dead. It makes no real sense, then again very little, including the carnivorous spiders in the library, makes any sense.I'm one of those people who wonder at the horror fans who LOVE Fulci's work. Don't get me wrong I do think he was a good director, I like his westerns, however I wonder why, outside of his set pieces, people rave about his horror films. Yes, I'm a fan of Zombie and I like City of the Living Dead, but many of his other horror films, this one included leave me shaking my head (and hitting the fast forward button). No doubt he was one of the movers and shakers in the Italian horror cycle of the early 1980's but it was because of his splatter and not because of his genius at crafting a horror story. I do accept that there is often a dream logic that carries things along, but at the same time Fulci often abandons it to the next eye gouge opportunity. While his over all output as a director argues against it, his horror output, for the most part,sees him in hack territory. Genius of the gross out set piece? Absolutely. Director of scary horror films? Not really.This is not a good movie. And even if you could convince me it was I'll never say its a great one. Certainly it has some really cool scenes-most of the deaths are intriguing to look at, but thats about all. The plot as I said is close to non existent and uses a good number of standard Italian horror ploys, gate ways to hell, zombies, gore, weird women, electronic music...oh do I have to go on? This film is a turkey. Its for gore-hounds alone.(For those looking for the full uncut version I could be wrong but I think the Diamond Entertainment release under the name Seven Doors of Death is the complete film. Its run time of just over 84 minutes is less than the full running time, but longer than the cut US version of the same name, certainly all the gore seems intact. If this was sourced from a PAL original the film would be complete.) "},{"Title":"Gratuitous fakey gore","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is bloody awful. It makes zero sense. It has some of the most inappropriate uses of gore I've ever seen, it's just a collection of hastily strung together setups for really bad special effects that go on way too long. For example, when the guy falls in the records room and the spiders come for him, why did they use real and fake spiders at the same time? It's laughable. Why was there an opened bottle of acid in the autopsy room and why did the lady just fall down and sit there while acid poured on her face?I watched this movie with a group of friends late last night and we were shocked by how bad it was. The viewing turned into an episode of MST3K, everybody was ripping it. I've seen Fulci's Zombi and The City of the Living Dead and all I can say about this director is that he is completely overrated. His films do not hold up over time, they aren't frightening and they certainly aren't entertaining. I can't believe that Rolling Thunder helped re-release this schlock. When you consider the other horror films that were coming out in the states around this time, like Alien and John Carpenter's The Thing it really shames Fulci. The Beyond is low-budget gore-spoliation that might have been freaky in say 1973, but in 1981 it was passe and in 2004 it is comedy. Take it from me, avoid this at all costs. Where do I go for a refund? "},{"Title":"Post Zombie(1979) Masterpiece","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  L'Aldila/The Beyond(1981) was the film that brought my attention to the cinema of Lucio Fulci.  I became an instant fan of his work from watching The Beyond(1981).  I have seen a few more films by the director since. The opening scene is filmed in a gorgeous sepia color.  The murder and torture of Schweick the painter symbolises the censorship and oppression of the artist.  The print released on DVD is fantastic.The Chain whipping in Don't Torture a Duckling(1972) would be repeated during the prologue of The Beyond.  The chain whipping scene here is more gory then the film mentioned above.  There are a few reasons why the chain whipping scene in the former is more powerful and potent.  First, the scene takes place in a natural setting.  Second, it goes for almost absolute realism.  Third, the death of Maciara is sad and tragic.The Beyond(1981) was part of a proposed trilogy called the 7 Gates trilogy. The trilogy began with The Gates of Hell(1980), continued with The Beyond(1981), and was to end with The Beyond 2.  Sadly, the trilogy would never be completed.  This is a shame because it would have great to see another gothic classic from Fulci.  The original intentions for the film differed from the finished product.  One reason for this was due to money and time limitations.  It makes one wonder how better The Beyond would have been with a modest budget.The make up effects are one of the main attractions.  Despite the low budget, Giannetto De Rossi did some spectacular effects for this.  The effects were done with flair and flamboyance.  Giannetto De Rossi did his best work when working with Fulci.  The effects for Joe the plumber are very good.  The best effects is the scene where the young girl gets a chunk of her skull blown off.The cinematography is spliced with atmosphere and style.  Sergio Salvati gives the film its gothic flavour.  The night shots are wonderful and the cinematography is flowing with grace.  The music is my favourite horror score.  Fabio Frizzi performs a score that fits perfectly with the visuals. The music is as good as the ones done by Goblin for Dario Argento.The Beyond is an Absolute Film in which image and sound are more important then dialogue or story.  On the film, Fulci commented My idea was to make an absolute film, with all the horrors of our world.  Its a plotless film. There's no logic to it, just a succession of images.  This is something that people who hate this movie don't realize and ignore to understand. Many average viewers despise this kind of film because there's nothing linear in it.  Fulci once also said People who blame The Beyond for its lack of story don't understand that its a film of images which must be received without any reflection.  Many people and critics are unable to look at The Beyond in this content.The theories of Antonin Artoud played an important role in the construction of the movie.  Lucio Fulci was influenced by this French rebel.  The ideas of Artoud are present in Beatrice Cenci and the gothic features.  Schweick the painter bears an almost identical resemblence to Artoud.  The Beyond(1981) also follows by the principles of Artoud's theories of the Theater of Cruelty.  This is also appliable to the cinema.The Beyond would influence a few American and Italian horror features. One, The Evil Dead.  Two, Hellraiser.  Three, HellboundHellraiser 2.  Four, The Church.  Five, Dellamorte Dellamore.The comment Violence is Italian Art by Fulci bears some importance to violence in The Beyond and the history of Italian art.  Its a rare film where atmosphere and gore unite successfully.  Has good moments of psychological horror.  The atmosphere of The film is extremely eerie and terrifying.  The gore is much more satisfying then most violence in many late 1990s Hollywood horror pics.  The thickish atmosphere and gory imagery are what makes this a classic modern horror film.The Beyond will never be favoured by mainstream audiences because its not a film for the masses.  The ideas and themes are well written by Dardano Scchetti.  Catriona MacColl and David Warbeck are very good as the main protagonists.  Veronica Lazar is sinister as Martha.  Lucio Fulci did an excellent in the filming of The Beyond with what little he had to work with. The Beyond is one of the greatest horror films because of its Lovecraft visuals(the ending is haunting).   "},{"Title":"Another piece of disgusting horror crap from Fulci","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK--obviously Fulci has his admirers (read previous postings).  I'm not one of them.  I love horror films and graphic gore does not bother me at all. But Fulci's films are graphic gore and nothing else.  I've seen about five of his films (The Gates of Hell, House by the Cemetery, Zombie) and hate each of them for the same reasons.  The plots make no sense, the characters are boring, the dubbing is atrocious and gore is just rubbed in our faces for no apparent reason than to gross us out.  Like I said, I don't mind graphic gore, but let's have a reason for it!  I totally disagree with people calling Fulci the King of Italian horror films.  That title belongs to Dario Argento.  His movies are graphic also, but there's plot, characterization and they're beautifully filmed (look at Suspira). Getting back to The Beyond it starts out interesting, gets bogged down in the middle, throws in a needlessly graphic (and stupid) attack by spiders and ceases to make sense totally by the end.  I was lucky enough to see a brand-new print of this in a revival cinema last year.  The basic reaction of the audience was utter silence and a few groans and boos.  People walked out talking about how much they hated the film.  Great to see that I'm not alone.  So if you're looking for graphic, disgusting, looonnngggg gore sequences, go with Fulci.  If you want plot, characterization and better direction, go with Argento. "},{"Title":"Horrifying and humorous all at the same time making for a great midnight screening.","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's the type of horror that makes a midnight screening audience laugh out loud as we watched some brilliantly bad English dubbing. A young woman, runs from evil to the sound of a kick ass Italian rock band, and an Italian filmmakers strange love of eye popping terror (literally eye popping). Demons, ghost and zombies all in the same movie in the back drop of New Orleans. A woman inherits a house in the city that just so happens to be one of the seven gateways to hell, bummer. The plot is a hot mess after that is explained, than the movie becomes a series of kills after kills and the lady being lorded around the house looking for an answer that did not really exist.The death scenes are archetype giallo, very slow with scenes cutting back and forth from the victim to the weapon and then very Gory.But I've seen other movies like Suspiria or zombie that have done this a lot better and less cheesy But at this point , that is the fun of the movieNote worthy 12'O clocker "},{"Title":"One of the Best in Italian Horror","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I go to a lot of horror conventions and I frequent a lot of horror message boards. I find in my conversations there that most horror geeks go through a typical exploration. You start with the big budget Hollywood horror that was readily available and as your tastes grow more, you start delving deeper into the horror underground. Inevitably, for most horror fans you exhaust the domestic classics and start digging into the foreign films, which brings us to Italian horror and, more specifically, Lucio Fulci.Let's just establish quickly that his films are either going to be appreciated or hated and there is little middle ground. I will admit that it took me a few runs through Italian horror films until I started to get it more and appreciate them. Accept right off the bat that you are throwing plot and logic out the window to appreciate imagery. Fulci believed strongly that the best horror should elicit a strong response in the audience and spur them to a feeling or action. It did not have to be a good story. If you can't get past the fact that the movie doesn't always make good sense, then don't bother. I'm not going to tell you you're wrong because it's perfectly logical to want a good plot in a movie. On the other hand, art doesn't always have to make sense. The art of Jackson Pollock doesn't portray life in the same way as a Reubens portrait might, but that doesn't mean they aren't both valid art.So, with the caveats out of the way, let's talk about the movie. To me, ZOMBIE will always be Fulci's masterpiece and is in my top 50 horror films. This movie is easily his next best. The story revolves around a hotel built on one of the gates to hell, which naturally causes some strange occurrences on the grounds. It's hard to give you more plot than that because...well..there isn't much more. What the movie can provide, though, is good atmosphere and some awesome visual effects.The tone of the movie is consistently creepy. Originally intended to be a haunted house flick, but altered some to make the producers happy, the movie still adheres well to the haunted house feel. From the beginning scenes, there is something unsettling about the house and the events going on and Fulci plays this well by injecting a surreal feeling into things so that it truly feels like a nightmare.The deaths are what you're paying admission for, though. There are some great visual effects here. Gallons of spurting blood, ripping flesh, melting faces, spiders tearing chunks off people. For gorehounds there is a lot of fun to be had here and that's what draws me into this movie the most.Fulci's movies always walk a thin line between surreal and ridiculous. The first time I encountered this movie I wasn't quite sure how I felt about it, but as I've seen it a few more times I've really grown an appreciation for the movie. Set aside your preconceived notions about plot (who needs it) and just enjoy the ride for what it is, a bloody, disgusting, thrill. "},{"Title":"Impressive!","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond, Zombie film not like the others... The only bad point of The Beyond is having a lack of story and hard to understand. However, we pass through this lack easily because of the many quality that I'll mention below. The film is really gore and I think we have the right to the best special effect of the master  Lucio Fulci The two scenes with the eye are very impressive. The actress, who plays the role of Lisa, takes her role enough seriously, she's really good. The atmosphere is a strong point of the movie, it is very horrific!! The end is totally beautiful, I love the ending that leaves us in a questionement and it always makes me the same effect after SEVERAL listening. Fulci at his best!! "},{"Title":"Chilling atmospheric Italian horror gore-fest cult classic","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Whereas for many movies the charge of style over substance has always been a damning criticism, it has always been the very lifeblood of films in the Italian horror genre. One only needs to look at the masters of the genre, Bava and Argento, to see films which make so little sense they sometimes anger the viewer who is earnestly trying to find logic, but never fail to effortlessly craft disturbing atmospheres and elicit genuine horror for those ready to just go along for the ride&#x85;and Lucio Fulci's 'The Beyond' is no exception to this formula. Lovers of narrative and character should basically steer well clear of this one. Instead 'The Beyond' is totally about expressionistic menace and apocalyptic foreboding and it delivers both of these qualities in large doses. However, saying this, there is a plot which hangs together loosely around a hotel which sits atop a gate to Hell&#x85;and a young women called Liza (Catriona MacColl ) who inherits the hotel and plans to reopen it for business. She then meets a creepy looking blind girl who utters sinister portents regarding the hotel. After this all manner of oddness occurs and people start dying in a variety of over-the-top ways, some of which are so extreme they are funny while others are genuinely gross. Either way the kills are inventive set-pieces which, combined with the dodgy-yet-effective late seventies/early eighties soundtrack create a real sense of a disjointed lingering nightmare. Then the zombies attack! This requires the leads to seek refuge in the hotel basement except that while they find they may have escaped the zombies they have stumbled into something far more unsettling.All in all, for all of its many, many weak points, I have yet to come across a film which chilled me so much at the end. It could be argued that with a little narrative discipline and better acting/dubbing, this film could have been a bona-fide horror classic. However, it could also be argued that, if anything, it is the very lack of logic (as with most Italian Horror films) that accentuates the sense of oddness and menace. The film is what it is, does what it does very well, and rightfully belongs to a tradition of horror that wrong-foots logic and order and plunges us into much deeper and more unsettling waters. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"A Hellishly good film","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond is a film that will offer lots and lots of frights even though it is a bit scant on plot. This makes it a perfect film to watch to scare yourself and your friends without needing to worry about following exactly what's happening. This is NOT a criticism--it really isn't. And, sometimes you want to see a film that is one thrill after another.A young woman inherits a hotel in New Orleans--a city that is reputed to be very haunted. However, this place makes EVERY haunted place in the city put together seem like paradise! This is because everyone around the woman keeps dying horrible deaths--very bloody and horrible deaths. They are absolutely horrific--such as a dog tearing out someone's throat as blood goes shooting everywhere! However, and this is important, while very bloody and intense, the special effects are not as realistic as movies today. This is a GOOD thing, as the film would have simply been nauseating and disgusting--but instead, you could laugh off the deaths. Now by 1981 standards, they were not bad at all--something that works very well when seen today.So is it worth seeing? Absolutely. As I said above, if you are just looking to be scared it's very good. But I didn't give it an even higher score because a few scenes were a bit cheesy (such as the obviously fake tarantulas used in one death). I also thought the guy helping the lady at the end was an idiot. Even though EVERY head shot killed the zombies, he kept shooting them in the chest with no effect! And these were really, really, really slow zombies and he could have easily used 1 bullet per zombie! What a knucklehead! So, remember--if you are being attacked by zombies, conserve your bullets and concentrate only on head shots! "},{"Title":"If You See A Gate Of Hell, Don't Cross the Threshold!","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For years I had a love/hate relationship to the work of Lucio Fulci. His ZOMBIE still gets under my skin and creeps me out today. However, having seen his other additions in his DEAD series, I've come to appreciate Fulci as an artist. He's got a vision of Hell that is beyond explanation. Often times, events happen in his films which can't be described so much as experienced firsthand. THE BEYOND is Fulci at his most nightmarish. The story begins in the 1920s when a lynch mob storms the iconic hotel Appropriately named The Seven Doors Hotel. They capture a man who they claim is an ungodly warlock and proceed to torture with chains, nail him to the wall, and then pour quick lime on him. This whole sequence, which makes up the first ten minutes or so, could very well be one the grisliest displays of man's inhumanity to man ever portrayed. Unfortunately, they just happened to nail the man next to an archaic symbol that represents one of the seven gates of Hell. Yes, Seven Doors has a gate to Hell in their basement! Flashforward about 60 years and now there's water in the basement. A young woman has just inherited the hotel and is fixing it up. Before you can say Oh, Hell, painters are falling off of scaffoldings and plumbers are disappearing into the cavernous basement. As if that weren't enough, a blind girl (my choice for creepiest character in the film) shows up to warn the young woman about the hotel's cursed history and the dreaded gate of hell. From that point on, all Hell literally breaks loose in bigger and stranger ways. We've got zombies, tarantulas, self-spilling acid jars, and much much more. If there is one thing to complain about the film, it's the use of the zombies in this one. From what I read, they weren't originally in the film, but added for German audiences at the time. Clearly, the main hero, a doctor, learns early on that you have to shoot them in the head to kill 'em. However, he wastes numerous bullets, shooting them in their torsos and limbs. Come on, even in a panic, you can stop and aim when zombies are so slow! Acting is superb all around, though the script could've used some revisions. Nice use of atmosphere in this film, by the way. As the evil becomes more powerful, fog and darkness seem to close in and have a mind of their own. The finale in the seemingly empty hospital is a brilliant set piece. And the ending is genuinely frightening. I wouldn't be surprised if this is what Hell would be like if I crossed into it! A word of warning to all would-be hotel owners, don't accidentally build your hotel over a gate of Hell! Watch THE BEYOND to see what'll happen! "},{"Title":"big thumbs up for Arrow Blu Ray","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am getting old, I have seen The Beyond on VHS and liked it immediately, of course afterwards I bought it on DVD, the famous Anchor Bay tin which was signed by Catriona MacColl in person at a horror convention. Did I was surprised that it now came out on Blu Ray. It has the most new extra's on it and the picture and sound are so sharp and clear, man, just look at the blood, it is finally blood red. But I must say by seeing it again, it is slowly and surely the effects are sometimes ridiculous but gory as hell. It's a Fulci and much better for me than House By The Cemetery. Now that it is out on BR you can see the crew in one shot at the hospital reflecting on some medal. And just watch the spider attack. How funny is that but still it worked out fine because there are so much people who adore this low budget Italian gem. Just watch the dog and spider attack and see how zombies are being killed. A classic. "},{"Title":"Lucio Fulci's best horror film...","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I thought that The Beyond was one of the best of Lucio Fulci's horror films. It was a video nasty from the 1980's it is about a woman from New York called Liza Merril (Katherine MacColl) who inherits an old hotel in Louisiana, and invests her savings that it can be reopened again. While she is repairing the building, The only thing she does not know that the cellar of hotel is built on top of the door to the beyond, where zombies roam about there. the local Dr. John McCabe (David Warbeck) tries to help Liza to solve the mystery of the hotel. while this is all happening, Liza meets a blind woman Emily (Sarah Keller), She tells Liza that she should leave the hotel as soon as possible. This film had a very eerie feel to it which made the film work well. I like most of Lucio Fulci's movies but a found this to be one of his best. "},{"Title":"I don't know. I think I'm going crazy. Here they come!","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of the 74 infamous video nasties that were banned in Britain. it was finally released uncut in 2001.This film starts off with gore, and it never lets up. This some gory stuff (eye popping,tarantulas, flying glass, and everything) and the Grindhouse Releasing DVD is pristine, so it shows up in brilliant color.And, then the zombies and creatures from Hell come out! This stupid woman has her dog attack the zombies and is surprised when he then rips her throat out. Cue the gushing blood.I couldn't believe the idiot doctor with his body shots on the zombies. He should have known after the first couple of hits that only head shots work. Good thing he had a gun that never ran out of bullets, though.Exciting film and superb quality. Best video nasty I've seen. "},{"Title":"good classic horror","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was really impressed with this. I had already seen Zombi and liked it, but wasn't sure how this was going to turn out after finding it for 5 dollars at the mall. It was definitely worth it and more. It had all the gore, suspense, and storyline that any good horror movie should have. I only gave it a 7 because there are some REALLY good horror movies out there, but this one is definitely worth getting. I don't really know what else to write, but IMDb says I have to write at least 10 lines of text. Thats crap. Im not going to give anything away, but there are some really good eye scenes in this movie. If you've seen Zombi, then you know what that means. Lucio Fulci seems to have a thing with special effect eye shots. "},{"Title":"Great gore fest!","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A young woman heads to Louisiana to buy a decrepit old mansion only to finds that it's situated onto the very portal of hell itself! Soon grisly murders happen, people are blinded & rotting corpses soon rise up from the grave to attack & feast on the living unless she can find a way to close the door forever. Having heard many good things about this gory classic, I was very eager to see it, after finding a copy, I'm pleased to say the film is well worth the wait. The film is well directed & acted, though the cheesy dubbing does make for a small distraction. The films many gory set pieces should no doubt satisfy the cravings of any & all gore hounds out there & the deaths are truly vicious & weird (Loved the spiders eating the guy lying on the floor in the library scene!) & the film has an intriguing & very interesting climax that's probably even more weirder than the film itself! Another good thing about it too is the fact that the director never wastes time, getting right to the heart of the matter instead of making us wait until the middle of the film in order to receive any action, as there's plenty going on every five minutes to keep the horror fan hooked. Great score too, Highly recommended to horror fans!*** stars "},{"Title":"Fulci's Legacy Extended Upon","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Furthering the legacy he has made himself in the horror genre, The Beyond is a masterpiece. Yet another amazing soundtrack assembled by Fabio Frizzi. When the music in a horror movie just pops while at the same time being a composed and a little bit gritty tune. Anyhow, I have plenty more Fulci films to watch, but this and Zombie have me hooked on Fulci. I recommend seeing City of The Living Dead for the two notorious bloody scenes, but I thought that movie is over-rated. Anyhow, this is a must see! The plot is unique and flows well keeping the viewer entertained with graphic deaths and a legendary soundtrack. The only thing I don't like is something movies normally bring upon a viewer in horror often. A similar quote would be to myself; Why did she go down the stairs?!?!?!. In this case for me it was the fact that the male lead character would continue to shoot the zombies in the stomach and chest area regardless of the tremendously obvious death by head-shots intention. Also props to the fake spiders in the background. Haha, yeah I saw them and their awesome. "},{"Title":"Over the top gore masterpiece!","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio Fulci is not a filmmaker of great subtlety or craft, but when it comes to creating films which resemble gory fever dreams, few are able to top him. It's rare when a film can be both this ridiculous and actually frightening, but that's all part of Fulci's world. His films are relentlessly surreal and pay no attention to coherent narrative (even the least observational of viewers will be able to pick up on the various plot hole). I guess with Fulci, it all comes down to one thing - either you like this kind of thing or you don't. He may not have the critical respect of Argento or Bava, but many horror fans hold him in equally high regard with the two more acclaimed masters of Italian shock.If you see only one Fulci film, you may as well make it The Beyond. The film has all his trademarks. The plot itself makes no sense when studied closely, and again Fulci attempts to disguise the Italian locations as American (he did the same in House By the Cemetery). Like the plot, the acting is mediocre but beside the point. The gore looks fake and is often drawn out, but retains disturbing power in how unhinged it is. Overall, The Beyond resembles what Lovecraft's fever dreams must have resembled. The ominous house includes demons whose presence is never really explained but who wreck havoc nonetheless. The conclusion in particular seems channeled from another world, but Fulci wouldn't have it any other way. For horror fans, you really can't afford to miss The Beyond. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Fulci himself has a Hitchcock- style cameo, as a librarian, and I'm not convinced the crazed look in his own eyes is acting.","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Released in 1981, The Beyond is the story of a young woman who inherits an old, run-down hotel in New Orleans, she has no idea that it was once the site of a murder most foul&#133; or that it's one of the seven gateways to Hell. So much for the disclosure laws in haunted real estate! The Beyond is, literally, an eye-popping experience. It's genuinely scary at times and the gore elements are oftentimes expertly executed, including a now-infamous tarantula sequence. Still, the story is annoyingly threadbare and doesn't have the mystique and, believe-it-or-not, credibility of Suspiria. The characters in the Argento film meet doom slowly and are realistically driven to examine the mysterious nature of their surroundings. The characters in The Beyond do not flee their surroundings despite the obvious presence of evil, so their ultimate destination (a very lame one at that) is never really engaging. "}{"Title":"Holy Schniekies!","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is definitely one of the scariest horror films ever made. I watch horror and gore constantly, and this film trumps most of what I see. This one had my friends and I screaming at the TV in absolute shock and horror. This is not an easy thing to do to us. We are pretty jaded horror fans and this movie had us all cowering under pillows and screaming like little kids. The Beyond is a masterpiece in extremely grueling and uncomfortable gore and violence. Beyond that (pun intended) it is also very atmospheric and creepy. The film feels heavy and evil. It is most metal, in other words. This film is so effective that most other horror films seem tame and boring after it. Viva Fulci! "},{"Title":"The Films of Lucio  Fulci (the H.P. Lovecraft phase).","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond (1981) was one of the many Lucio Fulci films that were loosely based on the writings of H.P. Lovecraft (and several other films that were made during that time i.e. The Shining). The production values are a bit above standard Fulci and the acting is tepid but the direction is competent. People have unfairly slagged Fulci's films. I don't know why because he promises and delivers. Most of the film believe it or not was actually shot in New Orleans (the interiors were filmed in Italy). The lead actors are U.K. citizens and for the most part the dialog was mouth in English.The film starts off with some horrific events that happened many years ago. Some angry townsfolk grab some scary looking dude and nail him to a stone wall. Still not satisfied, someone throws some sulfuric acid on the poor guy's face and seals him in. Years later a woman with an accent moves into the dumpy motel and tries to open it up as a fancy hotel. Despite warnings from the locals and some nasty accidents, she refuses to budge. Then she meets a balding mack daddy who befriends her. Trying to get on her good side (and possibly getting some) he decides to investigate the history of the hotel (against his better judgment). and discovers something he wished he never had. What happens next? Dude this is a Lucio Fulci movie! Well, if you're expecting an intellectual horror film look else where's. But if you want some cheap exploitive fare with heavy doses of H.P. Lovecraft thrown in then this one's for you. I have to recommend this film if you love Italian horror or a film with extra gory set pieces. Others need not apply. "},{"Title":"quite stylish, gory, worthwhile","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" After having heard all the oh, Fulci is just a hack comments, I finally got around to watching one of his films. Perhaps it was luck that I chose to start with the one many consider his best _The Beyond_.I wound up watching it three times.OK, OK, OK. This is not _Passion of Joan of Arc_ or anything like that -- but it wasn't meant to be. I found _The Beyond_ to be immensely enjoyable, full of first-rate grue and set pieces, atmospherically shot, and even decently acted. It was a really pleasant surprise.The expected Fulci gore effects are variable in their believability, ranging from almost-excruciating (the painter character being whipped with chains in the Prologue) to nerve-wracking but (thankfully!) obviously-fake the scene where tarantulas chew up a man's face in the library mixes shots of real tarantulas with (creepy, sorta) fake ones and a real face with a (very) fake one. When one of the tarantulas pulls off a chunk of the fake nose the skin stretches in a very un-skin-like way. Still, if you are afraid of spiders this scene will probably do what it was supposed to.My favorite set piece involved a horrified young woman backing away from the frothy wave of acid mixed with blood/flesh pouring off her mother's face as a huge bottle of acid (where did that come from?) empties itself onto her. Only Fulci would do this! Although I overall found the Fabrio Frizzi score effective, there were a couple of times when it definitely had that synth-heavy 80s sound that made me feel as though I was watching a porn film. This is especially true when the music kicks in in the Prologue, after the quicklime is thrown into the painter's face and he starts melting down. One almost expects wah-wah guitar effects to start.The film is very image heavy and light in the plot that makes seamless sense department. There are any number of holes in the story that never seem to be addressed. Not a perfect movie, by any means. But has Hollywood delivered as fun a horror movie as this in the last 30 years? "},{"Title":"The Beyond is Fulci's best","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am a big fan of Fulci and the Italian horror sub-genre, and I would say that the Beyond is Fulci's best, followed by Zombi 2. It starts of with a man known as a warlock named Sweik being crucified and melted with acid in room 36 of a Louisiana hotel. It then moves along to 1981 where a woman inherits that same hotel. Strange things immediately start to happen. This film features plenty of killing and gore, done in the traditional Fulci way. It also has a good story about a hotel built over one of the 7 gates of hell. The story makes more sense than some other Fulci movies and it features the anti-climax ending that most Fulci movies have. All in all, the Beyond is a great horror film with lots of gore (especially the spiders)and a good story. Some of the dubbing isn't too great, but i'm willing to overlook that. I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Don't ever stay in room 36 !!!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Fulci combines a number of movie plots and themes into a compelling story. Well... it doesn't start out that way. The movie gets progressively more interesting as it gets towards the end and leaves you wanting more. This movie is part The Others, part Amityville Horror, part The Gate mixed with a dash of zombies. The pre-credits sequence at the beginning lays the foundation of the movie. It is interesting, yet leaves a bit of mystery to be divulged. This is followed ,unfortunately, by about an hour of tedious story and multiple killings. Through all this we find out one thing  Fulci has a thing for gauging eyeballs and maiming in general. Also, Fulci seems to think blood is water mixed with red food dye #6. There are also some horror conventions that our protagonists seem to have overlooked. For example, when you shoot something (a zombie, for example) in the chest multiple times and it doesn't fall, you then shoot it in the head. Our protagonist, repeats this same procedure about 4 or 5 times, obviously not learning from the previous encounters. There are also the film flubs. For example, our hero fires about 9-10 shots (from a revolver ... which he keeps at his desk ... at the hospital .. where he works as a doctor), before even thinking about reloading. I'd love to see the cylinder on that magnum. I haven't seen this much melting people (due to tossed spoilt milk, or poured water) since Devil's Rain.This is an interesting movie. I highly recommend it for anyone who enjoys the horror genre or Italian exploitation movies of the 70's and 80's. "},{"Title":"When will people learn to leave those Gates of Hell alone?","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Zombie Review #4**spoilers, but the film won't make any more sense!**Where do you start with a film like this?  Director Lucio Fulci is equally revered and reviled for his weirdo 80s gore movies such as Zombie Flesh Eaters, City of the Living Dead, and the New York Ripper (a slasher film where the killer has Donald Ducks voice!).The Beyond is often cited as Fulci's best film, and I'm inclined to agree.  Sure, it has little in the way of coherent plot or character development and an often slow pace, but for once it doesn't seem to matter.  While those problems tend to be true of all of Fulci's work, here the film actually achieves a genuine dream-like atmosphere where the gaps in the story and sudden jumps in logic make a sort of strange anti-sense (if you follow me!)The story has another one of those pesky gates of hell being opened up by accident, which seems to be a worryingly easy thing to do.  You'd think it would involve a whole lot of chanting, devil worshipping and virgin sacrificing, but apparently a plumber called Joe knocking through the wrong wall will do the job just as well.Given the disjointed, surreal nature of the film it seems almost pointless to go into too many plot specifics, but through it's course the Beyond has Zombies (of course), people with strange eyes staring into the camera, a cunning reverse of the eyeball scene from Zombi, a woman melted by acid, a man eaten by spiders (or is it a plastecine face being picked at by pipe cleaners?  You decide!), and a crucified Warlock.And if one thing's guaranteed to make a film at least, well I'd say about 15% better, it's a crucified Warlock.This being a Lucio Fulci film it really picks up when the zombies arrive, and while they take their time turning up, they don't disappoint when they do.Apart from the climactic escape from hordes of flesh eating ghouls (which gore fans should note features one of the most classy exploding head effects ever filmed), Fulci also delivers another fine animal vs zombie scene to follow up the shark fight from Zombi.  Here it's zombies vs a dog, which could really have been a film in its own right.The Beyond's greatest achievement though, is that for once Fulci's emphasis on eerie visuals at the expense of story really pays off, with the slow pace and hazy photography lending a genuinely creepy atmosphere, while the use of twisted dream logic really pays off in the climax.Several films have tried to create a surreal, nightmare like quality, but the end of the Beyond seems to nail the disjointed events and geography of dreams better than most (or at least better than most Nightmare on Elm St films!)The Beyond is probably not a film for all tastes, and it's not without flaws.  Some of it is genuinely effect, and some of it is just plain funny, but it's certainly one of the most effective Italian horrors from the 80s, and in it's unrelenting gore and refusal to make sense it more than shows up the current crop of hyped up so-called horror films for the gutless, bloodless tat they really are.  "},{"Title":"Fulci pokes out another one!","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For those who are familiar with Lucio Fulci's films, or are just getting familiarized, The Beyond is one of those must see horror flicks Like many of us horror fanatics, I didn't mind how some of this film's story line didn't quite seem to connect . I was entertained by this film visually, so that was enough to hold me. I heard someone else say that this film is like a nightmare or dream. Things don't always connect but that is what we expect from dreams. Fulci wasn't known to follow the masses when it came to making his movies so it is no suprise.For the gorehounds- this has some wonderfully created effects. And what is it with Fulci's obsession with eyeballs being poked and pulled out? This one has a few good eyeball scenes. I picked up a copy of The Beyond DVD at a horror convention. It is a beautiful copy, with some commentary, interviews, etc. Like most of Fulci films, you won't find them in Blockbuster or Hollywood Video- especially the unrated versions. I picked up The Beyond from a dealer at a horror convention.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Beautiful; Lovecraftian in texture","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond is a most well-crafted Italian Horror Film from my generation's golden age of modern-horror films.  Fulci himself described the film in Starburst # 48 (God rest its soul if its not still still-around) as a succession of images with the zombies as being more of an after-thought. With Italian horror films, plot is second to the pure GUSTO of CINEMATIC STYLE! C-I-N-E-M-A!!  (typical) American film-goers need plot and structure (linerisims) just look at our buildings, business-practices, standardized tests.  In American Cinema (an art-form indigenous to this linear-structure paradigm), the foregin film falls to pieces.  With the feel and bouyant texture of Frizzi's cacacphonous Voci Nella Dulla (voices of nothing), Gino De Rossi's brilliant effects, Sergio Stilvati's editing, and Vicenzio Tomassi's editing (I'm writing from memory here) all the way from beginning to end The Beyond gave me chills . . . even as a jaded young adult (I'm an older young-adult who's less jaded/more humble)! thanks.  Ignore my poor spelling (focus on my M-E-A-N-I-N-G!) remember its CINEMA first, plot second!  "},{"Title":"Truly dark, disturbing, and disgusting","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond is perhaps the most disturbing horror movie I've ever had the opportunity to watch. This is a major statement to make, considering having watched movies such as the uncut versions of Cannibal Holocaust and Zombie Flesh Eaters. Lucio Fulchi really went to town in this gory, violent tale of a house which stands on a gateway to hell. As is typical of Fulchi's work, we have cheap but eerie background music which really make the viewer feel uneasy, as was the intention of the director. It's only a matter of time before zombies appear in the cellar and start to take the lives of the cast one by one. Although the deaths are horrific to a comic level, they are dark and disturbing. Later on in the movie people try and discover the plans of the house and get Omen-style deaths like the poor guy who is taken by lightning, then has his face devoured by spiders. Although the special effects are cheap and nasty, this particular death was the most disgusting, the real effect made by the strangely fitting porn-style music. I don't really want to watch that scene again.In the end Lucio did what he did to create one of the deepest darkest haunted house/zombie movies. The acting is mostly poor and the storyline is ridden with inconsistencies and other stuff, which happened for no other reason but to create a fanastic death. Gore hounds should now own this movie in their collection as it's been released uncut since 1981.4/5  "},{"Title":"Almost perfect horror masterpiece.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***** spoilers*** The beyond is a great Horror film. While Fulci has slipped a few turds into the cinematic toilet this is not one of them. While Argento was the master of the Italian horror film(at least in the 70's and 80's)I really believe The beyond is the best Italian horror film from this era. The Beyond contains elements Supernatural horror, suspense and over the top gore. It has demons, gothic sets, Zombies everything a cult horror needs to have to be a classic.The plot follows a New York woman who inherits a hotel in Louisiana that just happens to be built over one of the seven doors to hell. The horror comes when she attempts to re-open the hotel. The scares are there, the gore while over the top is doesn't take aware from the creepy nature of the story.I came close to voting 10/10 for this film that I consider to be a Horror masterpiece. The reality is there are a few scenes that are weak here and there. There is a scene in the morgue where a corpse is hooked up to a `brainwave machine'. There is no reason for this other than a cheap suspense gimmick. It is a little thing but is a flaw that has always bugged me. Still If you like a great horror movie this is the ticket.  "}{"Title":"Gore Beyond Belief","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci is one of the greatest directors ever in the Horror Genre.All of his films are extremely gory, and have a very sinister plot.In his films evil always wins.The Beyond is no different, an excellent, creepy and gory film for fans of the Horror genre.Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"fulci delivers","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was one of fulci's better zombie films during Italy's tumultuous zombie era. The acting was descent and the gore ( although not as graphic as other fulci vehicles from that time frame ) plentiful. I thought the audio commentary from Catherine Macoll and David Warbeck was terrific. I recommend this film to all those avid gore fans. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Put simply...I love it","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Watching this makes me wonder why some people dislike Fulcis work. This movie is simply great. You want good acting? Well...err...ok, so maybe it doesnt have the best acting in the world, but oh well. Nothings perfect. You want gore? Ok, that we have. In true Fulci style, no eyes are safe. Eyes being impaled through nails, eyes being torn out, and If I remember correctly, a spider eats an eye. Besides that, theres some heads being shot, and dogs attacking people. Its extremely gruesome, and sorry if my descriptions themselves disgust you...but if they do you shouldnt be looking at a review for an Italian gore-flick.The storyline is pretty well done. Quickly put - One of the seven gates of Hell have been opened. See? Simple.The ending is pretty creative, as well as creepy. Although in the finale (at the hospital) David Warbeck just doesnt seem to get it. Each and every time he fires once or twice at a zombies chest before finally shooting it in the head. If he had common sense he'd realize the head shots are the ones that count.  "},{"Title":"great on gore and atmosphere , short on logic and plot","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio Fulci's odd piece of work The Beyond offers alot to work with , but doesnt deliver 100% due to the serious plot holes , and explanations not found for various scenes in the film. This is not really a problem for me in that I can sit and watch this and be entertained through out the course of the film due to the errie atmosphere , and the disgusting looking imagery. This is not really a film for those seeking logic and plot handed down to them , just as long as you can go with the flow and groove to the film as it is ..it can be a very errie night for you. The gore in this film is indeed pretty graphic , but the effects don't live up to standards even for 1981 and it lessens the exciting (or nauseating) impact that it was intended for.(spoilers) The Beyond is pretty much The Gates Of Hell in Lousianna instead of Dunwitch. The plot is that the gates of hell are open , and they must be closed or the dead walk the earth..gee doesnt that sound just like the movie that was made before it , hey I even think when Joe the plumber is vomitting his own intestines it reuses the same sound effects from the infamous scene of the same type in Gates. However The Beyond does what Gates didn't was a fast paced story with better acting , more violence , and less annoying characters ..even though the pupiless blind girl is just begging to get murdered with her irritating screams which thankfully happens when her beloved German sheppard rips out her neck and brains in a scene more brutal than anything you'd see on When Animals Attack.But also like Gates Of Hell it has a ending that leaves the viewer feeling ripped off and expecting more and angry when they're through with it..but also allows the viewer to create his own version of what happens next.The Beyond is a must see for any horror gore fan..movie snobs and critics beware9/10 "},{"Title":"I Post This in Honor of the Pre-NC-17 Zombie","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Here is the deal -- Lucio Fulci, in his incarnation as 80's horror-maven, did one unforgettable and brutally atmospheric horror film, Zombie (aka Zombi 2).  The images of that flick are among the most disturbing ever recorded, but if, like me, you own the Zombie DVD, go no further with Fulci. Stay right where you are.  The two films he did right after -- this is one of them -- are just plain laughable.  Only view it under these circumstances alcohol, friends, riffing.  Watch it alone and face the dreary consequences.  You will begin to make fun of it almost immediately, and desperately wish your friends were there to join in.  The music is especially ridiculous -- it gives a whole new landscape to the word cheese.  It is like lounge rock too foul for even the worst lounge you can imagine.  Look, it is no blasphemy to say that Fulci fell apart after Zombie.  At least his stumbles are entertaining in a weird, Dali-esque sort of way.  He managed one horror classic -- and how many directors can say as much?  Compare him with Carpenter, director of the unequaled Halloween, and you'll see what I mean.  You can bring your friends over for a Fulci flick, and chuckle and giggle, and have a merry ol' time -- but Escape From L.A. and Ghosts of Mars just make one melancholy in a helpless, dog-in-the-rain kind of way, like you're staring at a tombstone of someone you once knew. "},{"Title":"Through that gateway, evil will invade the world.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~The Beyond, The Seven Doors of Death, whatever you what to call it, is Fulci's masterpiece. It's probably his best film, and one of the best to come out of Italy period. The Beyond tells the story of a hotel that was constructed over a doorway of evil, one of the seven gates of hell. It's waited there for generations, waited for someone to open it. Catriona MacColl inherits the property and wants to re-open the hotel. When the renovations start, all hell breaks loose, literally. Leave it to Joe the freakin' plumber to open the gates of hell. At that point, the gore really starts, and doesn't stop. The scene when Pippi Longstocking's head is blown off is AWESOME!! The crucifixion scene also takes my breath away. I have to wonder how they pulled this stuff off so well. And Fulci is definitely the king of the eyeball gag eyeballs are ripped out, popped out, pushed in, and even eaten by spiders. Let's not forget another reason this film works so well David Warbeck. He's supercool. If Zombie (another Fulci classic) would've had a hero as smooth as Warbeck, it would have been better than it was. It's rumored that Warbeck wrote a script for a sequel entitled Beyond The Beyond. I'd love to read that. Before I saw this, I absolutely loved The Dead Hate The Living. After watching The Beyond, my respect for DHTL has heightened. I now have a greater appreciation for it after watching this film. If you've seen both films, you know what I'm talking about. Simply put, The Beyond is a great gore flick that has withstood the test of time and continues to amaze viewers. It makes me wonder where the other six doorways are. "},{"Title":"Very interesting if you look closer","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  E tu vivrai nel terrore - L'aldila, translated And You Shall Live In Terror- The Beyond(afterlife) was released in the USA, with large bits of what little plot the film had, chopped off under the title The Seven Doors of Death. The box art was compelling, looking like the cover of an issue of Vault of Horror from EC Comics and promising(From the looks of it) extreme carnage and violence.This was not so. Not only were the first couple minutes lopped off(which were already only barely explaining the plot's beginning) but much of the gore as well. Viewers were left with a watchable film but without the gore that the video box promised- thus alienating the main viewership- namely gore hounds. Others only knew the movie through reputation, and may have picked it up through curiosity.Fortunately, what was once relegated to crappy bootleg video transfers is now available on video and an excellent DVD edition, and The Beyond, as it is known in its uncut glory in the USA, is now accessible.Enough history.The film itself, as I said, does not explain much of the plot. What we see is a man painting a picture- it looks like a dark landscape with dead bodies laying around. A group of men break into his hotel room, drag him into the basement, and whip him with chains, nail him to a wall, and throw a convenient bucket of acid in his face(I heard this was some sort of limestone-remover or something. I would be worried about getting it on my hands if I were to scoop it into a small bucket and throw it in someone's face!). They obviously disbelieved the man's warnings that the hotel was(gasp) built over one of The Seven Gates of Hell(tm)!That about wraps up any storyline as far as why the gate is opened. So what's the real story? Why did the gates open? Was this so-far unnamed painter some human cork, plugging the gate? Was his death simply hideous enough to open the gates in and of itself? Or did he mumble some sort of prayer to the dark powers, a spell of some sort, and open the gate at the moment of his death?I don't know. I always assumed it was just the horrible nature of his death. The men called him a warlock, but the film never reveals whether this was true or whether they were just superstitious because of his weird paintings- which was my original assumption, but he *did* know about the gate! On the other hand, the hotel was called the Seven Doors Hotel or somesuch, so I guess it couldn't have been all too secret.We learn later that the man was named Sweik, because one woman(a ghost in fact) cries out to him for pity right before she gets her throat ripped out, in an only somewhat-convincing scene(yeah, the director was known for gore, but never really made it look all that real, except for two now-legendary scenes from Gates of Hell, which was something of a 'Part One' to this film).So all in all the plot is not the driving force. The driving force is gore, fear, weird happenings, shock, and gore. Maybe I repeated myself, but it was intentional.The whole movie revolves around simply weird things that happen in a haunting. The whole film, while not heavy on character developmet, plot, or even decent dialogue is very heavy on one all-important thing in Italian horror cinema atmosphere.And Fulci knew *that* area well. No matter if the movie didn't make much sense or the gore was silly. The film *still* gave you a dark feeling of growing dread, or at least a feeling like you needed a shower. And that's horror!Italian horror films revolve so much around atmosphere that the movies come off less like an ongoing story and more like an unraveling nightmare. Especially The Beyond, of all Fulci's movies. Of Fulci's 'big three'(which consists of this film, The Gates of Hell aka City of the Living Dead, and Zombie aka Zombie Flesh Eaters aka Zombie 2) The Beyond is most successful as an entertaining movie. Gates of Hell was all gore, but much of it was tiring(about three people died in the same way) and boring. Zombie had nice makeup effects but the main attraction, a scene in which a woman gets a wooden splinter into her eye, is very easy to see through- you can tell exactly how it was done, and that's a bad thing when it comes to gore. Zombie had a more sensible storyline than Gates, but Gates, had an eerie story and atmosphere in its own right.Enter The Beyond. The film was not as creepy an atmosphere throughout much of it as Gates or Zombie, but the pacing outshone both. Although Beyond didn't have the famous gore scenes of the other two, it did have a higher all-around gore level, although it still suffered from some of it looking fake(you can't help but wince at a scene of tarantula's eating a man's face, although you can still see the glue from the prosthetics being stretched as the pieces are ripped off).This review is quite wordy already so let me cut to the end as fast as I can. the Beyond has some flaws- the plot is not fully explained, and there are some silly mistakes. Why did Liza find the bloody nails in Sweik's old room when he was crucified in the cellar? Do Louisiana homes even have cellars(I don't think so)? Indeed, why did the gates re-open when she moved in- was Sweik waiting for someone to move in, or is it as silly as some people say(that the plumber knocking the wall down opened the gates- I mean, come on, the zombies in the film can teleport! Who cares about a wall?).Despite these problems, The Beyond is a true nightmare scenario which jumps about from horrible scene to spooky scene to weird scene to horrible scene to nonsensical scene to horrible scene. The needed thing isn't to ignore the plot- it's to build on it yourself. Why are these things happening? If you fill in the gaps yourself, you can come up with a sensible answer that you can debate with your friends. A horror movie that can start a debate- wow.Answers? Debates? What about the ending? I don't want to give away the ending, but the ending is quite interesting if you look closer. You can turn off the VCR and say The ending was (whatever) and never think about it again. Or you can think- what really happened? Was it a descent into the beyond? or madness? what happens now? they become like Emily? or they make their own hell? There are lots of questions to ask, and lots of debates. I think Fulci was smarter than people credit him for with this ending. Which is a place where the other two films fail. Gates of Hell had such a lame ending that it practically ruined the movie. One explanation was that someone dropped acid on the film and the visuals for that ending were lost. Whatever. Even the ending, if it hadn't been burned, was lame. And the ending for Zombie was obvious. I *liked* the ending, but they could have tried to make it a little less guessable. The ending to The Beyond, however, was well-paced, well shot, the 'scenery' was great and you really couldn't see it coming(or maybe I'm just bad at guessing endings).So what it amounts to is this If you can watch a movie without being spoonfed all the answers; if you love watching films with atmosphere as much as plotline; if you like violence and can overlook if it looks fake sometimes; if you like nightmare scenarios; and if you'd like to see what is hailed by many to be the best film of who is hailed to be one of the best Italian horror film directors of all time, check out The Beyond. I'd skip Seven Doors of Death if I were you- get it uncut. You could even make it a double feature with Gates(it will probably be listed as City of the Living Dead).I will stop the review now, as it is already long enough. If the above sounds like you, stop reading reviews and just check out The Beyond.  "},{"Title":"great gore from fulci.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i often hear how this is fuici's best film but i havent had the pleasure of viewing many of his films. i have only seen this and zombie flesh eaters and i enjoyed both. the beyond has some great gore scenes for fans of gore like me. the spider attack scene is original and well done and the head on the nail was cool too. the film had a very very strange ending but i wont give it away.7/10 "},{"Title":"A film that deserved it's cult status.***1/2","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Around March or April of 1998 a screening of a film was being held at The University of Massachusetts in Amherst,Massachusetts.Eventually this film was achieving certain cult status and was being shown for midnight showings in small independent theaters.As I sat in the chair waiting for this one film to come on the projection screen,I would not expect the kind of impact this film would have on me.When the lights went out and the movie was displayed on the screen,I was effected for an entire 90 minutes or a little more by a film from a director whose name had recieved cult phenomenom.Lucio Fulci,an italian filmmaker who made a number of films in the gore tradition before his death in 1996 would be probably be best remembered for The Beyond,a film which was a favorite among cult fans and a film that critics hated.Roger Ebert gave the film a rating of *1/2 and I found his review interesting even though I have no idea why.Basicly my opinions on this film are much different which I like to express.I enjoy horror films that do not take themselves seriously and have the tendency to showcase it's effects of gore on moviegoers.The Beyond is not the best horror film that I have seen but it's enjoyable to me because it reminds me of one of those gross horror films I would one time watch in the drive ins.The film concerns a woman who inherits a mansion in Loisianna.The house she moves into has a hideous past where a man was killed being accused of witchcraft.Eventually the main character discovers that the house is a house of evil which releases a display of total evil.The Beyond has elements of the dead walking and highly displayed levels of extreme gore for which Lucio Fulci was probably a master at.The Beyond to me is a film that had me looking at horror films much differently.I enjoyed this film as a horror film and I do believe they are others that are alot better than this such as Suspiria which was directed By another italian filmmaker,Dario Argento.The Beyond has a certain silliness to the film and yes I admit the story was not that much to pay attention to.But I have a thing for these kind of films and I like to view films that are pretty much all gore because of the way it affects me.One certain scene involved a gang of tarantulas ripping off the face of it's victim which is shown in graphic detail.They are other elements which seemed to be a trademark of Lucio Fulci.Eyeballs being ripped out of eyesockets and lots of guts and blood has always been an event in his films.I really think that the cult status for The Beyond was well deserved but as a film itself it aint much.The Beyond is one of my favorites as a horror film and it's the kind of film I would watch on cult film day.Although there are no such days.I would recommend this film for Lucio Fulci fans and cult film fans.The Beyond is a decent horror film but only in the form of a cult status that made me remember the films I use to watch at the local drivein.This film has it's graphic moments and some moments that are kind of corny.But that corniness is done in a fun sort of way and that is why The Beyond is one of my favorite horror films. "},{"Title":"The gates of hell open once again...","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A New Orleans house hides one of the seven gateways of hell...and once open, no one is safe from the evil that has been released.  Of course the new residents don't know this, and end up suffering the tortures of the damned trying to figure out th house's mystery and how to stop the evil. Another Fulci gorefest...with some more graphically violent death scenes as a body is dissolved, and tarantulas that devour a man alive...probably the most graphic in this one.  Fulci's fans won't be disappointed by this effort which is one of the director's more popular horror entries. "}{"Title":"Best of Fulci","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci about his own film (quotation) What I wanted to do, was to make the ultimative movie! There´s nearly no plot, no logic, it´s just a line up of different scenes.... What Fulci really created is the best Italian horror movie ever made, his own masterpiece and an awful classic of the splatter genre. L´Aldila (original title)has got a lot of mystery inside, that gives it a touch of predecessors like The Exorcist or The Omen. On the other side this movie contains a lot of gory stuff - the lynching of Schweik, the scene with the wolf spiders or when Emily gets attacked by her own dog for example. The two leading actors - Katherine MacColl and David Warbeck - are not in the same league as Jodie Foster and Robert de Niro are, but they are doing their jobs very well, what´s not absolutely typical for the splatter genre. L´Aldila is a must see for all those, who like modern horror movies - and it´s in my top ten of my favorite horror movies of all times! (9/10)  "},{"Title":"An Honest Review","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's awful. There are many...MANY people here defending the films of Fulci as horror masterpieces. Many people on here will try to tell you either you get it or you don't. That's akin to a Tromaville movie in the sense that either you have a taste for something or you don't. If you like Gothic inspired, cheesy gore 70's Italian films, great. If you don't like slow plodding, poor dialog, hammish acting, atmospheric horror, then avoid Fulci. The film makes little sense...but the defenders will tell you that's not the point. It's visceral. Well...for something to be visceral then we must feel something from something. The only visceral feeling is boredom. I'm sure they're speaking of the underlying dread from the position the young lady who inherits a hotel stationed above one of the 7 portals of evil must feel when in said position but the problem is the woman is a terrible actress. I didn't feel dread...what I felt was when will this movie pick it's arse off the floor and start spooking me. Alas, that never happens. Instead we get artificial tarantulas feasting on rubber heads, zombies sleeping in bathtubs, guns that fire too many bullets and are loaded through the barrel? (elevator scene). We get the slowest zombies that ever existed. We get acid in the face..a couple of times. We get a woman who is blind but runs out of someones house yet trips in her own and yeah...okay I'm picking, but you guys so in love with Fulci and Italian horror are fooling yourselves. Some of you say he's better then Craven or even Roth, what a joke. Fulci is no classic horror director. The Beyond is no classic horror movie. It's a 3 all day every day to people that are more impressed with what they're actually watching as opposed to who's name is directing the thing. In the end...some pretty good zombie makeup, an interesting idea for a movie, but poor cinematography (mostly), bad acting, an AWFUL soundtrack, slow pacing, and a total lack of logic create what is essentially a cult-classic for snobbish horror film buffs. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"The Beyond (1981)","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio Fulci is one of the horror genre's greatest enigmas. He died in 1996. But while he was alive, he was considered a classic eccentric, a genius artist, a playboy with women, and nicknamed The Godfather of Gore. He was a legend in cult horror film-making. But, what did his legacy produce? What are mostly rip-offs of Mario Bava and Dario Argento's notorious 1960's and 70's giallos, some clearly misogynistic Euro-trash exploitation flicks, and a long series of flashy Gothic zombie splatter films. Which both pushed the boundaries, and questioned the artistry, of grotesque set-pieces and over the top gore. He wasn't the only director to try to turn the trash of European horror into art. Be he was radically more successful than the likes of Joe D'Amato, Jess Franco, and Ruggero Deodato. At least in the case of this film, which has gone on to become a serious cult horror favorite, easily eclipsing 1979's Cannibal Holocaust and 1982's Pieces. But, truly what Fulci did, though it has its' admirers (Clive Barker and Quentin Tarantino), will never be mistaken for real art or confused for the true genius of a superior director like Dario Argento.The Beyond is a perfect showcase for both the talent Fulci did have as a director, but also for what ruined him as well. When he would be on a roll, unfolding an interesting film with expert mood or that maddeningly delectable pacing... it would only lead up to a cheap, unconvincing, and poorly made gore effect. Rather than being able to continue to enjoy it, you're taken right out of the experience of the film, just to gawk at the ridiculous gore. You're so busy noticing the seams because Fulci puts the effect on full display, then wishing it would end quickly. But no, Fulci thought the camera should linger as long as it could on his awful special effects. Making me now have to ponder- who is loopier? Him for thinking it would work, or his psychotic fanbase for thinking it looks great. The best example of this is the infamous Spider scene. Where, I kid you not, a pack of tarantulas crawl across a library floor, onto an injured victim... for 2 minutes screen time. I know, I timed it. But that's not all! Then, they start to bite him and tear apart his face. Which doesn't look real, not to mention now the spiders don't look real anymore either. They spend another 2 minutes eating him. I know, I timed it again.When I first watched the film, I was fuming. That scene was so bad, and I was already so underwhelmed considering the heaping canyons of praise the film received online from various horror review sites. I paid $4.00 for the DVD and now I wanted every penny back. Which I guess goes to show you how much a person can be bothered by bad special effects. But it's more than that with me, it's the nerve of the director to think the audience only comes for gore. I like gore, but I also like a plot too. The Beyond is virtually plot less. Other than some nifty ominous monologues by the glamorously blind and creepy Emily, this movie was made for you to sit down and watch people doing stuff. Not to understand anything or take anything away from the film. That's all well and good. And that certainly does have its' advantages at times. Fulci does know what to do with a camera. And his camera on The Beyond captures a lot of amazing shots. From gorgeous blonde beauties to the decrepit, crumbling old Louisiana houses, to some ugly Gothic nightmare-scapes (first rendered in a painting, then created as some kind of set), and of course- that huge, eerie hospital.It's often said that Italian horror is the essence of style over substance. In Fulci's case, that's definitely true. The story really starts and stops at a young beautiful woman inheriting an old Lousiana hotel, starting to fix it up, and being haunted by strange goings-on, in and outside. From there, the script is merely decorated with ideas of a story. What's disappointing about that is, although the film has incredible atmosphere, there is a hugely oppressive and heavy dragging quality to the story. Especially scenes involving the handsome British-accented doctor, John McCabe, and his sub-plot adjoining to Liza's sole character arc, where she questions her sanity as she begins to see things that don't really exist (or do they?). His skeptic routine is annoying to say the least, as evidenced by his tediously slow line deliveries. Actor David Warbeck would go on to become something of a man-crush for the straight male fans of the movie. Their obsession with him outright borders on gender-bending lustful thinking at times. As for how he acquired these fans, I can only assume it's his suave, James Bond-like butch quality (as Warbeck himself referred to it on the audio commentary he recorded for the film just weeks before he passed away in 1997).The Beyond could've been Fulci's best film. It's not. But, the best sequences from Beyond are the best of his career. It's not that they're few and far between. Instead, it's that they start on the right track, then completely derail for the film's unbelievably fake-looking death scenes. Including- a man having his head impaled by shards of glass and spurting blood everywhere, a woman's head impaled onto a nail and having her eye shoot out, a man's face grabbed by a zombie hand which pokes his eyeball out, the before-mentioned Spider scene, a man falling off a scaffolding and randomly spurting blood from his mouth, and a man being whipped with chains that tear the flesh from his body who then has his head melted by quick lime. A serious horror film knows better than to sell itself on such a novelty. The art of The Beyond should last longer and be more satisfying. "},{"Title":"Worst. Film. Ever!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Imagine a selection of scenes thrown together in a random order, spiced up with bad acting, bad dialogue and bad effects and crippled by bad dubbing (maybe my DVD version is partially to blame for this) and you can only just begin to appreciate the awfulness of The Beyond. My initial interest in this was the supposed Lovecraft connection - through The Book of Eibon - but I can only imagine the great author spinning in his grave that this name is associated with this mess. Peripheral characters are killed off and forgotten about, nothing is explained and logic is abandoned for the sake of yet another eye-gouging. I wanted to like it, I wanted it to challenge me, but instead I came away feeling cheated. "},{"Title":"Bizarre but very effective and unnerving in its extremity","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was recently lucky enough to be able to see this film coming off of Zombie, City of the Living Dead and The House by the Cemetery. I am surprised that so many of these films were cut or banned as part of the video nasties scare, adult control should be enough to allow films like these to be released uncut as long as people are aware of what they are like and that violence and gore are involved. Unlike many films which kill time passably The Beyond has become for me something far more memorable. I can't say whether the story itself plays a strong part in this, I will say only that there are a number of very strong shock scenes which have stayed with me. The pre- credits opener is as surprising and violent as one could hope for and sets the tone for the rest of the film straight away. Of the rest, the spiders, the dog and the death of the girl particularly stood out, also the two scenes with the handyman once being killed and then causing death as an undead himself. The acid death was not bad either. I was a little surprised that zombies figured into the film well maybe not much they were in the other films also but it seems like zombies being added to the story just for the sake of it the film would have been just as good with no zombies at all and still just as gory. The use of strong gore effects was a definite highlight including flesh tearing and eye gouging all good. The climax was also extremely good and very downbeat, did not really see that one coming but it certainly felt right. "},{"Title":"Gothic horror masterwork from Italy","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Probably Italian director Lucio Fulci's best film. Certainly there are no shoddy production values here, the film is edited together well and it all fits together nicely (unlike some other Fulci work). This is the film which led me to accept the fact that Fulci really was something of a genius, as with this film he transcends the boundaries of schlock horror and goes on to create a Gothic, haunting atmosphere. The result is absolutely fantastic. This is one of the four infamous zombie films Fulci made in the late '70s/early '80s and artistically is the best of the four.This film has it all amazingly gory deaths, great atmosphere, frightening scenes, a sense of dread, even good acting for a change. Catriona MacColl is superb, pretty and sympathetic as the lead. Genre stalwart Warbeck gives it some dry humour to great effect. The characters are interesting and the locations are authentic. The music is awesome as well, the tunes you keep on humming to yourself afterwards. There is a huge fan base for this film and it was even re-released in American cinemas a few years ago. Watch it and you'll see why. THE BEYOND is a must for any Italian horror fan. "},{"Title":"Basically one gory scene after the other","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There seems to be a pattern in the movies of Fulci. He does have a story with good to great potential and the graphics (especially the gore) are really well taken care of. However the execution of story and character development often lacks to enjoy the whole picture. Also the endings are not really satisfactory. I have seen this with his City of the Living Dead and House by the Cemetery. However I think I need to rate those movies higher because The Beyond really has nothing else than the gore. The killings which sometimes look like accidents are shown in gruesome details. They look very real, certainly a treat for the fans of graphical horror. And yes the spider scene was really chilling. I assume they were sacrifices to open the gates of hell and it needed to be a certain number. Too bad two very interesting characters in the little Jill and the blind lady were not elaborated on. But every character was a tool in this even the female protagonist. that doctor character he literally made me facepalm and scream shoot the head, you idiot. "},{"Title":"What's in room #36?","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Italian film director Lucio Fulci who gave us such diverse classics as Escape from Sing Sing and Sins of Casanova cleaned up in the box office with his 1979 horror flick Zombie that he just had to make a sequel and settled for The Beyond. Another zombie movie that was so gruesome and upsetting that it took two years for it to be allowed to be shown in the USA. A country that's noted for it's own brand of gore and slasher films that are beyond anything coming out of the European movie market. The film The Beyond has something to do with the seven doors to hell which one is at this creepy Louisiana hotel, were never shown or told where the other six are, that's been shut down for the last 55 years. That when this artist named Schweick, Antoine Saint-John, was killed and crucified by a local lynch mob for his paintings that were considered not just to be pieces of pure junk-which they were- but to have been inspired by the Devil himself.It's New York's Catriona MacColl, Liza Marril, who inherited the hotel and decided to open it up a a bread & breakfast place with a scenic view of the local alligator and snake infested swamps while those staying there are munching down and eating their breakfast lunch & dinner. Together with her boyfriend Dr. John MacCabe, David Warbeck, Catriona moves into the hotel not expecting what their soon to find there; What seems like and army and incubation room of zombies living in the sub, or in Hell, basement. All hell breaks looses when the basement is flooded by this black muck and Joe the Plumber, Giovanni De Nava, who later made a name for himself in the 2008 US Presidential Election is called to fix or unplug it. It was Joe who got unplugged when he was killed by one of the zombies and later became a zombie, like when he ran for president, himself!***SPOILERS*** It took a while, after almost 3/4th of the film was over, for both Catriona & Dr. MacCabe to realize what they were up against An army of snail like moving flesh eating zombies who kill but at the same time, in them being dead already, can't be killed. As anyone knows who ever saw a zombie movie the only way to stop a zombie dead in its tracks is to shoot him her or it in the brain. But naive in these matters Dr. MacCabe uses up most of his entire cash of bullets and ammunition by shooting mostly at the zombie's everywhere else but. Even after seeing that it's only a head not body shot that's able to stop them! Trying to escape from the zombie hoard both Catriona and Dr. MacCabe end up in the hotel's sub-basement and find out that they are in a far worse place-hell-then they were anywhere else in the movie!And are forced to stay there, even after the movie is over,for all eternity. "},{"Title":"Zombies! Ravenous tarantulas! Crucifixion! Gore!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond, while having terrible acting and dialogue, has a great deal of suspense and atmosphere, some neat camerawork, and some amazing, incredibly gory sequences. The best way to enjoy it is forget all logic and enjoy Fulci's masterpiece of gore and imagery about hotel built on one of the seven gateways to hell. Of course, if you take this movie seriously, you'll be very disappointed and curious to why it is rated so highly. If you don't, and just enjoy it as undemanding horror entertainment, you'll be gaping in awe at the creative gore sequences, that I won't ruin for you. The best scene is the disturbing opening scene, where Fulci wisely uses sepia colour to give it a real nice, old fashioned look. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"My favorite Fulci film","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond is a deliciously gory romp, with great photography, eerie music, and well, lots and lots of gore. I had always liked Zombie, but when I finally saw The Beyond I liked it a lot more. Katherine MacColl is hot as a young woman who inherits an old hotel built over one of the seven gateways to hell. This sets the stage for gory murders, spider attacks, and a climatic zombie invasion which is my favorite part of the whole film. Very enjoyable. See this one if you love Italian gore movies or zombie movies.  "}{"Title":"A cult film with great visuals but little plot","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Basically, it's all about form and no substance.  The plot is virtually non-existent and emotionally lifeless.  The film's pace is quite slow, and even with all the gore it gets pretty dull and monotonous after a while. Visually, however, The Beyond is very impressive (including the overblown but still  stunning gore scenes), and the haunting atmosphere is certainly there. Plus, the film's ending is, undoubtedly, very cool and startling.And so, with all its pluses and minuses, the status of The Beyond is that of a cult film, nothing more, nothing less.  "},{"Title":"review","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond is one of the most gruesome and goriest displays of the art of italian horror.A fine piece of work by the master of italian horror,Lucio Fulci.The story concerns a young woman who moves into a mansion that unbeknownst to her,is actually the doorway to hell.Soon the dead are walking and spiders are making snacks out of victims.This film set a standard for me and made me look at horror films in a way that I thought I'd never seen before.Lucio Fulci deserved all the credit he deserved for this cult classic.A shorter version of this film was released in american theatres but was heavily cut.I would stick with the original uncut version.Lucio Fulci has created a film that I will remember for a long time.Now if they could only release it on VHS in widescreen,that would be awsome. "},{"Title":"the beyond","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is my favorite Lucio Fulci film.  It was surprising how much great fx were shoved into one little movie! Especially when Joe (Giovanni DeNava) shoves the back of Martha's (Veronica Lazar) head into the nail, popping out her eye, and when Dicky, Emily's (Sarah Keller) dog, attacks her when you think it killed the zombie, but the zombie killed him!  This is a great movie... I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"Fulci's Greatest Horror Film","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  L'aldila/The Beyond(1981) is a well made and surrealistic movie that does a fine job in being a combination of outragous gore and fog thick atmosphere. For those who complain of the lack of plot must be stupid enough not to realise that maybe this was Fulci's intention to paraphrase a quote make a absolute film that was plot less and is nothing but a succession of images in the tradition Antonin Artolud and the theatre of cruelity.  There is a macabre sense of beauty that surrounds this movie.  Catherine Macoll does some fine work as Liza, and David Warback is memorable as the town doctor.The Beyond was influenced by the success of Inferno(1980).  I see this movie as a second chance at doing something that was originally envisioned for The Gates of Hell(1980).  Lucio Fulci is not as bad a director as many make him out to be as his films are superior to the horror films made in Hollywood. What I love about his films is there is a rebelliousness that is present and the fact that he was always looking for the ultimate set piece. This is the movie that got me interested in his work and eventulally made me an instant fan.To people who did not like this movie and booed, well I say get a life. Many are hypocritical when saying that Argento's movies are filled with plot as in some cases he has made a few films where the plot did not make sense. It disgusts me to hear the negative talk about this classic horror movie because this is one of the top horror features of all time and should be viewed like a nightmare that never stops.  The excessive gore was one of the best things about this movie as some style and imagination were put into them.  The score was brilliant and the cinematography was fantastic.The Beyond(1981) would play a major influence on movies like The Evil Dead(1983), Hellraiser(1986), and Hellraiser 2(1988).  It was inspired and influenced by the works of H.P. Lovecraft especially in the form of The Book of Eibon.  The ending is one that will put a chill in your soul. The previous comments have proved my point of Fulci not be appreciated by anyone and I fear like Lovecraft that it may take a long time before the majority of folks start recognising him for the true innovator of horror he was. This movie should be watched by a true lover of the cinema who's willing to open the doors of the mind in order to experience something new or different.  "},{"Title":"One of Fulci's best masterpieces","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The first time I saw The Beyond, AKA Seven Doors of Death, it was a cut version, which I did not know that at the time that I first saw it.  From the very beginning to the end, the sets, storyline, everything was very good.  I now have an uncut version on video.  Most of the videos that are cut is just one scene.  About 3/4 into the film, in the morgue, the little girl, who's father was killed in the hotel and her mother was killed by acid, she becomes a zombie, and David Warbeck's character shoots her in the head. Most versions on video, cut out a good portion of that scene.  In the uncut version, he shoots the little girl in the head, and we cut to half her head gone.  That is the best special effects in the whole movie.  If possible, do slow motion if your vcr is capable.  It is really neat seeing the scene in slow motion. "},{"Title":"Daydreams and nightmares Fulci's fever dream","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" THE BEYOND (L'Aldilà) Aspect ratio 2.391 (Techniscope)Sound format MonoFor all its clunky dialogue and wooden acting, Lucio Fulci's THE BEYOND clearly demonstrates enough of the director's strengths and weaknesses to justify his reputation. The dream-like atmosphere conjured by his rambling storyline evokes the spirit of Lovecraft, even though his reliance on overblown set-pieces at the expense of narrative cohesion almost borders on neglect. But what set-pieces! The torture and crucifixion of a terrified warlock; the little girl trapped in a bleached-white morgue while her mother dies beneath a torrent of sulphuric acid; the bone-chilling moment when blind, ultra-sensitive psychic Emily (Sarah Keller, giving the best performance in the film) is visited by a troupe of silent, ghostly zombies and she doesn't sense them at all until it's too late; and, of course, the climactic depiction of a very personal hell. Aside from Giannetto de Rossi's superb makeup effects, the film is a triumph of cinematography and set design, both of which conspire to summon a rich Gothic ambiance from the moody Louisiana locations. Plot and characterisations are essentially worthless, but THE BEYOND survives primarily on the strength of its images. Even at its ugliest (the rotting zombies, the savage dog attack, etc.), the film is often beautiful to behold.(English version) "},{"Title":"I warn you, when I get back, I'm gonna give an autopsy","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Fans of extreme gore and inane dialog, this is the movie for you. This is Fulci's finest film, even better than Zombie.  None of his features even come close to the epic nature of this tale of a hotel built on one of the seven doorways to evil.  The film begins with a flashback to Louisiana, 1927, we see a angry mob (which includes screenwriter Dardano Sacchetti, and other familiar European horror filmmakers) storm the room of a rather nervous gentleman.  The mob accuses the man of witchcraft (You ungodly warlock!), and tear him apart with chains, pound railroad spikes into his arms, and melt his face off.  When I saw this during a midnight showing last year, the audience gasped at these scenes of unspeakable horror.  Cut to present day where horror goddess Katherine MacColl inherits this very same cursed hotel.  After several mysterious deaths taking place at her new property, she and her newfound doctor friend David Warbeck begin to suspect there is something not right.This film has an amazing nightmare-like quality to it that makes it seem even more twisted than it already is. Besides the great bizarre dialog (I warn you, when I get back, I'm gonna give an autopsy), and tons of grotesque horror killings, including an exploding head, acid poured on a woman's face, death by spiders, death by exploding glass, and three separate scenes of eyeball violence (my personal favorite). Combine that with a great soundtrack, wonderfully cheap effects, and a creepy atmosphere, you have the perfect Fulci film.  Plus there is a hilarious scene where Warbeck loads a gun backwards.  Recommend viewing, especially if you can see it in it's uncut version, preferably widescreen. "},{"Title":"Fulci's Runner-up","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"       The Beyond is what many consider to be Lucio Fulci's greatest film. Filled with brutally violent imagery and mega creepy sets and cinematography, it sums up the elements that have contributed to this director's longstanding popularity with horror fans. While I enjoyed it immensely, I think it's ultimately inferior to two of his other films, The House by the Cemetary and Zombie (aka Zombie Flesh Eaters and Zombi 2 in Europe). The excessive bloodletting, eye-gouging, etc. that turns many non-gorehounds off suits the story perfectly in my opinion, but I think it fails to come together cohesively in the way the other two do. The attempt at a Gothic American South setting translates only so-so to the Italian splatter machine, and the only thing has a disjointed feel. All in all this comes highly recommended, but I'd suggest seeking out the rest of his work as well.  "},{"Title":"Love that eye-gore","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Fulci is as optically-obsessed as ever in THE BEYOND* a man has his eye popped out by a zombie * another man's eye is eaten by a tarantula * a woman's head is pushed onto a nail protruding from a wall, which pushes her eye out from behind * numerous characters are blind, with an exaggerated white haze over their eyesSo, obviously, Fulci fans will not be disappointed by this effort.  This is spoken in good old Italian gore, and Fucli has a strong command of the language.  "},{"Title":"I guess you REALLY have to be into foreign horror to appreciate this","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I know I'm probably going to get a lot of hate for writing this review. I always considered myself a fan of (a) eighties horror films and (b) European horror films from the same time period. Therefore, I thought, how could I fail to enjoy 'The Beyond?' If you check out its many glowing reviews, you'll probably get the impression &#x96; as I did &#x96; that it's a classic (currently sporting a very healthy 6.9 out of 10 on IMDb).Sadly, I just didn't like it. Or, maybe to be more precise, I didn't GET it. Okay, so I understood the plot &#x96; haunted hotel-type place, built over gateway to hell, good must stop evil. I just didn't understand what was happening. There are multiple characters who seem to just wander around talking badly. Oh, yes, this brings me onto the calibre of acting earlier than I intended. It's awful. And I don't just mean a bit naff (as in the case for so many horror movies). I can take a few bad lines and one-dimensional performances in the average B-movie, but this could well be the worst acted film I've seen in a long time. Yes, it could be explained by something like the actors' voices were dubbed over in post production (think Italian horror classic 'Demons'), but, whatever the reason, the end result was possibly the most horrific part of this horror movie.Okay, that's a lie. I actually quite liked the gore. Back in the eighties (before every 'head-shot' was computer generated) film-makers had to come up with new and interesting ways of doing gore on the cheap. And, to be fair, that's one area where The Beyond succeeded. The gore wasn't just gore, but also pretty inventive, providing me with more than a few moments of on-screen horror that I've never seen before.However, the gore didn't save it. I left the film feeling more than a little confused and tired from the bad acting. I guess I'm not as into European horror as I thought I was. I know that many regard this film as a classic, but, if it's all the same to them, I'll stick to Demons when I need my fix of dubbed Italian horror.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "}{"Title":"wonderful print now available is maybe just too much","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Viewing this once again after a gap of many years, I found myself wondering if it wasn't more effective on grainy video, that maybe the wonderful print now available is maybe just too much for this unsophisticated film. Seemingly borrowing from Suspiria and Inferno, two far superior Argento movies, I also felt there was a little of Kubrick's The Shining, in here too. The opening is really good and the ending superb but whilst there are some great set pieces with inspired gore effects and some cracking scenes, like the open road that turns out not to be and the early basement scenes, too much of this is like a fairground ride. I know this is considered, 'pure cinema' and all that but when long scenes, like the architect with the spiders, makes no sense it can be alienating. By the time the annoying doctor was firing his bullets, almost without rhyme or reason, at the oncoming dead, I was running out of patience, whilst he should have been running out of bullets. Good in part, great in part but a difficult watch overall. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember liking this movie back in my teenage years, but I just watched it again after more than a decade and it is quite dull. One thing I did like in the past was the gore, but I think I had the advantage of a poor VHS copy because now that I can see DVD quality detail it all looks extremely fake. You can tell everything is a puppet with little effort.One thing I really like is the music. It is fantastic. I have the Lucio Fulci collection on CD which includes this music and others. Although, with that being said; it doesn't fit well most of the time. It is like the music was randomly inserted in most scenes and you'll have epic music when nothing is happening.That brings me to the editing. The editing is horrible. None of the scenes flow into each other smoothly. The shots do, but not the scenes. It is like he arranged the scenes in a careful manner and then just glued them together as is without any thought of their smoothness. Also, I think at the end where they end up in the basement of the hotel from the hospital was either because they lost footage, which happens in Fulci movies (CotLD's ending) or he couldn't think of a way of getting them back there. Nothing reality-warping really happened anywhere else in the movie.The zombies were pretty lame. They were slower than any other zombies I've seen in the past and to such a degree that they couldn't be a threat to anyone with how they were arranged. You could just run right by them and out the door to safety. Also, the guy, even when inches away and in no threat kept shooting them in the body instead of the head. That's annoying.The dialog part of the script had to be a page, page and a half long. That's assuming there was a script.Why would Pippy long-stockings stand there while he mom had a vat of extremely powerful acid, which happened to be huge, open and stored on the highest shelf was pouring on her mom's face? She seemed more afraid of getting her shoes wet than saving her mom.Why, at the end, fully knowing that the gate to hell was in the basement, would they go through it to escape the zombies that weren't even chasing them at that time? That being said, I did like the ending. I liked how Hell was portrayed as a bleak and barren wasteland and how they were ultimately doomed at the end. Fulci said something along the lines of that is not hell, it is more of a purgatory. That also doesn't make sense because they went through the gate to hell. It must not have been a gate to hell if they didn't end up in hell which makes the premise of being in a hotel on top of a gate to hell false.Anyway, I think it is worth a watch for Italian Horror fans, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Confusing euro-trash","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I don't understand why there's so much praise for Lucio Fulci in the horror community. People hold him in the same regard as Mario Bava and Dario Argento but he belongs better with trashy turkey-makers like Jess Franco or Bruno Mattei.The Beyond has pretty much all the typical flaws you find in a Fulci film.Snail-slow pacing? Check. Bad acting and dubbing? Check. Torture-porn-esque gore scenes? Check. Disjointed and confusing story? Check.There is some semblance of a plot here but it fades away about half-way through. Then it's mostly various set-pieces of random people doing unexplained things or being killed for no reason.The acting is mediocre at best, on par with what you see in a standard soap opera. The dub-actors unenthusiastic and bored performances bring it down even further.When I said the gore-scenes remind me of torture porn I meant by how drawn out and overly graphic they are. It's all about the money shot and lingering on it in closeup for as long as possible. I don't mind gore in horror films but in order for it to work it has to be scary. Here it isn't scary, just vomit-inducing and tedious.Fulci has a terrible sense of pacing, it takes forever for the movie to get from beginning to end. I think I would rather watch one of Bruno Mattei's films over this cause while they were bad they were at least entertaining and fun. Thanks to all unintentional comedy. But this one isn't even so bad it's fun, just boring, slow and overall depressing to watch.If you want loads of blood and guts go watch the early works of Peter Jackson. And if you want a eerie horror film with a Lovecraftian feel go watch In the mouth of madness by John Carpeneter. "},{"Title":"Baffling, gory and memorable","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Billed as Lucio Fulci's best film I approached this with a lot of expectation having recently watched and highly enjoyed Zombi and City of the Living Dead. However, about halfway through this film I was disappointed, I found it slow, plodding and some scenes unnecessary, an example being the little ginger girl and her mother getting killed which didn't seem to have any relevance to the film at all. As usual with a Fulci film the plot is a merely loose and strung together to allow him to scare the hell out of you or sicken you to your stomach. So what I am trying to say is I thought I was not enjoying it - that is until it finished. Since then bits and pieces have been returning to my thoughts. It has stayed with me and I know why. What saves The Beyond from being a trashy gore flick is the ending. The final few minutes in which our heroes played well by Catriona Maccoll and the late David Warbeck try to escape the living dead, running for their lives in a hospital, they end up going down some stairs that leads them somehow to the hotel where the horror started, like a nightmare you can;t escape from. They step further and realise they are now in The Beyond, a beautiful sad melody plays as the moans of the undead in the wasteland get louder. A vast sea of nothing where souls are trapped in an everlasting hell of emptiness.Its a terribly depressing ending but rounds off a wholly bizarre and baffling film to its logical conclusion. "},{"Title":"The Beyond(1981) is an 'Absolute Film'","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond(1981) is an 'Absolute Film' where image and sound are the most important part of a film. On the making of this, Fulci once said, (My idea was to make an absolute film, with all the horrors of the world. Its a plot less film, there's no logic to it, just a succession of images). This is something that people who hate the film don't and will never understand. Many people do not like this because of its nonlinear structure. He also said, In Italy we make films based on pure themes, without a plot and The Beyond like Inferno refuses conventions...people who blame the The Beyond for its lack of story don't understand that it's a film of images, which must be received without any reflection. Receiving a movie like this without any reflection is a hard thing for many film goers to do.The works of Antonin Artoud and H.P Lovecraft play a major influence on The Beyond(1981). Fulci was inspired by this controversial French artist. The ideas of Artoud are present in most of Fulci's work. Schweick the painter bears a little resemblance to Antonin Artoud. Artoud was the founder of The Theater of Cruelty which talked to Restore to the theater a passionate and convulsive conception of life, and it is in this sense of violent rigor and extreme condensation of scenic elements that the cruelty on which it is based on must be understood. This idea can be applied to The Cinema and this film.The comment Violence is Italian Art by Fulci is relative to the movie and the history of Italian art. Its one of the few films where atmosphere and gore mix well together. Has good moments of spirital horror. The atmosphere is eerie and terrifying. The gory set pieces are satisfying. The surreal atmosphere and bloody imagery is what makes the film a classic.The Beyond would influence many later American and Italian horror flicks. One, The Evil Dead(1983). Two, Hellraiser(1987). Three, HellboundHellraiser 2(1988). Four, The Church(1990). Finally, Dellamorte Dellamore(1996). "},{"Title":"Fulci's Greatest Hits and Beyond","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As with City of the Living Dead (1980), Fulci's intent with The Beyond is NOT to tell a story adhering to any sort of linear logic. Yet this is an aspect of his film-making I have come to see as a virtue&#150;the director is keenly aware of the (il)logic that permeates nightmares, and instead of wrapping the narrative in constraints to eliminate loose ends, Fulci lets the loose ends run wild, forcing the viewer to simply flow with the images. Though the script is filled with inconsistencies (the age of a corpse; the location where a character was murdered, etc.), the story in itself makes no excuses or explanations.In a way, The Beyond is like Fulci's Greatest Hits, liberally borrowing plot details&#150;and sometimes whole scenes&#150;from his previous films, especially City the window that shatters of its own accord; the stigmata certain characters experience (in City, it was tears of blood; here, it's bleeding palms); the infernal Ancient Text at the heart of it all (Eibon to City's Enoch); and the exposition scenes that are usually interrupted by a phantom occurrence before they bog down in tedium. Zombies teleport from one location to another. There is even a dog attack that bears a remarkable similarity to the one in Dario Argento's Suspiria (the victim is even blind); not to mention a brutal chain-whipping that is a direct quote of Fulci's Don't Torture a Duckling. Do I mind? Not a bit. Fulci is relentless (and restless) in making each scene a setpiece unto itself&#150;by maintaining an aura of realism (conveyed through a series of excellent exterior shots establishing the sweltering South as a unique character of its own), he creates a portrait of everyday reality where&#150;as in Lovecraft&#150;something from the other side is trying to slip through.The sepia-toned prologue (set in 1927) is a remarkably well-done homage to James Whale's Frankenstein, as torch- and chain-wielding villagers converge on an isolated Louisiana hotel, beating and crucifying Sweik (Antoine St. John), a painter suspected of practicing black magic. Flash forward to 1981, where Liza (Fulci regular Katriona MacColl), a down-on-her-luck NYC girl, inherits the run-down hotel; yet soon after the renovations begin, strange things start happening. In a development that is by turns eerie and amusing, a plumber (Giovanni de Nava) sent in to investigate a basement flood inadvertently (and quite literally) opens the famed Gates of Hell. Liza becomes friends with a blind girl named Emily (Cinzia Monreale&#150;Buio Omega)&#150;who is seen in the pretitle sequence&#150;and earns the sympathy of skeptical Dr. John McCabe (international tough guy David Warbeck), who persists that there is a logical explanation for all the strange goings-on.Unlike conventional narratives, The Beyond doesn't adhere to a typical three-act structure; viewers used to the Hollywood method of things will find this frustrating, but that's their loss. Like City of the Living Dead, The Beyond flows like a nightmare put on film, its jaggedness in plot and logic what makes it so damn effective. Fulci employs transitions that defy narrative sense, but still invoke an effect akin to taking the Warp Zone in Super Mario Bros. In between the elaborate gore scenes (including a man whose face is mangled by tarantulas; a literal acid bath; a head blown apart by a gunshot, etc.), it should be noted that Fulci creates an atmosphere of dread with great skill&#150;the suspense built is easily as impressive as the Giannetto de Rossi FX that concludes it.But The Beyond, like Herk Harvey's Carnival of Souls(1962), is most interesting as a meditation on an imagined limbo existing between life and death both Mary Henry (Candace Hilligoss) in Carnival and Liza are females tormented by a reality that pulls away from them at random intervals. Both are viewed with skepticism (if not outright concern) by outsiders, and haunted by recurrent supernatural images (a ghostly apparition for Mary; a decomposing Sweik for Liza) that portend ghoulish invitation. In neither Carnival of Souls (a precursor to George Romero's flesh-eating zombies) nor The Beyond are ghosts/zombies presented as overtly predatory&#150;interestingly enough, in The Beyond, the 'living dead' are near-benign creatures who shuffle slowly, their heads solemnly bowed, and swoon gracefully in death; in Carnival, the ghouls possess a winking jubilation that only intensifies their presence. In an interesting character bit, the blind girl in The Beyond is presented as an intermediary between the world of the living and the dead, able to discern and detect both sides. The conclusion of both films also sends an undeniable chill down the spine, proving that Harvey and Fulci had the mechanics of producing eerie finality down pat.While the cinema of Fulci is an acquired taste (those who know and love his work are indeed a fortunate lot), his violent excesses do run in tandem with greater ideas bubbling beneath plots that&#150;on the surface&#150;seem like an incoherent muddle. The Beyond&#150;while not his greatest work&#150;is a testament to that. "},{"Title":"Good in parts","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I see from reading other reviews that opinion is divided over The Beyond - some see it as a masterpiece whilst others think it's rubbish. Whilst it's definitely not rubbish, no one can deny the faults. The plot makes no sense whatsoever, and throughout most of the film you're trying to figure out how everything is linked. It just seems to be random imagery thrown together without any logic. The atmosphere is fantastic though, and nicely complemented by the music. The strength of The Beyond is definitely in the imagery and atmosphere. There's some classic gore scenes such as the spiders eating the mans face, although I'm baffled as to why that scene seems so real and so fake at the same time. I also liked the contrast between light and darkness - one minute the screen is drenched in darkness, then suddenly the film cuts to a white hospital room. The ending is absolutely fantastic and creepy, one of the better endings I've ever seen in a horror film. I would definitely recommend giving this a watch if creepy imagery, atmosphere and gore is your thing. However if you like the plot to make sense, this isn't for you. "},{"Title":"Astonishingly incoherent - literally beyond understanding","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let's get this nice and sparkling clear shall we?  The Beyond makes no sense whatsoever, and is as incoherent narrative-wise as any movie this side of Cat in the Brain (directed by guess who?).  The 64,000 dollar question is, was the incoherency deliberate, a sort of Lovecraftian attempt to recreate the mood and atmosphere of nightmare; or was it simply down to the fact that Fulci can't tell a story properly?  The jury is out, and judging by the spread of opinion here, will remain so.IMHO, The Beyond is grossly overrated.  Whatever one's thoughts about the narrative - or lack of it - the execution of this film is very shoddy the acting is wooden, photography amateurish, production design cheap and lazy. Of course, what counts about movies of this genre is the gore effects, but The Beyond simply doesn't deliver even here  a couple of the SFX set pieces are effectively bloody (the canine throat-ripping, the kid getting her head blown apart), but others, such as the execrable spider scene, are laughable rubbish.  Tom Savini's gore effects for Dawn of the Dead, made around the same time, are in a different league.Even Fulci's trademark eyeball trauma scenes are crap, especially the head-on-nail sequence.  For a start, there is a stupid POV shot, taken from the victim's perspective just before her head is forced back onto the nail, in which an eye-shaped mask has been placed over the camera; then, in the money shot itself of the head getting spiked, the nail - a nail, remember, which is sharp enough to penetrate the back of a person's skull - pushes the eyeball out of its socket, rather than skewering through it!As for the climax, in which numerous slow-moving (and I mean slow-moving; these guys couldn't catch an arthritic tortoise) zombies are repeatedly blasted by the hero, well, it's a joke, pure and simple.  Dimwit David Warbeck, as has been pointed out elsewhere here, shoots a number of would-be flesh munchers in the chest and guts, to no effect (other than the detonation of squibbed bloodbags under their clothes), before finally dropping them with a head shot.  He then persists with this two-useless-shots-to-the-torso-followed-by-the-coup-de-grace-to-the-noggin strategy until he runs out of bullets.  (Which takes forever, by the way. Where did he get that miraculous self-loading revolver, I wonder?)The Beyond is worth watching, for the chilling and nihilistic end shot alone, but it is nothing like as profound or interesting (or gory) as its reputation suggests.  A little bit like Fulci himself  the self-styled Godfather of Gore, God bless him, was basically a hack director who worked in film for years entirely without distinction, until one day, like Herschell Gordon Lewis before him, he happened to tap in to the inexplicable but innate human desire to watch people getting hacked, chopped, sliced, boiled, rotted, munched and blasted to death as graphically as possible, and spent the rest of his life milking it with ever-diminishing returns.  Oh well, it takes all sorts. "},{"Title":"Excelllllent!!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci did a wonderful job on this film.  I liked this one better than House By the Cemetery.  The Beyond/ Seven Doors of Death is a non-stop gory movie having to do with zombies.  Weird things keep happening having to do with a hotel that existed about 300 years ago according to the movie (due to a warlock that was beaten to death). The gore is so good that you wonder what will happen next within the movie.  This movie does not move slow at all and it is more gory than scary, but overall, the movie is one of its kind.  I am so glad to own this on DVD.  Now it is easy to find on DVD than it would have been on VHS.  I bought a copy of this movie at Suncoast Motion Picture Company.  This is one of my favorite Fulci films next to Gates of Hell/ City of the Living Dead.  If you haven't seen this film I guarantee it WILL be a must see for you.  Good Luck. "},{"Title":"Decent zombie movie saved by some cool gore.","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Italian supernatural zombie flick that gives us plenty of grotesque gore and a fairly decent plot. If you are a hard-core horror fan, then you might want to rent this, for it shows much more effort than your usually horror movie and actually is pretty much above-average. The films DVD is also quite nice (Thanks to anchor bay releases!!!!!) and has a suprisingly effective atmosphere and suspense. Not a bad movie over-all and I guess that horror fans might like it. "}{"Title":"Reminds me a bit of Dune","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I see all these reviews and they say it's great maybe I just didn't get it but most of the time I didn't think it was that brilliant. The only other Fulci film I've seen is New York Ripper which is Fantastic in it's bleakness. But this? This was just generally confusing with a load of stuff happening with no tangible explanation. And on top of this it was all happening to people who we didn't even get to know, there are no real solid or even semi transparent characters in this one. Sure it starts to get good at some points then has a satisfactory ending, except for a lack of budget for hellscapes (IE 1). Probably could have done with a sequel that shows what happens next. Okay but to wibbly wobbly on the plot. And Goose, there was no such thing as CGI in 81. The special effect were pretty cool but too much squibbing, possible spoilerWhy couldn't the guy work out that it's only when you shoot the head they fall over? I give it 6/10 "},{"Title":"Shocking, but not in the way intended!","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I grew up in the late 70s/early 80s and loved watching the early video nasties and horror films with my mates...even at the age of 12/13 I could tell that some were great and some were awful, but anything with gore or horror in was worth watching. Now looking back at films from that period, a handful are still great (The Thing, Evil Dead, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Dawn of the Dead, Halloween), some are OK if you take into account the passing of time and some are just terrible.This film falls into the latter category. The plot is all over the place, the acting is awful, and the worst thing about it is there is no logic throughout the film. Most horror films have to stretch reality to some degree, but those that succeed are the ones where you can believe that the actions taken by the characters are at least understandable. In this film that doesn't happen...ever.....the scene in the mortuary has a women screaming for no reason and then laying beneath a jug of acid that pours over her face...as she just lays there. Now unless I'm watching a version with majors cuts (it says the uncut version!!) then it makes no sense what so ever. That goes for the rest of the film I'm afraid.I can only assume that those giving it high scores are looking at it through rose tinted glasses. I can appreciate a well made film even if I don't enjoy it, but this isn't well made, well written or well acted. Im not going to slag the SFX as its 30 years old, but as for the direction and writing, that's no excuse. "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I enjoyed this movie, but probably not for the reasons the makers intended.This movie is lame. The acting is poor (not interesting bad, just poor) and the story is a mixed bag of expected 'horror' scenes.There is no suspense. Every now and then there is a scene of supposed horror. But these scenes are so cheesy - poorly staged with obvious budget limitations. I couldn't help but laugh. I found the whole movie quite comical.Of all of the cast members the best actor in the movie was the dog - even when he is just a stuffed head supposedly going-for-the-throat. Attack!The best audio effect was for the gun. It sounded just like a spaghetti western. "},{"Title":"Hilariously bad ripoff of Mario Bava and Dario Argento","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" One day, Lucio Fulci will be recognized as the Italian version of Ed Wood, but not yet. Few people besides horror fans have even heard of him, and his movies are so badly directed, even fewer can stand them. No, not because of the gore. The gore is so low budget and boring, I'm amazed that anyone ever made a stink over his movies. Even for the day, they were laughable, at best. Compare The Beyond to almost any other gore movie from the same time period, and you'll come away thinking that this movie was shot by some teenagers who worked a lemonade stand to make money. No, the reason why critics and mainstream movie films hate Fulci is because his movies are total crap ripoffs of Mario Bava and Dario Argento, but with 1/10 the budget of either.If you like this movie, I urge you to see Suspiria, the movie that it obviously wanted to be. Suspiria is a masterpiece. This movie... not so much, unless you really, really love extended scenes of fake-looking spiders slowly (and I mean SLOWLY) eating a latex head. Personally, I almost fell out of my chair laughing, then got bored, then got annoyed. This has got to be one the worst scenes I've ever seen in a horror movie, and I've seen a LOT of horror movies.Stick to Romero, Argento, Carpenter, and Craven. You're not missing anything by skipping the wannabes and the ripoffs. "},{"Title":"This Is Beyond Me.","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Having enjoyed Italian gore maestro Lucio Fulci's Zombie Flesh Eaters and New York Ripper and having despised House by the Cemetery and City Of The Living Dead, I didn't know what to expect from this, another of his efforts that made the U.K. Video Nasties list back in 1984. Unfortunately it falls into my latter feelings. OK dialogue and character development is shunned in favour of gore in all Fulci movies but at least it is tongue-in-cheek, here it is chronic. Throw this in with a completely muddled plot, absolutely painful acting and ridiculous gore scenes and you get a stinker. The guy getting eaten by spiders is laughable, as is why a mortuary would keep a vat of acid in theatre for a hysterical women to get it tipped on her head is beyond me! And the less that can be said about the ludicrous ending (apart from the possessed girl getting her head blown in two) the better...Please just shoot the zombies in the goddamn head! That said, Fulci does provide a little rest-bite, with some extravagant dream sequences and he never shies away from a gory close-up but that doesn't disguise the fact that this is a terrible horror flick, even for gore fans.3/10 "},{"Title":"Better than your average 'Fulci' but that ain't saying too much...","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm constantly staggered by the number of otherwise rational people who seem to rate Fulci's films so highly. I'm always seeing them referred to as classics and masterpieces and I just don't get it. I'm always ready to give someone a chance though and so even after having endured the cinematic disasters that are 'City Of The Living Dead' and 'The House By The Cemetery', I still decided to give 'The Beyond' a watch as lots of folk on here seemed to rate it as Fulci's best work.To be fair, it was an improvement on those other two movies but guess what folks - it's still a very average movie.I'm assuming that all those gorehounds raving about the outstanding special effects have actually never seen any other movie ever? THEY ARE TERRIBLE! How anyone could actually watch that spider attack without laughing out loud is beyond me (no pun intended). Most of the spiders are so clearly plastic efforts being wiggled on a stick by someone that it's like watching some kind of poor man's Sesame Street.Even when they get down to the serious business of face-eating, I couldn't help but think Oh, they've left the guy on the floor alone and decided to attack some previously un-noticed wax dummy that was lying near him. The musical score, as usual with Fulci, sounds like a 5-year old playing with a synthesiser. Always thought the idea of the score in a horror movie was to add to the atmosphere, not detract from it.On the limited plus side, the zombies looked good, the leading lady was less one-dimensional than in the other movies I've seen and the preamble involving the artist was actually quite well done. The shame of it is that Fulci just drifted back to his usual approach of unexplained gore as soon as there was the threat of an actual plot starting to emerge.Fulci fans - if you want good zombie movies with actual special effects that don't look like they've been dreamt up as part of a nursery school art project, see Romero. I'll take your word for it that this is Fulci's best work but that's it for me. "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The idea of a gateway to hell being opened has potential but this movie doesn't pull it off. The story lacks details, the characters trait's are not developed enough, and the dialog is utterly ridiculous (Attack Dickie! Attack!). The only reason someone might want to see this movie is because of the gore, which the movie has a lot of, but some scenes are unrealistic. I advise people that aren't fans of Fulci's work to steer clear.  "},{"Title":"The best Fulci I've seen so far (and that's not saying much)","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I haven't had any luck with any of Lucio Fulci's movies. I have now seen three of his movies (Zombi 2, City of the Living Dead and this). I was really disappointed with Zombi 2 (although I now kinda like it) and I really didn't like City of the Living Dead at all. When I rented this (uncut, of course) I was really worried it would turn out to be another over-hyped, boring movie. Thankfully my worries turned out to be wrong, this was actually a fairly creepy and atmospheric horror that packed a damn huge punch in the gore department.In 1929 a painter is crucified for opening the Gates of Hell. 50 years later Liza Merril (Catriona MacColl) inherits the hotel and plans to fix it up. Little does she know that she has stumbled upon something horrible that leads to the deaths of many people and a terrifying, zombie-filled climax.The first thing I must mention here is the gruesome and disgusting special effects. And boy there are lots to look at. We get crucifixions, flesh-melting acid spills, an extremely grisly tarantula attack and a few eyeball injuries to name a few. Fabio Frizzi yet again produce a terrific score, you can always rely on them to provide something to like about a Fulci movie. And the movie has an incredibly eerie atmosphere that really works at creeping out the viewer.But there are problems to be had, of course. The acting was bad (no surprises) and the dubbing was atrocious (as always). The major problem, though, was the characters. They were incredibly stupid and moronic and really undeveloped.3½/5. "},{"Title":"For Fulci fans only.","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is without doubt one of the worst movies i have ever seen. A women inherits an old hotel in Louisiana that was built on one of the 7 gateways that lead to hell. When she starts renovating the place they accidentally open the doorway and all hell breaks loose. Or not?... The gore/ creature effects are (even for a low budget film) so bad that the zombies look ridiculous. The movie contains a scene where a man is being eaten by spiders. The fake spiders (the scene also contains 2 or 3 real spiders) look like potatoes on a wire. The actors are awful, the score is annoying and the script is weak. Fulci never reaches the same level as the true masters of the genre (Romero, Jackson, Argento,...). This film is for Fulci fans only. "},{"Title":"Ri-di-cu-lous","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found it very hard to like something about this movie, but I must say that the visuals were rather nice. Therefore I give it 2/10, instead of 1/10, which I have never given to a film. Why this film is a minor classic? Well, some people have a very very poor taste and that's all I can say about that. I've seen ZOMBI 2 (another film by Fulci)last week and although I thought that film was not a very good one either (to say the least), it was far better than this tasteless and ridiculous tale, which seems awfully similar to INFERNO by Dario Argento from a year earlier. A few examples of stupidity a woman's face (bad special effects too, none of the victims seems to be in any pain when being killed) is getting covered with acid, and there are still large bursts of blood coming out of the face; lightning strikes in the basement; a man runs out of bullets, but keeps firing at zombies in the next scene; a woman is standing at the door when being attacked by a zombie, but still manages to get to the other side of the room so that there's no way out anymore; and so on, and so on... This is just gore, gore and more gore, just for the sake of it. I understand that some films gain a cult status, although they' re no masterpieces. But in that case it's really not very difficult to become a cult classic. Just make a bloody and absolutely ridiculous film, with bad actors( whose voices have been dubbed) and with a totally inappropriate soundtrack.Know that I have no problem whatsoever with gore, blood and intestines. But doesn't a film got to have other qualities besides that? A bit of cleverness, humour,...? BRAINDEAD, for example, was a great film. Very very bloody, but very inventive. See the films of Peter Jackson instead of those made by some Italian sickos. What's the matter with the film-making in that country? Fulci, Argento, Pasolini,... Subtlety... anyone? L'ALDILÀ is one of the worst films I have ever seen. Oh, I just can't wait to see another masterpiece by this Italian horror maestro. I'm even considering of giving up my passion for horror altogether. Just one last word about the film. The story? One bloody murder after another. Thrills? No, just disgusting killings. Laughs? Nope, it takes itself far too serious. Music? As ridiculous as the film was. Acting? ... 2/10 (oh, and try to figure out what IS realistic in this film, I haven't found a single thing)P.S. what was Fulci's obsession with eyes? To figure that out, I guess you have to see the films for yourself. Or do yourself a favor don't! "}{"Title":"As usual...another overrated crappy Italian horror film","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It amazes me how so many horror fans are so impressed with these types of Italian made horror movies. I guess it is a acquired taste, that I have never been able to acquire in the last 30 + years.Really bad acting Really bad dialogue Lacking in continuity Awful music/ soundtrackThere are only a few redeeming things like  decent special effects cool storyline But these two things are not enough to hold up the movie. The soundtrack really destroys the atmosphere and it as almost as though scenes are edited together just to make the movie long enough to be called a  film .I think it may be time for the reviewer to give up on the Italian horror film genre. I will never understand how so many people rate this type of rubbish as being  a masterpiece . "},{"Title":"Fulci drags us through hell","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond is the middle chapter of Fulci's 'Death' trilogy (AKA 'Gates of Hell' trilogy). As I started watching this, I knew what to expect Gallons of gore, lack of a coherent plot and a deeply cynical, downbeat tone. The movie is pretty much this and a wee bit more. What I didn't expect to see was a stunningly good cold open. Shot in rich sepia tone and with dazzling visual artistry, the scene showed Fulci could be every bit as artistic and flashy as Argento and Bava if he wanted to.Unfortunately, the movie went off the deep end with a lot of meandering punctuated with some brutal gore sequences. Fulci really likes to show us close-ups of his gore effects. During a scene of tarantulas biting off a man's face, I could almost taste the latex and fake blood. That said, the movie picks up during the last 15 minutes with a well-shot (pun unintended) zombie action sequence ultimately concluding with a brilliant display of the hell/purgatory/whatever-the-hell-it-was.MacColl is better here than in City of the Living Dead primarily because she is given more stuff to do. The male lead, David Warbeck lacks the class of Christopher George but makes up for it by looking the part of a doctor who is a crack-shot with a handgun. It was disappointing to not see Daniela Doria or Giovanni Lombardo Radice turn up after their wacky antics in City. Though we do get Mater Tenebrarum in an appropriately creepy role.Ultimately, at least to me, The Beyond, while watchable, is not the magnum opus of Dr. Lucio Fulci. Ah if only if the rest of the movie had been as good as the beginning... "},{"Title":"The Beyond","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond (1981) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Gory, over-the-top madness from director Lucio Fulci about a woman (Catriona MacColl) who inherits a hotel in Louisiana not realizing that it actually contains one of the seven gateways to Hell. THE BEYOND is considered by many to be one of the director's best films but if you're looking for some sort of story then it's best to just walk away before the credits role. The story here is a complete mess and rarely does it make much sense but this is probably due to the fact that Fulci originally wanted to make a haunted house picture but the producers wanted zombies and gore so these effects were added into the picture. If you're a fan of Fulci then it's doubtful you're coming here looking for a story anyways so with that in mind it's easy to see why this film remains so popular because it really does contain some outrageous and downright crazy murder sequences. Needless to say, there are all sorts of eyeballs getting ripped out, which of course was a trademark for the director. One of the most memorable sequences involves a bunch of acid somehow falling from a jar and landing on a woman's face, which is slowly melts. Another memorable sequence involves a man falling from a ladder only to be hurt but things turn even worse when a bunch of spiders show up to eat his face off. Yes, you read that correctly. If you think that's it then you've got another thing coming as there's really one gory murder after another with countless throats being ripped and various body parts being torn. MacColl and David Warbeck are both fun to watch here so that's another plus. Fulci certainly has an eye for detail and he has no problem handling the gore and keeping the film moving at a nice pace. THE BEYOND certainly has a lot of flaws but at the same time it's gore factor put it on a level all its own. "},{"Title":"More Than Its Share of Gore","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The year is 1927 and at a hotel in Louisiana a lynch mob murders a warlock who tries to warn them that the hotel is situated on top of one of the seven gates of hell. Fast-forward to 1981 and an attractive woman named Liza Merril (Catriona MacColl) has just inherited the hotel and has come from New York to try to refurbish it. However, once she gets started a strange series of accidents begin to happen. One of the first to die is a man who is painting the outside of the hotel while working on a scaffold. Another supposed accident claims the life of a plumber who is working in the basement. Immediately afterward a mysterious blind woman named Emily (Cinzia Monreale) appears to Liza and things begin to get even more bizarre. At any rate, rather than spoil the plot for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this film has to be watched from start to finish in order to understand it. I would also like to mention that this film has more than its share of gore which one would expect from something directed by Lucio Fulci. It also presents lots of zombies. However, while they certainly kill people they aren't the infectious, flesh-eating kind one might expect. In addition to that there are a couple of criticisms I would like to make. First, this film didn't flow smoothly from one scene to the next and had a fragmented feel to it. Likewise, the acting didn't seem to fit the scenarios sometimes and the dialogue seemed flat and almost robotic. But being a Euro-Horror film I suppose that might be expected to an extent. In any case, like I said before this film gets better the further it goes. Definitely worth a watch for those who enjoy a movie of this type. "},{"Title":"Visually insane, but thats it.","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond is a very overrated Italian/horror film that is incomprehensible. The film is filled with creepy atmospherics, insane gore and is probably one of the most unique zombie films of the past, but different doesn't always lead to a good film. I just couldn't take it seriously, whether it was intentional or not, the script was a mess and laughable and the scares weren't effective enough as they could have been. The soundtrack was also a hit and miss, with some of it being completely out of place. The horror cult classics that came out during the same year like The Evil Dead etcetera were miles better, The Beyond just doest stack up. Definitely one of the most disappointing Italian/horror cult classics out there.The characters were pretty illogical, doing most things people should not do in horror movies. For example, not shooting a zombie in the head, what a waste of bullets you fool! The other is hooking a clearly dead person to a heartbeat monitor, really! The acting was mostly just horrid to me, with overreaction to not enough reaction to what is happening around them. Catriona MacColl, who plays Liza Merril, a young woman who inherits an old hotel in Louisiana, is definitely easy on the eyes and carries the film quite well, she makes it bearable. The other standout was Cinzia Moreale (as Sarah Keller) who plays a blind woman pretty effectively, who comes out of nowhere into Liza's life to warns her about the sinister hotel. Good effort from those two, but the hackneyed script consumed them and everyone else.The late Italian/horror director Lucio Fulci definitely made strange, one of a kind horror films. The type of films you don't see being made anymore, but The Beyond's plot had major development problems that were a huge distraction from everything else. Lucio goes wild here though, with a hypnotic, nightmarish atmosphere, intense close up shots of ghoulish imagery that will stay with you. The film is out there and beyond, too bad the rest of the film wasn't as lavish. To me his best and creepiest film is The House By The Cemetery.Overall, not the horror extraordinaire people make it out to be, nor is it complete trash. The Beyond goes by its own beat and it's as clear away from mainstream as one film can get. None of it was clear though and just got lost in its own spiral of wackiness, at the end all I was thinking was WTF did I just watched? 5.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Some parts were good","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm gonna be honest. This is a bad movie in my opinion. I really like Italian horror & giallo movies because of the gore and they have often very brutal killings. The Beyond is no exception from that, I like the gore in it even if the effects aren't great.I like the scene where Liza meets Emily on that road. It's somehow dreamlike and abstract and made me doubt if that really happened or if it's an hallucination she has.Somehow I don't get the plot or I find it quite boring. Dead people come back to life and people who dies by accidents become zombies that don't die that easily.They end up in a painting painted by that man that died in that house a long time ago or does the world become like the painting? The ending could have been better because I think something more could have happened to give it a better ending, suddenly it just ends.I give it 7/10 because of the gory parts and the actors who were pretty good. It has some good scenes and I liked that Suspiria like scene where the dog suddenly bites Emily in her neck. "},{"Title":"A Fulci masterpiece.","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When it comes to true surrealism as well as in-your-face violence, Lucio Fulci's The Beyond sets the bar pretty high. Fans of this kind of Italian horror know that with this sort of thing the entertainment is not so much about the crafting of a completely coherent narrative but the creation of imagery that will linger in the mind. Not that this story isn't interesting, even if it melds ideas from such earlier Fulci hits as Zombi 2 and City of the Living Dead.It starts out in 1920s New Orleans, when an ugly vigilante mob snuffs out the life of a painter, Schweick (the distinctively featured character actor Antoine Saint-John), not knowing that they've just created a hell of a problem - literally. Schweick was guarding one of the seven gateways to Hell, situated in an old hotel. Fast forward to 54 years later, and this hotel has been inherited by a young woman, Liza (gorgeous Catriona MacColl) who hopes her fortunes will turn around. Nothing could be further from the truth, however, as when a plumber breaks through a wall to determine the source of the water flooding the basement, the forces of Hell will be free to attack the living at each and every opportunity.Fulci continues his amusing fixation on eyeballs (there are numerous closeups of eyes) and eyeball trauma as various characters have their orbs nastily removed from their heads. Other assorted, and fantastic, gruesome set pieces give the film its reputation, starting with the chain whipping of Schweick and extending to a throat being torn open, and a jar of acid being emptied onto a person's face.However, it's not entirely about the gore here, as Fulci proves yet again how well he can set up a mood of utter foreboding and doom, not to mention his ability to create a feel of an apocalypse, even if in this case that feel is more personal than epic, as we focus on just two characters. Production design (by Massimo Lentini) and cinematography (by Sergio Salvati) are superb, and the makeup effects are the work of the consistently reliable Giannetto De Rossi. Fabio Frizzi's music is likewise quite effective. In this day and age, it's also a total hoot to see a character named Joe the Plumber (played by Giovanni De Nava, who played the part of Freudstein in Fulci's The House by the Cemetery).MacColl has an endearing presence, and David Warbeck projects lots of cool as the gun packing doctor hero (however, he's likely to frustrate some viewers with the amount of bullets he wastes during the climactic action). Cinzia Monreale is very alluring as blind doom sayer Emily, and it's nice to see Pierluigi Conti a.k.a. Al Cliver of Zombi 2 turn up as Warbecks' fellow doctor.Everything builds nicely to one of the most striking finales one can see in a horror film, as it's beautiful in a memorably haunting way.All in all, this is one of those horror films that aficionados need to check out at some point.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Shows its age badly....,","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Though I've been watching quite a lot of horror flicks on The Horror Channel recently and enjoyed most, I found this disappointing.Though the horror gore and effects are extremely lurid and sickening, unfortunately the way they're done just looks so unconvincing these days. The eye-popping out scene just looks like a papier mache head and other human heads oozing all-sorts of unsavoury goo just don't look real.I found the rest of the story really rather poor and there's little suspense to the scenes that don't involve the OTT nasties. The muffled '80s music soundtrack doesn't help either.I'm not going to say that I hate it and only award one star, just that I don't like it and have little time for it, though I understand if/when others say it is brilliant - I'm not a hard-core horror fan. I realise also that it must have looked far more effective on a large cinema screen. TV with adverts isn't the best platform for any film. "},{"Title":"Fulci's best, though I don't know why . . .","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is vintage Fulci and I love every second of it. The strangest part is that I have absolutely no idea why I like it and I don't really understand how anyone could like it - though I know people like me are legion when it comes to this film. The plot - to use the word loosely indeed - is almost non-existent. The images on the screen don't really seem to progress in any cohesive way. Almost nothing is adequately explained. Yet, it all is so damn cool.That's Fulci. He's a man about images and his images are powerful even if they are not strung together by a reasonable plot. The music, the images, the grainy stock of the film, the acting . . . it's all great and it's all classic Italian horror from the heyday.The opening scene alone is worth the price of admission just make sure you don't accidentally get an edited version under one of the many alternative titles. "},{"Title":"All Hell Busts Loose!","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In the 1977 film The Sentinel, a character played by Cristina Raines moves into a Brooklyn Heights apartment building that, as it turns out, sits above the gateway to Hell. But as Italian director Lucio Fulci shows us in the third picture of his so-called Zombie Quartet, 1981's The Beyond (which picture followed 1979's Zombie and 1980's City of the Living Dead and preceded that same year's House By the Cemetery), there are actually SEVEN gateways on Earth that lead down to the infernal nether regions! Here, a NYC-based woman named Liza Merrill (beautiful English actress Catriona MacColl, who stars in the final three films of the Quartet) inherits a run-down inn called the Seven Doors Hotel, in Louisiana. After a series of gruesome accidents transpires around the property, Liza is warned by a mysterious blind girl, Emily (Cinzia Monreale), to cut and run, as the hotel's basement is a direct route to...well, you can imagine. And before very long, Liza and her new friend, Dr. John McCabe (David Warbeck), are playing defense against a lumbering mob of the recently awakened undead....Those viewers who may have thought City of the Living Dead--with its plot concerning the suicide of a priest opening the gate of Hell--a bit on the incoherent side may be in for a tougher time with The Beyond, whose story line is even more of a non sequitur mess, if possible. But as in the earlier film, here, Fulci's ability to engender atmosphere and combine it with jarring shocks and gruesome FX renders the picture's illogic fairly moot. The film is certainly more than the sum of its grisly set pieces. As in City, Fulci's collaborators--DOP Sergio Salvati, FX master Giannetto De Rossi, composer Fabio Frizzi--turn in some truly inspired work here, and despite the head-scratching nature of the story, an effectively horrific experience is the result. The film wastes little time in dishing out the gross-outs, too. Indeed, in the picture's first five minutes, in an excellent, sepia-toned prologue that takes place in 1927, an accused warlock is chain whipped (reminiscent of the chain whipping that Florinda Bolkan suffered in Fulci's 1972 film Don't Torture a Duckling), crucified (try watching this without wincing!) and quicklimed; a ghastly sequence that sets the viewer up for the film's later nastiness. For the gorehounds out there, Fulci delivers with a burst eyeball, a woman's face melting after a dousing with acid (with the result that a hospital floor becomes flooded with bloody, acidic sludge), a horde of clacking tarantulas eating a man's face in a gruesomely protracted sequence, another woman's head impaled on a large nail, a horrible throat ripping by a demon dog, glass shards blown into a doctor's face and, of course, loads of grotesque-looking zombies for our heroes to contend with. A feast for the gorehounds, to be sure, but still, nothing as memorable as the intestine-puking and power-drill-to-the-head sequences to be found in City of the Living Dead.As for the film's inexplicable elements, I don't even know where to begin. Why does Joe the Plumber's wife insist on putting a suit on her husband while he lays on an autopsy table? Why does their little girl, Jill, become possessed after her parents' death? What is Emily's story? An escapee from Hell, or what? Why do the architectural plans for the hotel fade from the page before our eyes? Why does that wall painting start to bleed? What is up with that Do Not Entry sign? And why was the film's mystical 4,000-year-old Book of Eibon (an H.P. Lovecraft homage here) called the Book of Enoch in the previous film? All that's left for the viewer to think is that once all Hell breaks loose, anything and everything can happen. And it DOES, in this crazy, nightmarish funhouse of a movie. The film is a Fulci-fan favorite, with the excellent reference book DVD Delirium going so far as to call it his masterpiece. I'm not sure I'd agree with that--I still prefer Fulci's psychedelic giallo from 1971, A Lizard in a Woman's Skin--but will admit that it IS some very powerful filmmaking. And one final word on its current DVD incarnation, the one from the good folks at Grindhouse Releasing It is a superb package, with hours of extras (modern-day interviews with Catriona and Cinzia reveal the two to still be very beautiful, three decades later) and a gorgeous film print. The DVD also sports an insane 53 chapter stops for an 89-minute movie! Truly, one HELL of a deal! "}{"Title":"Imaginative splatter from the Italian gore king","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A New York City woman Liza inherits an old Louisiana hotel, where sixty years previously a man was violently killed by local people for being a warlock. While working on the building, terrifying events start to happen and it is soon realized that the hotel has been built on one of the gates of Hell. A local doctor and mysterious blind girl join Liza in trying to fight the evil forces that are unleashed by this portal.The Beyond is not a film for those who cannot ignore bad acting, terrible dubbing and ridiculous dialogue. All of those faults are certainly present here. However, seeing as this is an 80's Italian splatter movie, you shouldn't really expect things to be anything different. The whole purpose of this film is to disgust and thrill you. It's pure horror, with very little logical sense. Despite the lack of attention to acting and plot, there is no denying that visually this is a well made and imaginative movie. The widescreen compositions are often very good. There are a number of very striking scenes. The monochrome prologue is well conceived and nasty, setting a grim early tone. The dreamlike scene where Liza encounters the blind girl on the deserted bridge is excellent and an example of the occasional haunting moments that punctuate The Beyond, in direct contrast to the more obvious gruesome material. The other standout set-piece for me was the sequence in the morgue, where the bottle of acid falls onto a woman, while her daughter flees from the resulting sinister approach of the acid blood &#x96; this scene, by the way, is entirely devoid of any logic whatsoever, but it just works as a really original nightmare moment. Another element that effectively makes no sense when you think too much about it is the presence of the blind girl. She seems to be a ghost, yet is somehow still killed violently. I'm not entirely convinced by this logic. Nevertheless, she is the best character in the film and on top of that has a really good spooky piano-driven theme tune.It probably goes without saying that the gruesome effects and zombie makeup are very good here. Lucio Fulci is best known for his splatter films, and this movie certainly shows why. The level of imaginative slaughter is notable, and the zombies for the most part are well conceived. There's eye violence, a brutal crucifixion, many heads blown apart and even an extremely nasty zombie dog attack. There is also a scene where tarantulas eat someone's eyeballs. I absolutely hate this particular scene though and simply cannot watch it again. As an arachnophobia sufferer I simply find this idea vile. If you don't like spiders be warned. Another bugbear for me is the annoying fact that the hero keeps on shooting the zombies anywhere but the head after then point where it is blatantly obvious that head-shots are quite obviously the only way forward. But at the end of the day, sense is not a defining feature of early 80's Italian splatter films. And this one at least for the most part works as a fun ultra-violent nightmare. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film, a must see for any true horror fan","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was an excellent film, truly breathtaking. It was almost artistic in a way. I doubt many people will understand this film or enjoy it at all, some horror fans may not like it either probably preferring something more dilute like Scream or other Hollywood crap. This film will probably disturb you in a way and probably won't leave you feeling like it was a happy ending, or you might not even understand the ending at all. Lucio Fulci was a bit of pessimist in this is reflected in this film.Another thing is this film is cruel, its really brutal how people get killed and very painful. Not that it's hard to watch, it just that its plain brutal. This film isn't just gore and brutality though, its pretty scary and keeps you on your seat a little bit in suspense. You always feel an atmosphere of dread and just know that a certain character is going to get it. The death scenes won't disappoint gore lovers. And we have a lot of Fulci's trademark eye gouging scenes. We even get to see tarantulas take a guy's eye out! Almost all the characters who die get their eye gouged out in some way. The sound effects are pretty gross sounding and fairly realistic. The music is sort of synthesized and is decent, when it plays you kind of suspect something bad is going to happen pretty soon. The acting is spot on and very strong. The actors and actresses really do a great job and its pretty realistic acting. The setting too is pretty scary and really enjoyable. The story isn't too hard to follow, its mostly the things which are left out that makes you think. Somewhat there is a nod to Lovecraft I think in this film with the book of Eibon. The ending too will leave you guessing, in a good way for true fans.I think everybody who truly gets it, will enjoy this movie. I doubt most people will like it and most people nowadays are too watered down with PG-13 horror movies and their romantic comedies. This is R rated, gore with substance, though the story is a bit simple it's implications are pretty complex. If you don't like this one then you don't like Fulci! Just a wonderful masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Careful with those nails buddy","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What can I say? This and Zombie Flesh Eaters were an introduction for me to the crazy world of Italian horror. I first watched this on cable TV years ago, and realised I was watching something special as I witnessed a jar full of acid pouring over a woman's face. Sure, it didn't make a bit of sense, but The Beyond teaches us that things that don't make any sense are far scarier than that which can be explained. Fulci here realises that plot and coherence aren't actually his strong points, and throws them all out of the window in favour of eyeball violence and atmosphere. There's not much of a plot per se, just a bunch of people stuck in an increasingly dangerous situation being knocked off in a variety of gory ways. Very gory ways. The prologue (filmed in Sepia) still manages to turn my stomach, and the shooting in the face of one of the characters is a joy to behold. This isn't realistic gore, this is fun, over the top gore, made with quite a bit of effort from Fulci, when he actually cared about such thing. He'd try to do this sort of stuff again, in Demonia and House of Clocks, but I get the feeling he couldn't be bothered by that point (although they are still enjoyable in their own way). Oh - and I'll add some praise in for David Warbreck too...he was one of the best leading men in the Italian movie business, and always looks like he's having a lot of fun to boot. "},{"Title":"Fulci's masterpiece.","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In Louisana 1927, a painter named Syvik who owned a local hotel is a warlock cursing the place making it one of the seven doors to hell until a mad mob crucified him and killed him. Many years later to 1981 to be precise, a lovely rich woman Liza (Catriona MacColl) invests in the hotel despite warnings from a blind girl named Emily whom she doesn't believe in her stories of the hotel being haunted. When bizarre accidents occur and weird things start happening, the hotel is haunted by evil spirits and the gates of hell is opened.Co-starring David Warbeck, this is Lucio Fulci's masterpiece of the macabre all the way. Influenced by the works of H.P. Lovecraft, this Italian supernatural horror thriller has became one of the best cult horror movies ever and still holds up. Sure the plot is silly and some parts are a bit ridiculous like the killer flesh-eating spiders but there is great atmosphere that is very chilly, zombies, evil spirits, a memorable music score and graphic scenes of gore such as throat-ripping, eyes plucked out etc.The film is a haunting and visually stunning shocker that is one of the best ghost, haunted house and zombie movies ever. A must see for fans of horror and the genres i mentioned! "},{"Title":"Born on a bayou","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If you are a fan of Lucio Fulci, you will do as you have done for his previous entries check you brain at the door and be ready for weirdness and gore. Also, if you are a liberal, you might get a little giggle out of seeing a guy named Joe the Plumber get killed. But, I digress. The sort-of plot for this film concerns a guy who was lynched and murdered in an old hotel in Louisiana in like the 1800's. Flash forward to the early 80's, and we find the succulent Liza has inherited the old place and is trying to fix it up so she won't have to go on welfare. Enter small town doctor, Joe the Plumber, and some slightly blind chick. Then, throw in some zombies for no apparent reason and claim the hotel was built on one of the seven doors to Heck! The ending completely falls apart and makes no sense, though there are some great moments. Liza and the Doc are chased through the hospital by a zombie crew mostly made up of patients, wherein the good doctor proceeds to fire 100 bullets from his revolver with maybe one reload. He quickly forgets that even though he has already killed 3 or 4 zombies with a shot to the head, it's best to shoot other zombies 5 times in the tummy before again aiming for the noggin.That being said, watch the film for the hyper gore, the killer soundtrack, and the tender flesh of Liza. If you are into Fulci or zombies, you'll dig it. You just won't understand it. "},{"Title":"Zombie mayhem","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This may be the best zombie movie I've ever seen. It's bloody, disgusting and thought provoking at the same time. Don't ask me what Lucio Fulci is trying to say with it. I haven't a clue. I'll be the first to admit that The Beyond doesn't make a bit of sense at times, but I'll argue his right to the film's ending to the death. It's not often a zombie movie makes you think about anything other than the impalings and gunshots to the head. At least The Beyond wants us to consider life, death, and the spaces in between.Don't be worried that the film won't deliver the violent goods. The effects are brilliant. There's a surplus of mayhem and blood and gunshots to the face. There's also some real intelligence at work. That's a rarity for any horror movie. For a zombie picture, it's amazing. George Romero should be proud. "},{"Title":"DO NOT ENTRY, if you don't have to","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Like all of Lucio Fulci's movies, I just cannot seem to like this one. It's slow, stupid, the music does not match the mood of the scenes, the story is just ridiculous Obviously one of the seven gates of hell has been opened (I guess it's the basement of the Hotel the lead chick inherits, but you don't actually ever see a gate nor anyone who opens one) and now the dead walk the earth (yes, even this stereotypical saying makes an appearance).The shock moments when the hand comes out of the hole in the wall in the basement and when Zombie Arthur jumps out of the water to grab her legs do not convince (at least not me), only the one where the zombies smash the window behind her and try to drag her out is cool. The gore is decent, but boring Only the spider and dog gore scenes are really good. But isn't it a zombie movie? And in conclusion, I always find it interesting to see how people in a zombie movie have apparently never seen a zombie movie before. "},{"Title":"Lucio Fulci's masterpiece!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio King of the Eyeball Gag Fulci made his name with a series of gory, gooey horror epics, and The Beyond stands above all as his outré masterpiece. The largely incoherent plot has something to do with a turn-of-the-century curse and a doorway to hell in the cellar of an old New Orleans hotel. Fulci shows his usual sensitivity with wooden acting, clumsy dialog, and buckets of oozing blood and pus, but don't let that get in the way of enjoying this mad tale of zombies from hell invading Earth and eating their way through a cast of humans crucified martyrs, blind visionaries, creepy hotel handymen, befuddled cops, and a plucky pair of heroes desperately fleeing a horde of hungry undead. The blood-red art direction is eerily beautiful, and Fulci's relentless long takes, punctuated by jolting shock cuts and eruptions of grotesque violence, create a mood of sheer paranoid horror right down to the final, mind-bending image. And don't forget the Fulci claim to fame eyes are gouged out, eaten away, melted with acid, and (shudder) popped out by a spike through the back of the skull. Yech! If you dare ignore such piddling details as narrative logic and let yourself get carried away on the creepy visuals, it's a deliciously stylish treat, an edgy bit of Gothic gore pitched in all its bone-crunching, flesh-ripping, organ-splatting glory. This sadistic, sanguinary hell-spawn tale is for gore-hounds only. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Horror Experience","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond is the ultimate horror experience. Lynchings, exploding heads, melting faces - it's all here, and it's in your face and that is how the average horror fan loves it. The Beyond has its critics who wouldn't know a decent horror movie if it was a rocket shot up their backside. Sure the story is incoherent, but whereas in other movies this would be off-putting, it actually serves to be a key part of the appeal of The Beyond. The Beyond is a straight-ahead example of what true horror should be - blood, guts and unnerving scares. These are things that lack in today's horror movies who think that they are scary but have the scare factor of a Bugs Bunny Cartoon. The Beyond is a film that has been copied but never equalled, and it will take a hell of a horror movie to do that. "},{"Title":"Tantalizing Fulci - A Film That Deserves Its Cult-Status","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" L'Aldilà aka. The Beyond of 1981 is one of the most widely praised films by the godfather of gore Lucio Fulci, and for good reasons. Some fellow Fulci enthusiasts label this film as the master's best. As far as I am considered, Fulci's greatest films are his Gialli from the 70s, above all his brilliant Giallo-masterpiece Non si sevizia un paperino (aka. Don't Torture a Duckling of 1972, but there is no doubt that The Beyond is also one of his great and praiseworthy films. Like several other Fulci films, this one landed on the infamous Video Nasty list in the UK after its release due to the excessive violence and nauseating gore. The film is definitely brutal, and the gore effects are brilliantly cunning than in any other Fulci film, but the violence is for sure not the only aspect that makes this film a must-see for all fans of Italian Horror. The film has a genuinely creepy atmosphere that will often give cold showers even to experienced Horror lovers. The extremely eerie settings and generally gloomy mood are accompanied by an ingenious score by Fabio Frizzi. Catriona MacColl, who also was in Fulci's House By The Cemetery of the same year, sure was a good choice for the leading role, and the male lead is played by David Warbeck, a familiar actor to fans of Italian genre cinema. The academy award in the category 'eerieness' goes to the beautiful Cinzia Morale, who is the absolute highlight of the film as a blind girl. The sequences in which she plays an awesomely eerie melody on the piano, staring into nonentity, are super creepy, and absolutely essential for an Italian Horror lover to see. I will not give a plot description, since I do not want to spoil anything for anybody, but I can assure that Horror lovers, especially my fellow fans of Italian Horror, are more than well-advised to watch this. The film is stunningly creepy and suspenseful from the first minute and the gore scenes are arguably the most imaginative in any Fulci film. Highly atmospheric and great Fulci cinema, essential to every Horror fan! "}{"Title":"A review L'Aldilà (1981)","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" L'Aldilà (1981)*** out of ****Directed by Lucion FulciWith Catrina McColl, David Warbeck and Cinzia MonrealeViolent but surreal horror adventure with MacColl and Warbeck fighting against an evil force that comes from an old building. Beautiful photographed but sometimes excessive fantastical tale is one of Fulci's best, with and excellent score and a mysterious, and certainly, beautiful ending. Full of gore as always, but highly stylized. Be aware of the censored version titled Seven Doors of Death, is really cut and change some of the credits. "},{"Title":"The Beyond","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silly, gory hokum from acclaimed gross-out maestro Lucio Fulci regarding a decrepit Louisiana hotel built on top of the seven doors to hell. In the opening of the film, villagers crucified an evil warlock named Schweick(Antoine Saint-John holing him behind a brick wall in the basement of the hotel. 50 years later, Liza(the lovely Catriona MacColl)inherits the hotel and decides renovations are in order. Her staff fall prey to supernatural evils when a plumber, inspecting leaky plumbing in the basement, knocks loose the wall holding Schweick at bay. With Schweick's rotted body set free all manners of grotesque violence occurs.The plumber immediately gets his eyeball pulled out(Ouch!). The plumber's wife receives an acid face melting, Liza's hand discovers a blueprint to the hotel showing it's mysteries and in turn gets half his face ripped apart by tarantulas(!), several victims are possessed with white eyes confirming so, and..you guessed it..zombies rise from death to pursue Liza and a doctor friend named John(David Warbeck). The plumber even shoves the poor maid through a rusty nail with it knocking her eyeball out the other side. A specter named Emily(Cinzia Monreale)allowed to return from hell to warn Liza to depart from the hotel, informs her not to go into a specific room, once occupied by Schweick..and, you know what the idiot does? That's right Liza almost instantly makes her way into the warlock's room..sheesh. Oh, and John..he sure is a bright one. When the zombies are marching EVER SO SLOWLY towards him, he shoots a bevy of bullets riddling their torsos to no effect. Yet, when he shoots them in the heads they drop to the ground to harm no one anymore. But, does John realize this enough to aim for their heads every time? Nope. Even after he watches them drop with a bullet to the head, he STILL SHOOTS THEIR TORSOS! Emily gets perhaps the nastiest death when her trusty dog rips her throat out and ear clean off in gruesome, flesh-tearing, bloody fashion. Even a poor mortician gets shards of breaking window glass stabbed into his face and neck.Should I go on? If what I've written above amuses you, then this Fulci gore-fest is up your alley. Abandon all hope for a clear story-line because the weird goings-on occur thanks to writing from this evil book called Eidon. The ending is particularly weird. Anyone familiar with special effects can clearly tell that the faces being torn apart are plaster casts of the actors. "},{"Title":"Room 36 awaits&#133; Enter if you dare.","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In 1927 a painter/satanic follower is crucified and melted alive by a lynch mob in a Louisiana hotel. Many decades later, a young woman Lisa inherits the hotel and decides to revamp to get it back into business, but unknowingly to her its built on one of the seven gateways to hell. Strange and terrible happenings start occurring and this leads Lisa to Dr. John McCabe, who might be the only person who she can convince. So, that was a Fulci film! Yep, this was my first taste of this influential Italian director's work and it was a fine eye opener. Although I liked it, I was kinda expecting a bit more from this highly regarded splatter treat. I can't deny that it doesn't deliver the goods though. Such as relentlessly gory death set pieces, gruesomely bloody and icky make-up (though it can too rubbery and overdone) and of course an atmospherically charged goldmine of total gloom 'n' doom. It's quite a nightmarish journey with morbidly spine-tingling imagery with an eerie out-of-this-world music score interwoven into this dark and surrealistic air. I guess really, it's a great way to get familiar with his work. Those looking for a well-rounded plot to feed off will find it a ludicrously, incoherent mish mash of ideas that only aim for more than ever unsparing shocks and impulsive jolts. The vivid premise was brimming with novel features, but it's mostly strung along by a plodding and drawn out structure. Honestly it's all about the sadistically unpleasant set pieces and director Fulci mostly does them quite well and suitably gets the skin crawling. They are not for the faint-hearted. Sound-effects are striking and persistently effective. The rusty colour scheme with its dour outlook only enhanced the nauseating feel and the sharply etched sets and locations picked were perfectly illustrated to get that isolated and ominous chord. The performances are hard to decipher, as they have been duped with soddenly stuffy voices losing their natural expressions. But an appealing Katherine MacColl is acceptable as the heroine and David Warbeck makes fine of his one-dimensional role. A more than decent effort by Fulci and there's serious fun for fiends of extreme splatter. "},{"Title":"tongue scene?","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I just bought the Diamond version of this movie. The first time I saw this movie was about a year ago when I rented it from Netflix. I swear that when I saw it the first time the spiders ripped the dude's tongue right out, but the Diamond version does not show that. Am I making this up in my mind? I thought this version was uncut, but I could be wrong. This version shows the girl getting her head blown off, which I heard has been cut from the American version. So I was confused about the spider/tongue scene. I could have sworn his tongue was slowly dragged out of his head the first time I saw it (sick!). But this version just shows the spider pierce the tongue.Just curious. Thanks. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Is good to see films like where the filmmakers try to do macabre scenes and this is one of them. Of course there a lot of plot holes but if you read what fulci is trying to do you can see he did. The acting is great (Katriona MacColl is a great) the effects are incredible except some fake spiders, and the music is effective but the film have a problem, there things that are very ilogic... why john did't killed sweick with a shot?? what happen between joe and martha? And of course there some continuity error, for example sweick is killed in the basement but in a moment of the film he appears in room 36 But still a great film "},{"Title":"The critics don't get it and the critics never will","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond is a gory film about the gateway to hell residing in the basement of a Louisana hotel. Thats really all the plot synopsis you are going to need. While there is some depth and development to be sure(far more than some of Fulci's other pictures) the plot is almost consequential to the gore effects on the screen. Italian horror is one of my favorite genres and to be honest there are certain expectations that one should have before watching this film or any other Italian horror film.A. If you don't like horror films... Don't buy this, don't rent it find something else to watch.B. If you like horror films but don't like gore... Keep looking this is not the movie for you.C. If you like horror films and a friend recommended this to you...try to remember whether you have anything in common with said friend after all we wouldn't want you questioning his inteligency D. If you have never watched a Italian horror film...I urge you RENT THIS FIRST, don't buy it or any other Italian horror film. I know people that love Freddy, Jason, and even Romero's dead trilogy but can't stand Italian horror.E. If you like horror, gore, have cool friends, and have watched an Italian horror film before...by all means pick this up.In my opinion only Suspiria rivals The Beyond for the best horror film to come out of Italy. Of course, it has bad acting, of course its gory, of course its derivative, because almost all horror films from Italy share these qualities. You either love it or its not for you and it never will be.That said try to remember these aspects when determining whether you want to watch this or not.For those new to Fulci, or even Italian horror, here is a film to start with. Italian horror films, such as those from Fulci and Argento, rely less on plot, so don't expect any classic lines, a realistic plot, first-rate acting or a Hollywood ending. Instead, what the Italians were going for was mainly atmosphere, and you get lots of it here. Horror films back then were more visual and atmospheric, designed to truly scare the audience, relied less on Computer FX, and no confusing script; The plot only serves as a clothesline for the AMAZING gore scenes here (all close-up), which come out of nowhere and will shock even the most jaded viewers. These include realistic scenes of tarantulas eating away at a face, two gruesome scenes of eye gouging, a dog attack on its owner (homage to Suspiria), and a gunshot to a girl which blows away the top half portion of her head. Needless to say, gorehounds and horror fans must pick this up, especially the Limited Edition, which automatically is a keeper, and will be worth more than what it is selling for in the years to come.This film, always condemened for its hokey acting and lame dialogue, was very important to the Italian horror film movement, and this film was just as significant. Just like Kurosawa's Stray Dog was important to the growth of Japanese film, Fulci's The Beyond was one of the great classics of Italian horror (and one of the last), right up there with Bava and Argento, and no doubt influenced many horror filmmakers to come (Raimi, Jackson etc). The Collector's Edition comes with a keeper's box, a 40+ page in-depth analysis of the film, Fulci, and other Italian filmmakers, and miniature posters from other countries.This restoration of a classic movie is important, as it harks back to the days where filmmakers did not rely on computer special effects, but in fact constructed FX from scratch (this shows the effort of real artists), while having fun at it (and thus more realistic). This film is true inspiration Made on a very small budget (nowhere even close to $1 million), this film still survives, very much talked about at film festivals and finally, rereleased in a very beautiful print (you couldn't tell it was made nearly 20 years ago), this is the one you must have in your collection. Congratulations to Rolling Thunder and Grindhouse. Support the horror scene, so that many more horror films out there only available in the public domain can be rereleased in beautiful prints so the fans can enjoy truly what a horror film is. "},{"Title":"Fulci rocks!!!!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well let me start off by saying that this movie is awesome! I love Fulci's way of doing gore scenes he'll put the camera right up on the victim in a close up as they are getting waxed! I love this movie and am now a Fulci fan I have this movie and house by the cemetery, new york ripper, zombi and I have don't torture a duckling on the way. I know a lot of people will disagree with me here by I like Fulci's movies better than Argento's movies. I do agree Fulci doesn't have any plotting in his flicks but I don't care because he keeps you entertained with some of the wildest and grossest kill scenes that there are out there and this flick is one of his best. If you like movies that make sense or have a mystery behind them then you may want to look elsewhere because this isn't for you, but if you want to see gore galore then check this one out because it is a tool! "},{"Title":"One of Fulci's best films","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond must surely rank as Fulci's most accomplished movie, both haunting and atmospheric and extremely violent. The film itself exists within a kind of alternate reality, it twists and turns so much that I know of many people who seem to just label this as lazy film making, but the point is it ADDS greatly to creating the very feeling that is so very important to the overall ambiance.The levels of gore are high as is to be expected, and appreciated, as one of the four 'zombi' movies that Fulci made it is hard to pick which of the series is his best. It's a shame that Fulci's later work went so down hill with stuff like 'Cat in The Brain' and 'Demonia', truly a genius and i think this film proves that the unique and original talent was very much in his soul.The bleak and distressing vision of hell will stay with me for ever, as will the immortal words that finish the film itself. "},{"Title":"Fulci is great, but not for the same reason you may think","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" To be sure, I love watching Lucio Fulci's films, but as time goes on, I find myself less concerned with finding the artistic merits of them and more interested in figuring out why I (we) like them so much. I suppose it is the phenomenological experience of them - the atmosphere of Fulci - that makes me feel like I am watching real midnight masterpieces. Fulci's trademark sounds, images and pacing are the major factors here - and of course I would be remiss if I failed to mention the incredible gore - but perhaps more important is that the resultant atmosphere is just plain fun once you allow yourself to become wrapped in it. I am tired of reading dissertations about Fulci that center on trying to place him among the great filmmakers, because he is not. All the same, I love this movie, and the DVD is excellent, offering a real treat to real fans who for years suffered through second-rate VHS versions of it. For some reason, I actually prefer The City of the Living Dead., "},{"Title":"Gory","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Woman running a New Orleans hotel inadvertently opens the gateway to Hell. Extremely gory Italian horror classic is worth seeing on that level, with some extraordinary Grand Guignoly set pieces. (I especially liked the nail in the wall moment &#150; fans of the movie will know what I mean.) The plot is a slender coat rod on which to hang these violent set pieces in that respect it resembles an adult film, more than anything else. (With the gore shots here being the money shots.) Movie is almost an art-house film, strangely, in conception and design, and I ended up reacting to it much like I do with many art-house films, IE I ended up appreciating it more than really liking it. As with a lot of exercises of style, if it doesn't resonate with you you'll end up feeling cold toward the film. (Despite all of the gore it's a surprisingly easy film to sit through.) Not a movie for everybody, as many here have already said. "}{"Title":"Superior effects, Inferior plot","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 'The Beyond' opens with an extremely effective sepia toned prologue that culminates in the graphic crucifixion of a warlock of sorts. But as is so often the case with these movies, the Italian love of confusion soon takes over. There is never any sense of progression in Italian horror movies, no sense of mounting suspense. One minute everything is perfectly normal, the next minute there are blind ghosts, children with adult voices running around, colored lights shining up from holes in the basement, zombies, rabid animals, demons, mediums, hysterical ravings about the spirit world and very sharp objects pointing at every character's eyeball. It's complete chaos. 'The Beyond' is no different, a confusing mess of a dozen movies worth of ideas, all fighting to dominate the storyline. As a result, it's always difficult to remember, let alone recommend, the movie in its entirety. Instead, the viewer is left with random scenes and impressions &#150; the wonderfully graphic eye-popping scene, the surreal death by tarantula scene, and the spectacular girl-getting-head-blown-off scene. The last twenty minutes, in which hoards of zombies invade the hospital, takes a definite and welcome step from shock-and-gore to genuine horror.For it's kind, a good splatter movie. The visual effects are, on the whole, extremely well executed; graphic, bloody and realistic. But the storyline, descending into Italian chaos within 20 minutes, is something that can only be appreciated by true connoisseurs on the genre. "},{"Title":"Lucio Fulci's Epic Masterpiece","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's been said before This is Lucio Fulci's masterpiece. It is Fulci's most entertaining and most coherent work. It has a great story, good performances, fantastic gore, and a pulse-pounding score. Let's open the Seven Doors of Death.The acting in a horror movie, especially a Fulci film, is usually mediocre. The performances in The Beyond are better than any of the director's previous films. There are no standout performances; everyone does a generally good job. Fulci regular Catriona MacColl does a good job as the female lead, as does David Warbeck. The one character that I remember vividly is Joe the Plumber, who meets a very painful end.The gore in the movie is spectacular. As usual, Fulci lives up to his reputation of 'The Godfather of Gore' and gives us a lot of nasty moments of blood and guts. We have a man's eyes ripped out, a man's face eaten by spiders, a lady getting impaled in the head by a screw, a nasty torture death at the beginning, a throat ripped out, lots of zombies, and a very, very cool exploding head. Let the feast begin.The music is very well done, giving us a memorable theme, especially at the end. The cinematography is also very beautiful, using the scenery of Louisiana to great effect. Fulci creates an eerie atmosphere that fits the film perfectly. His trademark visuals with close ups of the eyes and damage to eyeballs is ever present, producing cringe-worthy results. The ending of the film is definitely a great way to end it, leaving you hanging and wanting more.The Bottom Line This film is Fulci's masterpiece and is with a great story and lots of juicy gore. Good job Mr. Fulci! "},{"Title":"Fulci's masterpiece","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With this movie,Italian director Lucio Fulci creates a little gem made of darkness,maybe his best.Fulci here unleashes all his macabre imaginary in a lovecraftian tale,with a plot more solid than in movies like Quella villa accanto al cimitero (house by the cemetery).The movie however is an evolution of his previous movies so here we will find extreme violence and still some confused parts.But the visionary of this movie,supported by a fantastic soundtrack and a convincing performance of the actors and of a mysterious but well managed story really stands out,giving us a little gem of horror movies.This is high recommended. "},{"Title":"The Critics Don't Get it. The Critics Never Will","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Greatest of the Great Italian Gorefests! The Beyond, directed by Italian all-purpose schlockmeister Lucio Fulci, is without a doubt the finest of the 80's gore flicks. The underplayed storyline concerns Liza, (Katherine MacColl) who inherits a creaky old hotel in Louissiana, USA. Predictably, the hotel is haunted by several zombies and just happens to be located on one of the seven doors to hell! Enter Doc (David Warbeck) who obviously only deals in fact.Director Fulci goes around the houses, not bothering too much with plot, and takes us on a tour de force of Video Nasty gore. Perhaps this is the reason why The Beyond is so enjoyable and entertaining. A nightmarish horror film, the acting is as it is, the direction is on par with other Fulci efforts and the photography has more Zoom than Nascar racing. Its exactly as an early 80's horror flick should be, and I think its great.Gory to a high degree, but not comparable to films like Cannibal Holocaust. The Beyond is more than just a gore film, it is a horror film and a very good one. The zombies look almost exactly like one would imagine a REAL zombie would look like - and that makes them extra menacing! Several scenes stick out in my mind as being particularly good; the cleaner's dip into the dirty bath is really creepy! Acting is fine, Fulci regular Katherine MacColl is as average as ever, New Zealander David Warbeck is great as the straight-talking Doctor and Giovanni de Nava is perfect as surly Joe, the plumber (both alive and dead).Italian script mogul Dardano Sacchetti provides a good, if confusing script from his own story, collaborating again with Fulci after House by the Cemetery. Fabio Frizzi's music is top notch. Other House crew members include Sergio Salvati who's cinematography is aided by slightly better production values.All in all, The Beyond is a cracking horror film and should be enjoyed by everyone interested in Italian horror and 80's gore flicks. Better than House by the Cemetery, infinitely more enjoyable than Zombi (Zombie Flesh Eaters) and probably the greatest of the great Italian gorefests! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Smells Like The City Of the Living Dead","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yea this movie was alright..it as too much like city of the living dead. There was plenty of gore. The voice overs got on my nerves. Th acting is okay..but not that great. The title could have been more catchy than The Beyond. This film was very similar to another Lucio Fulci film The City Of the Living Dead, but this film is more in depth than that one. Mostley due to that fact that the main character ends up in hell so you see what it is like down there.I do recommend buying this movie if you collect zombie films it is worth a buy.Overall i give this movie **1/2/****. I recommend this movie just to hardcore Lucio fulci fans and them only because they will be the one that will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"logic dictates...(SPOILERS)","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" OK, i am able to get into the mindset to watch Italian horror. you sort of have to accept that the plot will unfold in an almost dreamlike way and try to let certain things (bad dubbing, bad dialogue, the occasional plot hole) just pass...usually, you are rewarded by some genuinely interesting ideas and often brilliant imagery. however....IF you are trapped in a hospital which is apparently filled with the shuffling, groaning bodies of the recently deceased, and you repeatedly shoot them in the body to absolutely no effect...THEN you shoot a bunch of them in the head and watch them drop like a box of hammers...why would you then begin shooting them in the body again? ESPECIALLY when the main, crusty bad guy shows up...could it be that, if you nail him in the head, the movie is over, and therefore you cannot have the admittedly chilling (if somewhat expected) finale where our heroes end up in hell?and like a few others, i have no problem with gore, generally...but really...does blood have to spurt several feet across the room, and the camera linger in closeup every time there's a wound? fulci has had his moments. the image of the dead people shuffling through the hospital, esp. when they are in shadow, is very effective...much like the similar imagery at the end of zombi...but i think, unlike argento and a few other contemporaries, he was mostly a one trick pony... "},{"Title":"I'm impressed","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I thought I was desensitized to film violence. After watching Dawn and Day of the Dead and all the wonderful gore effects by the master, Tom Savini, I didn't think a film could make me cringe. Granted, Fulci's effects were no where near as well executed as Tom Savini's, most of the original concepts behind the death scenes more than made up for it. It's kind of a sad state that I can write about how I admire Fulci for keeping the camera on the blood and guts. When taboo subjects come up, he doesn't cut away. I am so sick of the sanitized mainstream Hollywood studio horror flick with no shocks, no scares, no tension, test-audience friendly, happy ending horror movie.It's an even sadder statement since gore-galore horror really is not my preference, and, in fact, I actually looked down on it when I first took an interest in the dark side of cinema. I preferred slick artistic style (blood or no blood, as it long as it plays well). Now I still would recommend Argento's Suspiria over the Beyond; however, I no longer bash the celebrations of blood (however, Friday the 13th still sucks.) Fulci plays out his scenes to an off beat, which I can respect but again it's not really my cup of tea (blood, whatever). Nothing wrong with the different pace and flow; it just never really clicked with me and never achieved the intensity of the Exorcist, Halloween, or Suspiria. Anyway, being from the US, Italian style of horror is an interesting (not to mention superior) switch from the usually sanitized Hollywood productions, and even things like the lack of a consistent language and obvious dub plays into the charm factor.One thing that did irk me was the fact that our leading man couldn't figure out that shooting zombies in the head had more effect than shooting them in the chest. Okay, even if I had not seen Romero's infamous trilogy, when surrounded by thirty walking corpses that want to eat me I'd like to think I'd be pretty quick in finding a way to drop them. When three bullets to the chest does nothing to stop that zombie and only one bullet to the head gets the job done then some little voice in my head will be screaming, 'Try the head again! Try the head again!' I mean, when you're life is on the line you're cognitive skills go into desperation overdrive. While I didn't have too much enthusiasm for the plot, itself, or the characters/acting, it did keep my interest through the sets, shot composition, at times the music (before it got redundant), and the unapologetic gore . . . and who knows, maybe it'll grow on me. Lastly, I have to thank Mr. Fulci for being a relentless, sick, and really really twisted individual. "},{"Title":"A brilliant Italian horror film. My first by Fulci and I'm impressed","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have always been a bit of a fan of the work of Italian horror directors like Mario Bava and Dario Argento, and Lucio Fulci (director of the Beyond) is sometimes praised as being as good as those two legends, and he is often called a director who only really cares about gore and deserves no respect whatsoever.Not that I pretend to be an expert on Lucio Fulci, I can honestly say that I loved 'The Beyond'. Some people have said that Lucio Fulci doesn't have much of a plot in The Beyond, which may be true, but I can honestly say that that doesn't matter at all, because of the wonderfully surreal (albiet a bit gory) images that we are shown throughout The Beyond.All in all, I really loved The Beyond, and I recommend you watch it with a few friends and enjoy the film, and don't read too much into it.5/5, but avoid if you are an arachnidphobe. "},{"Title":"Ah, those crazy Italian zombies","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You like to think you're in for a treat when a movie starts out with a guy being horribly beaten with a chain, graphically crucified, and then melted in acid. Just a little Cajun justice what was meted out on them there warlocks in Louisiana circa 1927.Fast forward to bayou country, 1981. Some hot blonde girl from New York has inherited an abandoned hotel in Mandeville, apparent scene of the aforementioned grotesquerie. Unbeknownst to our heroine is that the hotel also was built on top of one of the seven doorways to hell. Who knew the devil would choose Mandeville for such an honor?What follows is your traditional Italian blend of incomprehensible plot, dorky score, bad dubbing, and over-the-top splatter sequences. All of the classic Lucio Fulci trademarks are here -- the weird obsession with people's eyes (including the patented eyeball gouge and eyeball impalement), characters' bizarrely implausible reactions to the supernatural and the disgusting, and, of course, buckets o' (fake) blood.As Fulci movies go, this is supposedly one of his best. However, the Good Doctor must say that, despite a high CF (Cheese Factor), he found himself bored for the most part. The pace is somewhere between molasses in winter and molasses in winter on Pluto, punctuated with only occasional violence (including one ridiculous scene where a brood of pipe-cleaner tarantulas eats a guy's latex face piece by piece.)Maybe the best thing about the movie is that it was filmed in New Orleans, and you get to see a little of that great city, including the famous Cornstalk House. Oh well, at any rate, there's worse crap out there, but I would take Fulci's Zombi 2 over The Beyond. The former at least ended with an all-out zombie fest that made sitting through the boring parts worth it, whereas the grand hospital full of walking dead finale in this movie is pretty tame. I mean, it's not like anyone is watching these lousy films for their great and suspenseful story lines -- so why not let more zombie guts fly?  "},{"Title":"don't take too seriously","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Friggin hilarious! I love this movie, and die laughing when i see it.. It is not a movie to be taken too seriously, just enjoyed for what it is. I will admit i am a sucker for corny horror, the prolonged decaying, the acid, the eyeballs, scenes that make you laugh out loud and yell BUT WAIT!! THERE'S MORE!! I would not suggest this movie to many people as it is definitely for a 'special breed' but if you are into campy horror, and have a love for Italian gore, well this just might be the flick for you. i gave this an 8/10cheese factor? definitely up there, thumbs up )  "}{"Title":"Warning For Giallo fans only!","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you are not familiar with Giallo (an Italian bred horror film style of the seventies), do not watch this. This film is not for the faint of heart or for the easily confused. This film is amazing, if you consider it's intense scares and violent content, but other than that, do not waste your time. The story has a great setup, but the random plot twists create many holes left unanswered that will leave you frustrated days later. But if you are a gore fanatic, and enjoyed films like dawn of the dead, suspiria, and deep red, you will love this gore fiesta. The scares are shot beautifully and the sick inventive death scenes are a sociopath's dream, but if your knowledge of horror only goes as far as i know what you did last summer, this film with confuse you to death.  "},{"Title":"A little dissapointed...(spoilers)","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Like many Americans, I love gory horror movies.  This movie was pretty gory, but in my opinion, it was no more violent than Dawn of the Dead, and MUCH less gory than Dead Alive.  While Dead Alive was more over-the-top, quickly-executed cartoony-type gore, the gore in The Beyond was slower, more painful-looking gore.  I expected to be blown out of my seat and instead I just was kind of slumped over the whole time.  I'll briefly explain the plot then review some of the gory scenes so you can decide whether you want to see it or not. The plot is kind of silly, it involves an old hotel that a daughter inherits which contains the seven doors to hell in the basement.  The doorway was opened by a group of thugs who crucify a man one floor over the basement (room 36).  One day a plumber goes down to check out a leak in the basement, and upon breaking away the bricks in a certain spot, he finds a whole other room.  As he looks inside, a hand reaches out and slowly rips his eye out of its socket.  This is the way most of the deaths are set up on the movie, to look excruciatingly painful.  A few more minutes later we get to see a woman in a morgue who is attacked by the zombie plumber and she knocks over a jar of acid which spills on and slowly burns off her face.  The death by spiders was the weakest death of all as it was probably the cheapest looking. Sure we get to see their fangs take a huge chomp at this dude's eyeball, but it looks more like a pair of kiddie scissors with hair glued on them stabbing a ping pong ball filled with fake blood.  The spiders also bite out his tongue, which looks laughably fake.  Next up a woman gets her head slammed on one of the crucifixtion nails in room 36 which of course pops her eyball out through the front.  Again, while it is pretty graphic, it's not very realistic.  The blind woman whom we see so often throughout the movie's dog becomes possessed and it rips her throat out, then tears some skin off the back of her head for good measure.  The two remaining people, (the hot chick and the stereotypical male-with-a-gun character) are up against tons of zombies and all they have is a handgun to fend for themseves with.  The little Pippi Longstocking girl from the beginning reappears, now possessed, and gets the top of her head blown off by a shot at close range. Eventually, they kill most of the zombies, make their way towards the gateway to hell, and step inside.  What they see is a dimly-lit, barren wasteland.  Their eyes turn white, and they continue to walk on.  The movie ends.  Like many others who watched this movie, I watched it for the guilty pleasure aspect.  The movie was pretty gory, but the body count wasn't that high and the deaths were handled in a more dramatic, Final Destination way, unlike Dead Alive, which featured tons of extremely gory deaths just to have a high body count.  The gore wasn't all that disgusting as it always seemed to be centered around the eyes or the face.  The eye-popping scene in the basement at the beginning doesn't hold a candle to the human-quartering scene at the end of Day of the Dead, or the scene in Dead Alive when a victim gets his ribcage ripped out (which I consider to be one of the nastiest death scenes in ANY horror movie).  If you want buckets of blood, guts, and a scene where a guy plows through a mob of zombies with a pushmower turned on and held out in front of him (I've never seen a single scene in a movie with that much blood or flying limbs before, ever.) watch Dead Alive.  It's much more promising and much, much more disgusting.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Beautiful; Lovecraftian in texture","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond is a most well-crafted Italian Horror Film from my generation's golden age of modern-horror films.  Fulci himself described the film in Starburst # 48 (God rest its soul if its not still still-around) as a succession of images with the zombies as being more of an after-thought. With Italian horror films, plot is second to the pure GUSTO of CINEMATIC STYLE! C-I-N-E-M-A!!  (typical) American film-goers need plot and structure (linerisims) just look at our buildings, business-practices, standardized tests.  In American Cinema (an art-form indigenous to this linear-structure paradigm), the foregin film falls to pieces.  With the feel and bouyant texture of Frizzi's cacacphonous Voci Nella Dulla (voices of nothing), Gino De Rossi's brilliant effects, Sergio Stilvati's editing, and Vicenzio Tomassi's editing (I'm writing from memory here) all the way from beginning to end The Beyond gave me chills . . . even as a jaded young adult (I'm an older young-adult who's less jaded/more humble)! thanks.  Ignore my poor spelling (focus on my M-E-A-N-I-N-G!) remember its CINEMA first, plot second!  "},{"Title":"Fulci 's Masterpiece","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hands down Lucio Fulci's masterpiece, unforgettable. Although Fulci original foray into the zombie genre is under question. It is hard to deny the fact he took it in a different direction. The supernatural direction works nicely and would be hindered if it was not so. In true Italian film style the story does'nt follow the A + B = C formula and some may alienate it on that level. Yet to watch this all one has to do is sit back and soak up the beautiful imagery. DP Sergio Salvetti is truly one of the greatest cinematographers in the history of film. Besides Dawn of the Dead, its hard not to see how this film inspires young genre fans to become filmmakers themselves. Buy the Anchor Bay DVD or rent it, but see this movie. A true film buffs horror film!!!!Fulci Lives!!! "},{"Title":"Getting Around the Gore","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a total wimp.  I will admit this right up front and unashamedly.  I cannot stand gory movies; they scare me, make me sick, give me nightmares, you name it.  It was with great reluctance that I agreed to watch this movie with my boyfriend, who had seen it before and was very good about telling me when to look away from the screen.  So, I did not see the opening acid-crucifixion scene, (though I heard the screams, splashing and sizzling sounds) I did not see the tarantula scene, (yeah, I'm arachnophobic too, sue me!) and I did not see the eyeball-on-a-spike scene.  So why, exactly, am I reviewing this film when I didn't even see the most important parts?  Well, I'll tell you...This film, like all of Fulci's most notorious films, relies very heavily on explicit, in your face, gross-out gore, and the more realistic the better.  But what about the actual film?  You know, the plot, the storyline, the actors, all that other stuff?  Having NOT been overwhelmed by graphic mutilations and sadistic torture deaths, I can honestly say that The Beyond was quite spooky.  There were some lovely shots of humid, night time New Orleans and the brooding hotel which stands atop one of the gateways to Hell.  The music was wonderfully eerie and the shots of the dark, flooded basement with its icky, crumbling walls really made me shiver and long for a hot bath.  This movie really has some great creepy moodiness going for it I mean, it would have freaked me out even without the gore.  The plot doesn't always make sense, but really, who can say what may make sense when the doorways to Hell are opened?  Reason collapses in on itself, all that is sane and normal flees and we are left in a nightmare world where anything can happen and you have nothing to say about it.  This film really gets under your skin.The shot of the Seven Doors, illuminated from within and filled with shuffling zombies, the creepy woman with the egg-white blind eyes, the rotting army of zombies slowly lurching down every corridor, the little girl whose head literally explodes and the wonderful gun-loading scene in the elevator where our heroine comes within an inch of cracking up on camera - all of these make this film well worth watching.  And hey, if you're a big fan of heavy duty gore, you'll probably like this film even more than I did.  "},{"Title":"A gore classic!","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The cellar of an old hotel is built on top of the door to the beyond. A whole variety of zombies live there, waiting down there to be discovered.When a woman who is heir of the hotel wants to restore it, She is confronted with strange events. A painter has a lethal fall, the plumber vanishes and her friend breaks his neck. When she escapes to the hospital of a friendly doctor she doesn't know what a nightmare is waiting there. Lucio Fluci's the beyond is a excellent horror film! the gore effects by Germano Natali (Any relation to Vincenzo Natali, director of Cube?) are excellent and the atmosphere built by Lucio Fluci is creepy. He give the film a cool look and the film is visually unique. Perfectly blending extreme gore with superb atmosphere, The beyond is a horror fans delight. Dig it. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Now dated, but good for its time","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is very dated, but for its time is well crafted horror/zombie movie. There are seven gateways into hell, and they are hidden in seven cursed places. One of the seven just happens to be a house that the lead actress has recently inherited. After a number of mysterious accidents things start to get nasty. The plain bricks and mortar wall that has held tight for, who knows how many years, is broken down by a plumber investigating the source of a water leak. From here on in it is zombies here there and everywhere. The owner does make a friend in the town, and he happens to work at the local mortuary. And surprise surprise they end up in the mortuary near the end of the film, a worse place to be in a zombie movie I can not think of. Great horror movie ending. well worth watching for all the gore (which although dated is quite graphic) and the ending. "},{"Title":"Another gem for Fluci fans!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fluci's The Beyond is a atmospheric, chilling, and gory horror gem. Fluci Directs it with lots of style, competence, and some chilling gore scenes. -possible spoilers-There is a scene where a mans face is pulled apart by Tarantulas that is vomit inducing!The acting isn't perfect but good enough for my standards anyways, at least better than Fluci's earlier film, Zombie!I rate this horror gem 10/10 and I highly recommend it to gore hounds. "},{"Title":"Recommended for fans of Italian horror only.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie is very gory, lots of eye poking, people melting because they get sprayed with slaked lime or acid, some guy getting his face eaten by tarantulas, zombies etc. But the FX are pretty dated by today's standards, and some of them look really fake. At times the soundtrack is awful, and the acting is pretty bad. In addition the dubbing is also bad and makes the bad acting even worse.The story itself is incoherent and sometimes you just don't know what's going on, and why. And of course there are very many plot holes. Things come up but are never hinted at or talked about again. But the atmosphere the film creates is pretty scary (and I don't get scared easily), and the ending is quite nice.All in all it is a typical horror movie from the eighties. But if you don't know any films from that period, be warned. Apart from the gore don't expect too much.For fans of Italian horror movies though it definitely is a must see.  "},{"Title":"aka THE BEYOND (UK TITLE) The ultimate Fulci experience..WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!...","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Given that most Lucio Fulci films lack some semblance of logic and suspense, it is with pleasure that THE BEYOND succeeds on all fronts. Part horror-mystery, part timewarp, part zombie movie, it provides the best example of Fulci's talents as a great horror director.The premise - young woman inherits a hotel on one of 'the seven doors of death' (the original US release title in 1981) is very basic, but is actually necessary as the film is more a sequence of great horror moments leading to an eerie climax.Most unnerving sequence - the spiders crawling over the librarian and the climax in the hospital.Thanks to Quentin Tarantino, whose Rolling Thunder film company rereleased THE BEYOND in a brand new print (although the film didn't make it into UK cinemas in this format), the film is enjoying a brand new lease of life amongst fans new and old.Recommend. "}{"Title":"Night of Hell","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Fulci's so called masterpiece is a trying piece of moviemaking that is utterly predictable and slow.  The boring cycle starts out with a lady inherting some old hotel and attempting to fix it up but along the way some workers accidentally open a gate of hell and everyone winds up dead.  The only good thing about this film is the ending which features a strange 70's soundtrack, matte backdrop of hell and a bizarre expression on the characters faces, reminscient of Dario Argento's films, other than that, this is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever made","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  THE BEYOND has bad acting, bad script, confused story, bad direction, bad props (the spelling mistake at the hospital), mostly boring characters, goofy effects (spiders), etc. And yet this Luici Fulci movie is one of his best if not his best. Even with everything seemingly going against the film, THE BEYOND actually works because of the amazing atmosphere,  the great cinematography, the excellent music, the nightmarish quality of it all and the two lead actors, the dashing David Warbeck and the beautiful Catriona MacColl. Cinzia Monreale is also memorable as the blind woman but unfortunately her role doesn't last long. I really love this movie, certainly the ending where the action really gets going and the final scenes are truly haunting. For once, an atmospheric horror film that actually transcends its very obvious shortcomings. A must see on widescreen and the commentary on the DVD with MacColl and the late Warbeck is one of the best I've ever heard. It's really worth checking out. THE BEYOND is much, much better than Fulci's other films made around the same time, such as the woeful HOUSE BY THE CEMETERY and the dull CITY OF THE LIVING DEAD.  "},{"Title":"Interesting gore scenes","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I write reviews under the nickname of Gorehound-1, but I also write reviews under the nickname of ~PL~. My reviews, as Gorehound-1, are there to give hints to gore fans, to help them in their choices for viewing or buying a gore movie. I advise you that I am a very strong stomach, and it's almost impossible to gross me out. My ratings are a mark between 0 and 10 for the gore (its quality and amount), the violence, the sadism, and the brutality.(Spoilers warning)Gore quality 8/10 There's the very nice scene where a man is beaten with chains (Fulci used the same technique he used in the infamous beating scene in Don't Torture A Duckling)...we see pieces of flesh being torn apart and resulting in generous bloodletting.  Also, the crucifiction of the same guy is incredibly well done and realistic.  There's a scene where a guy has his face eaten by tarantulas.  Some shots of the scene are pretty nice, but in others it's obvious that the spiders are plastic ones, and also the skin of the man is not always very convincing.  Many zombies are shot, and there's some nice bullet impact effects with enough blood.  There's also a little zombie that is shot in the head, and ends up with no face...it's not the usual exploding head, because it doesn't fully explode, but it is still very nice.  There is a little more than that, and generally it's pretty well done.Gore amount 7/10 Okay, the film can seem long (even though it is probably Fulci's best!) but there is more gore in this one than in most of Fulci's films...many scenes are memorable, like the spiders scene and the exploding head, but there is still not a HUGE lot of gore scenes.  The amount is okay, I'd even say it's a little more than that, but still you'll see way more gore in many other films.  Violence 6/10 The scene where the guy is crucified and beaten is very violent, and there is a considerable amount of violence in this film.Sadism 2/10 Not much, except maybe for that scene, again, where the guy is beaten and crucified, when we consider the time it takes him to die, it could be considered as torture...Brutality 8/10 That scene again...yes, it is a mix of violence and brutality with a sadistic touch...but the brutality is evident in that scene.Gore film to rent 8/10 Gore fans that would like to know Fulci a little more should watch this.  No it is no masterpiece, it's not a good film, you may find it boring (or if you're easily amazed, you could find it beautifully filmed and mysterious) but it contains, I'd say, the best overall gore in a Fulci film.  If the film was better, we wouldn't feel some kind of lack in the gore factor, because we would be entertained (see Dog Soldiers, for example, which is not THAT gory, but still leaves a good impression because it is good and entertaining).  Anyways, a rent is not expensive, and it is a very good idea to make it before buying the film. Gore film to buy 5/10 For collectors, yes, that's a nice buy, but if it's just the gore that matters, go for Premutos, Zombie Doom, or Braindead...you'll be satisfied with that!  That is THE Fulci film to buy, but beware, it's not that good either.MPAA says UNRATEDGH1 says should be rated R for considerable gore and strong horror violence. "},{"Title":"Really morbid, even by today's standards.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The DVD for this movie was listed in Netflix under the Lucio Fulci collection. From what I've seen, I'm guessing Lucio Fulci was a venerated Italian horror movie director with a cult following. The morbidity level was way up there, even by today's standards. There were gallons of blood sloshed around, eyes popping out everywhere, faces being melted off by acid, and they were all done at a decent suspense level too. Wish the plot was more cohesive though.I watched the English-dubbed version of the movie, which was weird because it's set in Louisiana so the actors speak English, but since it was released in Italy, it was originally dubbed in Italian. So while the actors were mouthing the words I was hearing, it was clearly not their voices. It actually added a fun, campy quality to the movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"In it's uncut form, 'The Beyond' is almost good... almost...","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Before i start i have to admit i really like Zombie movies and so i know my views are going to be soft, but Fulci's works have always confused me. Zombi 2 is a great little picture with a decent plot, this one is just plain nutz. It has bad editing, bad camera work, bad acting and the plot has more holes than a piece of swiss cheese, but i still found it quite charming and i would have to recommend it to hard core zombie horror fans. When i was a teenager i watched the old UK edit of this movie and remember thinking it was bad, but then i was zombie hungry. Unfortunately this only goes zombie crazy near the end, and in a cut form it doesn't seem worth the wait. In it's uncut form, yes, it is. It's all about the cutting, cut 70/80s horrors build up the tension (often badly) and then the scene fizzles out. Uncut versions build up the same and then... YUK!! It often doesn't matter if the effects are poor, they're often simply worth the wait, like a few in this movie. Having said that, alot of this film makes absolutely no sense and to this day i don't get the relevance of the big white cataracts a couple of the girls had in their eyes. Those crazy Italians... "},{"Title":"an acquired taste","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is not for everyone and probably wasn't for me. Although well done I didn't really enjoy the film and felt bored at times. Simply put Bettany is the only reason why I kept watching, he is a brilliant actor. Also does anyone know where I can buy that pin striped outfit Bettany was wearing. I can see that kit graduating into my wardrobe very soon.  "},{"Title":"This movie sucks, don't waste your time.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  DO NOT, under any circumstances, spend one penny of your hard earned money on this ridiculous, incoherent piece of crap. Now, before I continue with my comments, I think it only makes sense to establish some frame of reference. If my review is to be of any use to you, you need to know whether or not we are on the same page regarding horror movies. Maybe you like this kind of garbage. Maybe you also like getting poked in the eye. Whatever. What follows is a short list of what I consider to be some of the better if not great horror films of the last 30 years.Angel Heart The Blair Witch Project The Changeling Evil Dead 1, 2 & 3 The Exorcist Hellraiser 1 & 2 The Legend of Hell House The Omen The Others Rosemarys Baby The Shining The Sixth SenseThe above list is by no means complete and is only intended to provide the reader with a sampling of what I consider to be great horror. Alien, Night of the Living Dead and John Carpenters The Thing are terrific, incredibly scary movies too but I classify them as science fiction so they didnt make the above list. Likewise with Silence of the Lambs and Jaws. Great movies but I would call them suspense, not horror.All right, back to my review of this celluloid abortion. This movie failed for three reasons. Plot, special effects and soundtrack. The acting and sets actually werent that bad. They werent great but I?ve seen worse. The plot however is unredeemable. As a matter of fact its practically nonexistent. If there had only been some kind of coherent story here I might have been able to enjoy this film a little. But alas, there is nothing in the way of story here at all. What passes for plot is just an excuse to string together a bunch of poorly fabricated and ridiculously executed gore effects. The blood in this film looks like iced tea. It looks like it has the consistency of tap water. All the acid face melting scenes are nothing short of silly and the blind girls contact lenses keep slipping off her corneas. I could go on and on but why belabor the point. There are a couple of passable eyeball gags but its just not enough to make up for all the other shortcomings. Overall the effects are sub par and contribute to the failure of the film. Unfortunately the disappointments dont stop there. Theres still the soundtrack to suffer through. I will make this quick. The Partridge Family could have recorded a more effective soundtrack. I think Dario Argentos Suspiria is a really stupid movie too but you know what, that movie has a great soundtrack. Perfectly timed and paced to the movie.In summary, I would recommend anyone seeking a satisfying horror film experience check out one of the movies I have listed above. Really though, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory would be a more satisfying horror film experience than this stinker. If youre of the brain dead adolescent glue sniffer ilk and only interested in seeing blood and gore no matter how phony it looks then go ahead and watch this train wreck. Then do the rest of the world a favor and have your head examined.  "},{"Title":"I TRIED SO HARD","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, folks, I tried.  Man, how I tried!  I tried harder to like this flick than I have with any other movie save Pulp Fiction and Dr. Zhivago and you know what?  I still hate all three of them.  PF I hate for being too long and too damn self-important.  There's nothing like listening to a moron who thinks he/she's being brilliant rattle on endlessly about absolutely nothing.  DZ is just plain BOOORRRIIINNNGGG!!!  I don't care what anyone says, that film puts me to sleep quicker than a fistful of Xanax and a Bob Ross marathon rolled into one.  To be fair, I've never been much of a fan of the epic, cast of thousands breed of filmmaking, however, so that comment should probably be taken with a grain of salt.  Also, I do own the soundtrack so...  nuf said.No such conflict exists with me when it comes to horror films and particularly horror films from Italy.  While these oddball imports are certainly not to all tastes and, realistically, have about the same good stuff to utter crap ratio found in every genre and budget of the film and video world, there are some diamonds to be found amongst the slag.Dario Argento is probably the most accessible of the Italian horror directors for an American audience.  His films are fast paced, use a lot of really cool camera moves and he keeps the suspense consistently high. While I was decidedly underwhelmed by Suspiria, his giallo efforts in Deep Red and Tenebre succeeded to a degree that has never been equaled in this peculiarly Italian subgenre.I also admire the horror films (few though they are) of Joe D'Amato.There are several Mario Bava flicks which serve as centerpieces to my DVD collection and, of course, his son Lamberto's Demon double-header is just great.There is also a Fulci title which graces my collection and it is without a doubt the one film of his I heartily recommend  Zombie.But enough with the preamble, we're here to talk about The Beyond.  I won't bore you with a plot synopsis both because I can't stand them and because you're sure to find plenty of them gracing this site already. What I will talk about is the sheer awfulness of this mess of a movie.As most reviewers will concede, the plot makes little to no sense.  The dialogue is wretched and is helped out in no way by a very poor dubbing job (honestly, is there any such thing as a good dubbing job?).  But these same reviewers end up lauding the film for its graphic gore scenes and its great atmosphere.Here's a little trade secret, friends When the only good things a reviewer has to say about a film involve words like atmosphere or mood,  you are in for a bad experience.  I agree that cinematic art is not entirely dependent upon such things as plot or dialogue (nor am I trying to argue that it should be).  Still, these people seem to be ignoring the fact that what we are here presented with is not a so-called art film but a horror flick.  As far as I am concerned, the two play by a very different set of rules.And while some of the graphic violence is depicted with passable make-up effects, there are just as many which are done with poor ones.  The tarantula scene is definitely not all its cracked up to be as it becomes obvious after the first few seconds that what we are seeing is one or two real spiders surrounded by stiff rod puppets being wiggled back and forth by an off-screen tech.  Even when the effects are competently rendered, Fulci shows about as much directorial restraint as your average porno filmmaker as he makes damn sure to zoom right in on every gaping, spurting wound.  The result is something you feel almost bad about watching after awhile as it is so determined to be shocking but succeeds only in being unpleasant.As stated earlier, I have no axe to grind with the horror film.  I've been a fan for years.  Neither do I consider Fulci to be a complete hack because Zombie was such an effective addition to that genre and belongs right alongside Romero's Dead Trilogy.  What I have a problem with is lazy storytelling and lazy filmmaking, which is precisely what this movie boils down to.  Wasn't it possible to find a set decorator who knew enough English to spot the error in a sign reading DO NOT ENTRY?  Was there no one in the cast or the dubbing room smart enough to spot the irony in a line like, You have carte blanche but not a blank check.?  Why in god's name would any writer worth his/her pen and ink ever decide to set their story in New Orleans when they obviously knew nothing about the place (as witnessed by the fact that houses in this version of New Orleans have basements)? Didn't anyone every question the logic of attaching electrodes to monitor the brain waves of a decomposing corpse?  What about the genius who figures every hospital keeps a huge open tub of flesh-eating acid precariously balanced high atop a rickety bookshelf?  Granted, on their own these foibles, fumbles and f***-ups may not be enough to sink the whole film, but taken together they add up to a filmmaker who either had no respect whatsoever for his audience and therefore no qualms about insulting their intelligence or simply was not himself intelligent enough to catch them.  While several of the films mentioned earlier have their fair share of low points (perfection is unattainable to us mere mortals, after all), none of them come anywhere near the sort of slap-dash exploitation on display with this film.  It might be entertaining enough to keep a drunk and rowdy midnight movie crowd happy, but viewed in the light of day the film simply doesn't hold up. "},{"Title":"Mediocre scares","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond is a very atmospheric gore movie, but dark sets, lots of blood, and loud eerie music (I had to adjust the volume constantly since the music often covered up the actors' voices.) can't make up for what this movie lacks. The plot has a lot of inconsistencies; many scenes don't make a lot of sense, though they're plenty bloody and grim, and it's hard for me to be scared when I don't know what's going on or why it's happening. It's also difficult to appreciate the murders when they're so obviously fake. Then again, perhaps I expect more than I should of a movie that's twenty-one years old.For those who find it easy to lose themselves in a mindless, nightmarish story that has no grasp on logic (or good acting) - you will enjoy it immensely.For those who prefer not to shut down their brains while viewing a horror film, you'll probably walk away extremely disappointed.(One last thing - The man is a doctor, and he can't even figure out that shooting the zombies in the chest WON'T kill them - or even hinder them minutely. After he's already killed two by getting them in the heads, he wastes nearly five bullets shooting others in the chest at point-blank range...)  "},{"Title":"They don't make'em like they used to. .  .Period!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Alright I don't wanna sound like I'm a Joker, but everyone thinks I'm a boot kisser for liking this film. The question is do I care. .  . NO, PERSONAL OPINIONS THE MAIN THING!What a creepy start up first of all Someone painting Hell like it is (say that Antoine Saint John is one scary looking actor). Then a gang of angry villagers begin to give some So Solid chain whipping, and to cap it off some saucy looking Italian bird Cinzia Monreale (whoever said her name was Sarah keller. .  .Please) reading the book of Eibon out loud. And what a begining that is.Not matter how abstract Italian film makers like Bava, Argento or the late great Lucio Fulci are, one thing cannot be denied. . Style. What lacks in plot can be made up for exsqusite visual substance.Acting was impeccable for this film (apoligies for sounding a bit far fetched there). Yeah there were a couple of off key charecter's in this fi lm (check out Arthur, what a fool). And the fact that the film can be oddly slow, but that still didn't let me stop myself from liking it.Hats to both Catriona McColl and the late great David Warbeck. It would have been great seeing an interesting follow up to this classic gem. In one respect I know the likes of Hugo Weaving or maybe Hugh Jackman might be ideal for a role that they could be a huge boost of a follow up from David Warbeck himself. The real tragedy to this whole concept is that all hope was lost when Fulci and Warbeck had both died one year apart, destroying any chances of any follow up to commence.What's enlightening is how many of these director's works are being widely celebrated on DVD (Thank you to Anchor Bay entertainment). I just hope that they'll be other directors who may want venture into the world of abstract formulas the way Fulci did, minus the over-elaborate gore though.Lucio Fulci a great director that shall never be ignored, not to mention The Beyond. 10/10 "}{"Title":"um....yeah....","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, having looked at the only other review posted at the time that I write this, it appears that I saw the poor version of this film (SEVEN DOORS OF DEATH). Sure, they say there are better versions of this film available, but c'mon! That would take a helluva lot of improvements. Calling this campy is probably as nice as I can get when describing this film. I respect that Italian film genre and Fulci's directoral style, but this movie still sucked. Flaws....lots of flaws. For example, every door in the hospital seemed to lead to the morgue. David Warbeck's character was an idiot when using a gun (and where did he get all those bloody bullets????). And what was with the random scene with the jazz band? If you want to watch a film you are guaranteed to MST3K, go for this one. You won't stop laughing, I promise.  "},{"Title":"Don't like this movie. Ask joe what happens to people who don't like this movie!","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If your a horror fan then this movie is for you. I would go to say that this is Fulcio's best work of his career.It has a well rounded plot and plenty of gore to make you, well watch  and find out! I would also check out Paura nella città dei morti viventi also known in America as City of the living dead Another great film by Lucio Fulcio.  "},{"Title":"Sorry about that Harris","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From the comments written I was not sure what to expect when I finally watched it.  I read reviews where people hated the movie and called it a gorefest and those who liked it.  I fall in the category of someone who enjoyed watching this film.  Does it have flaws?  Yes.  The movie, however, overcomes them in that it is a rather fast-paced horror film where there are deaths throughout.  Not just one at the beginning and no more till the end.  There are no stupid teenagers whose primary objective is to use every cuss word and phrase in the book, there are no scenes where you hear the music tense up and a hand goes on someone's shoulder and it is just a person's buddy or that old security guard (in this movie when that happens it is in fact something that is going to kill someone).  This movie is also no mere gorefest in my opinion.  The director does a good job of establishing atmosphere in this flick and he leaves you with many questions at the end.  Many of these questions could have been answered, but the evil forces are like 5 steps ahead of all the people so the poor people never have a chance to find anything out before it is to late.  The movie also creates tension.  In the scenes when the zombies attack a man uses a gun and starts shooting them.  It is obvious that the zombies die from one head shot, but our hero continuely shoots into the body.  I believe the director did this so you would scream at the screen,Shoot them in the head dummy.  It makes you part of the film that way.  It also leaves things to the imagination.  Like how did the blind woman escape from The Beyond?  One problem I had with the film though was the death of Harris.  They could have easily had him killed by the zombies, instead our hero shoots a gun into a window for some reason and the glass flies into Harris' face with his eyes closed and he doesn't even scream.  Apparently the hero just leaves and I had to say Sorry about that Harris, and had a chuckle.  By the way there is a plot to this film and that is when the gates of hell are opened all hell breaks loose. "},{"Title":"My wife and I saw this film at the theater and ....","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  We didn't think too much of it, as it was your typical foreign gore film.  It was really odd that it was showing on a theatrical release.  On the way home that night I hit a highway median that neither of us saw.  It didn't damage the car but we both jumped out of our skins.  Then it hit us that the movie had really creeped us out!  Very disturbing and surrealistic on the big screen.  Not so frightening on t.v.  I rented the video to show others how creepy the film is but it just doesn't have the same impact on the little screen.  I love horror movies and this one is about as creepy as they get. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but unpleasant.","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've only seen two of Lucio Fulci's films, this and House by the Cemetery. This is obviously the better of the two.Even so, I still had a hard time watching this film because of the extremely over-the-top gore effects. Every single one of them is cringe worthy, from rotting corpse make-up to face meltings. And I have a very high tolerance for gore, but it depends on the circumstances in which gore appears. I loved Peter Jackson's Braindead (AKA Dead Alive), yes the gore was quite excessive, but it was presented with a tongue in cheek attitude that didn't make it offensive. It's what I like to call fun gore. But The Beyond has gore effects, while not the most realistic, are so dead serious that it's hard to enjoy the movie with them there.But I think the biggest problem with this film is that it is, for the most part, not scary. The scares in the movie are too easily guessed before they actually happen, like when that girl is walking through the cemetery after her parent's funeral, and she has her eyes closed the whole time. The audience knows she was attacked before by the undead, so there's no surprise when she opens her eyes and has scary looking eyes.But those things aside, I enjoyed the movie when gore effects weren't paraded over the screen. The ending is quite memorable and kinda spooky, a bit like House by the Cemetery's ending, if I remember it correctly. There are some beautiful looking scenes in here and there's an intriguing story, but at the end, I couldn't help but think why I had just sat through it. The movie seems quite pointless and there isn't much replay value.And all this comes from watching a cut Australian video version that is missing around a minute and a half of gore. If I ever decide to watch an uncut version, I'll certainly be cautious. "},{"Title":"Hail Fulci","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There are times when you need to watch a splatterfest and you can't afford to be disappointed.  This film delivers.  Engaging imagery, endless founts of blood and effluvia, and midnight movie dialogue equal a rancid buffet of Italian zombie mayhem set in the USA. "},{"Title":"hard to say","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  there is nothing i can say that has not already been said about The Beyond some love it others hate it, i'm in the middle, it starts out ok then gets boring then picks up a bit. Lucio Fulci movies are hard to follow, like in Gates Of Hell why did the priest hang him self? and in this film why did a bunch of guys kill that man in the opening and what does he have to do with opening one of the seven Gates Of Hell? but if you get past all that The Beyond is not such a bad movie. in this Fulci shows some skills directing i have seen a few of his films and he is either good or bad. the only problem is he only uses like 4 shots and then kills them, i have the unrated version and it has some nice gore, all around a good film despite the plot. Lucio Fulci's second best film after Gates Of Hell. i give The Beyond 7/10 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My friend John has been into Italian horror films for a few months now. I'm not a fan of foreign films - the awful acting and bad dubbing in the small clips I had seen put me off watching any full films.  I had successfully managed to avoid watching them until John convinced me to give a couple a try - The Beyond and Zombie. Quite frankly the two films disgusted me - not because of the pointless, fake-looking and generally inane gore, but because of the blatant ripping off of George Romero's zombie films Night Of The Living Dead and particularly Dawn Of The Dead.Out of the two, The Beyond annoyed me the most. The violence seemed totally forced, and in many of the plentiful gore scenes, it seemed like the special effects man took advantage of the fact that his country's national produce was spaghetti. There was little or no plot, the acting was atrocious, and the zombies seemed very non-threatening. And as for those damn spiders! The less said the better. They should have used computerised spiders instead of those pipe-cleaner modelsTo say that the Italian horror film disgusts me in every way possible would be a gross understatement. There is nothing at all of worth in these cheap and visually repulsive copies of classic American and British films, and to my mind this is yet another offensive piece of Euro-crap that the tasteful people of the world could do well without.Never again will I waste three hours of my life on such awful, badly acted, ugly looking films with the worst music I have ever heard. Absolutely awful. "},{"Title":"A bit overrated, but not bad","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   If you ask almost any Fulci fan What is your favorite Lucio Fulci film?, they will probably say The Beyond. However, if you ask me I would say City of the Living Dead. I'm not saying The Beyond is a bad film, I just don't love it like I do some of Fulci's other work. !!!SOME SPOILERS!!!We open up in New Orleans 1926. A lynch mob breaks into a motel, takes one of the residents to the basement, and kills him by pouring acid on him. 55 years go by and a woman(Catriona MacColl)inherits the motel. She hires a plumber who accidentilly busts a whole in the basement's wall causing the gates of Hell to open. After this a man is killed by spiders, zombies kill off friends of the woman who owns the motel, and other supernatural stuff happens until the shocking ending. Great effects, music score, and an o.k. plot. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"One of the most wildly entertaining giallo films of the 80's.","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You might say that 1981 was a banner year for Italian splatter movie maestro Fulci, as it saw the release of what can easily be considered his two best films, The Beyond and The House by the Cemetery. While House is a modest, lurid  little fable told from a child's perspective, The Beyond is a glossier, big budget (for Fulci, that is, at $460,000 bucks)  production more along the lines of Argento's Suspiria in terms of its ambitiousness and visual audacity. While I feel that House is the better film of the two, there's no denying that when it comes to  straight out splatter and cheap horror comic book thrills it's virtually impossible to  beat The Beyond.The film opens in 1927 Louisiana. A gang of torch-bearing Angry Villagers in boats make their way across the boyou to the Seven Doors Hotel, where a wild-eyed artist and occultist named Schweick is putting the finishing touches on his latest painting - a desolate nightmare landscape. The mob  break in, scourge Schweik with chains (tearing his flesh with that wonderful patented Fulci  SHRRRRRRIP! sound effect) and drag him down to the hotel basement. Be  careful what you do, Schweik admonishes his assailants. Because this hotel was  built over one of the seven doors of evil. And only I can save you! But do they  heed him, this man they call a warlock? Hell no! They nail him to a wall with railroad spikes and melt his face off with some bubbling acid-like goo! And all this before the opening credits!Welcome to the Fulci-zone a sadistic universe where the Worst Death  Imaginable is also the most likely for the characters who, like bowling pins, seem to be set up for the simple reason of being knocked down. Things like plot, structure and character are normally minor concerns, but the difference here in  The Beyond is that they intentionally thrown out the window. Emulating his hero Antonin Artaud, Fulci intention here was to ...attempt a film without any real plot... just visions, sensations, nightmares. And his plan worked a peach.Jump ahead to 1981. The Seven Doors Hotel, long since fallen into disrepair and reputed to be haunted, is inherited by a former New York fashion model named Liza Merril (MacColl) who sets about restoring it. Unfortunately the house is, as  you'd expect, haunted as f**k and right away the local tradesmen start having some rather unfortunate accidents. One of them gets spooked by the apparition of a beautiful blind girl staring out a second story window and pitches off a ladder, busting his head open and spitting up blood while screaming, The eyes! The eyes! Poor Joe the plumber isn't quite so lucky - when he goes down the basement to fix a leak he has his eyeball squished out of his skull by a zombie for his troubles.Liza soon finds herself befriending John McCabe (Warbeck), a square jawed, three-day beard sporting, cynical man's man and local physician. She also  meets Emily (Keller), the same blind girl seen earlier spooking unsuspecting workmen, who lives in a house that is in perfect shape by night but is in an abandoned shambles by day. Emily warns Liza about the impending danger with  prophecies from the dreaded Book of Eibon and the helpful information that her hotel sits over the gate to Hell. McCabe is expectedly reluctant to place the blame on these bizarre occurrences on the supernatural, but when the town streets are strangely empty and zombies are crawling all over his hospital like  cockroaches in a Lower East Side tenement he reaches for the .38 he keeps in  his desk drawer (next to a bottle of Wild Turkey) and it's ZOMBIE HEAD BLASTING TIME!The wide-screen cinematography (by Sergio Leone veteran Sergio Salvati) is quite stunning at times, particularly the moody, evocative scene in which MacColl is driving across a long, straight bridge and finds the eerie blind girl  Emily standing in the middle of the road. And then there's that ending. Fleeing from the hordes of undead, John and Liza mysteriously find themselves in the waterlogged basement of the Seven Doors Hotel. Having no other place to go,  the two head straight into a mysterious mist and find themselves in Hell, an exact replica of  the wasteland depicted in Schweik's painting. It is an astonishingly ballsy moment of heart-sinking despair. The audience I saw the film with during its 1998 New York City re-release premiere hooted, hollered, laughed and yelled at the screen during the entire film, but at that moment, even with that rowdy bunch, you could have heard a mouse fart.As well made and atmospheric as it can be at times, the highlights of The Beyond are still those all-important gore money-shots (rendered by FX whiz Gianetto Di Rossi), and here Fulci gives 'em to ya in well-paced frequency, typically pornographic detail, and ever increasing intensity. In addition to more eyeball popping, face melting and a dog-attacks-master sequence stolen from Suspiria, there's a deliciously cheezy sequence in which a man has his face devoured by a horde of ridiculously fake-looking dime store spiders.Writer and comic book artist Stephan R. Bisette summed it up perfectly when he  described The Beyond as capturing the feel, not the old E.C. comics or the old  Warren black and white Magazines like Creepy and Eerie, but of the much tawdrier Eerie Publications comics like Weird and Horror Tales. Like those crude, sleazy, sickeningly tasteless strips, The Beyond leaves you with a skin-crawling sensation of doom and despair that is hard to shake. If you're like  me, when it's over you're going to want to check your fingertips for the blackened smudge of cheap newsprint. And you won't want to wash it off. ) "}{"Title":"mixed feelings on this one","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, let me first say that Fulci's The Beyond is by no means a masterpiece, or for that matter his masterpiece.  Slowly paced, horribly acted, largely inept script, and like the previous author below me said it's nothing but a rehashing of the previous City of the Living Dead.  If you can handle these few flaws The Beyond is a very tolerable movie worth anybody's viewing and certainly better than any House on Haunted Hill (1999) or Blair Witch Project.   "},{"Title":"Don't turn a blind eye to the darkness","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yes, I give this a 10. Why?1-Atmospherics2-Cinematics 3-Plot4-Acting (yes, this includes the overdubbing)5-Lighting6-Scenery7-Brilliant use of limited Budget (Citation needed)8-All the above in combination!This is Atmospheric horror at its absolute best. You will find nothing else out there that matches it besides some of Fulci's other works (City of the living dead, House by the cemetery) with the exception of some of Argento's work. This is way better than anything you will find in any of todays dime a dozen Hollywood productions. The cinematography is outstanding, and way ahead of its time. Looks like it was filmed Tomorrow. Yes, tomorrow! Of course the hairstyles and vintage cars and furniture sort of date it but the film carries a timeless feel nonetheless. Let's say you inherit a Hotel that happens to be built on one of the Gates of hell. What would you do if you gradually discovered this secret and nobody listened to you till it was too late and your entire town was crawling with eye popping zombies? I won't give away the lovely ending but let's just say it's as pretty as a vintage painting! See it, absorb it and have the patience to not turn a blind eye to the darkness of this beautiful film! "},{"Title":"why isn't he shooting them in the head? it's like he's aiming at the worst targets","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Critics didn't get Fulci. They wanted him to be Argento or Romero, but Argento had his thing (gaudy insanity), Romero had this thing (realism and, like, social commentary, man), and Fulci had his thing deadpan cosmic absurdism disguised as zombie/haunted house movies. The criticisms directed at this movie are true it's wooden, cheesy, and has only the vaguest semblance of a plot, but somehow I think Fulci's vision of random brutality at the onset of spiritual apocalypse would be less palpable and interesting with a more logical/polished execution.To be honest, the relatively underrated City of the Living Dead is a less patchy work that maintains a higher level of dread, but The Beyond is also mandatory as far as Italian horror goes. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous... a Must See...","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is even more ridiculous than I expected from an Italian horror movie. The gore is somewhere between gut-wrenching and hilarious... and I get the message that Fulci hates eyeballs. The plot... it's a beauty. The movie simply cannot make sense and it's hard to even convince yourself it ever can, particularly once it switches from bad attempt at haunted demonic horror to bad zombie movie. You'll scratch your head at why the zombies from Hell die from bullets to the head... and where they go after being killed if Hell is open... and why the hero cannot figure out after several encounters that only head shots work. The ending is a true gem... You should only see it once, but see it. "},{"Title":"Fulci's masterpiece","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The beyond opened in 1981, shocking the world with its scenes of zombies getting shot apart, eyes gauged out, and faces melting. Lucio Fulci paid homage to the supernatural and the strange, in no doubt one of the finest Italian exploitation films ever made. The plot is very simple...or is it, time and space shift around, the only solid plot element is the hotel and the zombies, thats all you need to know. The cast is brilliant, Catrina Macoll and David Warbeck are brilliant, as well as Al Cliver. The opening music, playing over the book is very atmopsheric, and the idea that we can only escape this world by going into a void is brilliant. Dario the script writer did a good job, there is no crap dialogue or bad acting here, this easily stands up to inferior American films!This film is Fulci's last great work, after this he broke down, and churned out films, under his quality, he had a sad life, his wife killed herself and one of his daughters fell from a horse and was crippled for life. This is one of the last decent Italian horror films ever made, and is a testament to how great Italian cinema once was. I'll end by saying Fulci was a true visionary, and his films ranked among those of Deodato and Lenzi. He was no doubt one of the greatest directors that the world will ever see...not watching his films is like no seeing the sun...RIP FulciRest in peace friend, for your films will live on in the hearts of fans for generations to come... "},{"Title":"Ferocious surreal gore classic","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've seen a handful of Fulci films, but this is my first review. I think this could be the best of his zombie movies, on account of being the most uniquely delirious and beautiful. It should be noted that some of the gore is pretty fake looking, but the film has no sense of conventional logic, so the fake looking bits just look kinda funny and cool. Also there are a lot of gore scenes and some of them are truly awesome and grisly (the beginning in particular). More on the lack of logic The Beyond has a lot of what you might call plot holes. Its more coherent than City of the Living Dead, but still less coherent than any conventional movie. This is to the films advantage, because it grants a surreal nightmarish flow that is quite hypnotic. This coupled with the majestic cinematography is what gets the film the highest possible score. It's a genius piece of film-making, light years away from anything conventional or bland. I say compulsory viewing to any horror fan, especially zombie and gore fans and still recommended to any general cinema goer who can try something different. So ignore the bad dialogue and any bits that don't make sense, and take this wacky, eye popping zombie treat. "},{"Title":"The Beyond Recipe for terror!","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" *Beyond SPOILERS* Louisiana, 1927; a young painter, Schweik (Antoine Saint-John) is brutally tortured and killed in his room, room 36, in the Seven Doors Hotel, and then into the basement, despite his claims that his death is going to open one of the Seven Gateways to Hell.And everybody in the hotel dies.1981; Liza (Katherine MacColl) has inherited the now-dilapidated Seven Doors Hotel, but strange accidents begin to happen; a painter falls from his scaffolding, a plumber is gruesomely killed, his wife is brutally murdered as she goes into the morgue to dress him for the funeral and acid is thrown on her face, and their daughter gets attacked by a living dead as she is trying to escape the ominous goo that is spreading from her mother's rapidly melting face... what the Hell is going on? A young blind girl, Emily (Sarah Keller) warns Liza and tells her to leave as soon as she can, something that obviously Liza doesn't do.And as everybody involved with the Seven Doors Hotel encounters gruesome deaths, Dr. John McCabe (David Warbeck), the doctor who treated the painter and examined both Joe and Schweik's corpses (Schweik's was found by Joe and seen by Liza in the bathroom of room 36) begins to get involved with Liza and to investigate the mystery... but will they survive the BEYOND? For a movie without logic, it sure had a lot of it; I didn't notice any big plot hole (except John's gun at the end, who recharges itself in 2-3 minutes, and the fact that even after he learns that the Living Dead coming at them can be stopped by a shot in the head, he keep on hitting them ANYWHERE BUT the head).It went on fairly smoothly; the gore was nice (even though the dog biting off Emily's ear was a bit too much), the pacing was adequate, the atmosphere was suitably morbid, and the score was pretty good.Nice movie! E Tu Vivrai Nel Terrore! L'Aldilà 8/10. "},{"Title":"Another 80s Horror movie","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Usually, I'm rather a fan of 80s horror-movies, i don't mind the latex FX, i rather like the typical synth-music and their overall atmosphere but here...I definitely don't want to deny the movie had a couple of very good moments, namely the beginning and the end of the movie were just great but what was in between was just the thing that makes B-horror movies ridiculous rather than scary.It was my first Fulci movie and I was quite looking forward to seeing it after all the great things I read about him, but this really disappointed me, especially all the gore. Or more exactly, not the gore itself (e.g. I loved Braindead!!!) but the fact that in this movie, it is absolutely useless and in many cases I realized the detail of an eye popping out of somebody's head actually completely destroyed any suspense, tension, fear or horror the scene was trying to build up.So overall rating - don't expect too much and you'll get a good, not TOO scary (for the tougher ones, not scary at all), popcorn-video horror movie you might enjoy when you're in the mood for some easy entertainment... "},{"Title":"...And You Shall Live In The Terror for Enternity","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is probably the best horror movie I've seen. Most famous thing about 'The Beyond are its abrupt gore scenes with tarantulas chewing face of guy or warlock painter nailed to wall alive etc. Of course, those bloody parts make film extremaly shocking and I love them but 'The Beyond' isn't only another violent horror stuff. Fulci was able to create creepy atmosphere like in bad dream; once I watched this film with my friend who is not acclimated to watching horrors and he was really scared within all show. Yeah, I understand him because I had similar experiences with this  movie when I saw it first time, and I have today sometimes although I know it very well. Despite this fact I love 'The Beyond' for all dark picture, graphic violent, great music and convicting acting. And I give rating 10/10 now without doubt. This Fulci's masterpiece is bloody, bloody and bloody again, and extraordinary creepy. Very memorable. If you watch this film, you'll perhaps never dispose some feeling of disturbing left by it - and you shall live in the terror for enternity.     "},{"Title":"Makes no sense whatsoever","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just don't get it. Lots of horror fans rave about this picture but it's just a bunch of incoherent scenes shuffled together, none of which make any sense. The acting is terrible, especially the lead guy, the doctor, who is such a bad doctor, he just picks up a guy whose fallen off a two story scaffold to take him to a hospital, never mind that this could cause more injury. In fact, he's such a bad doctor, he's also a coroner. The guy playing the part was awful but wasn't helped by some of the worse dialog in the latter part of the 20th century. One scene, while getting ready to do an autopsy, another doctor says hey, why don't we hook up the brain machine to this corpse, just to see what happens? Uh, yeah. Logic is not something you're gonna find in this film.Joe the plumber who went to the Tommy Chong school of looks, is such a jerk, you want him to die and when he does you just go so what?The doctor in the end shoots zombies, only killing them when he hits them in the head, yet he keeps shooting them in the gut. This guy must have gotten his medical degree from Hollywood Upstairs Medical School. The zombies barely move, not even enough to call them baby steps, there are only about 15 or so, yet the two humans are terrified out of their minds and don't know where to run. Uh, how about right past them?There are tons of lapses in logic in this film, no wonder awful straight-to-video directors always mention Fulci in their movies. If you want to see a good Fulci film, see Zombie. Forget about this one. "}{"Title":"Possibly the best horrormovie ever made...maybe the best film ever made? Dare i say it...?","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci has always been known for the gore in several of his films, but what the gorehouds usually don't care about is the film in general. Just the gore. Personally i love gore to, but the film means more. It has an extremly well directed atmosphere that ONLY Fulci can preform. He has that in most of his masterpieces. Combined with Catherine McCall's and David warbeck's fantastic acting and the own creepy world of Lucio Fulci, that he creates in his films, makes this one of the finest horrormovies in filmhistory. A must to watch for everyone!10/10 "},{"Title":"New Flash  Lucio Fulci was a lousy director, and this movie is NOT good!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gosh,where do I begin...?I've been trying to restrict my IMDB reviews to the standard slasher genre, but I'm making an exception with this one, because I just have to get my two cents in about this Fulci joker.  I know Fulci has a huge cult following, and this movie is supposed to be his magnum opus, but I honestly cannot say enough bad things about it.  Those supposedly in the know exalt The Beyond's lack of cohesive plot in favor of its surreal imagery, but I'm guessing that most of these people are just gorehounds who obviously have not seen a lot of movies.  There are plenty of movie directors who do this well (ever hear of David Lynch?  Cronenberg?  Argento?  Kubrick's 2001?), and, hate to break it to ya, folks, but Fulci ain't one of 'em.For one thing, it's not even original -- Fulci's pretty much doing his inferior version of Dario Argento's Inferno (which is far from Argento's best -- it starts to fall apart in the third act -- but it's still twice as good as this junk.) Oh yeah, and Fulci's still stuck on copying Romero's shoot-em-in-the-head walking zombies (not that the idiotic hero can figure that out -- right up to the end, he keeps shooting them three times in the chest before trying the head -- man, that kinda stuff ticks me off!)More than anything else, this movie's been applauded for its gratuitous gore scenes, including spiders eating a face, acid eating a face (yawn) and so on.  I'm not a prude -- I don't have a problem with good gore scenes if the entire movie has more to offer and is not built around them.  Well, The Beyond is built entirely around its gore scenes -- and if anything's gratuitous, it's how stupidly these scenes are set up.  For example, the guy's up on a ladder -- Fulci can't think of any other way to get him to fall off so he can be slooooowly eaten alive by spiders, so he has a FLASH OF LIGHTNING come OUT OF THE FREAKING BLUE and startle him into falling to the ground where, apparently, he becomes paralyzed as spiders eat his face in a laughably fake, rubbery FX scene.  Really dumb.  Also, the acid scene -- the chic turns around and shrieks -- NOT because there's a hideously grotesque corpse lying on the bed behind her, but because, I guess, a jar of acid is somehow tipping over on a high shelf and she somehow gets under it???  HUH?!?!  No one else felt cheated by the utter stupidity of this scene?  I get the impression Fulci had all this makeup and fake blood and goo and rubber heads and junk to work with, so he just threw a bunch of wretchedly prolonged, gooey death scenes together and hardly bothered to link them with some contrived storyline -- sort of a gee, what weird, gross death can we cook up for this scene mentality.  You want to see a bunch of fake death scenes?  Rent Faces of Death -- you don't even have to sit through ludicrous plot development -- (and, for this movie, I use that phrase very loosely.)Oh -- the acting's atrocious, too.  Ex. a lady discovers a body in the cellar spitting up its guts and its eyes gouged out and her expression DOES NOT CHANGE AN INCH!  Sorry, but that sucks.  Didn't Fulci want some kind of reaction?  Who is he -- Ed Wood?  He can only do one take?  I know all you fans are saying, Man, you just don't understand, dude -- well, maybe you're right.  I don't understand how something so obviously idiotic could achieve cult status PLUS an endorsement from Quentin Tarantino!  Guess he's not as cool as I thought.To sum up, I haven't seen a lot of Fulci's movies, but if they're all like this one and his Romero wannabe, Zombie (which, granted, is the tiniest bit better than this one), then I'll pass.  Judging from these, I get the impression he couldn't direct himself out of a cardboard box.Lowlight  Pretty much everything from the opening scene to the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Fulci's best.  Possibly Horror's best!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have been on both ends of the Lucio Fulci argument.  On one hand he made a lot of pure certifiable garbage, on the other hand he made a few films that were genius.  The Beyond is one of those films that made Fulci the superstar that he was.   David Warbeck pulls off a genius performance in this one playing the doctor.  The rest of the cast does a well enough job, but Warbeck is the stand out performance.  The effects in this film are top of the line, for this time period.  There is a lot of gore, but also a lot of necessary tension in the film.  My one problem with the film is (according to many Fulci fans) one of it's most famous scenes and that's the flesh eating tarantula scene.  It just didn't make sense.  None at all.  In fact had the film not picked up from the point after that scene, it would have ruined the entire film.     The greatest strength of The Beyond is in the ending.  The final 15 minutes of this film are stunning.  The film ends with a shock that in my opinion is unequaled by any other horror film made prior or since.    THE BEYOND   9 crows dead out of 10.  One is wounded severely! "},{"Title":"And you will live in terror!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Truly a masterpiece. I don't see how the 'bad' dubbing and 'incoherent' storyline (it's supposed to have a dream-like feel, dreams are rarely coherent) can detract some watchers from realising how brilliant this film is.Apart from probably the greatest collection of gore scenes in a single movie ever - zombies, acid melting faces, exploding heads, eye-gouging, flesh-eating spiders etc, there is a true 'Lovecraftian' feel to this film that, at times creates a sense of dread that makes viewing severely uncomfortable (aided by the incredible soundtrack). Two qualities that NO film of today can match. Films today are so clinical, missing the rawness for stupid fancy/multiple camera angles, usually chopping from one scene to another with a nu-metal or techno soundtrack destroying any atmosphere the film actually had, if any. That's what I like about Fulci - he lingers on death scenes, so your with the victim throughout the whole mind-numbingly terrifying (and mightily painful no doubt) ordeal, no release of tension whatsoever. Yep, there's no escape unless you wimp out and fast forward. Hey! Put that remote down this instant! Sheesh!I also like the dreamily surreal atmosphere, or rather, nightmarish - when the film ends you actually feel like you've awoken from a terrible dream and are safe again. Or are you? Mwa ha ha ha ha! If your a TRUE horror fan then you will love this movie, I cannot praise it enough. They won't ever make movies like this again (except maybe for some underground films) so see it just for the experience. Tell yourself - I'm sick and tired of false looking CGI guff, I want gore the old-fashioned way, realistic (*cough* 'cept *cough* spiders *cough*), sick and downright bloody, and I want it now dagnammit!R.I.P Fulci "},{"Title":"Great stuff","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie has turned into one of my favorites. Fulci has become one of my favorite directors, as well. I would not want to ruin anything for you, so if you are a fan of this type of horror movie, and trust me, this type is not for everyone, then definitely check it out. If possible, get the Limited Edition Tin DVD. The spider scene and the dog scene were not necessary to the story, but they are done great. The ending will leave you scratching your head. I believe I lost a clot of hair after this movie, from scratching my head. "},{"Title":"The scariest thing about this movie is that it cost me $15!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've read several rave reviews for this movie and I still cant see what the hype is about. I recently purchased the video The Beyond from Anchor Bay entertainment. One thing I will say is that the movie is VERY graphic, but it lacks any real entertainment value. If you really like watching gore scenes, and you dont care about anything else, then this movie might be your kind of thing, however, if you like any kind of logical story with your murder scenes then you will surely be disappointed.In spite of itself, I must say that I did have some laughs over this one. There are no end to the ridiculous flubs in this movie. Here's an example (the setup) A painter working on a scaffold is frightened, and falls off. The next thing we know, he's lying on the couch puking up blood. The owner calls a doctor for a house call (instead of calling an ambulance!). When the doctor arrives, he decides that the painter needs to go to the hospital, so he asks the handyman to grab his legs, and they carry this guy (with a crushed spine, mind you) out to the doctors car, by his head and legs.I could go on, but I think I'll wrap up by saying that if extreme graphic violence is your only prerequisite for a good time then this one will surely do it for ya, otherwise, just watch something else! "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever made.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My favorite film in the genre. Lucio Fulci does his best work on this classic. It is loaded with gore and also has a great plot, except near the end you might get p***ed off when a guy is shooting at a zombie and he keeps on shooting him in the stomach, and when he finally shoots the creature in the head, it dies. you might think that anyone would pick up on this, but nope, not this guy. He keeps on shooting the zombie's in the stomach and when he finally runs on empty he just tosses the gun away and makes a run for it. besides that horrible flaw, the film is excellent. I would recommend buying the dvd, but the tape is good also. "},{"Title":"One of the best horrors ever made","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I remember, more then 10 years ago I saw the intro to `The Beyond' with famous scene of painter-warlock brutal tortures and killing. I found it too terrible. It mean I have to see it in full. Since I have seen this masterpiece of Lucio Fulci not once, but it stay one of my favorite horrors. Great Italian horrormaker mixed every basic ingredients of genre. There are mystic secrets, ancient book Eibon, army of zombies, disgusting spiders flash-eaters, throat-ripping dog and coming down to hell, at last. I guess, `The Beyond' is real encyclopedia of 80's gore movies. It combine very naturalistic Gianetto deRossi's special FX, sticky and misty atmosphere of terror and sweet smell of death. Yes, add Fabio Frizzi's accordant depressing music. You'll never forget how it feels to go through Lucio Fulci door of death.  "},{"Title":"The Beyond is a work of art !!!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Why have I not seen this film before i ask myself. Well one reason could be because im only 19 and this film has been banned since the early eighties. But thats no excuse whatsoever. I love Horror films, especially Zombie movies because of there tackiness, cheap gore and hardly Oscar award winning acting which just adds character to a film of this sort. I have seen the usual few Dawn of the Dead, Day of the Dead, Night of the living Dead, all the Evil Dead Trilogy etc but these films tend to be pretty popular or familar with most people anyway its only when you delve a little bit deeper that you find some other spectacular work of art. I watched Zombie Flesh Eaters about a year ago and since then i have been interested to see more of Lucio Fulci's work and other italian directors famous for horror. I didnt really use the internet all that much and lived in a place where its pretty hard to find any obscure films unless you order them from England or America. Well when i heard of The Beyond, i thought that sounds pretty good i might buy that. Then i realised it was the work of Lucio Fulci and made it my duty to get this film as soon as possible. I bought the Special edition DVD with poster cards, a book and loads of other stuff on the special features of the DVD. This film is soooo enjoyable to watch its almost twisted to say it (at least to anyone who doesnt really know about it) On the front cover of the film it has a little warning saying THE SHOCKING AND VIOLENT NATURE OF THIS FILM MAY BE TOO INTENSE FOR SOME VIEWERS well i must say that i wasnt too impressed by this because there aint a lot of very gory films out and about. But this film takes the biscuit....tons of gore galore. Every single scene which involves a person dying or being injured is quite extreme to say the least. So many stand out scenes that will impress you...most films may be remembered for the one gory scene but this film has tons of the stuff. The man who lives in the hotel room 36 getting chain whipped, the dog attacking the blind girl, the little girls head exploding when shot at, they are all excellent and the're too many to note. The acting is impressive as well which is helped by a decent cast David Warbeck and Catriona MacColl as the 2 leading characters. One other thing to note is the great musical score produced for this film, some people say its just annoying but my god it does the job.....everything about this film is eerie and weird from the outset you have a feeling of something very bad about to happen and the weird sense of evil present not only in the Hotel but the entire town. You will be cowering behind your seats the entire film people. I could say so much more about this film but i think it may spoil it a little for those of you who havent had the pleasure already.....my advice......go now and buy immediately before the Zombies come to get you. (seek out all of Mr Fulci's work, i am) "},{"Title":"Brilliant is all I can say","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Fulci gives us a thrilling and interesting haunted-house tale with some nice Lovecraftian references. I first watched a cut version of this movie and even then I was horrified. I later got hold of uncut, digitally remastered WS edition from Spaventoso, under the original title L'aldila' and I was totally stunned. All the Fulci trademarks like eye-shots and nasty gore is present at it's very best. Not just one of the best zombie-flicks out there, but maybe one of the very best horror films ever. See and appreciate! "}{"Title":"Incredible waste of time","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I consider myself a pretty avid horror movie buff, but this movie was one of the silliest things I have ever seen.  Things constantly happened in this movie that made me wonder what in the world caused it!  I will give Fulci credit for completely grossing me out with the eyeball scene, but the rest was a total joke.  Maybe I am simply not into the whole essence of it all, but this movie really sucked.    "},{"Title":"one of the greatest films ever","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of the best horror films ever made and in my opinion Fulci's best piece of work. A truly great film that has plenty of zombies and horrific death scenes for any true fulci fan. Every thing about this film makes it brilliant, the atmosphere, the setting and most of all the gore factor. A definite must see and i take my hat off to the late, great Lucio Fulci! "},{"Title":"The last great Italian horror film to date!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In October 2000, Anchor Bay gave horror film buffs the present they have been waiting for for twenty years, The Beyond in its complete uncut widescreen glory on DVD! Only previously available in the United States cut, fullscreen and titled 7 Doors Of Death, that was justifiably considered a horrible film, but now it has been given the classy treatment it deserves as the last great Italian horror film to date. Lucio Fulci was in his top form again since 1972's astonishing Don't Torture A Duckling. The Beyond cannot be dismissed as an '80s gore film, because the gore is just an accent to the Lovecraftian style and surreal images, such as Catriona MacColl's slow-motion recollection of a fleeing girl and dog from her home. It also offers a most effective and unexpected ending reference to the afterworld that places it way above typical American horror that tries to simplistically satisfy market-friendly audiences. For those seeking thought-provoking and dare I even say cerebral narrative, The Beyond will easily come to mind along with Mario Bava's Black Sunday and Dario Argento's Suspiria as ground-breaking Italian horror. Don't pass this one up! See why after 20 years this film hasn't lost its power like most horror films have. See why such lines as I've lived in New York all my life, and if it's one thing I've learned not to believe in, it's ghosts will have you eager to watch the rest of the film.... "},{"Title":"This is one of the best films ever made.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond has everything that must be in a great film. Lots of gore, haunting atmosphere and of course zombies that looks like they have really been in grave for years. The story is confusing and sometimes it's hard to know what's happening and why, but that is what Fulci wanted. (His other zombie films has understandable storyline). The Beyond is an art film so visuality is most important. Fulci is no doubt the best zombie director of all times.  "},{"Title":"Without a doubt Lucio Fulci's masterpiece","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For the longest time, I had believed that NEW YORK RIPPER was Fulci's best film. That has all changed with Anchor Bay's re-release of THE BEYOND.Katherine MacColl (Fulci's regular leading lady in a great turn here) is Liza, a woman who has just inherited a hotel in Louisiana. The hotel, she learns, was the scene of a gruesome crucifixion in the 1800's and is built over one of the seven gateways to hell. David Warbeck plays a doctor who helps her discover the mystery behind Room #36. Liza is also visited by Emily, a blonde blind girl who warns Liza to leave the hotel. Before they know it, the earth is changed forever when a plumber accidentally opens the doorway.Not built entirely on logic, THE BEYOND is an extremely visual movie. Misty nights, masterful lighting schemes, gory setpieces, and an apocalyptic ending that will give you chills for weeks, Fulci provides the viewer with so many beautiful sequences that it almost brings tears to the eyes. Some of the more amazing scenes include Liza meeting Emily and her guide dog on a deserted bridge, a swarm of tarantulas attacking a realtor in a library, Warbeck shooting the top of a little girl's head off, a bottle of acid pouring onto a woman's face, and an eye being outpaled. The cast also includes Sarah/Almanta Keller, who plays Fay, the heroine in Fulci's excellent NEW YORK RIPPER, and Al Cliver, who played the boat captain in ZOMBIE and was a regular in bad Eurohorror.THE BEYOND is finally available on DVD and VHS and can now start converting more people to Fulci fans. If you meet someone or are someone who believes Fulci is a talentless Argento rip-off, watch THE BEYOND. It will guaranteed set you straight! "},{"Title":"Fulci's Best!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If it's gore, frights, gore, atmosphere &, um, more gore you want, get this baby NOW! From gouged eyes to blown open faces this film does not hold back. 'The Beyond' is Lucio Fulci's best film after Zombie Flesh Eaters and a great starting point if you are interested in his movies. It's just such a shame that there's nobody making horror movies like this anymore....  "},{"Title":"Fulci's masterpiece and the best italian zombie movie ever","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Okay, i'll start off by saying that i can see the problem some people have with this movie, and i understand that it's not to everyone's taste. However, this is about my opinion, and my opinion is that it is a brilliant movie, and is far better than the more widely known 'zombie'. Everything about this movie oozes class. It has an incredible sense of style to it and uses some wonderfully surreal imagery to drive the strange, yet effective, plot home. Also, as with all of Fulci's films, the gore scenes are spectacular and well staged (at least on the uncut version i've got; i've heard the cut version sucks). Altogether, IMHO, this is a wonderfully produced and directed movie. "},{"Title":"Extremely overrated","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Beyond was the third in the quartet of films that made Lucio Fulci a major cult icon in America. It's also the most problematic of the four. The Beyond is often called Fulci's masterpeice. Well, I hate to tell you but it's not. The Beyond is a good movie, good but not great and a masterpeice it is not. A major problem with the film is that it is nothing more than a revisionist remake of City of the Living Dead, Fulci's previous film in the quartet. New Orleans replaces Dunwhich and the Book of Eibon replaces the Book of Enoch while both films deal with the gates of Hell being opened and the consequences of the act. An interesting fact is that the much maligned American version prepared by Aquarius Releasing in fact improves the movie in some respects. The boys at Aquarius jettisoned the original Italian score and replaced it with a new one. Good idea as for once the original score was not up to snuff. The original score was too close to the one used for City and a few cues are lifted from the Zombie soundtrack. The American soundtrack is a vast improvement indeed. Another improvement in the American version comes near the end. It's an interesting touch that deals with the zombified painter when he appears in the morgue. When David Warbeck shoots him, he croaks Eibon and gives off a hoarse little laugh. I'm surprised that this feature was not in the original version, considering how important sound effects were to Fulci and his films. But the improvements end there. The American distributors cut virtually all the effects scenes and gave the film a title (Seven Doors of Death) that made it sound like a Hong Kong martial arts film or one of those Bruce Lee compilation movies. Fulci does manage to get off some good scenes however. The atmosphere is as always impressive and the film is quite nice to look at. Anything with Catrionna (Katherine ) MacColl is worth your time and rugged leading man David Warbeck is quite good. There is an unusual moment near the start when MacColl's assistant Martha meets Joe the plumber. Their reactions towards seeing each other hint at some kind of past relationship that we never learn anything about. It's a quirky moment to be sure. But in all honesty that is about it. The Beyond truly suffers from an overblown reputation. It's good but not the be all end all of Italian horror that many fans and writers have attempted to convince the public of. See the film but don't expect the last word in Italian horror because you won't get it. Far from Fulci's masterpeice, that title really belongs to the final film of the quartet, House by the Cemetery.    "},{"Title":"Very well,very well...","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This one is probably Fulci's masterpiece, or at least one of his best efforts. The story is incredibly appalling, the atmosphere is intriguing and terrifying (if you watch this, you will perfectly understand the meaning of the term gothic referred to a film ...) , there are even better actors than Fulci's average ; and , of course , there are the slaughters and the horrendous deaths ( expressed explicitly and shown clearly ) you can always find in Fulci's films. Extremely well-done , amusing , and loaded with a bizarre and original ending that leaves you begging for more! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the movie that Lucio Fulci will be remembered for. Although it was made after movies like THE AMITYVILLE HORROR and THE SHINING, it was made before POLTERGEIST. The acting is above par for it's genre, the music is excellent (Italian version that is, the American soundtrack sucked), and its use of widescreen makes this an Italian gem. Would anybody do me a favor and let me know when this movie comes out on video?! "}{"Title":"Fulci's masterpiece","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Probably this is Fulci's masterpiece and also one of the most interesting horror-films made in Italy. Catriona is simply at his top and the special-effects work very well. But more over, this film has a story which is very intriguing. But, and you have to know it, in Italy few people see this film in the original version. The film doesn't start with title credits, but it has a prologue which is fundamental in order to understand the whole story. The story of this mad painter and how he returns to vindicate himself can't be understood without this prologue. A must-see in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"A classic.","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a classic! I hope that future generations of film lovers remember Fulci. For me this is one of his 3 most intelligent horror films. The Beyond are truly a great nightmare. Something for the horror makers today to learn from! Lucio Fulci deserves to be called one of the great masters of nightmares! "},{"Title":"it's Beyond everything else!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If this comes to your local theater you HAVE to see it ... well, if you can stand generous blood, gore, and graphic violence.  This masterpiece is bloodier, scarier, and FUNNIER than any other horror film.  Great MST3King to the best bad actors around!  Quentin Tarantino's best work yet!  "},{"Title":"Nonsense Excuse for a Film","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am a fan of many Horror movies spanning many years & genres, but to start watching this assuming it's a 6.7/10 movie is laughable. The gore effects were the only somewhat redeeming quality of this movie. The plot, dialogue, score/music, etc were either non-existent or made less than zero sense. Even the moron with the gun couldn't figure out to shoot for the head even after doing the 2 to the body, 1 to the head lesson several times... If you want a good movie about the rising Dead from the early 80's go for The Evil Dead or Re-Animator. So unless of course you plan to Science Theatre 3000 it with a drunk group of your friends, skip this piece of nonsense film, it's not worth your hour & 20 minutes. "},{"Title":"This was so bad...","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Many critics and horror fans consider this movie as a masterpiece of horror and a cult following but I really don't understand them. The story is pointless and shallow. Actually, there is no plot here except few sentences which attempted to do so just to explain us what was director up to. This movie is so boring! Dialogs are senseless because of the shallow background. Actors are so bad like they where picked up somewhere out in the streets and imposed to do job called acting. Horror scenes are so bad and made me puke. The most stupid and laughable horror scene is when one of the main protagonists is shooting zombies. Even he noticed how to kill them (by shooting in the head), he proceed to shoot them in the other parts of the body regardless of the lack of bullets. I think that was idea of the director just to waste more time filming nonsense. I notice just one light moment in this movie. It is the music that follows all these bloody ,goring and frighting scenes. Somehow perfect matches the atmosphere of the movie and is very unusual for horror genre.It is disco with classic,jazz and folk elements. At the end I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. You'll fall a sleep before the end. "},{"Title":"Corny horror with some great atmosphere","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Liza Merril (played by a very generic Catriona MacColl) inherits a rundown hotel. With no other plans with her life she decides to renovate the place and reopen business. Unfortunately upon resuming works people start dying and unexplained events kill any semblance of reason. As it turns out her actions are unwittingly opening one of the Seven Gates to Hell. Can she and her trusted sidekick Dr. John McCabe (David Warbeck) stop the carnage and impeding doom? Not that I really cared...The movie has only a semblance of logic, characters are cardboard and dialogues are as if written on set. Plus some really badly made scenes (capped off with some imbecilic zombie scenes, where pistols carry unlimited ammo and doctors have problems with short term memory). Not being a real fan of gore I found the visceral and in your face killings too rubbery and unimaginative.All in all the only reason I thought this movie was actually a recommended watch were the occasional atmospherics that gave the movie an unmissable dreamlike feeling (surprisingly helped out by the totally illogical plot). And the end scene being an absolute must for any horror fan. Apart from that you would be forgiven for fast-forwarding most parts of the movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen in a while.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw The Beyond in the it's original uncut and letterboxed state as another review suggested to do. Now I of course heard about this movie a long time ago and most of it good so I had high expectations. I was really disappointed after seeing it. I love horror movies but this movie really left me cold. The script has some good ideas and the end is pretty well done. But the story is terribly put together with no continuity. There are no depth to the characters. The acting is horrible and the parts between the killings (which are well shot with nice special effects) seem to be thrown in just to move the plot along to the next murder. I'd say that this movie in no way matches up to for example the masterpiece Opera by Dario Argento. The movie gets an extra point from me for the excellent sfx and the ending. But basically it sucks. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of my all time favourite horror shows and easily Lucio Fulci's best work.  It really takes your breath away with its stunning imagery and creepy atmosphere.  Avoid the heavily cut version, though!  All the gore is missing!   "},{"Title":"Very bad.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The plot holes are numerous, there are a vast number of them actually. The basic story the script is supposed to deliver is very poor and boring and uninspired and just lame. The acting was below any expectations, it in fact sounded like none of the actors knew English, everyone had just learned the sounds in their lines by heart. Technically it's ridiculously bad. Sounds from things you can't see, bad attempts at visual and audial fades, volume on the audio being at a way off level, loud when it should be soft and vice versa. Special effects being not amusingly bad, just bad. The musical scoring is pretty much the only thing worth laughing at, as you immediately start thinking of low-budget American cop shows - as some other person you don't care about gets their face torn off. I can, with good confidence, say that the only ones who appreciate this movie are 1) People who think cool means person who can watch totally gross and pointless gore without showing he/ she is offended. Oh, almost forgot, the gore is pointless, exaggerated, waaay too long and just plain bad. 2) People who have ZERO-NADA-ZIP sense of taste. 3) People who appreciate bad movies for the simple fact that they are bad. It gets 2/10 because it has one or two interesting visual tricks that actually work, and because Fulci had the good grace of making it shorter than 90 minutes. I would have ranted a bit more inspired if I hadn't been so exhausted from watching this crap. "},{"Title":"Fulci's best work. Make sure you don't miss it !!","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Probably best known as The Beyond, this is a masterpiece in his own peculiar kind. Impossible to compare with titles like Citizen Kane of course but certainly a highlight and a role model for the gore horror movies. The Beyond tells the story of a beautiful young woman ( Liza Merril, played by Catriona McColl ) who lived in NY all her life. She made some bad career moves there and now she thinks her luck is finally turning. She inherits an old hotel in Louisiana and moves there. She wants to renovate and open its doors again. Well, naturally this goes terribly wrong since all people who come close to the hotel start to die in gruesome (to say the least) ways. It appears that the hotel was built on one of the seven gateways to hell! When one of these gates or doors gets opened, the dead will walk the earth... Moral of this story  if a blind lady, with a crystal-clear voice tells you to get out of town as fast as you can...don't ask questions and DO IT !!!Lucio Fulci is the inevitable master of Italian gore !! He's a trendsetter and - do I dare to use the word - a genius ! Fulci made several other great flicks ( like City of the Living Dead or Zombi2) but The Beyond is by far my favorite. I just love the whole  7 gateways to hell factor. I think it's brilliant and nowhere near absurd. You either love or hate Fulci's work, but you should always respect him.  The nasty and horrible ( but oh so beautiful ) killing scenes in The Beyond are the most impressive aspect of course but also the amazing and breath-taking score needs to be remembered. This music still spooks in your head long after you finished watching it. Highly recommended, though I still wouldn't suggest it to the faint-hearted or people with a weak stomach. Oh, also people with arachnophobia better avoid it...Favorite rewind-moment  Too many to choose from actually. Especially if you're a bit of a gorehound. Still, I'd say the guy who gets brutally slaughtered by a colony of huge spiders. Ever seen an eye getting ripped out by a Tarantula ?? "}{"Title":"Fulci's masterpiece is by far one of the best Italian gore flicks of the eighties.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A young woman, MacColl, inherits an old hotel in Louisiana which happens to be one of the Seven Doors of Death which is a gateway in and out of hell. After the hotel is reopened, several bizarre occurrences involving disappearing persons and brutal murders transpire.  MacColl along with the help of physician Warbeck investigate to discover that the door to hell is open and the dead is walking the earth.  This is a truly remarkable film, boasting superb cinematography and excellent gore effects.  Fulci captures the eerie atmosphere and dark visions of hell in a horrifying climax that has never quite been matched by any other filmmaker.  If possible, see this in it's original uncut and letterboxed state, it is absolutely one of the most beautifully visual horror films ever made.  The haunting score is an excellent example of Fabio Fabrizzi's finer musical works.  This is the best of Fulci's three great horror films (the others being The House by the Cemetary and the Gates of Hell) which all, coincidentally starred MacColl. "},{"Title":"Gothic splatter classic from director Lucio Fulci","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Beyond aka The 7 Doors Of Death by director Lucio Fulci is in my opinion a classic and one of my favorites from the legendary (unfortunetly departed director). Catriona MacColl (a frequent collaborator on Fulci films) is a woman from NY who happens to inherit a decrepit hotel that is one of the seven gates to Hell. Set in New Orleans, Louisiana the picture has a southern Gothic style punched up with an ominous creepy score and awesome camera work. In addition to the outstanding make up f/x and gore, Fulci builds atmosphere, suspense and terror. Plot wise there are some similarities to the Kubrick/King classic The Shining, which I don't see as a bad thing. However, The Beyond is a lot different and adept at both building suspense and brutalizing the audience with an onslaught of gore and reanimated cadavers. To this day I've never seen zombies that are more horrific than the ones seen in Fulci's films. It is sad Mr. Fulci left us too early, but he did leave behind a lot of memorable films like The Beyond which is classic and mandatory viewing for horror fans. "},{"Title":"A Classic that should be viewed at Halloween!","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's almost Halloween and every year I have to pull out this movie and enjoy it. The story is a bit confusing to those who are new to Italian Horror, but be patient and you will enjoy the experience. The music sets the tone, the visuals bring the atmosphere as only Lucio Fulci can! To say too much would be to give away the great twists and turns of the film, but it is a surreal nightmare as only Fulci could deliver! A great cast and some wild splatter scenes really help to make this a true masterpiece of the genre. There is a limited BluRay edition that you can still find if you are lucky. Trust me when I say it is one of a kind and worth the effort to track down a copy. "},{"Title":"Leaves a lasting impression","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I have heard about this movie for years but I never got round to actually seeing it, as I've already viewed the other two films in the Gates Of Hell trilogy and really enjoyed them. When I finally got round to viewing The Beyond, I actually really enjoyed it and wondered what took me so long to see it.The Beyond is full of twisted and juicy imagery, it's like watching someone's worst nightmares come to life, but keeping you strangely fascinated at the same time, with acid on faces, flesh eating spiders and eye balls being ripped out.The plot which only plays second fiddle to what actually goes on during this movie, A woman inherits a hotel from her late uncle, and no sooner discovers that the place is plagued by mysterious accidents and she enlists the help of a reporter and together they start to uncover the dark past of the hotel, which ends up being more than they bargained for.Like I said before the plot doesn't really matter as you keep watching more and more unravels and filled with many breathtaking set pieces and most notably the ending , which will leave a lasting impression that ends things nicely and there is a vital clue to what's gonna happen throughout the movie. The gore and special effects are highly effective and plenty to go round.The films leads Catriona McColl who also stars in the other gates of hell trilogy gives yet another strong performance as do David Warbeck, and even the supporting players Cinzia Moreale, Veronica Lazer and Al Cliver are also equally memorable.All in all The Beyond is not to be missed and will leave a lasting impression and also a crowd pleaser. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of boredom","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A lot of people consider this a masterpiece, one of the best movies Fulci did and a good classic horror movie, Italian style. Well, I disagree. It was a confused, gore filled and pointless movie. I love 80's gore just as the next man and I have seen my share of horror, both Italian and non-Italian, but this did nothing for me. Perhaps seen at the time it would have stirred something in me (especially since I would have been four years old), but now it seemed just a bad movie.This doesn't mean it doesn't have its redeeming qualities. There are decent actors, some scenes are really nice and well done. The problem comes when you put them all together and add that horrible music that permeates the film and doesn't let you enjoy it one bit.Bottom line I wanted to comment on this as to remind myself not to watch it when I forget about it. I did that because I feel the film is completely forgettable and that I did not gain anything while watching it. Others may like it, obviously, but for the life of me, I cannot see why. "},{"Title":"The Beyond","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio Fulci's original film print of The Beyond had been lost for over 25 years until Sage Stallone and Bob Murawski found a print and put the film together under their Grindhouse Releasing label. What they did was something horror lovers were waiting a long time for. This print of The Beyond is beautifully restored and remastered. You can now watch it in all its Italian gory glory. We also have to thank another gorehound named Quentin Tarantino for his great DVD label Rolling Thunder Pictures, which The Beyond is co-released under.The film opens in Louisiana, 1927, We see a painter named Shweik (Antoine St John) alone in his room at a hotel working on his art. Meanwhile some townspeople are floating down a river nearby towards the hotel, we can only suspect that they are going to cause trouble with the constant cross cutting. The look of this opening sequence was shot in color, but Cinematographer Sergio Salvati uses a brown sepia tone to give it that spaghetti western flashback effect. After the locals find Shweik in his room they proceed to lash him with iron chains and this is where Lucio Fulci's trademark gore FX comes into play. With each crash of the chain, Shweiks skin is torn open and blood begins to seep out. Fulci takes great care to let each shot play out so we are replused but thrilled at the same time.After dragging Shweik to the dark grungy basement, and lashing him even more, the locals nail him to the wall with metal spikes. This isn't the worst part, after successfully pinning him to the wall, they take buckets and shovels full of quicklime and throw it on Shweiks body and face. Then as Fabio Frizzi's funky score kicks in we watch as the acid slowly corrodes Shweik. What an opening!!!Flash forward to 1981, A young beauty named Liza Merrill (Catriona MacColl) has come into owning the hotel and shes trying to restore it. A local painter is on a scaffold and suddenly he sees a white eyed woman, he then falls to the ground and the blood dribbles out of his mouth. Liza and company take care of the injured man and they try to find out what made him fall. He screams The eyes!. The room the painter saw the mysterious woman in is Room 36, the same room Shweik inhabited. Liza hires a plumber named Joe to fix the leak in the basement, Joe is of course unaware that the wall hes working on is one of the 7 Gates to Hell. A hand flies out at Joe and proceeds to gouge his eyeball right out!Throughout the rest of the film, Liza meets several people including Emily (Sarah Keller) a blind girl who warns Liza about the evil in the hotel and a local doctor played by David Warbeck who helps Liza get through all the events going on. You might notice that the film doesn't really have a solid storyline, instead its a sequence of images and sounds that are meant to give you the feeling that you are IN The Beyond where no one is safe from evil forces. NOTE Watch out for some funny little moments including a shot of a DO NOT ENTRY sign in the hospital and Liza delivering the line You have carte blanche but NOT a blank check.Lucio Fulci's cinema team, headed by Make Up/FX artist Gianetto De Rossi did an incredible job of creating the visual effects. The Italian film crews really were masters of on-the-spot invention and they were brilliant at creating something great from nothing. The Beyond contains things you just wont see in other horror films, including acid destroying skin, heads exploding, a killer tarantula attack on a man's face and lots of eye gouging and popping. You'll also see a dog ripping out a womans throat! Note You can see the influence of Fulci's gore FX in Quentin Tarantino's film Kill Bill (2003-04).Fulci's style of directing was very exploitive, but he also had an artistic style as well. I think thats one reason many film lovers consider Fulci a master. He was capable of really grossing you out, but also adding an intelligence and surrealistic quality to a story that by another director just wouldn't have the same feeling. "},{"Title":"When I first...","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Saw this movie I had nightmare after I watched it and it never happened before. Sure I have seen a lot of horror movies like The Exorcist, Chucky, Night of the Living Dead, Carrie, The Shining and more good and crappy, old and new horror movies but I am not here to talk about them.Well first of all I have a certain interest in Lucio Fulci and his way of making movies. He may not be the best director compared to the other directors from the world but he got an interesting way of making horror movies. From sadistic executions to the more abstract elements of filmmaking. The first line of his Zombie Trilogy was Zombi 2 (a good zombie movie) and the second was city of the Living Dead and the third being The Beyond.Watching them it's quite fascinating the first was quite more like a straight forward zombie movie (but not following the usual zombie movie clichés), the second one (City of the Living) is more abstract and has something more to the with the supernatural and the third The Beyond is even more abstract and has even more of the supernatural.If you approach the movie with logical thinking and sense it won't help because the movie is so abstract and like many people says it has no obvious plot. But the movie can still be quite cruel and sadistic when someone is getting killed (a little Lucio Fulci touch that unlike many horror movie directors is not afraid of being extremely sadistic in his way of showing executions). So yes the movie can be quite scary and this one gives even more a sense of doom and gives chill to the bones much more than the first two Zombie films.It's no means a quality movie like The Exorcist or Dawn of the Dead (not the remake) and other horror movies but since it's the first film to give me nightmare I'll give the movie 10/10. "},{"Title":"If you could go past the gore and the hype, you will see the real reason why this is a masterpiece.","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Almost every review that I have encountered about the movie tends to focus on one thing the gore. These reviewers say that without the gore the whole thing would be one bloody and stupid Italian mess. I can only say one thing they were all caught in some sort of extreme hype. They were all looking for the real reason why this movie had been rated X in the first place and why people who have seen it tend to rave to everyone they see about the extreme gore. I must that I am saddened by this travesty and while I admit that I was part of the ones looking at this movie in terms of its blood content. After watching it I was wrong, terribly wrong. To see The Beyond only for the eye skewing and the throat ripping and face melting is akin to watching The Exorcist only for the green pea vomit and the 360 degree rotation of Linda Blair's head. Simply saying, you will have missed out the other more substantial parts of the movie and oftentimes these are the parts that provide the heart and soul of the movie. Without the scenes that deal with Fr. Merrin's psychological and mental struggle with the devil or the scenes that highlight the doubt of Fr. Karras, the whole movie could have been an empty exercise in religious exploitation. I am not saying that the film would be more effective if its major shock scenes were dropped in favor of its 'intelligent scenes, I am saying that they should not each be taken separately since they both form a unique experience, an experience that would be sadly tarnished and diminished if people look at the movie at the wrong way. The Beyond is director Lucio Fulci's ode to the basic fear of mankind, which is the fear of the unknown. Even though we know in the beginning that all these nastiness is being caused by satanic forces, the viewer is entirely left in the dark after those scenes. Who is that blind lady with the dog? Why does she have to do with anything? Why does she have to appear in an eerily white road that stretches in the middle of nowhere? What is the significance of her running away from the house replayed 4 times? Such questions remain with the viewer throughout the movie and in our confusion, we don't have time to think, before we know it someone is already getting graphically mutilated on screen. Such is the magic of this movie. If you let yourself get caught in the esoteric milieu of the movie, you'll get more than what you came for. (Who wouldn't want little Lovecraftian themes to pop out together with blood and guts?) In today's horror movies where gore gets traded for atmosphere and vice versa, I could only be thankful for a movie that maintains both up until the last reel. Of course, a movie made by an Italian Horror Director will always have town the certain trademarks present, no matter how Lynchian the story might get. You still have your slow-moving Italian Zombies, graphic and brutal mutilation that includes but not limited to eye skewering, heads being blown off, throat ripping etc. You also have your not-so-special acting, but the idea there is if it doesn't impede or derail the movie (which it doesn't), why make a fuss about it?Again, this is another unique Italian horror movie. Don't see this one expecting to be thrown buckets of blood at every scene. Enjoy the twilight zone weirdness. Enjoy the extended face-eating sequence. An above all, enjoy of the most unique horror movies of all time, with Italian Horror crossed over with Surrealist madness ala Jodorowsky or Lynch. "},{"Title":"All hail the Godfather of Gore!","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Fulci's best zombie movie. The Beyond is unique, disturbing, and colorful at the same time. I first was introduced to the late great Lucio Fulci's work with the 1972 Giallo film Don't Torture a Duckling. Since I first saw Don't Torture a Duckling I've been an avid fan of fulci movies to come. As much as I enjoyed the 1979 Zombi Flesh Eaters, and the 1980 City of The Living Dead (aka The Gates of Hell ) I think The Beyond is by far his best film. Without saying too much The Beyond has some of the greatest zombie moments i've ever seen on film. Add in the late great David Warbeck, and you've got Lucio Fulci's Masterpiece!10/10 "},{"Title":"Beyond Me","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A woman from New York inherits an old hotel in Louisiana but is frustrated in her attempts to open it for business by the fact that it sits upon one of the seven gates to hell, from which all manner of demonic malevolence effortlessly kills anyone who comes near - preferably in ways that draw as much blood from the victim as possible.'The Beyond' commits two cardinal sins of decent horror storytelling in its first five minutes of running time it explains the entire plot and starts the blood-splattering extravaganza right away, completely destroying any possibility of build-up and suspense the viewer might otherwise have enjoyed had a subtler approach been employed. It's either the product of a very cynical director who looks upon his audience as attention-deficit mouth-breathers, or someone who simply doesn't know how to tell a carefully-crafted story with rising action, climax and conclusion. Otherwise, given the sheer amount of fake blood and some admittedly very good special effects for the period, he may simply be more of the opinion that he need only throw practical visual wizardry at people and the resulting visual fiesta will rearrange itself into a narrative within the viewer's mind. Never mind the complete lack of characterisation or absence of scenes driven by the demands of the story and properly edited sequences - people only watch horror fans for relentless gore and don't care about such things.Well, yes they do, and that's why 'The Beyond' took the wind out of my sails as soon as the opening titles appeared, why I was bored throughout the whole thing and not remotely interested in the plight of anyone who happened to walk past the camera over the full and torturous 87 minutes that felt more like 870. Full marks for the choice of location - Louisiana oozes character and makes the perfect backdrop for a horror tale. Full marks for the practical effects, but you can't build a film around them. Anyone who complains the today's films are nothing but CGI over substance should take a look at this to be reminded that such mistakes were being committed with its predecessor. And if director Fulci were alive and had made this film today, there's no way this approach would lead to it being labelled as a classic. He'd be the Ben Stiller of horror films, excitedly trying to figure out ways to dumb down some novel called 'The Ruins' for the sake of visual spectacle, expertly putting down any such criticism from his detractors with comments such as 'You don't understand the Continental mindset,' to which any guilt-ridden cultural Celtic or Saxon imperialist would feel it wrong to respond.I have to confess at this point that I was always hopeless at those magic eye paintings that were all the craze in the nineties. Those shiny psychedelic collections of seemingly random pixels which, through the aid of ocular contortion, resolved themselves into three-dimensional objects. I would stare at them, almost convincing myself I'd seen something leap off the page, but in truth, nothing ever did. So it is that I now look at 'The Beyond', mindful of the knowledge that it has a legion of fans who may feel that Mario Bava didn't go far enough, take the sum of the parts and find a glorious, blood-splattered whole. Yet when I watch the same collection of haphazardly thrown-together filmic elements, once again, I just don't see the sailboat. So either there's something I'm just not seeing, or it really is a jumbled mess.The Beyond, therefore, is beyond me. It sits upon the seventh gate to hellish nonsense, where plot, rationality, logic, decent acting, good characterisation and decent soundtracks stand in another realm apart from lovingly-crafted gore and tsunamis of blood in wave after wave of totally predictable set pieces. It doesn't work for me, but maybe your 'magic eye' skills will see beyond that which I could. "}{"Title":"Uncomfortable mixture","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Startling and effective moments enliven a scattershot series of grisly vignettes in what is, for better or worse, probably Fulci's best movie. The main problem with this movie is that, for all of its languorous structure and everything-including-the-kitchen-sink plot, to say nothing of its needless excursions into repulsive violence, it has enough obvious talent behind the camera that one wishes that somebody had been present to offset Fulci's tendency to throw the movie into a dead halt to stare into open wounds. Cinematographically exceptional, but just adequate at best in all other areas. And it's a little discouraging to see a filmmaker with such obvious skill throwing so many other filmmakers' ideas into the mix (primarily those of another director whose initials are D.A.). "},{"Title":"Crap from beyond","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When i read all his hype about The beyond I thought it should be freaking sweet gore movie... yeah should be... Maybe it was scary or gore scenes were on ok level when this movie was made, but now it's just boring, not even funny. Why funny? 'coz at least from some of the crappy horrors you can laugh right now instead of be scared as it was intended. Ultimate gore? Did anyone have seen Braindead? That's ultimate gore, yes it's great comedy also, if you don't like comedies go for trilogy of G. Romero (Night of the living dead if someone don't know what I'm talking about. There is also new, color, remake for those one who need too see blood in red but if you are a real horror fan you should first watch original version form 1968 - yes old one but for sure not so dated) or first 3 movies of Hellraiser or also 3x Re-animatior or again 3x Evil dead, Texas chin saw massacre... and so on. I guess this one is only for spaghetti horrors fans and seams like I'm not the one of them. "},{"Title":"Do Not ENTRY (sic!)","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There is no typo in the title, it is exactly what the sign on the morgue's door said in one scene. Also, in that shooting scene near the end, we could clearly see the black patch worn by the -supposedly naked- Zombie to cover his genitals.I'm not saying this to criticise the film, but rather to establish that it would be silly to take it seriously or consider it anything more than a scam by some no talent Italian crooks to get quick cash from the English speaking people of the UK and US.Forget all about bad effects, plastic spiders glued to a stick, the poorly decorated single frame set portraying the inside of the hell, and try to relax and enjoy it the same way some fetishists enjoy the taste and smell of female excrement. "},{"Title":"I guess it's just me again","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Reading the comments here a lot of people comment on style and imagery. Fact is all of Fulci's movies are poorly shot. The soft focus and lack of lighting doesn't intensify the horror it really obscures it. I'm watching the film right now and what occurs to me is I don't enjoy it. And I didn't like Gates of Hell either. But I'm not a big gore person.I don't think all the talk about what was originally shot or how it was meant to be seen apply because we have all of Fulci's library to draw on and his style is clear. He was never better than a mediocre director. His pieces didn't turn out and are disappointing because he either didn't have the talent or the craftsmanship to make them better.I can only watch someone's eye popped out so many times before I start to want something more. "},{"Title":"Poorly made, formulaic, senseless","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The movie was poorly made. The blood and flesh were fake. Sound effects, acting, and contact lenses were poorly done. The dubbing was OK. Very fake spider. Background for final scene of hell is all the same shot from the same perspective. The actors are superimposed. Very obvious. Bad makeup.The plot was spare. Woman moves into old house. Bizarre accidents claim the lives of various people. Various things tell her the cause is supernatural, but she doesn't believe until a zombie tries to kill her. She seeks the help of Manly Doctor, who doesn't believe her until a zombie tries to kill him.The various deaths are bizarre. Painter sees zombie reflection in window and falls off scaffold. Plumber grabbed by zombie in basement. Woman killed by zombie of plumber in bathroom, even though his corpse is in the hospital. Man grabbed by zombie in basement. Man falls off ladder, is conscious but lets his face be torn apart by tarantulas, who come out of nowhere.This was all just too childish for me. Never has 86 minutes seemed so long. After about 40 minutes my mind started to wander--what do I need to do when I get home? Why did I let my friends talk me into watching this? The positive side is that some parts were so bizarre that they were funny. "},{"Title":"Premium Italian gorefest","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Lucio Fulci's Zombie films are mostly highly regarded by horror fans. They're mostly grotesque, quite simply extremely gory and this seems to appeal to most of his followers. The Beyond is most often cited as his best effort in his Zombie outings, and since I haven't seen Zombie 2 or City of the Living Dead I can't comment on whether this is his best. I did however see The House by the Cemetery and this is a definite improvement over that sorry film.The Beyond succeeds brilliantly is grossing out the viewer, starting with a pre-credits whipping that's simply disgusting. But that's only the beginning in this splatter fest that has plenty of revolting scenes to make you wish you hadn't ordered a pizza before sitting down. If only that were enough for me, then I'd be in movie heaven.I find this Fulci film to be lacking in anything called suspense. The story, while being somewhat interesting to a fan of horror movies, is fairly confusing at times and that hilarious dialogue and dubbing don't help in that department. To say the acting is bad is a given, but if that were enough to get your nickers in a twist you'd best steer clear of all Italian thrillers, be it films by Mario Bava, Dario Argento etc.Instead of coming up with any novelty story wise Fulci goes for the yucks every single time and in the end it becomes depressing. But then, this is premium Italian gorefest and therefore, not for everyone. "},{"Title":"more tiresome than scary","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A cheeseball exploitation horror film with such terrible acting and dialogue, it's worth a little camp value. A young woman inherits a hotel that's been built on one of the seven doors to hell. Oops.Suddenly everyone starts dying. Then coming back to life as zombies. She and the town doctor must run around shoot hundreds of the walking dead with a gun that never seems to need reloading. Well at one point, it does run out of bullets, but cut to the next shot, and he's using it again.Originally made in 1981, this is a Tarantino Rolling Thunder re-release. I simply can't believe this is the best bad Italian horror flick in the vaults.   "},{"Title":"Worth watching for the gore, but don't expect it to make sense.","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" With the sole exception of 'Don't Torture A Duckling', a damn fine giallo, none of the Lucio Fulci films that I have seen so far have particularly wowed me. His gore 'classics' certainly managed to satisfy my hunger for blood, guts and eyeball violence, but none of them really delivered the goods as far as coherent storytelling and competent direction were concerned.'The Beyond', which is often cited as the director's masterpiece, is a film I had only seen previously in a severely cut form (thank you so much, the BBFC, for protecting me from fake blood and latex in my formative years); I didn't like it that much. With the uncut film now available on DVD, I decided to give this Fulci favourite another chance just possibly, without the interference of a scissor-happy censor, the film might make some sort of sense.No such luck! Even uncut, 'The Beyond' proves to be as sloppily written and poorly directed as the majority of Fulci's other efforts. The story chops and changes without rhyme or reason, characters come and go (or rather, die) with little explanation as to exactly what has happened, and the whole thing ends leaving one totally confused. Once again, only the delightfully squishy effects, courtesy of make-up maestro Gianetto De Rossi, make the film worth a watch.In this muddled supernatural tale, which sees David Warbeck and Catriona McColl fighting zombies after a door to hell is accidentally opened, we get plenty of graphic violence, and, for this reason alone, I managed to stay the distance. Gory highlights include the opening scene, in which a man is nailed to a wall and melted with quicklime, an eyeball gouging, a face melted by acid, a hilarious scene in which a man's face is eaten by spiders (most of which seem to be made of pipe-cleaners!), a throat ripping, and a marvellous moment in which a girl's head is blown apart by a bullet.Rarely boring but completely nonsensical, I award The Beyond 5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"A thunderous smelly wind","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So this is what's supposed to be the giallo. Okay. I've seen three of Argento's films - Deep Red, which I remember liking a lot when I was much younger but find a bit tedious today. Suspiria, probably the best of the lot thanks to the iconic (and elephantine) Alida Valli in blue sepia, and her Daisy Duck shoes - and Tenebre, which can somewhat be enjoyed in a campy way - and has some lovely late seventies interiors. So I wanted to find out more.Well, this hasn't got much going for it, to be honest I wonder what people are referring to when they say that this is atmospheric stuff There isn't any atmosphere, really. It's certainly not created, as usually happens, by any deliberately constructed, recognisable collaboration of, say, image, duration, editing, music and/or sound. No. It's not particularly stylish either - there's two or three nice looking shots, mainly of sunsets through dark arches or empty highways and some outlandish paysage towards the end, but they're not really saying much and come across as add running time, we're still short. Nothing too inventive by any standards. Stylistically and in narrative terms the film kind of wants to go somewhere but it actually never moves - watching it feels like driving blindfolded and with the hand break on. The acting and voice synchronisation are appalling even by seventies' standards (but it's not ABOUT the acting!- I hear you say. Well if it isn't, then remove the actors completely and do something totally different). Everyone looks like they're randomly reading their lines at a high school drama play, braving the hollow, meaningless dialogue. Or they scream or look horrified and in pain. In any supposed conversation during this film the words spoken never actually meet between personalities, they just tend to drift astray until the next scream, the next fall from a ladder, the next blade or pole, the next zombie ominously approaching and so on. I mean, nothing you see is remotely believable, on any level. Yes, there's spiders and they seem to be eating a human head (and they squeal a lot - do they really?) - to a sort of cheap Las Vegas-blaxploitation-orchestral discoey groove in the background. A weird visual fetish, if you ask me. Why the man fell from the ladder, why he screamed previously, who is he and all the rest of it - I don't really know nor do I care.If all this was actually trying to SAY something through (average) imagery that it offers - something, anything, apart from a painful procession of naff third-rate gore and eyes popping out (what a weird fixation!) - I'd be willing to forgive every other failure of this film, even the fact that the terrible, non-sensical, cheap music and the ridiculous voice over ruin everything in their path the moment they kick in. It appears that Argento, himself very much hit and miss cinema persona whose films at least work well in what they do, is really the best of a very bad lot indeed. I'll check out Bava's Shock but I'm not expecting much. If this is anything to go by, giallo is a bit of a fart, if you pardon the language. "},{"Title":"If this film was made in the 2000's it would be slated","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film does indeed suck ass!! People say its brilliant and a masterpiece, if this was a new film it would never be released because it is that damn bad. Here's what so bad about it1. The music - it's like a cross between a cheesy 80's dance film and a western.2. Bad acting - really bad!3. OK Dude you've shot imp in the chest like 50 times..... The head shoot him in the head!!4. Its just plain bad, inconsistent thing like a two litre bottle of acid spills on a woman's face for like 5 minutes, and a guy shoots 50 rounds from a six shooter without reloading!!nuf said "}{"Title":"A masterpiece?  Surely some mistake!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Lucio Fulci is regarded by many hardcore fans as one of, if not the, master of Italian splatter cinema.  Many others however, including myself, consider him to be a talentless hack, whose films are mostly exercises in stupidity, and plagiarised at that.  Characters in his films are almost always personality-voids who are so stupid you just want to slap them about and scream Oh come on, work it out!  One example is the hero of this film, who fires off about thirty rounds from a revolver into a parade of zombies. The hits to the body have no effect, apart from cute little squib splatters, but the head shots quite obviously kill them instantly.  He eventually comes across the original zombie, and shoots it in the body, then again, and again, and again, then runs away.  He was too dumb to work out that a head-shot might be a good idea.With characters this dumb, plots this pointless, and gore which varies between excellent (a man getting nailed to a wall is a sphincter clincher) and laughable (the worst fake spiders you have ever seen in your life - yes, worse than Jumanji), we turn to Fulci's directorial skills.  His traditional extreme facial closeups are here in abundance, along with his baffling pull-focus push-focus technique.  All the scares are either telegraphed hours ahead, or happen so suddenly, the audience forgets to be frightened.If you want excellence in Italian horror cinema, watch Dario Argento.  If you enjoy awful splatter, you already know about Fulci. "},{"Title":"A great Horror, but very overrated.","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I won't write this Review in length and detail as many wont care, and have read so many of these before. I watched a few Videos of The Beyond once on Youtube 2 or more years back, and it seemed pretty cool and scary. It looked fake of course, but it had great ideas. So I decided to hire it out and watch it with my Cousin.It started off cool, the colours were chosen good, it gave it a really old-fashioned Horror feel... I was abit confused with what was happening, and the Crucifixation scene looked very fake. When he was getting those nails hammered into his hands, they were stretched out sideways, and in the next shot they were up around near his head. Wtf? Anyway what happened after that I can barely remember. I probably wasen't focusing enough because of my Cousin being there so I don't remember the exact details or what was happening. It was all so random to me, and mainly pointless as the Movie never gave any information about itself, or information you could recognise easily. It never really went into detail about the Book of Eibon. The special effects were bad, even with a budget of $500,000 or so, it could of still been greater for it's time. Seemed to leave a lot out that could of been added to improve the Movie, some might say it's better to think for yourself and make up your own opinion, but whats the point of doing that when you can't understand a thing?So yeah, we watched it and it wasen't exciting. Things just passing by each scene, not making much sense, all seemingly being random... Even towards the end with the Zombies was boring. They walked slow, and the guy with the gun was pathetic. Please, have a working mind and shoot them in the HEAD. IDIOT.The ending where they both were stuck in The Beyond I think was great and spooky, it really made you think. That was the good part about thinking, it wasen't a major part of the Movie so it didn't really effect everything.I liked the idea and all, but it was to confusing how it was layed out and plotted. The gore and death scenes were great and very different.So yeah, it's a GREAT Horror for it's Genre, but not a overall great Movie. Compared to many, it doesn't look like much, but compared to many Horrors, it looks great and very original. Don't hate me for my individuality and opinion, I am not you and I don't share your views. "}]