[{"Title":"The Image of Generation","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"74 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've seen many films portraying drug addiction but none with such terrifying authenitcity as this film. It's funny. I haven't really thought about this film in years and what made me suddenly think of it now was I was thinking about movies on my DVD wish list. CHRISTIANE F was on that list. So for s***s and giggles I ran a routine search in the Internet Movie Database (this site is GOD!!!) and low and behold, it was out!!! Naturally, I placed my order for it. As much as I wished it was the subtitled version (which is only available in PAL), I have the German version as well as the dubbed so that's not that bad. To those who have seen REQUIEM FOR A DREAM and thought that it was the most disturbing film they've seen about drug addiction, I have news for ya you haven't seen anything yet! CHRISTIANE F., makes REQUIEM look like a Disney film in comparison. Although the English dubbing is really cheesy and bad, still it doesn't detract from Ulrich Edel's images of the dark, seedy, and depressing world of heroin addicts.Subtitled, Image of a Generation, CHRISTIANE F is the true story of a lonely, bored teenager in the '70's who gets into the drug scene at 12, hooked on heroin at 13 and becomes a prostitute at 14 to support her habit. There are a couple of things about this that struck me. First, was that Edel used all unknowns for the main parts, especially the kids. They acted so naturally, that even Edel makes the comment that it's a wonder they haven't been actors or junkies their whole lives. Also the kids who played the main characters, were as close to the age as the real people they were portraying. Nadja Brunckhorst, who plays Christiane, was fourteen at the time and does a remarkable job. In fact, this movie pretty much made her a star in Germany and to this day has had a prolific acting career, mainly on German TV as well as some film work. The second was the use of David Bowie's music in the soundtrack. Now, I'm biased. I'm a huge fan of Bowie but even if I wasn't, his music was used to staggering effect. Truly memorable was the scene toward the end of the film as Bowie's song 'Sense of Doubt' is played in the background as Edel's camera pans across the sad, ghostly faces of people at the subway platform. The music captures the despair of the scene very well, almost too well for comfort. The music serves, as any great film music should, as another character in the film, helping to portray the despair, loneliness, bravado, confusion of adolescence. I feel I can identify with Christiane and her life when I was her age. I was lonely, alienated, and sad. Where as she escaped her pain with drugs, I escaped mine through my writing. I can sympathize completely. You want to fit in with a group so badly that you'll do things that you know you shouldn't just to be cool. Well, I really wish more teenagers would be shown this film. Would it change a life? Maybe. I do know one thing for me after reading her book, from which this film is based, I've found a kindred soul. From what I know, she is clean and has been since the film's original release. I hope she continues to have the strength to remain so. Because once a junkie, always a junkie.   We can be heroes, just for one day.-David Bowie, 'Heroes' This song becomes a very understated theme for this film, a song about hope in a film where there's very little hope to be found.   "},{"Title":"the king of drug films","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"59 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I have seen so many films about drug addiction, and not one of them can equal the sheer power of this one. The life of this 14 year old West Berlin junkie is crafted with an astounding level of realism. Her downward spiral into heroin addiction and prostitution is captured by Ulrich Edel, who holds nothing back in his depiction. We see through Christiane's eyes, every filthy toilet, every creepy, slimy john whom she must trick with for drug money, every moment of terror and desperation. At this age, everything is felt so intensely. Christiane, a young teenager from a hell on Earth place called Gropistadt, a truly dark and bleak part of Neukoln, West Berlin. A place where there is absolutely nothing for a teenager to do. She discovers a place called The Sound, a cavernous disco located near the posh and touristy Kurfuerstendamm. The Sound is a seedy teen hangout, infested with drugs, and with dealers only too happy to feed Valium and heroin to kids eager to escape their dreary reality and to have fun. Here is where Christiane meets Detlef, a boy her age. Detlef starts using heroin soon after they meet, and Christiane, scared of losing him to the drug, begins using also. It is especially important to notice that the film doesn't glamorize heroin. As soon as the hard drug use begins, the mood of the film changes instantly. The wonderful music of David Bowie whom Christiane worships is heard frequently throughout the first section of the film. After her and her friends become junkies, the Bowie music disappears, which is very symbolic, i think. Thankfully director Edel didn't make the mistake that so many American directors make when filming stories about teens The actors here are genuine teenagers, around 14/15 years old. This makes the film so much more powerful and shocking, and much more believable. The effects of heroin on these kids is staggering to behold; they turn into these sickly shadows of their former selves, like zombies, in search of their next fix. And strangely, Christiane and her friends never seem to enjoy the high from the heroin. You will never see such a bleak vision of kids lost in a surreal hell of drug addiction. And to add further to the intensity, the film is long, 138 minutes uncut, becoming steadily darker and seedier by the minute, until the viewer wonders just how long can this young girl go on like this without completely self-destructing. And amazingly, throughout the running time, the film never preaches, not for a moment. And it never becomes sentimental, as most American drug films often do. The film style is specifically German. I doubt that any American director could have created such a dark and gritty film about people so young. Christiane F Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo remains one of the most well-known and admired films to ever come out of Germany. "},{"Title":"One of the most thought-provoking, interesting and disturbing films I have ever seen","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really wasn't prepared for this film, or was I? I had been recommended it, and told it was disturbing, but it certainly had a massive effect on me.Christiane F is the true story of a girl who gets seduced by the German nightlife and David Bowie, and slowly drifts onto heroin.There are several disturbing parts of this movie. The heroin/prostitution scenes are disturbing, but I didn't get disturbed by these as much as I did the story. The media would have us believe that heroin users and dealers are monsters and don't have a right to live. The people in this movie are real, and easy to identify with.I definitely recommend this movie, and compared to Trainspotting (a film I also enjoyed) is much more realistic. "},{"Title":"A very emotional movie.","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have just finished viewing Christiane F. this morning, and I can say that I have been thinking about nothing else for the last 7 hours. This is a very powerful movie that will leave you very sad and depressed about the story of Christiane. I have been on the verge of tears all day thinking about this poor child's life.As noted in other reviews, this is a very dark film that portrays childhood drug abuse in Berlin in the late 70's. It is not for the faint of heart, as there is death; many needle scenes, vomiting from the characters and prostitution scenes. The story is not happy and it is a downward spiral of one child's sorry life in Berlin. The only happy moment comes in the last 30 seconds of the film, as it is depressing all the way up to the end. But, this is a love story (a dark one) about Christiane and Detlev and their journey through the life of drugs as teenagers in Berlin. Even though the relationship is damned, it is still touching.Now to the facts, the film boasts some very good teenage actors in a 14-year-old Natja Brunckhorst as Christiane and Thomas Haustein as Detlev. Both portray emotions common to the characters lack of confidence, desperation, depression and denial very well. Both characters are very believable and you will form an emotional attachment to both. The soundtrack is all David Bowie, which really provides an excellent set of moments with the music. I was very impressed that his music could be placed so well into a movie.The DVD version comes in the original German language version and a dubbed English version (which I saw). Now, I wish I knew German (or it had subtitles) as I would much rather have heard the original actors voices, than the 20-year-old voice that is dubbing Christiane. Regardless, the movie can still be enjoyed in this format. The DVD also comes with no frills; it's just the movie. I really think a movie of this caliber should have actor interviews, a Christiane biography, or whatever, as this film will leave you wanting more. Hopefully they address this with a future release, as well as English subtitles for the German language version.This movie I feel is really a lot stronger than some of the other drug movies that I have seen Drugstore Cowboy, Traffic, etc.. and I would highly recommend it over the others, as it is a very touching story about the dark side of life.And last show it to your kids to show them the realities of drugs. Kids need to know that they can die form drugs. The only problem I have is this movie is based off of heroin, which is not a popular drug today, so it might not be as believable to teenagers.  "},{"Title":"Twenty years later","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This powerful and shocking movie is an adaption from the bestselling book based on the true story of Christiane F. Having lived in Berlin until the mid 80's and being the same age as Christiane F. I can only stress the authencity of both book and movie. Berlin was a dark and depressing city at the time, yet a true metropolis with all its problems. You didn't have to be part of the drug scene to notice it everywhere in the downtown and surrounding area. Strung out junkies hitting you up for money in subway stations, streetwalkers, prostitutes at the Bahnhof Zoo ... the magazine article, followed by the book and movie just kind of brought it out in the open and documented the problem. The movie is still relevant 20 years later, one just have to put it a bit in perspective.The soundtrack with David Bowie's music (newly rereleased on CD) is powerful and fits the overall mood perfect. Note Christiane F. continued to struggle with her drug addiction until 1996 when she had her son. She lives in Berlin. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F is a visceral and realistic experience that has never been duplicated in the same fashion. I watched it once over a decade ago while in my late teens and it still haunts me. I happened on this page while searching for a DVD so I can introduce my wife to what I feel is one of the greatest movies of all time, especially because it's all based on a true story. The person who put a comment suggesting this movie has no plot is hopeless; sorry there's no Schwarzenegger to wrap things up nicely and put it all into perspective. And that's why David Bowie is a legend, he obviously has vision that the commenter clearly lacks. Brilliant decision to be involved in this; insuring yet another piece of his immortality.For those who are capable of thought and aren't afraid to be share a powerful descent into dark and dismal depths with the movie's characters, find this and watch it. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and harrowing drama.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Christiane F is the first film made by German director Ulrich Edel.The movie looks almost like a documentary what makes it even more disturbing.The acting is excellent-Natja Brunckhorst truly shines as a Christiane,who slowly becomes addicted to heroin.The atmosphere is really gritty and dark,and the film pulls no punches with its depiction of Berlin's drug world.So if you liked Requiem for a Dream or Naked Lunch give this one a look.My rating10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"We,  the children from Bahnhof Zoo","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" For a long time I had misgivings about this film. I thought that it would be like so many others, where a teenager enters in the world of drugs, lives through hell and, in the end, returns safely to the womb of family and society - in-between we are treated with edifying speeches delivered by mothers and/or fathers, with rights to tears and lots of sentimentality.This is not the case of Christiane F. - Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo. The film is direct and honest and shows the events as viewed by the children from Bahnhof Zoo. The film tries to show things as they are and be objective. No moralist speeches are given. That's why the film has such power. The first film scenes show Berlin in the night. The main attraction for Christiane and friends is the discotheque Sound. It all begins there.There are many night scenes in the film. The days look dark and gloomy. In the beginning their meeting place is Sound, but as the road becomes narrower, there remains only one place for them The Bahnhof Zoo. Days and nights seem to merge more and more. And the day resembles more and more the night. A long night, a short step can lead to eternal night.This stuff almost begs to be treated in a sensationalistic way. But Christiane F. - Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo is a serious film. It deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"Where Trainspotting is novelized, this is true","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you search for a document telling you the truth about falling into drug addiction in the 70s, this is the right film for you. But this is not a mere documentary; it's got artistic value, as well as great acting by the young and cute Nadja Brunckhorst and Thomas Haupstein. The scene where Christiane, after her first heroin sniffing, gets through a long gallery in a car with her friends is a wonderful metaphore of her first step into addiction. Great locations and a beautiful, functional photography complete this very good film, which represents an isolated case in director Ulrich Edels's career. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but book is really much better (as usual)","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a gritty movie about the one girl's experience in the  Berlin underage prostitution/drug scene of the 70's. This is no glamorized Hollywood movie with mid-twenty year old actors as teens.This is a depressing movie, although ultimately it has a good ending, at least for Christiane. I read the book years and years ago, and after buying the DVD a few months back, I wanted to re-read the book as it has much more detail, and more cycles of getting clean and relapsing than shown in the movie. The book is out of print (natch!), but it is worth checking out used-book stores for it.The DVD has no extras at all, and as noted by others, no subtitles - you get it in original German, or second-rate dubbed English. I watch it both ways - German for the emotion, English for understanding.Still, highly recommended for a change from the Hollywood usual. Much David Bowie in the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Greatest Junkie Love Story ever...(cue stock '70s Bowie anthem of alienation & post-modern dehumanization...)","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is THE hot shot of all downward junkie spiral cinema...the truest, most life-like, gutter-fabulous portrayal of adolescent cult worship gone awry. This film has style, it has presence, and it has substance (literally, many of them in fact). One thing, though, that I feel has been MASSIVELY overlooked in the rest of these here commentaries on this film. It is a theme in this film that is, perhaps, a bit less obvious to discuss than 'poor teenage girl gets strung out and sells herself for habit,' but I think it is more profound, and enigmatic than the tired clichés of 'talking smack' about this film. Let me explain.The fact that Bowie is eerily present somewhere in most scenes is likely mistaken for simple teenage rock'n'roll hero worship. But this Berlin-era Bowie is no Elvis, no cheery, giggling Paul, John, Ringo and George. When Christiane gazes longingly into those (intentionally) mysterious, piercing pale blue Bowie eyes from the front row, she is transferring onto Bowie everything that she considers herself to be lacking Maturity, style, matinée idol good looks, and above all, that most-elusive COOL that bonds her to all the other young dudes in the audience. The beauty (and the calculated genius) of Bowie's asexual stage persona was just that why have only half the audience become obsessed with BEING you when you can have the WHOLE audience, boy AND girl, want to be you?This cult worship notion in this film, I feel, is drowned out by the hit-you-over-the-head obviousness of the drug message. But the drugs are only part of the problem, if this is indeed to be considered a problem in the youth culture of the past 30 years, post-punk, post-new wave, and post-dancehall eras. What I am trying to say, despite obvious pretense (which i cannot help), is that much like the hundred-foot iconic images of Mao, Stalin, Che Guevara (or even Barack Obama currently), the constant marketing of David Bowie's image in the film's depiction of 1970s-era Berlin, the album covers, the subway walls, the rock clubs constantly blaring Bowie's latest, is all a kind of intentional indoctrination by the subversive powers-that-be of the youth nation. The too-clever marketing of a David Bowie, or a Kurt Cobain, or a Tupac Shakur, or Britney Spears, whomever you choose, is only the means to an end. And to what end, you ask? Simple.Mass control of youth culture. The kids become hooked on the same heroin that Bowie copped from Lou Reed and made fashionable to the mainstream, just like he did with homosexuality and cross-dressing, except more sinister and destructive. To quote one of the kids in the film, Look at them. The more shots they've had, the cooler they are. That is the mantra. And it is NO COINCIDENCE that our cutesy little daytripper Christiane's first blast of heroin comes when?? After the David Bowie concert!! Am I the only one to pick up on this?? The message is so heavy-handed that I am shocked that nobody here has even touched on anything remotely approaching this idea. Mass control of the youth culture, in any proto-fascistic society, is to be promoted and desired by its 'caretakers', as it ultimately prevents the youth culture from actively participating and BEING AWAKE to the REALITY, harsh and cruel as it may be, that pervades every inch of their environments. The only real question, to me, is whether or not a David Bowie (or a Cobain for that matter) is conscious of his role as a shill for the powers-that-be, in subtly doing his own advertisements for heroin culture, via stage performances or elaborate subliminal marketing techniques. I am sure to be labeled a wacko conspiracy theorist, but I sure as sh*t am not gonna waste this bandwidth making lazy 8th grade arguments about which was 'grittier', this or Trainspotting or Requiem for a Dream. No, there is something bigger here worth discussing, and I want to find out what it is with the rest of you. Can anybody please join in this discussion with something remotely relevant and thought-provoking? I'm really trying to hit on something, but it may take one of you to help me get there. Please! The Christianes of the world are depending upon you to help expose the true motivations behind getting a society's children addicted to smack and turning them out as prostitutes and hustlers as young as possible. I beg you to brainstorm with the above rant as the bass line thumping along as you scour your own fragile psyches for melodic fragments, tiny clues that may help us find the answer to this dilemma that both plagues and oppresses youth culture.....By the way, thank you to whomever recommended the film Lilja 4-ever as a companion piece to Christiane F...now that is a brilliant film. Hard to believe it was filmed mainly, what, on a handycam?? Pretty soon we will be making films with our mobile phones on our cigarette breaks and uploading them directly to YouTube indie film network.... "},{"Title":"Movie does a great discouraging job","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Having read the book twice, it wasn't easy for the movie to get 10 out of 10 points. Of course no movie can be a substitute for a book, so you have to distinguish between them and their functions. The movie really should discourage everyone from taking drugs and the actors, too, do a great job when giving you an impression how horrid such a life can be. But there are some definitive lacks the movie has in the book, relatives and people who were involved in the case Christiane F commented on the text and told their point of view (in the current state of the book). Like that, you got a more complete view and there's an even more important fact The enlightenment work has more effect and more awareness on the reader-side is created. Another huge lack is Her childhood and thoughts are completely left out. Like this, the causes for drug addiction are not really traceable. It all seems like a quest for something new in her dull life. In her psychological work Am Anfang war Erziehung (don't know the English title) Alice Miller describes the quite perfect awareness of Christiane F. and her ability to pronounce her fears and the mechanisms she follows. The plot of the movie makes it sort of one-dimensional. With this background one might tend to dislike the movie and call it superficial and just feeding those craving for sensation. There's another argument corroborating this The whole process which led her out of the drug scene is left out. There's just a cut and she's at her Grandma's. It's a pity the movie doesn't involve the recipients more in her family life... In spite of the rather bad plot it's worth 5 out of 10  points. "},{"Title":"The saddest, most powerful story ever","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I have read plenty comments above, and everything that everybody says is true. In reply to somebody who said that they had just watched it, and had been haunted by it for the last 7 hours, I can add, that I read the book, and saw the movie 18 years ago, and I am still haunted by it. The effect that this book and movie had on me, has not waned at all over 18 years. I am still thinking about it, and talking to other people about it. This book ought to be a prescribed book or set work in schools. I am exactly one year older than Christiane, so we were children at the same time. If I compare her life to my tiny little perfect life, devoid of any such threats, living in a beautiful big house, in a beautiful leafy suburb, going to a cozy little girls' school in a perfect little town in a perfect little country, my heart breaks for her, and for growing up in such circumstances.It would be great if Christiane F would go around and address schools and drug rehabilitation programs personally. Per her website, in April 2008, she is still alive, and is not working in a full time job. I think she can make a great contribution if she would devote her time to prevent other people from falling into the same trap. Pity there didn't appear to be anybody around to prevent her from falling into this horrible trap. "},{"Title":"Two corrections","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I cannot add much to former comments when it comes to the quality of this movie. It is very good, because it is realistic, frightening and well acted.But in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to rectify some of the other comments I happened to read a newspaper article today, claiming that the real Christiane, aged 38, still lives in Berlin. She has a four-year-old child and is no longer a drug-addict. And as to AIDS and HIV This problem is definitely not mentioned in this movie, as it was shot in 1981, when nobody knew about AIDS at all. Let alone in the 70s, the time the movie is set in. "},{"Title":"A bitter portrait of the drugs.","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F. is a dark movie with a clear message stay away from the Drug's world. I never read the book, but the movie itself does a pretty good job showing the life of a teenager girl called Christiane, who lives in Berlim and starts to be addicted to heavy drugs,even working as a prostitute to support her addiction. She sees many of her young friends dying because of the drugs,and decides to quit. But of course, it is not easy as it sounds.What makes the movie even more shocking, is to know that it is real It's Christiane Vera Felscherinow's autobiography in the drugs's and sex's underworld. Nowadays is becoming quite normal to see movies and books based in biographies of people or even teenagers ,who had problems with sex,drugs and violence, but this movie is a pioneer in the theme, since is from 1981.I read that both actors who played Christiane(Natja Brunckhorst) and Detlef( Tomas Haustein) were beginners in that time, so, I think they were great,since they really look like two junkies living in a hell. "},{"Title":"At the end of the movie, you will yourself feel that you are drugged!.","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie out of sheer coincidence thanks to IMDb. Two days back I watched Requiem for a Dream and today after watching this movie, I felt Requiem-. was a joke.This is an open letter to Natja Brunckhorst, who has performed a role I have never ever seen on celluloid before and maybe I might not even see it in the many years to come. Surprising she didn't get an Oscar for her role.The movie transported me to an era 30 years back and I in fact felt like one of the characters in the movie. The real fickle mindedness of teens has been shown in an extremely realistic way. All the characters are well developed and there are many scenes in the movie which can send you tear gland's to work. The film has a mystic element in it which I have never experienced before. The soundtrack is perfect especially the music which comes to the end of the movie sends a chill through one's spine.Watch this movie, if you like watching movies which have strong emotional content in them otherwise let it go as this master piece cannot be spoken low of.The movies after effects are still on me and I myself feel drugged watching this movie. A perfect 10 and no other movie can be compared to this one!Cheers! "},{"Title":"True insight into the original film","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw the original version of this film. Although i dont speak fluent german i found it easy enough to understand the plot through the amazing actors. Its not a story that gives away the end before its time. I reccomend it to anyone of any age but be warned there are some graphic scenes which may upset some people. It has totaly put in perspective of drugs and the real nasty and harsh side. This film is not seen through rose coloured glasses. It is a true story and allows us to have a deeper insight into the desperation of addicts and the lengths and detriments they go to for the amzing feeling.  "},{"Title":"Most realistic, raw drug film of our time","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Something recently triggered my memory of this film, surprisingly since I saw it at age 17 - nearly 30 years ago. My boyfriend took me to see it since we were huge Bowie fans. I was completely caught off guard for what I was about to experience during the next two plus hours. Actually it was perfect, having no preconceived ideas and expectations of what I thought I knew of the drug world, I was thrown into the spiral of Christiane's life. Disturbing is such a mild way to describe my experience. I was truly impacted by this film and thinking back almost 30 years, I recall the dark images and feelings as if I were still there. As my own children are becoming teens, I'm hearing heroin use is back in vogue. I suppose this generation has no deeply negative relational experience to this drug we had in the 80s & 90s. Maybe it's time Christiane F makes a comeback. My kids will definitely be seeing it. "},{"Title":"if you've not seen it find it","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" What can you say about a film this good, except I saw it when it was first released and the images are still seared to my brain. The grim images, the haunting Bowie sound track. For mesmerising images nothing will beat the underground train sequence backed by Bowie's Heroes. Forget Trainspotting and every other drug film. This is the daddy of them all. For the bleakness, the almost hope, this should be on the list of films all parents should show their children, in fact let all schools show as part of life skills. Entertainment definitely not, an experience definitely, if you've not seen it, find it, see it, tell everyone. Films like this deserve to be seen by a wider audience "},{"Title":"Sad, true and touching... a movie of young people for young people","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F. is not only a movie of drug addicts, is a movie of warning, a movie of the young people for the young people. No much people appreciate movies like these; maybe because are a little unknown, but for me this a really good movie.Christiane F. talks about the little woman Christiane; a thirteen year-old girl that loves the songs of David Bowie,when she wants to go to a party in SOUND (The disco where Christiane would have contact for the first time with the drugs) she always lies to her mother. The girl that met friends that perhaps they didn't help her. Christiane F. talks about a girl that entered to a bathroom publishes to feel the ''orgasm'' of the heroine... there it is when she realizes that she are in a big problem.Christiane F. is a hard movie, but it is also a reflection movie, a movie for the young people, a warning for the young people.To see the reality sometimes ends up helping us to decide better options of life... and if a movie make that things in a person... be sure that movie is good. You had my word*Sorry me for the bad spelling "}{"Title":"Raw","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Watched the movie twice in the last 24 hours, and I definitely enjoyed it even more the second time. In fact, while watching it for the first time, I got the impression, specially at the beginning of the story, that it was a little bit overrated. That probably was due to the fact that the transition from having the first experience with drugs to become a junkie is too fast, and I kind of got lost. Love the photography. Love the music. Love the concert and the streets of Berlin. Love disco Sound, even though I was just 7 in 1981, is kind of familiar to me, probably 10 years later still existed similar dumps in my hometown when I started going to discos. Love the scene of the gang at the top of the building at dawn, and, very specially, love Babsi. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch but worth it","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F. is one of the first mainstream movies about heroin addicts, and perhaps the first about very young ones. Supposedly the film was quite shocking because of the age of the characters (and actors) as well as the graphic drug use scenes. We meet Christiane F. when she is 12 and already getting into hallucinogenic drugs. Her friends are all interested in heroin and she starts is deeply addicted and prostituting herself by age 14, as is her best friend Babsi, and her boyfriend Detlev.With the characters rapidly deteriorating before your eyes and stooping ever lower to get their dough, this is definitely a downer of a movie, as I guess all heroin movies are, but given the ages of the characters and the stark setting of Berlin at the height of the cold war, this one is especially bleak save for a few brief moments of teenage bliss before they are all addicted to heroin, and David Bowie's performance (Bowie composed the soundtrack and performs a song, his name attached to the project quite possibly helped it be made and contributed considerably to its success).Made in 1981, Christiane F. clearly paved the way for Trainspotting, but really can't match it in terms of stylized drug use scenes and really exciting scenes set to perfectly chosen pop music, despite Bowie's role in the production. Actually this movie makes Trainspotting look downright cheerful. It is incredibly bleak and parts are quite difficult to watch, but that is due to its emotional power. Feel-good movie this isn't, but it's absolutely worth watching. Just don't expect it to leave you in a good mood. "},{"Title":"christiane f. a masterpiece","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" having actually met some of the protagonists of the film and been to the sound discothek back in 1970s berlin and experienced it first hand, i can definitely say this film is very very realistic. indeed, it was filmed in many of the actual locations. it is a masterpiece. if anyone is considering it is maybe chic to take heroin, then watch this film first. without a doubt it depicts the real horrors of heroin addiction and the utter misery it brings, yet it also portrays this era exceptionally well, with no frills. unlike most films which are set in the 70s, this film doesn't show a fun, glitzy abbafication of the 70s, but a crumbling, desperate, damp and cold berlin, just as it was back then. its gritty, dark and moving story, as told by christiane (and in reality also babsi) will always leave the viewer shivvvering. a great film and i would highly recommend it to anyone interested in berlin. "},{"Title":"Most realistic movie made of the hell that is addiction!","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie came to my attention many years ago when I got the soundtrack from a dear friend to whom I still talk to, as a gift. I later went on to downed the actual movie many, many years later and was amazed at it's withdrawal scenes. As this movie centers around drug use and it's life altering after effects. David Bowie makes a cameo in this and does most of the soundtrack. A great German made movie so if you don't mind subs and are inclined to this genre of movie I highly recommend it!It does get ugly as heroin addiction will tend to do but in my eyes and opinion it is one of the best representations of the life addicts live or die within. Also it is based on a true story and at the end tells you what happened to all of the key players. Which may surprise you in the end, If you google this movie and the movies key people in it you'll be surprised to know Christiane F. lives onto some sobriety but in the end succumbs to a struggle back and forth with sobriety. Great cast of unknown German actors and well done storyline in my opinion for a subject that is usually treated by Hollywood with much undertones. This movie puts it right in your face and lets you see heroin addiction for all of it's soul stealing wickedness! "},{"Title":"A graphic and confronting depiction of the abyss of drug addiction.","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm not easily shocked but this incredible film managed to do so a number of times. Films like this appeal greatly to me as I value and appreciate realism. I like to see things how they truly are, as graphic as it may be; which this film accomplishes.Other films that strongly cover drug addiction such as Requiem for a Dream and Trainspotting are very stylized from a cinematic standpoint, were as Christiane F. is horrifically raw. Director Uli Edel holds nothing back; the film is shot in a way that gives a real feeling of authenticity, presenting a very graphic and confronting depiction of the drug culture of that era. And capturing to great effect the bleakness and despair these young people go thorough on a daily basis trying to get their fix at whatever cost.I've read many posts at IMDb from people who talk about whether or not this film glamorizes drug use. I don't think it does, not intentionally anyway. But I can understand how teenagers perhaps now but especially from that era may find that culture appealing. For example, the scenes that take place in the Sound night club and at the David Bowie concert. There's the style of dress, the music, joints being passed around the audience, the atmosphere and of course David Bowie performing live in all his glory. Tell me that wouldn't be appealing to many teenagers.Natja Brunckhorst who plays Christiane gives a very convincing performance in her first ever film role. She does appear to be a little awkward in some scene but it's understandable given the subject matter. The young cast consists of mainly unknown actors who give fine performances which is a huge credit to them all.One of the film's most appealing qualities is the amazing soundtrack provided by musical icon David Bowie, who also makes a special guest appearance. It's kind of ironic that Bowie provided the soundtrack to this film being that during the late 70s he was at the lowest point of his cocaine addiction and decided to move to Berlin kick the habit a revitalize his career, which he did with great success.Christiane F. is such an intense and powerful film. At just over two hours long I was at no point board with the plot, I found it captivating unable to look away. This is the type of film that should be shown in high schools as part of anti-drug programs, as it's an in depth look into a dehumanizing world that most of us can't imagine being a part of. "},{"Title":"Not your average Drug film","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I've seen many films of the drug genre that all seem to do the same thing a heavy glamorization of the drug underworld. This movie so unique, raw and graphic in it's nature that it completely takes away the idea of the highs and lows of the typical drug. You see through the eyes of a fourteen year old the heavy withdrawal, needle injections, seedy corners as well as the tasks associated with getting Heroin. If you're looking for a movie that shows the horrid depth of the drug start or are somehow trying to give a realistic education of an early life in drugs, this is it. The realistic nature of the film and lack of a tarnished High budget Hollywood scene makes this film a must see. "},{"Title":"One of the best films about heroin use","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F can be counted among the top three films about heroin use, along with Sid and Nancy and Requiem for a Dream. What all three of these films have in common is the pervasive sense of sadness and tragedy and horrible repetitiveness of the lifestyle. Having known a few heroin users I can say for certain this is true. There is nothing quite as unromantic as a junkie. William Burroughs called heroin users drearily sane, which really nails it.Christiane F is basically the tale of a young suburban girl in Berlin in the late 70's who, out of boredom, gets sucked first into the Berlin youth club scene and then, through a boyfriend, into heroin use and eventually prostitution to support her habit.Plotwise, its really an A-B-C look at how someone from a good family (though good being a relative term) can slowly slip into a bad lifestyle. If the film has a single weakness its that it never fills in the blanks about what would make Christiane so willing to turn into a drug addict in the first place. Berlin is portrayed as a drab and dull city, just the sort of place that might foster a tailspin into drug use. And certainly, Christiane was not the first teenage suburbanite to go club hopping or try recreational drugs. But not every young person ended up becoming a hardcore heroin user and prostitute at fourteen. Why Christiane? We never really get the answers, and its too bad, because I think it might have deepened the film a bit.What's remarkable is how deep the film is willing to go in its portrayal. At first Christiane is only willing to try acid and recoils in horror when she sees her boyfriend scoring heroin. Then, she decides it might be okay to just sniff a little heroin. Then, she tentatively decides she just wants to try shooting heroin. Then, when finding out her boyfriend hustles to support his habit, she is repulsed, but soon she too is prostituting herself to support her habit. Each time she falls a notch lower its done with a well, why not attitude. Soon, she's robbing her own mother for drug money and nearly dying from bad dope. The film is almost clinical in the way shows how easy it can be to lose sight of everything when you stick the needle in.The film's best scenes have a feverish, repellent quality. The nightmarish withdrawal sequence where Christiane and her boyfriend literally climb the walls coming off dope, ripping off the wallpaper and throwing up on each other. And the scary sequence where a creepy-looking junkie vaults a bathroom stall partition to steal Christiane's fix and then shoots it into his neck in front of an elderly woman.Overall, the film's effect is one of tremendous sadness and loss. You can't help but feel a great sense of grief for these children. An excellent film, highly recommended "},{"Title":"deep & dark","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The flick corresponds directly with the book, of the same name. It's the true story of Christiane, being controlled by Heroin. Quite graphic & disturbing... You'll witness Christiane and her boyfriend Detlev spiral down to the lowest form of existence. The film is loaded with great shots of the normally unseen early &#145;80s Berlin. I actually saw this on German TV in the late '80s, totally uncut. This could scare the pants off of any kid playing around with hard drugs.  "},{"Title":"Bleak","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Saw this film as a 14 year old when it first came out (I sneaked in to the cinema on my own pretending to be 18) as I was Bowie obsessed and ANYTHING he was connected with I had to watch....I must say in those days the film made me think drug addiction was really cool and if there had been any spare heroin lying around I would have tried it. Luckily there wasn't and I outgrew that phase and as a mature 42 year old I know realise how often the very things which are meant to put teenagers off actually make it seem attractive.....however as an example of a bleak late 70s Berlin this film is good. It has also made me want to go to Berlin! "},{"Title":"Highly disturbing documentary-type social realistic film","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This scary insight into a world of drugs and teen prostitution in the late seventies Berlin is really well made and touching. I found many parallels to Moodyson's recent masterpiece Lilja 4-ever; (besides the plot itself) happy kids running and dancing, birds flying in depressive autumn city landscape, the use of slow motion in the scene when Christiane enters the customer's car is similar to a scene in Lilja 4-ever (in the hotel room close to the disco) etc.Nice, heart-crunching film -) ! 10/10 "}{"Title":"Gripping tale about the life of a teenage drug addict and prostitute.","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F. - Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo is an adaptation of the 1979 book, which in turn is based on a true story. The film is extremely realistic in its depiction of drug use and their side effects. The withdrawal scene in particular was very disturbing. The actors did an excellent job. Everything was believable.The soundtrack was composed entirely by David Bowie, and is somewhat depressing at times. This was a low budget production, however, it does not disappoint. There's a certain style, a little something that adds to the overall quality of the film. The characters, plot, music and setting help create an atmosphere. It's perfect. I would be overjoyed if I found another flick with a similar atmosphere.The film's duration may be a problem with some viewers. It's about 2 hours and 11 minutes long (uncensored), and it may take a while for the story to take off. The first half hour is merely an introduction to what is going to come up next. I was put off for a while because it can be hard to find motivation and time to sit through 2+ hours of video, but I am glad that I watched this now.Many people seem to believe that the real Christiane F. has died, however, she is still alive and (somewhat) drug-free.Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo is also very educational, and even though there are sexual elements to the story, I would recommend this to a teenager as a warning about the dangers of drug abuse.I give this 10/10. "},{"Title":"Christiane F. Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In this delightful romp by German director, Uli Edel, we are whizzed through 70's era Berlin by pre-teen protagonist, Christiane F. Christiane, played by actress Natja Brunkhorst, is an adventurous young wunderkind eager for excitement, and together with her rambunctious cohorts, she seeks it out with aplomb in Berlin's burgeoning disco/heroin/prostitution scene. Taken by a school friend to a local nightclub at the tender age of 12, our young explorer finds herself amongst a colourful cast of junkies, queers and freaks. A little bit taken aback at first, her nerves are quickly tempered when a charming young fellow thrusts an acid trip into her mouth, a mere ten minutes after she'd entered the club. Unfortunately, this wasn't the only thing he wanted to thrust into her mouth so after spurning his advances she skips away into the arms of a more wholesome chap, Heroin addicted, male prostitute, Detlev.The two lovable scamps then embark on a fantastical romance that lights up the many shooting galleries and U-Bahn stations that made Berlin such a fun place to be for a young, fatally un-self-preservational teenager. Christiane's Mother haphazardly fails to read the writing on the wall, and when faced with the news that her now 13 year old daughter has permanently tattooed her own hand, she responds by buying her and her dope fiend boyfriend tickets to the upcoming David Bowie show. In a rather unimaginative appearance, Bowie shows up to play himself, and to further add to the predictability, he sings a song. It is at this show Christiane first tries heroin in an spunky attempt to stay close to the aloof (strung out) Detlev. As their drug addiction worsens, school naturally falls by the wayside, as does any semblance of ordinary life. A romeo and juliet for the 70s, their bond grows tighter and tighter, true, its a bond of heroin addiction and prostitution but tis a bond all the same.In one hilarious scene the pair actually try and withdraw together with obvious failed results including a quite comical vomiting scene. Once they get back on the smack, they settle into their habit with gusto, not even the deaths of practically all their friends can persuade these two headstrong rogues to give it up! Back on the game, we are treated to some splendid moments of depravity as the two fall deeper and deeper into an abyss of bloodless veins and sodomized flesh. Culminating in the exuberant scene in which Christiane hypocritically squeals at Detlev for taking it up the arse from a male punter before running off to do the same.In a rather abrupt and unexpected ending, Christiane is carted off to Hamburg to withdraw at her grandparents house, and we're left to imagine what became of der kinder vom Bahnof Zoo. "},{"Title":"Childhood? What childhood?","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F - We The Children Of Bahnhof Zoo is a 1981 film directed by Ulrich Edel based on the torrid accounts of a young girl living in West Berlin during the 1970's and her addiction to heroin and subsequent descent into prostitution.Based on the accounts of her non-fiction book of the same name the film details the period in which she began experimenting with drugs, such as cannabis and L.S.D, to her initial foray into heroin use and ending with her complete abasement.Shot with a low budget and employing a large number of first time actors, many of whom chose never to further a career in film, as well as a large number of extras sourced by the production team who were in fact real life junkies and down and outs. These factors alone contribute to the films startling sense of realism and authenticity.Also, many of the films locations such as the club where Christiane hung out and the nefarious Zoo station where young addicts would prostitute themselves are the original locations in which the characters experiences are based, adding further to the films genuine portrayal of the seedy drug scene of West Berlin in the 70's.The cinematography is bleak and unforgiving and brilliantly captures the barbarous nature of the scene and subject matter. Edels sparse and careful approach gives the piece an almost documentary style and no doubt this unflinching depiction, along with the graphic, perfunctory portrayal of teenage drug abuse contributed to its controversy. Natja Brunckhorst provides the role of Chritiane and turns an astonishing debut as the heart breaking girl whose life debases to unimaginable depths within such a short space of time. Showing many audiences across Europe that the looming Heroin epidemic was not just confined to older people but also its ruthless and savage affects and how immediate its ravages take place.This film pulls no punches. Its gritty, no nonsense representation of heroin, and its consequences, are shocking and tragic. The director also manages to take these dissolute children and allow us to view them free of judgement and witness first hand the terrible conditions in which some youths find themselves living within the confines of a so called civilised society. Many a question will arise when watching this film; how, why etc. But its principal aim is to simply allow us a front row seat to a window into a world most of us are hitherto unaccustomed - the nefarious, cruel and grievous life of a teenage addict who ambulates the inevitable path toward prostitution and ultimately burnout.A great film with fantastic performances and above else, a great soundtrack provided by David Bowie. If you thought Trainspotting back in the late 90's was a shocking film about heroin abuse then this piece will hit you hard because despite its cult status this film is as real and as heart breaking as it gets. "},{"Title":"Finally found it!","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when I was in Germany. It left quite an impression. Since then I have searched for it but, didn't know the title. Thanks to IMDb I was able to track the movie with only two clues...The song Helden by David Bowie, and the Berlin Zoologischer gaertens. What a DATABASE!!!And goblingoddess is truthful. I also was intrigued by Requiem for a Dream to the point I bought it. I wish I could get ahold of this one as well. Haven't heard the English dub though.The song fits what transpires in the German language as far as it seemed the song appeared to be the only remnant of hope Christiane can seem to hang on to.How can I get the movie? "},{"Title":"Moving, depressing, but well worth it","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Reading the book years ago, moved me then,readed it at one sitting, because I couldn't put it down. T hen i found the book in a clean up, and remembered how moved i was when i read it, that was some 30 years ago in the the 70's. Anyway i found the movie and the DVD store and bought it. Now seeing the film for the first time after reading the book all these years ago, it was like i read the book yesterday, and main people Detlev, Axel, Babsi and Christiane, all suddenly came to life, and it much more impact on me now, than when I read the book. Like the part when Christiane first went to Axel's flat with Detlev, and looking round and seeing the blood on the floor. It took me a couple of goes to watch the whole movie. because I found it so depressing, but at the same time (as the book) you have to watch it. And to think it was made in 1981. Read the book first then watch the movie. I feel this is not the movie for everybody, but it does give you an insight into Christiane world. If you want to see the inside world of a young person on drugs, this is the one and only movie. You live it with them. "},{"Title":"Harrowing ordeal","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A harrowing ordeal...as any good movie that explores the world of drug addiction should be. Quite graphic in its depiction of the consequences of drug addiction, and the heartbreaking, and seemingly unbreakable, bonds involved. Just when you think someone is about to break free, they get sucked back in. Very sad, and frustrating.About as searingly graphic, if not more, as Requiem for a Dream, another excellent movie that should convince anyone who watches it to avoid the scourge that is drugs. Another movie you wouldn't want to watch too frequently, due to its gruesome honesty and the fact that the images are burned into your brain.Excellent soundtrack from David Bowie, including live concert footage. Most of the songs are from his Heroes album, which was written and recorded in West Berlin, and conveys the feelings that living in West Berlin evoked in Bowie. Ideal soundtrack then for Christiane F, being set in West Berlin. "},{"Title":"harrowing realistic drug movie","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In the 70s, David Bowie fan Christiane is a young teen living in a Berlin apartment block with her mother and little sister Sabine. Sabine decides to go live with their father. Christiane follows cool schoolmate Kessi to the disco Sound where she finds new friends. They do minor mayhem and drugs. Christiane hates that they do H. Soon she's also doing heroin as she slowly gets drawn into the dark world of drugs and sexual exploitation. She and boyfriend Detlef are forced to do more and more for their next hit.Natja Brunckhorst was actually 14 filming this movie. Her youth really sells this harrowing story about drug addiction spreading among young people. It may be cheesy but it would be an even bigger shock if the movie starts with her having a childlike birthday party. It would put her age and innocence front and center. This is not a fun romp like Trainspotting. This is a straight forward unflinching look at the damage from drug addiction. All the kids look worse and worse as the movie goes on. It's a little long but it shows the entire long road downwards. "},{"Title":"You can never forget this movie..","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw it for the first time randomly when I was 13 years old, but not all of it. I would search for it with a lot of names( I saw it on Italian) but could not find it...After a lot of research I found the movie and was so happy to see it again..There is something so strange about this movie. It takes you with it. You get inside the movie and feel everything..After you watch it once you will never forget it... Everything seems so true for Berlin. Actually it is because a lot of things are for real, some videos for example. They say it has a lot in common with Albania, the capital Tirana at years 1996..The explanation about drugs is so true..It is based on a true story, the book actually with the same name. "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged too well","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F. is still today, almost 35 years after it was done, among the most famous German movies, especially if you only count the 1980s. It is about a girl who makes the wrong friends and gets sucked deeper and deeper into an abyss of drug addiction, prostitution and homelessness. I think this Berlin-set movie has some good moments, but just as many bad ones too unfortunately. Apart from that, the source material simply was not good enough to make a convincing and entertaining film that easily passes the 2-hour mark. It's not really Natja Brunckhorst's fault, she played her part well and most of the other actors were solid too, even if they are not in film anymore today or have even, like most of them, not acted in anything else apart from this movie.The writer and director here is Uli Edel still early in his career. He quickly moves to Hollywood afterward, went on to direct The Mists of Avalon, but also the German Oscar nominee Der Baader Meinhof Komplex. Very recently, he received his first Emmy nomination for Adrien Brody's Houdini. But back to his work from the early 1980s here. The most interesting aspect is probably that this film is based on a real person. Christiane F. is still alive today (in her 50s) and was recently in the headlines again because she wrote a book and apparently her health isn't exactly in good shape. But still I wasn't too impressed. I am generally not a great fan of Edel. In my opinion, he very much goes for shocking sequences over great storytelling. He makes good choices in what real live events he puts on the screen, but what he makes out of that is rarely really convincing in my opinion. I also believe this film could have been better with a more competent director in charge. Not recommended and the negative highlight was the lashing scene near the end. This almost sunk the authenticity from 120 minutes before that. Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Christiane F. Review","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This was a disturbing, dark drama about the dangers of doing illegal drugs - especially heroin. Since the users/victims were in their early teens, it would probably not be widely shown in the U.S. Still, it realistically depicts the desperate plight of juvenile junkies in late- seventies West Berlin. Much stronger than its British counterpart Trainspotting (released some 15 years later), it is not for the faint of heart. Most of the film centers around the life of 14yo Christane and her close-knit clique of barely adolescent teens. Sex, drugs, and rock-n-roll in the seedy district of former West Berlin provide the backdrop for this dramatic tragedy. I highly recommend it, if only for the historical accuracy of the story and some vintage German Bowie concert footage. ) "}{"Title":"It Catches the Decadent Atmosphere of the German Suburbs","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F. is a movie that really catches the kind of melancholic and sad atmosphere of run-down suburbs and of its dwellers. The scenes are sometimes crude when, for example, Christiane and her boyfriend Detlef, in the attempt of getting clean from drugs, spend an entire night suffering for their effort not to do heroin they sweat, they curse, they drink and then they vomit. Therefore the scenes are realistic, direct and truly engaging. The daily life of 14 years-old kids sadly rolls out with prostitution to buy drugs and doing drugs. But the saddest thing is that this vicious circle seems far from ending, as the drug-addicted youngsters seem to be too weak to overcome their addiction that will inevitably lead to death for some of them. "},{"Title":"Emotionally draining, but real and important","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" We don't hear as much about drug addiction now. Sadly, it seems to have become accepted more in the collective conscious of society, and I think that's a very bad development. Drugs and drug addiction continue to pull unwitting people into their web, often permanently. This movie, Christane F., is an exceptional movie on the horrors of drug addiction. A key part of that is having the human side of the issue in clear focus all the time.Christiane is a bored, aimless teenager in West Berlin in the 70s. I remember what it was like being a teenager. Suddenly, the comfort of being a kid was taken from you, and you were exposed to the real world and all of its difficult realities. That's enough to make anyone jaded, and there is nothing for Christiane to do in the boring apartment neighbourhood where she lives. She escapes her day-to-day life through the music of her idol, David Bowie. Desperate to feel alive, she has her eye on a new disco called The Sound. Even though too young to enter, she gets her friend to take her. But this new disco turns out to be a seedy teen hangout full of drugs and dealers. Christiane meets a guy there and falls in love with him. She'll do anything to keep this positive new influence in her life - even if that means sink into the world of drugs that he's slowly sinking into.This film hits close to home because of how utterly real it feels. You even come to understand, if not agree with, why Christiane chooses her path. After she falls in with her new clique of friends, there is an exhilarating scene of them running around Berlin, aimlessly and high on their freedom. David Bowie's Heroes plays throughout. These kids desperately want to escape their dark and dreary realities. Too bad that they end up choosing a means of escape that plunges them into an even darker reality. Frighteningly, and humanly, the characters are fully aware of their addictions. They just can't find the spirit to do anything about it.One particular scene is terrifying. Christiane and her boyfriend are locked in her mother's bedroom while cold turkey floods through them. The agony they project is quite hard to stomach, even when they're not coughing up blood. This drug destroys their lives, if not just their bodies, and while they know and want to escape their heroin addiction, their human insecurities make it difficult to do so. Slowly, indeed, they become less and less human in their constant search for the next fix.The actors were astonishing, so utterly believable, showing talent way beyond their years. Christiane F. is a frightening, sadly relevant movie about one of the darkest side-effects of society, and the deeply human turmoil that lands people there - often permanently. Fortunately, Christiane ultimately managed to escape her drug addiction, and hopefully this autobiographical story will keep other wayward kids from following her path. "},{"Title":"A movie not that crystal clear, but powerful effective, none the less","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F is powerfully confronting on it's first view. I first saw it, when I was 14. As just seeing it the other day, it is still a powerful engaging film about teenage drug addiction, which the two leads, so convincingly play, there's never a moment you don't believe em', where you forget they're actors. The film was surprisingly made by the same guy who made Body Of Evidence, where a couple of years earlier, he did that powerful and one of a kind art-house film, Last Exit To Brooklyn. Here, we follow Christine's life from 11 upwards, where she's learning quick, trying to escape the tedium of living with just her mother and sister in Berlin. Little Sis splits, leaving the duo, where Christiane and her mother are slowly drifting apart. Mummy has this new boyfriend, which of course like any daughter, disapproves of. The boyfriend gives her a David Bowie record, where she already has that particular album, a point to be made there. After clubbing about with her best friend, she meets her first boyfriend, Detlev, already an addict/and part time hustler, working the train station where perverted older clients with a lot of doe pick em up. Drug taking runs high in this, the first shock scene has a guy who overdoses in a cubicle, which reminded of how frank and shockingly real that scene was. Obviously that nameless guy was a bloody good actor. Also in close up, a little too close, we see as a test of love, Christiane pin pricking here skin, making a tattoo. Soon she graduates to H, and there's a private room, where an H is painted on the door. We follow her descent, and more a need for companionship. One cold turkey scene, ends with her and boyfriend, Detlev vomiting over each other (the things actors have to do). There are people who will misjudge this film as amateur, or a sleazy made for shock value film, but sometimes you have to shock to get a message across. I admit it felt a bit of amateur, but I think I was manipulated over the negative or bad reviews. Yes the movie does have faults, but it's shockingly powerful. But the big flaw, I found in the whole movie, was the scattered structure of story, and it's connected scenes, not making it the easiest film to follow in that respect. It was like we were missing some bits, and other parts of it were moving too quick, or weren't explained enough, where the journey of the story wasn't the clearest, and this is what downgraded it's quality, and with the film being dubbed didn't help. But still it's a powerfully charged movie from 83', a cult hit, you have to experience, with a memorable last scene on an island, where Christine cleans up. "},{"Title":"Grim, Bleak and Essential","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on a non-fiction book by Vera Christiane Felscherinow Christiane F is an example tough, hard hitting, but excellent film about drug addiction that can stand alongside the likes of Trainspotting, Requiem for a Dream and Thirteen.Christiane (Natja Brunckhorst) is a 13-year-old girl who lives with her mother in a social housing building in West Berlin during the late 70s. Her younger sister moves out and her mother has a new boyfriend. Christiane starts to spend her Saturday evenings in a nightclub called Sound and soon befriends a group of teenagers, including Delef (Thomas Haustein) who becomes her boyfriend. She soon slides into a world of drugs, taking LSD and heroin and becomes a street prostitute when she is 14.Christiane F. is a tough watch but director Uli Edel injects enough and Brunckhorst's performance makes the film a very compelling watch. Edel shows Berlin to be a very depressing, concert jungle that is decaying and uses dark and gritty cinematography constantly. Edel sets out to show the world as it is and we see the full efforts of heroin use and addiction as the characters physically and socially decay. Edel shows confidence with his staging, using steady camera and continuous takes to show characters, Christiane in the club or going into their drug apartment. There were two moments particularly that reminded me of Requiem for a Dream, one where Christiane is in the back of a car where she tries heroin for the first time and one in Bahnhof Zoo shot in a dream like way as we follow Christiane and has a fantastic deep piano song in the background.Brunckhorst gave a fantastic, natural performance as we see Christiane becomes dependent on drugs. The whole cast were excellent and it is even more remarkable because many of them were non-actors in very tough roles and Christiane F. is their only acting credit. We see Christiane change physically, both with her dress and hair to losing weight and becomes more pale. There are tough but great sequence when Christiane gets high, shaking and swearing the middle of the night and the tough withdrawn sequence.Christiane F. also has constant theme of foreshadowing of what could happen to Christiane, seeing how addict and people saying they don't want to do heroin before submitting. There are moments where addicts also try to talk people out of trying drugs in a half-hearted manner and the film aims for realistic behaviour of addicts, which was wonderfully handled.Christiane F. also has a great soundtrack, both using David Bowie music and the score as already mention.I have not read the book, so I cannot truly judge it as an adaption, but I would have been interesting to see how Christiane dealt with school as she became more addicted to heroin and looked more at her mother, either noticing or ignoring a change in her behaviour even if it a quick discussion between the mum and the boyfriend and dismissing it as typical teenage rebellion.Christiane F. is a very bleak and grim film but it is worth watching. It should be praised for its realism, actors, direction and style. "},{"Title":"Slave of the body","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" First of all, the film is striking in its atmosphere. Berlin 70s. Street children, drug addicts, eager doses to live another day without the pains of hell from breaking.On the one hand this is a common everyday life story girl (boy) who threw his father, and therefore have a bad relationship with his mother, who still somehow trying to live, finding a man. Christine appear secrets she kept lying to the mother, that she sometimes does not notice.When watching the film he reminds Requiem for a Dream. Although he leaves a horrible experience. At the sight of creepy moments, such as when Christine, a 14-year-old girl for the first time taking a dose, has sex, as she slowly becomes a prostitute, while denying it, since it does not want to consider themselves such. When she first tried heroin, inhaling it, she liked it, it was a real thrill then. But when she decided to try it intravenously, it could be only one - beginning of the end.Time passed, the dose needed to live on. Around dying people familiar to her people. It seems that their death will affect about it, but, alas, it did not. Only after her Babsi drugs radically changed, and she decided to get out of this slavery, even though at times it is difficult.Still amazed when she and her boyfriend tried to quit. They seemed very strong mentally. Hold out for several days, and it is a very long and painful day. I can not even imagine what they went through during this time! Although everything was then wasted. Like realizing that they can easily quit at any time, they decided to start again this servitude.In general, despite causing a picture in my head to keep a few words that embody the film. Freedom, violence, and degradation of the individual. That is what showed me the film. In general it can be seen from the very first minutes of viewing. Regarding freedom. I can not understand where her mother, where she looked. Whether it is strongly attracted to each other and their problems, whether she did not care for her daughter. Although the first with the second tally.Cruelty - it appears in dependence. The person becomes aggressive. And this is what gives rise to even more worst qualities in a man. Take even the guy who her first time gave his gun, and then, like a hungry animal, wild dog, broke away from the syringe in order to satisfy their vice. Frightened, grabbed the syringe after seen, rinse it in the toilet! It's so down to do not care for anything. Heroin - a kind of cure with side effects, namely the degradation of the individual.One of the best films on the topic of child abuse, which can be safely recommended to those who are hooked on Requiem for a Dream. This is sort of a classic of the genre. "},{"Title":"1970s Junkie Realism","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Having watched this movie when it was first released, liked other reviewers I felt I needed to revisit it find out whether it was as influential and affecting as I remember. Well, the short answer is yes. It is very well realised, Uli Edel created an enthralling film from the book of the same name. He doesn't rely on improbable drama to move the story forward, just a matter-of-fact story that sees the young Christiane first drift into the world of discos and soft drugs and gradually become involved in the Berling heroin scene. And it relies on a certain amount of realism for the film to work, however, we don't get the contemporary film maker's penchant for hand-held wobbly camera work, we get Edel creating a claustrophobic world of late night teenage hedonism, from which Christiane and Detlev's relationship evolves from one of mutual attraction to one of mutual addiction.This kind of movie had been made before, most obviously by Jerry Shatzberg eight years previously with Panic In Needle Park, but the film (distributed by 20th Century Fox) was still fairly mainstream. Christiane F / Zoo was raw and street-wise, plus it had a European sensibility that made it more relevant to a generation of Western European teenagers. We had been warned of the dangers of heroin, but now we could see it played out before our eyes on the movie screen.So, it is definitely a movie of its time. The drugs available then were limited, and the movie reflects the limitations of choice not only in drugs, but in music, entertainment, and life. The film has that 1970s washed out look, the acting is pretty below average, the dialogue stilted, but Edel focuses on the grim reality of Berlin, its social housing, the places people meet, the things they do. This was pretty much the same for all European cities in the 1970s and this realism is what ultimately makes the film worth watching. Its a snapshot of 1970s European youth culture; grim, boring, apathetic and economically challenged. What made their life more interesting? Bowie and drugs. "},{"Title":"Gruelling, somewhere between reality and boulevard-thinking","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you grew up in Germany during the 1980s, Christiane F would seem forever present, no matter where you looked. The film was a mayor hit at the box-office and excerpts from the original novel were made homework in almost all schools. One couldn't open up a boulevard-paper or magazine without coming across horror-stories about yet another youngster that has overdosed in a seedy toilet by the train-station, generally accompanied by a photo of said toilet and corpse (more often than not looking horrible fake). Indeed, most kids that the distinct impression that, should they fall with the wrong crowd and &#x96; heaven beware &#x96; ever take a drag from a joint, that they would surely join that ever-growing horde of junkies that seemed to take over the subways like an army of the living dead. At least such was the impression.First of those drug-hotspots did exist, they do exist and &#x96; unless one day some sensible drug-policies are implicated and the politics stop catering to big-business drug-cartels &#x96; they will exist forevermore. Go to any major train-station between Frankfurt, Hamburg and Berlin, and you'll find junkies loitering around. And yes, if you look suitable gullible, you'll likely be approached by an 'ex-junkie, freshly sober and clean' who'll request some financial assistance, that will enable him to 'reach a far-off place, where a job is waiting for him or her'. But what you won't find is this seemingly post-apocalyptic scenario that Christiane F has painted, simply because it never existed other than in the media and the minds of the people.One must give kudos to the film and the director It shows the effect of heavy drug-addiction as realistic and relentless as Leaving Las Vegas shows the effect of alcohol-abuse. The horrors of being a junkie, drifting ever further the social-ladder and the descent into addiction, prostitution and eventually death are indeed harrowing. However, when it comes to the subject of the protagonist and the severity of the general problems, more than just some artistic-liberties have been taken.Unlike the novel and the interviews with (the real) Christiane F, the film neglects to tell us, that Christiane and her friends already come from a severely disturbed, low-class background. Germanys social-system (or if you want, caste-system) is very rigid, similar to that in the US. Can't deny your roots and if you happen to come from a redneck or white trash background, it is very unlikely that all the money in the world will be able to wash that background off.The movie would like to make us believe that any 'nice girl from next door' can slide down into the living hell of the junkie-world, but that is only half true. True, anybody can get hooked on drugs, be it nicotine, heroin, coffee or the adrenaline rush received from extreme sports. But to become part of this little world of Christiane F (horrible as it may be), it would require an exposure that literally begins at birth.So, despite all the truth in Christiane F, one also has to admit that it is vastly exaggerated and, in the context of media-politics (especially in the West) also very manipulative. Look no further than the current anti-drug campaigns, that assure us that smoking marijuana is the beginning of the end (no, marijuana leads to harder drugs like thinking leads to madness). You will no doubt have read about Crystal-Meth, that currently turns a whole generation into an army of toothless, violent zombies. Or about the drug Krokodil looming on the horizon, a drug 50-times as potent as heroin and making the flesh virtually rot off the user's bones. They do exist, Crystal-Meth and/or Krokodil &#x96; but like most illegal things, they are more detrimental to the individual and not the society.As much as I cherish Christiane F as a movie, it's relentless realism, the excellent actors (both the professionals and the laymen) and not being able to deny that it is one of the most accomplished anti-drug-films of all times, I cannot help to think that it's neither an answer to anything, nor at the essence very much more than a parody (albeit a harrowing one) of the drug-culture and the general situation. As such I can give it no more than 6/10. "},{"Title":"It hits like a hammer","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I haven't read the novel, though I might look for a translated copy. This is brass from the very first line. It is immensely gripping and unpleasant. I can't understand how anyone could have caught this and thought it glamorized the environment and drug addiction. It does just the opposite, in a frank and honest manner. This is not propaganda, not for either side. The negative sides are shown well. It is somewhat reminiscent of Trainspotting, only without the sort of philosophy, and without the visual stylization. This has very realistic editing and cinematography that makes this whole thing feel completely natural, and makes it have all the more impact. It is disgusting, brutal and tough to watch. No aspect of this is flashy. This has a relatively slow pace, and the plot is focused on following Christiane and her experiences with narcotics. The effects are entirely convincing. This has amazing performances from every actor(in spite of their youth), and while the characters are arguably not that defined, they definitely undergo development over the course of this, and they are credible. Also, this actually happened. It is based upon real events. The score is great, all of it music by David Bowie. There is a lot of disturbing, at times violent, content, frequent strong language(so I understand; this is in German, and it was subtitled, not dubbed) and a little sexuality including brief nudity in this. I recommend this to anyone mature enough to appreciate it that believe they can handle it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Gritty","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie really impressed me, because, as far as junkie flicks go, this one shows heroin addiction as the destructive force that it is. Though the characters do go through the heroin chic look for a bit, they soon turn scabby and purple. Trainspotting, for all of its graphic scenes, didn't do half the job that this film did.  "},{"Title":"A disturbingly powerful film","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie a long time ago, when I was quite young, and I found it very powerful in its unflinching portrait of the teen-junkie scene in 70's Berlin.It's a very bleak film,painting a dark picture of Berlin and the world the film's characters move in, a decadent world steeped in despair, pain and anquish.The filmmakers chose a grittily realistic approach to their material,portraying the downward spiral of Christiane and the other characters into drug addiction, prostitution and in some cases even death.The film's only shortcoming, in my opinion, is that it sometimes comes across as didactic,something another drug-film,Trainspotting, managed to avoid. Apart from that,it's great stuff. "}{"Title":"It's more than a movie about the horrors of drugs","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie back in the 80s, in some strange circumstances- when I was teaching English in Poland, the other teachers showed the dubbed English version to the students. The graphicness of the drug taking scenes creeped me out -- I had to watch many of them through my fingers --  but the film touched me. It was a shock to see the birthdates and dates of death of many of the characters. I was born the same year as Babsi and my husband and several of our friends were born the same year as Axel. I saw the original German version last night and it is definitely better than the dubbed film. The voices used are American and full of teenaged slang, which may be appropriate for the age of the characters, but they are off-putting when heard with the Berlin settings. So much of the film is about Berlin as well as Christiane and her friends. Christiane F is so powerful that I remembered many of the scenes all these years. The story telling, the direction, and the acting are all impressive. Seeing it again reminded me of my own teenage years. It's sad that Christiane and her friends were caught up in such soul killing circumstances when they were so young. It's commendable that the film doesn't glamorise the drug taking, and yet never becomes didactic. It lets Christiane's life and her friends' lives speak for themselves. I have two criticisms, however. The final scene telling of Christiane's fate feels tacked on, almost like a happy ending forced on the film. I wanted to know more about Christiane's mother where was she when Christiane began taking drugs? Why in the scene in which she sees Christiane's self- inflicted tattoo does she react by only shrugging and saying `You'll have to live with it?' Why doesn't she ask more about who Christiane is spending her time with, especially this boy with the tattoo that Christiane copies? Why, after finding Christiane on the bathroom floor, does she call her boyfriend to help her withdraw? I would have taken her to a clinic straight away and never let her out of my sight again. I suppose I'll have to read the book to find out more about Christiane's family, but I would have liked to known more about her mother in the film to understand better how Christiane fell into the drug scene. Surely it wasn't just because her mother was divorced, her sister left to live with her father, and her mother neglected her to be with her own boyfriend (we never see how he reacts after discovering Christiane's syringe on the floor near her after she passes out). "},{"Title":"Impressive Movie","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  An amazing incredible impressive movie. Music combined with Misery. David Bowie's Hero's becomes an very impressive song. You'll never forget it any more. I hope all the young viewers will never take drugs anymore. For parents it is the movie to show to your children ! "},{"Title":"The best drug movie ever!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so good. The best drug movie ever made. The actors are doing a fantastic job, espesially Natja, who is playing Christiane. The movie takes place in Berlin in late 70's, but it could have been made today, if it haden't been for a young David Bowie, who is in the movie.Today, Christiane is living in Berlin, with her 4 year old son, and she have been off drugs since she got the kid.  "},{"Title":"All kids from 12 should see this","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  All the online comments seem to be recent. I saw this film when I was living in Berlin when it was made. I used to jam in a jazz band with Nadia Brunkhorst's father. It is a tragic filming of a real life story which the commentators fail to mention. It depicts the teeny berlin drug scene exactly as it was at the time and it IS scary. All parents and all kids from 12 in big cities should see this film. It's the best scare off junk that was ever made and the acting by the kids, especially Nadis was brilliant. It could be that the English dub was cheap. I didn't see it.  "},{"Title":"One film full of anguish, fear, tragedies and drugs","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw Christiane F. I wasn't expecting very much of the film. I had to watch it for school and the first thing that came into my mind was another boring and educational movie. And what surprise I had!The movie tell us the history of Christiane F., one teenager that with 13 years old was already a drugs' user and prostitute. Her boyfriend works in the same way and have AIDS. All her friends are drugs' users and vandals. Her father is dead and her mother cares more about her new boyfriend that with her daughter.Only reading this you can imagine how the movie is. But I would say that it's worse than what you are thinking. Not a worse movie or worse story but the way they show you everything is worse. All the sceneries are black or gray. Looks like that in Berlin, where the story happens, rains everyday and there isn't sun. They show people vomiting, dying, crazy with the drugs, having sex...You don't dislike the movie but starts to fell uncomfortable, with fear, irritated, sad... you know, strange.It's not necessary to say that my teacher reached his objective. I think that after watching that movie nobody in my class will experience drugs. Or will they?In summary, it's a very very strong, impact and real life film. Oh, I almost forgot it's good! I'll give it 8.      "},{"Title":"We can be hero's, if just for one day","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Christiane is your all round sweet teenage school girl, who listens to David Bowie while doing her homework in front of the television. As our own mothers would say Don't hang out with the wrong crowd as they will only get you into trouble! Too bad Christiane's mother allowed her daughter to fall into the seedy street life of drugs, pimps and HIV, before Larry Clark had made his film about teenage 'cool' culture in KIDS(95).Despite viewing a copy of this film on a raggedy 1985 video tape release, which made the film look dark and in need of some major colour correctioning and a bad english dub, CHRISTIANE F still managed to shine through with its gritty and real depiction of a young girl hit rock bottom in the dirty streets of Berlin. LITERALLY!.This film along with KIDS should be shown to parents and teenagers in schools to show them the other side to their drug and sexual 'We're only having fun!' escapades. The cold turkey scene alone is so real and strong enough to keep anyone away from hard drug taking.As I am against film re-makes, this one is an exception, where I would shoot shot for shot in the exact same Berlin locations. If only for the hell of it, but to at least improve on the pissy english dub of this hard knock film. "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is disturbing!The scenes of people taking heroin and bloody needles and fights for the fix is just disturbing for me. Maybe because I never took any kind of drug and this movie was some kind of a revelation to me, but on the other hand, it went through my mind that it is good I never taken any.The movie was shot in that way that I had a feeling that I was there...That I was present whole time while the girl and the boy were struggling with their addiction.I was also shocked to see ( but I guess the movie did not go far from truth) that there were so many of those addicted people at metro and train stations...It was very uncomfortable for me to watch. As I said very disturbing!I think the boy did a bit better job in acting than the girl. Both were great and both cute. David Bowie in the movie was a 'weird' touch, but I guess his 'colorfulness' fit the film good.All in all, eight from me. "},{"Title":"Christiane F. - We Children From Zoo Station (Ulrich Edel, 1981) ***","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I had missed out on this as a kid on Italian TV - but then it's hardly kids' stuff, is it? This is surely the most harrowing depiction of teenage angst - based on a true story of drug abuse and prostitution in late 70s Berlin - ever captured on film; it's certainly a long way from the cool lifestyle seen in the stylized TRAINSPOTTING (1996) - even if, in its case, the people involved were considerably older!It's extremely well made and acted (by a mostly very young yet fearless cast, and particularly leading lady Natja Brunckhorst) but - understandably, given the subject matter - unremittingly bleak, with appropriately gritty cinematography and gloomy settings. Still, sometimes it's hard to be involved in the kids' plight, so hellbent are they on self-destruction! Powerful, unsentimental and ultra-realistic, the film is set to the exhilarating yet experimental music of David Bowie (aptly restricted to his German phase, in which he created some of his most interesting work); the pop/rock icon and sometime actor, apparently a hero of the German youth of the era, is even featured in concert footage (I was extremely lucky to have seen Bowie, even if from a distance, at London's HMV outlet in Oxford Street during the launching of his album Heathen in 2002)!I'm interested in watching Edel's equally controversial LAST EXIT TO BROOKLYN (1989), which had also turned up in the days when I wasn't allowed to sample such adult stuff... "},{"Title":"A very depressive film","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film, who was made in Berlin in the late 70ties is a very depressive picture about the drugscene.  The feeling in this film is to lost the bottom and go into a apocalyptic world. Harder than Coppola's film Apocalypse now, who plays on a place, who is for the most people unknown, tells us Christiane F. a story, who happens in every big city.The tragedy of Christiane is a broken family, her sister go away to her father, her mother works all the day, and she lives on a place were are to many people. Her world is broken before she is taken drugs. Bowie is her great hero, the man who sold the world and with him she went on to a better place in the universe -- a live on mars. The music from Bowie gives this film a special state of mind, Warzawa is the end of it all - the complete polish damaged city after the second world war and VC Schneider is the bomb, with the film is starting. It starts with a drive from subway station to subway station.  A dark film without the illusion that people have a chance, who are taken hard drugs. But Christiane never is a bitch, because the circumstances an her love to done boy turns here into this inferno world. Bowies Station to Station said the rest You drive like a demon, from station to station.... Its to late to be late again - the europane canon is here. Its to late.  "},{"Title":"Not the full story but a very good film","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I read the book first. As mentioned several times below, the film is unable to provide much depth to several key characters (the mother especially), and avoids mention of several, ultimately failed, attempts at rehabilitation. Nonetheless, I enjoyed this film. The acting is quite incredible given that these were basically amateurs. In addition, the use of music, the locations and the special effects (I hope they were special effects!) are all done quite well. I've visited Berlin twice, and the movie excellently captures the flavor of this immense, intimidating city.While I understand how the time limitations of a movie restrict the depth of the screenplay, I also believe the ending could have been handled better. The recuperation period in the country provides, in the book, a much broader understanding of the power of addiction, and of the mindset that much take root to defeat it. Ten or fifteen additional minutes of screen time could have greatly expanded the film's scope. "}{"Title":"A question","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I recently bought this movie on DVD thinking it to be another film, Nevertheless I was very impressed by it and the performances were excellent not just by the leads but by the lesser members of the cast, it is harrowing and any teenager who is thinking of dabbling in drugs should be shown this movie. Anyway can anyone tell me the title of the film I am looking for? It is either German or French or French Canadian and is about 2 disillusioned young girls who run away from home and live down and out in the city (could be Berlin or Montreal) it ends with them getting on a subway and committing suicide with a bottle of vodka and a bottle of pink medicinal fluid can anyone please tell me the title? "},{"Title":"This is a film about a young girl who makes many mistakes and knows it, but continues to make them for a long period of time.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I learned many things from this film. First, I learned that'H' stands for heroin. I learned what a 'punter' is, and to stay away from them. I learned that it can be really easy to score heroin and all you need is 20 Marks. The movie is reminiscent of Requiem for a Dream. It's artsy and provocative, a little dark. (Actually, quite dark.) Like 'requiem,' it starts with a person who promises that they'll only take 'h' once, and then they'll quit. As the movie progresses, they suddenly find themselves giving hand jobs for heroin money. Didn't see that coming... The film does an excellent job of portraying what people do entirely irrationally once they have succumbed to addiction. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and realistic, but don't watch the English-dubbed version","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Christiane F is for sure one of the most realistic and disturbing films I've ever seen. If you can't stand injections and things like that, please don't watch this film. But if you're strong enough to handle this stuff, it is an interesting film to watch. It shows the life of drugged people, prostitutes and marginals in Berlim, with no disguises. There are some flawless moments, when the story looses itself, but in spite of that there are some symbolic scenes - pay attention at this.But one warning don't watch the English-dubbed version. It is really horrible, and the actors look to be acting for a school play.I gave this film a 7 out of 10 because I watched this version, and I think my vote would be higher (maybe 8) if I had watched the original one. "},{"Title":"Peering at an obscure life","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Everybody talks a lot about the book which originated this movie, so I decided to watch it since I wasn't able to find the book. Well, this movie (based on a true story)is really depressing, but it's surely WORTH SEEING. David Bowie fan Christiane F. is a German teenager whose life seems to have no meaning or direction. What starts as a naive stroll in the nightlife of Berlin's teenagers ends up as a tragic trip with no return. Christiane becomes a drug addicted in potential influenced by her friends. What I couldn't understand is why her mother is almost always absent? Besides, the entire film has an annoying darkness. Drugs and prostitution galore. "},{"Title":"Good atmosphere, lack of depth","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The positive thing about Christiane F. is the way it captures the drugs scene of Berlin. Great atmosphere, excellent photography. And great music by David Bowie, who even makes an appearance.However, the problem about the film is its lack of depth. The characters in the film are shallow, just people appearing on screen. The motives of the characters, particularly Christiane, to get involved with drugs are hardly being explained.Christiane F. only shows the viewer what sort of life a junkie lives. But even then it tries to be too provocative, attempting to shock the viewer. It reminds you of the kind of film that teachers showed in school to warn you about drugs.  "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore (thankfully)...","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are some films that, no matter how you try and rationalise what you are seeing, you just want to throw the DVD or other such media it is contained on out the nearest window. Not because it is necessarily bad, but simply because it is so ugly and graphic that once it is all over, you'll feel like you'd gone through the depicted events yourself.One has to wonder exactly what motivated David Bowie to involve himself in this production. There is no amount of money that could offer any rational human being to involve themselves in a film that depicts a fourteen-year-old with a needle up her arm, so one may put it down to the nervous breakdown Bowie had just before taking off to Berlin. Either that or the director took some incriminating photos during said breakdown.The plot is almost non-existent, but I will try and describe it anyway. The film mainly consists of visuals thrown together over the top of some of Bowie's Berlin-era instrumentals. Linking it all together is the story of the titular character and some of her friends. Together, they exchange various drugs and/or bodily fluids. In one riveting scene, two of them even throw up upon each other before getting upon the wagon together. Whatever motivates this collection of cruelties and sicknesses, I honestly don't want to know. One can argue about how this is the original Trainspotting or Leaving Las Vegas until the cows come home, but the plain truth is that aside from disgust, Christiane F does not have a lot to sell itself (pun only semi-intended) upon.In the end, if you're a fan of David Bowie, maybe you'll find something to redeem this film. But I strongly recommend simply turning this off after the live concert footage that is the sum of his appearance is over. You'll be glad you did.  "}]