[{"Title":"What a pile-up....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"39 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If you're looking for a movie loaded with cars, crashes, 1/8th of the Rat Pack, Adrienne Barbeau's best assets... oh yeah, and Burt Reynolds, look no further than The Cannonball Run.It was a hit back in 1981 and no wonder Burt was on top of his game and we were all young and naive back then.  Heck, I have a warm spot for all the rampant stupidity, myself.All the better that Roger Moore plays a deft parody of his own James Bond persona, complete with an Aston Martin.  If you've seen this film way back when, no doubt you remember it with some fondness.  Let's face it it may not have been on par with films like The Gumball Rally or even Death Race 2000, but in its own way and on its own terms, it works just fine.A word of sage advice if you watch this film, skip Cannonball Run 2.  It'll only ruin your good memories of the first.  And if you didn't like the original, well....Five stars.  Plus one star extra for adding Jackie Chan for what adds up to mostly as a cameo as a karate-kicking racer.  And a half star more for Adrienne Barbeau's fancy work with a jump suit zipper.  Altogether, six and a half stars.Wish she would have made it a seven. "},{"Title":"Burt & Company In Their Element","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Burt Reynolds made a fortune in this area with these goofy chase movies (this and Smoky and The Bandit plus all the sequels). They featured a an irreverent '70s attitude toward about anything decent with an emphasis on a sleazy atmosphere, all covered up with a lot of humor, and they worked. They worked because they were fast-moving generally fun movies to watch.....certainly not any great works of art. Cannonball Run had an all-star cast of Reynolds, his good buddy Dom DeLuise, Farah Fawcettt, Jack Elan, Roger Moore, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Adrienne Barbeau, Jamie Farr, Jackie Chan, on and on....pretty amazing. Reynolds, of course, was Mr. Cool/Mr. Macho.....at least in his eyes. Fawcett and Barbeau meant beauty and boobs whom all men - especially dimwitted cops which Hollywood loved to feature - drooled over. The Japanese were made to look stupid (this was pre-PC days) as were priests (nothing's changed there with filmmakers). The movie is filled with really profound statements such as, Why do we take all these risks? Oh, just for the hell of it. Yes, words to live by.Yet, as dumb as this movie can be at times, is does provide a lot of laughs and speaking of that, DeLuise's laugh always made everyone do the same. Sometimes the best part of these films were the outtakes at the end with DeLuise cracking up and Reynolds slapping him! "},{"Title":"The Fun and the Funniest.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Long before movies like The Fast and the Furious, 2 Fast 2 Furious, Biker Boyz and Torque tried to make street racing so damn serious, there was this awesome, fun street racing comedy. Burt Reynolds (way too angry as J.J. Mclure) and Dom DeLuise headline this ensemble cast, the best to note are Jamie Farr--who nearly steals the movie as an Arab Sheik, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. as an unscrupulous duo disguised as priests, and Roger Moore parodying his 007 stint. DeLuise is once again the best performer of the bunch, shining through with his usual charm and wit, especially as Capt. Chaos. Unfortunately, we also have to endure endless supporting characters like Bert Convy and Terry Bradshaw. But at least Rick Aviles and Jackie Chan are the best of those. Jackie even gets the spotlight, barely breaking a sweat fighting against Peter Fonda's biker gang. I'd be damned to neglect the phenomenal Adrienne Barbeau as one of two Lamborghini babes showing their cleavage. Seeing her scenes reminds us that there is a God, and she made Farrah Fawcett look like a scarecrow. Oh, yeah, that fight scene between the Cannonballers and the gang was actually pretty neat. Other standout action scenes include a plane landing in the street in order for Victor (DeLuise) to buy beer. Capt. Chaos in the home stretch of the race. Plenty of cars speeding on the pavement, not as stylized as the first Smokey and the Bandit or even the other aforementioned movies, but they're still loud, obnoxious and wacky.The film could be better on the technical side, especially with certain voice-over dubbing and editing. Hal Needham flatly directed it, with zero style or substance. His emphasis was more on the comedy, and that's what matters here. But as usual, the outtakes are a riot.I consider this movie to be fun and funny, I liked it as a child, and it's worth repeated watching. DA-DAN-DUNNNNNN!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"a fun filled race across the US","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Cannonball Run has been vilified by many critics over the years but I love this movie and have been watching it ever since I was little. This movie is what happens when a bunch of movie stars who just happen to be close friends in real life decide to make a movie just for fun. The plot is simple enough, race from one end of the country to the other for a million dollars and avoid the law on the way. The cast is jammed with big names and just about everyone in the movie that has a speaking part is a star of some stature. This movie is simply great fun and has a lot in common with the rest of director Hal Needham's films,i.e. Smokey and the Bandit. I can't really say that this film is full of great acting because the entire cast horses around through the whole movie. Jackie Chan makes his first appearance in a American movie with this film and both Hal Needham and writer Brock Yates have cameos. Don't expect a lot in the way of plot or acting or effects or anything like that and just enjoy the ride. The outtakes at the end of this and Cannonball Run II are hilarious and it makes it more fun for me anyway to know that this movie was just like a big meeting of old friends. Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. are great as Blake and Fenderbaum respectively. Burt Reynolds and Dom Deluise anchor this film (they're the main characters)and the give and take between these two make them one of the best comedy teams I have ever seen. Bottom Line Buy this flick, drag it out every once in a while, and have fun watching it with family or friends. A truly fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Cannonball Run rules!!!","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Captain Chaos, The Rat Pack, Terry Bradshaw and Mel Tillis! Burt, Roger Moore, and Mr...um...Foyt! Some say this isn't a masterpiece, there are no digital effects or Oscar nominated performances. Please! It's just fun watching some of the greats who have passed on and some others who were in their prime having a blast doing a movie that makes little sense and that's just the way I like it. I promise you will laugh and you won't know why, but you won't care! Great movie for anyone who wants to have a beer with his friends and watch a funny, pointless, silly movie. Unfortunately, I also recommend Peter Jackson's King Kong for the same reasons. "},{"Title":"one of my all-time favourites!!!!!!!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Okay, realistically speaking, it is not excellent in the grand scope of cinema history...It has virtually no plot, for example. But it's hysterically funny and just makes you feel happy all over. Could it be Sammy Davis Junior and Dean Martin paired as drunken priests in a red Ferrari that makes it so great? Is it the doctor of mysterious origin (Don't you EVER tell me where you found him! who seldom needs more than his middle finger for an examination? Perhaps it's Mr Uh, Mr Uh,...Foyt! No, the greatest reason for watching this film is for the sheer joy of experiencing Dom Deluise in orange spandex saving the world...and don't forget! Hamsters are a big responsibility! "},{"Title":"Wildly entertaining comedy","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Cannonball Run is a wild and crazy ride of a comedy about an illegal cross-country auto race. This movie was the third time star Burt Reynolds teamed up with director Hal Needham. Before Cannonball Run they made the first two Smokey and the Bandit pictures, and afterwards they made Stroker Ace and Cannonball Run II. The Cannonball Run and the original Smokey and the Bandit are my favorites. Made back when Reynolds was hitting box office gold, The Cannonball Run auto race begins in Connecticut and features the goofy all-star cast passing each other up until they get to their final destination, California. In addition to Burt Reynolds, the movie also stars Dom DeLuise as Reynolds partner, Roger Moore pretending to be himself, Farrah Fawcett as the woman Reynolds and DeLuise pick up at the beginning of the race, and two late great entertainers Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. as two phony priests driving a red Ferrari. All are involved in the race, and its a wild ride all the way to the finish. Adrienne Barbeau, Jackie Chan, Jamie Farr, Mel Tillis, and former Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Terry Bradshaw also star. Great fun.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"All-star madcap race to California","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film is best summarized as a live action version of Wacky Races.  Burt Reynolds leads on all star cast of freaky drivers competing in a no-holds-barred race competition called the Cannonball Run.  The standouts in this film are Roger Moore who seems to enjoy spoofing his own James Bond character, Jackie Chan as a kung-fu foreign race champ, Jack Elam as the twisted doctor riding along in Burt's ambulance, and Jamie Farr as a mad sheik trying to show Islamic superiority by defeating his opponents.This is not a movie to be taken seriously, especially with Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. cruising around dressed up like priests.  There are a lot of good stunts and chase scenes in this movie, as well as a long brawl towards the end with all the Cannonballers against a gang of bikers, led by Peter Fonda!To quote the Brain Gremlin from Gremlins 2  Check it out one time, won't you!  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good Car Movie","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I like car movies, so I am somewhat prejudiced, but this was a good movie. It was original, it had funny moments, it had those seemingly standard car jumps and wrecks for a car movie. I will admit that it has flaws, like the story does not explain why the Cannonball Run was started, or how it jumps between characters is a bit confusing, but I can live with that. It has a Lambourghini, a Ferrari, a couple of Trans Ams, an Aston Martin, a Rolls, and many other cars, so I enjoyed it. It is a pretty good movie. I liked seeing the various cars competing and even though the movie is a bit predictable, and sometimes the actors' lines seem cheesy, it is an enjoyable movie for a gearhead, a racing fan, or just someone who likes cars. "},{"Title":"Car chase mayhem which provides a few laughs and lots of mindless stunts and crashes.","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" It's hard to believe it, but when this film was released back in 1981 Burt Reynolds was the world's no.1 box office movie star. In this totally mindless chase comedy, Reynolds is supported by a cast of high profile actors in extended guest roles, all of whom play entrants in a wacky coast-to-coast (illegal) car race. The film has little plot to speak of, just a series of stunts, crashes and broad comedy moments. Much of the time it misses its targets, but from time to time there are genuinely funny vignettes and laugh-out-loud one-liners. No-one could ever seriously place this film on their list of all-time classics, but it's not as bad as critics like Maltin have claimed.Mechanic J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) and his schizophrenic buddy Victor (Dom Deluise - who occasionally loses it and transforms into his deluded alter-ego Captain Chaos) enter a car race from New Jersey to California. Fellow entrants include a suave Englishman who thinks he's James Bond (Roger Moore); two con-men disguised as priests (Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr); a womanising sheik (Jamie Farr); a Subaru-driving Japanese stunt-man (Jackie Chan); and a couple of busty bimbos in a Lamborghini (Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman).Scenes that work (e.g scenes that ARE funny) include J.J and Victor landing an aeroplane in a busy street to purchase more beer; the Japanese racers almost crashing because their driver is busy watching porn movies on the in-built TV; the Lamborghini babes repeatedly dodging speeding charges by flashing their (considerable) cleavage at the prosecuting cops; and any of the hilarious out-takes shown over the closing credits. Jack Elam also has some amusing scenes as a very unreliable doctor with a penchant for injecting anaesthetics into people's asses! In other parts, the film is less successful, with rather a lot of lazy performances and scenes that don't tickle the funny bone because they are too immature or just too stupid. The Cannonball Run is loud, broad fun, very easy to watch and even easier to forget! "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have seen!","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run is a comedy where a group of adventurers, played by an all-star cast including Burt Reynolds, Dom DeLuise, Farah Fawcett, Roger Moore, Dean Martin, Jackie Chan and Michael Hui, participate in a cross-country car race and will resort do nefarious tricks to win.A friend of mine told me that this is a plot-less nonsensical comedy, which isn't something I am a big fan of. However, this turned out to be one of the funniest movies I have seen. While there is really no basic plot to the movie except for the wild car race theme and while there is nonsensical stuff, Hal Needham's direction really made this movie an attention grabber from start to finish, from the car racing at light speed at the beginning to the all-star fight scene toward the end.Seeing each of the characters' physical comedy and quick humor as they compete in the race is what makes this movie entertaining. Burt Reynold's calm and collected demeanor as he cracks his jokes and his facial expressions toward the weirdness and oddball events that take place are humorous, and his frustrating partnership with the superhero-wannabe Dom DeLuise is fun to watch. Roger Moore did a great job in spoofing his James Bond character, bringing with him his suave charm, refined British accent and his acidic wit. Jackie Chan and Michael Hui brought with them their classic Hong Kong-style comedy humor, quick wit, fast-talking and martial arts action. Rounding up all the physical comedy are some evident but harmless political puns and ethnic stereotypes.It's just interesting seeing all these well-known legends in a wild comedy; it's screwball stuff, but they aren't done childishly or overboard. Filled with surprises, it is a really fun movie; I just wished that there was a little more action scenes and also comedic stuff from Roger Moore, Jackie Chan and Michael Hui. And, I would have liked to see the other Cannonballers emphasized more. But, I still highly recommend it! Grade B+ "},{"Title":"First rate stars at a car chase caper in which  all-assorted drivers dash at highly illegal race","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" An unusual assortment of pilots converge for a cross country automobile race where breaking the rules and chaotic car chases are part of the game , and everybody competing for a grand prize in less than legal rally. In the car race participates the protagonists, McClure( amiable Burt Reynolds in similar role to 'Smokey and the Bandit' films) and his sidekick schizophrenic Victor (Dom Deluise who turn in moments into Captain Chaos) disguising themselves as paramedics, a duo posing as priests(the Rat-Pack ,Sammy Davis, Dean Martin) , two Chinese (a racer Jackie Chan and engineer Michael Hui), two Lamborghini sexpot babes (Adrienne Barbeau, Tara) and of course Roger Moore in a James Bond character-alike and several others. Along the way they elude police , crash into road-blocks, and meet-up with a number of roles.This race chase caper is full of witless comedy with tongue in cheek, noisy action, Kung-Fu fighting, gratuitous star cameos and many other things. This nutty film with extraordinary star-studded cast achieved a huge Box-office hit, one of 1981's top grosser, in spite of its brief amusing moments and ridiculous, embarrassing situations. Most interesting for plethora of cameos as Peter Fonda, Valerie Perrine, Jamie Farr, Jack Elam and many others . At the end there are out-takes such popular and usual subsequently. It's followed by a languid sequel, less than illustrious its predecessor, with similar actors and artist equipment , adding more explosive girls as Marilu Henner, Catherine Bach and Susan Anton, furthermore more Rat Pack as Frank Sinatra and Shirley McLaine. Booth of them were badly directed by the ex-stunt Hal Needham. Other films dealing with mindless cross-country wheel spinning , are the following  ¨Cannoball(1976)¨ by Paul Bartel with Robert Carradine, Mary Wonorov , Joe Dante ,¨Death race 2000¨ again by Paul Bartel with David Carradine, Silvester Stallone, Simone Griffith ¨Gumball rally(1976) ¨by Chuck Bail with Michael Sarrazin Gary Busey and Raul Julia, among them. "},{"Title":"A Funny Cross-Country Adventure","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is reminiscent of Smokey and the Bandit We have Burt Reynolds, a cross-country run, car chases and wrecks, an-all star cast and cheesy funny comedy.The bonus to The Cannonball Run is in fact the all-star cast which actually made this film work so well. They are all very funny in this film. If you like Smokey and the Bandit then you may enjoy The Cannonball Run as well - both are similar and quite fun to watch.This is a great afternoon popcorn film - this is not the kind of film that provokes any deep thought - it's just pure fun comedy. All you have to do is kickback and enjoy! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A live-action wacky races movie","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Seeing people get away with some of the most ridiculous actions in comedic fashion is always tantalizing. How do they get away with such foolishness? That doesn't happen in the real world as often as this. If only I (as in the viewer) could be that crazy with no problems. This is exactly what this live-action version of Boomerang's Wacky Races (1968) is. It's a movie where rules don't apply to main characters as well as physics, gags and mindset. The movie just can't be taken on a literal level; otherwise, the viewer will not enjoy it.Joining director Hal Needham in this racecar comedy is veteran actor Burt Reynolds who has also completed several projects in the past with him; so it's no surprise they are in this project either. Co-starring Reynolds is a slew of other well-known actors, singers and models. Playing Reynolds right hand companion is Dom DeLuise who also has an alter ego whom no one seems to understand of how he shows up and exits. Together they ride in an ambulance as a disguise to help them win the race. Accompanying them is their doctor played by Jack Elam who was cast perfectly because of his unmoving left eye. To name a few more, Farrah Fawcett, Sammy Davis Jr., Dean Martin, Jackie Chan and even Roger Moore (who pretends he's Roger Moore) all play funny characters.This is the real strong point to this movie; it's an ensemble cast and if you're a viewer who likes seeing movies with lots of star power, this is one of them to see. The story however, written by Brock Yates isn't anything special. The plot is about a bunch of wacky racers doing what they can to win and really that's all this movie needed. It does give a back-story to Reynolds' character and DeLuise's alter ego but it's nothing to be real interested in. As for the comedy parts of the writing, that is a slight bit stronger than the story itself. However, that also doesn't mean every joke was funny. There were some places there just were not funny enough when it should have been.Each actor has their own thing going for them and it's because of that, that they all don't rely on the same thing to make a joke. Again, my favorite was Jack Elam playing the doctor. God he was a laugh! And surprisingly, the score provided by Al Capps did a decent job as well. His tunes may have not been longer than a good 30 seconds, but it did evoke the right feeling of the movie, which was lightheartedness. One thing that did bug me was how politically incorrect and sexist everything was though. I understand that it this time it wasn't taken seriously and I also understand that this is partially what helps make the film effective in a comedic sense but unfortunately, in today's age, it can be offensive to some who are closed minded individuals.There isn't a story to fall back on which can leave some people feeling empty. But if you're looking for a film with a lot of star power, fast vehicles and various sparks of clever comedy, then this goofy car race just may hit the spot. "},{"Title":"You are certainly the most distinguished group of highway scofflaws and degenerates ever gathered together in one place.","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Some scene moment spoilers follow. A monster hit back on release in 1981, The Cannonball Run has a meagre rating of just 5.7 on the IMDb site and is home to some scathing reviews across the critical spectrum. Having just revisited the film for the first time since the 80s, I found to my surprise I was laughing heartily pretty much all the way through the damn thing True enough there is enough cheese and over reliance on self parodies to stop it from being an across the board winner, but there's enough energy and excellently written comedy to make one understand why early 80s audiences were taken with it. In fact it very much feels like a 70s film in many ways, and I mean that in a good way, macho men and babes, speeding cars and Al Capps' music sit neatly with the look created by director Hal Needham. While clocking in at a brisk 95 minutes the film and its comedy doesn't out stay its welcome like the more popular ass numbing ensemble comedy picture that is It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World.Re-elect Sean Kill A Commie O' Scanlon. Most of the cast send themselves up royally, and seem to be enjoying doing so. I haven't had time to look into the making of the film, but I would be saddened to find out it wasn't an harmonious set? From Roger Moore riffing his Bond persona-he's not George Hamilton you know-to Dino Martin playing a lecherous drunk priest!-so much for the knowing film fan to get on the fun side with.Those priests weren't fathers, they were mothers! Then there's great moments like Jackie Chan in his super computer car, and splitting his trousers , Burt Reynolds and Martin exchanging insults, Jack Elam's wired doctor, with that proctologist finger, the mother of punch ups led by Peter Fonda in biker mode, Captain Chaos, the best motorcycle wheelie ever, and of course the cars and the wonderfully staged stunt work. It's also very sexy, Reynolds, a bastion of manhood, Farrah Fawcett's legs, and Adrienne Barbeau as scrumptious as scrumptious can be. If there is indeed a God and he grants me entry to Heaven, I hope that early 80s Adrienne Barbeau is waiting for me at the gate! Yeah I'm a fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Simply fun fun fun","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run is a highly illegal, no holds barred car race from Connecticut to California. JJ McClure (Burt Reynolds) and his sidekick Victor Prinzim (Dom DeLuise) with his alter ego Captain Chaos chose to drive an ambulance. They use wacky Dr Van Helsing (Jack Elam) and kidnap tree-lover Pamela (Farrah Fawcett) as their patient. Environmentalist Arthur J. Foyt has the hots for Pamela and intends to stop the race. Race car driver Jamie Blake (Dean Martin) and Fenderbaum (Sammy Davis Jr.) dress as priests in their red Ferrari. Seymour Goldfarb, Jr. (Roger Moore) imagines himself to be the Bond actor Roger Moore. Jill Rivers (Tara Buckman) and Marcie Thatcher (Adrienne Barbeau) use both their looks and their black Lamborghini Countach to full advantage. Jackie Chan and his computer sidekick Michael Hui drive their hi-tech Japanese car. Oil rich sheik (Jamie Farr) drives his white Rolls-Royce. Wealthy risk taker Compton and Shaky Finch ride a motorcycle doing a wheelie. Terry (Terry Bradshaw) and stuttering Mel are two good old boys. Mad Dog and Batman drive the truck through everything.It's irreverent. It's sexist. It's silly. It's got car chases. It's ridiculous. It is entertainment of the lowest common denominator. It is simply fun, fun, fun. Everybody is having fun. It introduces Jack Chan to America. Dom DeLuise is a great sidekick to Burt Reynolds and Jack Elam is terrific. It may actually be better if Farrah Fawcett plays dumber. Its unabashed ridiculing of leftist environmental movement probably left the critics cold. Its low brow humor also doesn't help. But everybody has to love the hilarious outtakes. "},{"Title":"Pure fun","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" A diverse array of colorful eccentric folks participate in a wild and illegal cross country road race. Director Hal Needham, working from a brash script by Brock Yates, relates the simple and hugely enjoyable story at a constant zippy pace, maintains an utterly engaging breezy'n'easy loopy tone throughout, and stages the thrilling vehicular carnage with his trademark rip-roaring brio. Moreover, the all-star cast have a ball with the wacky material Burt Reynolds effortlessly projects his customary amiable charm and plays beautifully well with Dom DeLuise, Farrah Fawcett looks positively radiant and brings a sweetly daffy appeal to her character, Roger Moore gleefully sends up his own slick'n'suave James Bond persona, legendary Rat Pack members Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. display a marvelously loose and natural chemistry as a pair of bogus priests, Jackie Chan provides American audiences with an early demonstration of his considerable martial arts prowess, Jamie Farr joyfully devours the scenery as a madcap sheik, Mel Tillis works uproarious wonders with his stutter, and Jack Elam almost steals the entire goofy show with his inspired off-the-wall portrayal of a creepy'n'kooky doctor of dubious pedigree. George Furth also hits the prissy bull's eye as the uptight killjoy nerd determined to stop the big race. Better still, luscious babes Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman show off loads of tasty cleavage while Valerie Perrine has a witty uncredited cameo as a sexy state trooper. Why, we even have neat bits by such familiar individuals as Bianca Jagger, John Fiedler, and Peter Fonda and Robert Tessier as a couple of belligerent rough'n'rowdy bikers. Cool rocking theme song by Ray Stevens, too. The good-natured sensibility ensures that this picture never becomes too crude or offensive. A total blast. "},{"Title":"Cross Country drag race","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Before there were Police Academy movies there were these two Cannonball Run films where a whole lot of people did a movie with absolutely no story to it, but looked like they were having a lot of fun. If you could call it starring Burt Reynolds and long time pal Dom DeLuise because they have the most screen time.It's clear that this cast was enjoying all the overacting they were allowed to indulge in. Except possibly for Roger Moore who rather drolly underplayed his own image as an action hero, James Bond, the Saint, etc. Reynolds did too, to a lesser extent.You've got to love Dean Martin and Sammy Davis, Jr. as a pair of fake priests who copied Richard Nixon's dirty play book in their effort to win The Cannonball Run which when you come right down to it is just a cross country drag race. Reynolds and DeLuise are using an ambulance, the better to fool the Smokeys that they meet traveling west. And for insurance they have a kidnapped patient in Farrah Fawcett and one bat crazy doctor in Jack Elam. Between Elam and DeLuise I have to say it's a tossup as to who overacts the most.Like The Police Academy movies, the Cannonball Run films are dumb, witless, stupid, puerile, and you will laugh your derrière off. "},{"Title":"This Road Comedy is as silly as they come.","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This all-star Road Comedy headlined by Burt Reynolds in his prime is basically an extended chase movie punctuated by punchlines. It's like Smokey and the Bandit and It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World got stoned and had a love child. The basic plot is actually based on a real outlaw cross-country race, but that's as close to reality as this movie ever comes, and that's a blessing, because this is not the film you want to be watching when you're in the mood for something gritty. This is the perfect movie for a TV party line-up. It's actually even better when viewed on basic cable, because some of the dubs they came up with to cover the swear words are pure genius. Crumb bun is just the least of them. "},{"Title":"Hugely silly but often amusing road movie","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" There are two ways to get a huge number of A-list faces on the big screen and where the first is usually a biblical or wartime epic, the other is a grand concept comedy such as Cannonball run. Essentially the film seems to have been shot on the fly whilst an actual cross-America car race took place. Hal Needham's picture was the first to use the outtakes in the end credits but sometimes its difficult to distinguish a blooper from the craziness that had gone before.Still, Burt Reynolds' charisma drives (ahem) the film, along with his stooge, the hilariously cranky Dom DeLuise as Victor. Or Captain Chaos. Hmm. The rest of the cast have roles but they're essentially playing themselves - having said that Roger Moore's moniker of Seymour Goldfarb Jr. is a work of art. The fun benefits from money being spent on some inventive stunts and a police department with a sense of humour. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Fatal flaw","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The movie was amusing despite its script but there was one major screwup. At the beginning of the race all of the competitors punched in their start time and took off one at a time. At the end Captain Chaos and Adrienne Barbeau have a footrace to the finish to punch in their times. The only problem is that Adrienne punched in at the beginning of the race at least 2 minutes before Dom Delouise and Burt Reynolds did. Chaos still had at least 2 minutes to punch in at the end and still win the race.... Also while the crowd is joking around at the finish line 3 cars pull up and screech to a halt; Jackie Chan's car, a taxi and Roger Moore's car. But Moore was standing in the crowd joking around. Who drove up in his car? "},{"Title":"A great show-off Hal..","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a show. The story is thin, as it is intended to be. Hal Needham likes to put known actors together, great stunts and make things happen just for the fun. It is nice to lay back and to enjoy this comedy, so full of stupid, sexy, fast... Hal have been lucky to direct this party.. "},{"Title":"The epitome of fast cars movies of the era!","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Though the movie is so typical for it's time, I think it appeals to people of all ages; it's well scripted, the characters have personality in abundance, lots of fast cars and a coherent storyline, leaving little on the missing-list.The chemistry between J. J. McClure (Reynolds) and Victor Prinzi (DeLuise), the two guys driving the Chevy stock car (Terry Bradshaw and Mel Tillis) and Jamie Blake (Dean Martin) and Morris Fenderbaum (Sammy Davis Jr.) is world class and part of what makes this movie great.Also noteworthy appearances Jack Elam (Doctor), Farrah Fawcett (Pamela), Roger More (Seymore), Jamie Farr (Sheik) and George Furth (A. J. Foyt)I find it as enjoyable now as I did as a kid 31 years ago.Update this movie sold more ticket here in Denmark than movies like Inception, Shrek 2, Finding Nemo, Independence Day and Back To The Future! "},{"Title":"Golden Harvest bankrolled this picture? Part one.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Cannonball Run (1981) was one of those road race movie genres that was reborn during the mid 70's. The first of them was released by New World Pictures and it was the entertaining Cannonball, starring David Carradine and the Roger  Corman players.  A few years later Hollywood and Golden Harvest teamed together to make a washed up Hollwood stars road film about the mythical cross country race called The Cannonball Run. Yes, this film has more wash-ups and has been than you can shake a stick at.  It looks like a who's who of former and future stars of Hollywood Squares. Golden Harvest produced half the film and they used their stroke to put in the company's two biggest stars Jackie Chan and Michael Hui.  The problem is they play Japanese race car drivers.  Japanese race car drivers who speak cantonese?!But the ring leader of this motley crew is old Burt Reynolds.  Yes, him and Hal Needham made this film to please his Smokey and the Bandit crowd.  Needham should stick with directing stunt scenes and leave film-making to the  professionals.Not as bad as the later films in this series but not quite that entertaining.  Stick with Cannonball for some funstuff. If you must watch every single out of work or fading star in Hollywood ham up the screen then this one's your cup oftea, others beware!Average.C- "},{"Title":"plenty of stars, not enough cars","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This isn't a bad movie, it's entertaining enough and has lots of funny scenes and dialog. But what it lacks is ACTION. The irony is, this movie was written by none other than Brock Yates, the guy who organized the REAL Cannonball coast to coast races back in the 70's, yet a rival (and much lower budget) film called Gumball Rally somehow managed to offer up far more thrills. In that film, you had a number of really fast, exotic sports cars being driven full bore on everything from Interstate highways to LA's concrete riverbeds, whereas in Cannonball what we get mostly are the film's numerous stars mugging for the camera, each trying to be funnier than the next. The problem, of course, is this leaves little time for the actual racing. So, the bottom line is this - if you're looking for a decent comedy with a bunch of 70's Hollywood stars, this film is quite good. But if you want to see a REAL race movie, one where the cars are the real stars, check out Gumball Rally instead.6/10 "},{"Title":"And I was SO sure that this was a good film.","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run, an all-star caper about a bunch of ne'er-do-wells competing in a trans-American road race, is one of those films that I have had fond memories of ever since seeing it on its original release. So re-watching this film after many years was going to be a real treat&#151;or at least I thought so. Isn't it funny how time affects your memory?Instead of the laugh-a-minute, stunt-packed classic that I recall enjoying immensely as a kid, I was shocked to find that the film is in fact a rather tedious, poorly directed, mostly laugh-free effort saddled with mundane action. Apart from some stunning cars, and a few stunning women, The Cannonball Run actually has little to recommend it.Not nearly exciting enough (the car stunts are limited to a few unremarkable jumps, skids and crashes), nor funny enough (the desperate non-PC humour making light of schizophrenia, drink driving, stammering, abduction, racial differences, the law, and drug and alcohol abuse), director Hal Needham's chaotic comedy rarely gets into gear, and repeatedly stalls when it does.With an improvised feel to every facet of the film, The Cannonball Run gives the impression that much of it was made on the fly. In fact, I wouldn't be at all surprised to discover that Needham got his cast, crew and cars together first, and worried about the finer details (like a script) once the shoot had begun. The director and his Hollywood pals probably had a blast making the film, and I would like to say that the sense of fun is infectious. But it isn't.To be fair, a few moments did manage to make me smile&#151;Jackie Chan kicking biker ass, Adrienne Barbeau's cleavage, Jack Elam as a drunken proctologist&#151;but the majority of the film left me massively disappointed.The Cannonball Run gets a star for the kung fu, one for the babes, one more for the freaky doctor, plus a bonus star purely for nostalgia's sake. A not-so-grand total of 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Documentary based on true events","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I started to watch this movie as a joke. I don't remember whom I specially wanted to annoy with that, but after watching the film several times I began to like it. I expected nothing from it but it gave me pleasure in sarcastic way &#150; I've seen many better films than this, but this one is also better than many 'quality' films.The film is all about some stars gathering together and having a good time. Everyone adds into the film his/her own ideas with nothing really to be taken seriously. Most people will watch this film because of Burt Reynolds, who is probably the best actor for this kind of films. He and Dom DeLuise are not really Laurel & Hardy, but are still funny. This may probably not be the best Burt Reynolds film, but will be one of his most popular works anyway.Many viewers will also like the bad guy of the movie, Mr. Foyt, who hates cars and is totally against the whole Cannonball Run. My favourite is however Farrah Fawcett who manages to produce some good one liners like Are you one of those volley-ballers? but will be corrected Cannonballers?.I still keep watching this movie even if it remains for me as a joke. It's really not a good movie but isn't bad either. It's strength and cohesion lies in its harmless having-fun attitude without any special references. Some of the jokes are bit stupid but as nothing here is meant to be taken seriously, this film remains for me a portrayal of some easy-going early 1980's. "},{"Title":"Quite fun but very, very basic stuff","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A rich Sheik organises an illegal cross country race in order to bring together the best drivers from all over the world.  The drivers all race over several days to be the first to collect the finish line by fair means or foul.This was set at the high of the days when car chase/car crash movies were all the rage with Smokey and the Bandit et al.  So to complain that this movie doesn't make sense or is only really brainless eye candy is to miss the point.  Yes &#150; the plot makes no sense &#150; why didn't those cars with two drivers just work shifts while the other's slept etc, also some of the vehicles are clearly not in the same league as the others (but still keep up!).  However it's still funny and amusing in a really brain dead way and it's quite fun to watch while sitting in neutral!The cast are great (on paper) with a list of stars.  However any comedy relying on Dom DeLuise and Reynolds is never going to be great!  Fawcett and Barbeau are hotter than I've ever seen them anywhere else, and the film uses the whole `girls in catsuits' thing shamelessly well!  The majority of the cast are really window dressing &#150; Martin, Davis Jnr, Chan, Moore etc but all are OK &#150; if you're happy with the film as a whole then performances are not really what you'll be looking for I guess.The comedy is pretty lame &#150; the outtakes are hilarious but really only show up how basic and lacking in spark the rest of the film is.  The dumb action is good if you're in a veggie mood but really this is very basic.  The star cast make up for some of the weakness and keep the interest but really the outtakes are the best bits. "},{"Title":"Silly in parts but Reynolds is on top form. 5/10","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Review I know that this movie is really old and that everyone has seen it before, so I won't type a long review about the film. This has to have the best, genuine, outtakes that I have seen, and every time that I watch them, they crack me up. The movie itself looks really dated and some of the jokes are pretty awful but the chemistry between Reynolds and DeLuise is brilliant and you can see that J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) wants to burst out laughing most of the time. Sammy Davis Jr. and Dean Martin, also were funny throughout the film but the race itself was completely over the top and unrealistic. Personally, I still enjoyed the movie, and it was good to see Burt Reynolds when he was on top form and I really can't see anyone topping Reynolds and DeLuise, if they remake this all time classic. Enjoyable!Round-Up The opening credits of this film, reminded me of the old Kung Fu movies, with the big Golden Harvest and Fortune Star logos, and judging by the big scale and the huge cast in the film, they really done a good job. It seemed like the director just let the actors ad-lib through most of the film, which is what made it original and really funny in parts. Anyway, the movie was directed by Hal Needham, whose first project was Smokey and the Bandit in 1977, so it's not surprising that he teamed up with Burt Reynolds again. He also directed Hooper, which also starred Burt Reynolds, Cactus Jack with a young Arnold Schwarzenegger, another Smokey and the Bandit, Stroker Ace, Cannonball Run II, Rad and Bodyslam. He's obviously a master at the old comedy movies especially when working with Reynolds but he decided to turn to TV in the latter part of his career with the series Bandit. This is definitely one of those films that you can watch time and time again, even though some of the jokes are more silly than funny but it's worth having in your collection.Budget $17million Worldwide Gross $72millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their sport/action/comedies starring Burt Reynolds, Roger Moore, Farrah Fawcett, Dom DeLuise, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Jackie Chan, Peter Fonda and Adrienne Barbeau. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific Cast in Lazy Comedy","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run (1981) 1/2 (out of 4) Incredibly bad, lazy and rather embarrassing comedy about a wide range of people competing in a cross-country race where whatever rules there are were meant to be broken.What's strange about THE CANNONBALL RUN is that during the closing sequence there are outtakes shown with the cast members constantly messing up shots because they can't stop laughing. We see various famous faces mess up with laughter and you have to wonder what they were laughing at because there's certainly nothing in the actual picture that was funny. There's a terrific cast on display here but they all pretty much just sleepwalk through the picture so perhaps they were laughing at the easy money? Perhaps there was some funny green grass being passed around? What we've basically got is director Hal Needham and star Burt Reynolds bringing along several famous faces and trying to recapture the magic of SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT. There's no doubt that the two men made a string of road pictures but sadly the majority of them were quite awful including this thing here. The only thing that keeps this movie from getting a BOMB rating is the fact that it contains so many stars and no matter what you feel about the movie, it does remain slightly entertaining because of getting to see so many people. Roger Moore is spoofing his James Bond role. We've got Dean Martin and Sammy David, Jr. spoofing their Rat Pack days. Dom DeLuise is being himself and you've got beauties Farrah Fawcett and Adrienne Barbeau. Also on hand are the likes of Jack Elam, Terry Bradshaw, Jackie Chan, Peter Fonda, Burt Convey and many others.So, what's so bad about the picture? Pretty much the fact that it's extremely lazy and it's very doubtful anyone was taking it too serious. The plot is about as thin as a daycare play and I'd argue that there's really not a single laugh to be had. The actors are constantly doing stupid things but why not put a little more thought into it and try to deliver something good? Perhaps they already knew it didn't have to be good and people would line up at the box office? Either way, THE CANNONBALL RUN is worth watching just to see all the famous faces, many of them appearing in the worst movie of their career. "}{"Title":"An hilarious all-star race across America","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The plot to this film is as simple as it gets; a group of people are planning to race across the United States&#x85; paying no respect to the 55MPH speed limit enforced at the time. The first half of the film introduces us to the various racers. The protagonists are J. J. McClure and Victor Prinzim who are having a little trouble deciding what sort of vehicle is best for such a race; they eventually reason that an Ambulance will be best as it is less likely to be stopped for speeding&#x85; of course they will also need a doctor and a patient to be convincing. There are also a couple of Chinese drivers in a high-tech Subaru; two men in a Ferrari, who are disguised as priests; two beautiful women in a Lamborghini and a Englishman who claims to be a spy and calls himself Roger Moore&#x85; and played by Roger Moore. There are quite a few other secondary racers too; each fairly distinctive. Once the race is underway they must deal with zealous cops, fellow racers, a motorcycle gang and an environmental campaigner who objects to the motorcar in general and to the speed merchants taking part in the race in particular.There have been plenty of films about groups of people racing across America but this is probably the best known thanks to its all-star cast. There are lots of laughs to be had throughout the film; provided by a cast that is clearly having a blast. The cast, which does a solid job, includes such well known people as Burt Reynolds, Roger Moore, Farrah Fawcett, Jackie Chan, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. amongst others. The humour is, for the most part, suitable for viewers of all ages&#x85; although some elements of the film are definitely not politically correct; most notably the Lamborghini Girls who show an impressive amount of cleavage to persuade male policemen to let them off! For me the highlight was Jack Elam's strange doctor; just looking at him was enough to make me laugh! There are a few plot holes but that doesn't matter as this is all about delivering laughs&#x85; ultimately we don't even care who wins the race even. Not all of the gags work but enough do to make this comedy worth watching. "},{"Title":"Keep on Moving","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Burt Reynolds made a fortune in this area with these goofy chase movie. If these are the kind of movies you like, then you won't be disappointed. Cannonball Run had an all-star cast of Reynolds, his good buddy Dom DeLuise, Farah Fawcettt, Jack Elan, Roger Moore, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Adrienne Barbeau, Jamie Farr, Jackie Chan, on and on....pretty amazing. Yet, as dumb as this movie can be at times, is does provide a lot of laughs and speaking of that, DeLuise's laugh always made everyone do the same. Sometimes the best part of these films were the outtakes at the end with DeLuise cracking up and Reynolds slapping him! To me the out takes were almost better than the actual movie. If your just looking for a few laughs and some 80's cars then this movie is for you. If your looking for plot and depth, then keep on moving. "},{"Title":"The usual suspects antics, hijinks, shenanigans","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run . . . well it's got some gifts under the tree, but it really taps right into your base male interests fast cars and hot ladies.Now that I think about it, if you watch this with beer in hand, you've got the trifecta.Anyhoo, it's a decent road movie, the cars are fun and Burt Reynolds fronts one hell of a cast. The 'stache gets upstaged by two chicks in a Lamborghini (mmm Adrienne Barbeau), but who's going to complain about that? Jack Elam seemed to get all the laughs in this movie, at least from me. I wasn't expecting that.7/10 "},{"Title":"I must warn you, I'm Roger Moore.....","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" There's no plot to this movie, it's based around a real event, and the film is just one big love in, guaranteed to make big money purely because of who is in it.But it's a sunshine movie, and will leave you with a big grin on your face from beginning to end.It has everything in a movie to satisfy all tastes, Roger Moore, Peter Fonda, Burt Reynolds for the ladies.Dean Martin and Sammy Davis for granny and the lounge lizards, and of course Dom Deluise for the comedy fans.The makers and the stars knew this one wouldn't fail, and everyone looks like they are having a whale of a time. Moore literally parodies himself and Bond, and all the better for it, proving he is a good sport, and even Davis Jr. Let's a little racism slide when Reynolds calls him a 'chocolate monk'.It's really pointless writing a review of this, because it's a compilation of mini movies, surrounding one race.A guilty pleasure for sure, but very forgettable. "},{"Title":"Stupid absurd cross country race that is fun","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Now this is far from being a great movie but I can sort of see how this movie would have been entertaining to watch in the early 80's. If you played the video game Need For Speed The Run than the premise is sort of similar, basically it's a race to get from one area to another while others are chasing after them. It's basically a cross country race where they have to cover great distance while driving. Yeah nothing special in the story department but the way it mixes comedy with it, is what makes it stand out. Instead of going in a very serious direction like movies of this genre do today, while being absurd. This one doesn't take itself seriously. But if your looking for a movie with great or even good plot you won't find it here. But what it does offer is car chase/race entertainment. Jackie Chan also make a cameo appearance as Jackie Chan as number 1 car racer. The editing is all over the place though and although it's a very very simple story. Since it's all over the place, it gives off the illusion of being a complicated story. Even though it tries to introduce and give a little about each racer. So basically it's a bunch of degenerates gathered for a race, which is fine because if the characters were normal this movie would have been really dull. When the wackiness ensues during the race it gets fun but not too so fun to the point I can turn away from the fact that this is a poorly written, acted and edited movie, even for a comedy. The whole thing just seemed so sloppy, despite the over the top mayhem and how the teams try to screw over the other teams and out drive or stay away from cop radar during the race to win. Also the young Farrah Fawcett is prettier than ever in this and Roger Moore is funny as his self-parody of James Bond. You know those serious and yet funny characters? Well he is that in this.6/10 "},{"Title":"This car race is gonna get wild and dangerous, better get an ambulance.","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I was born in 1975. Which means that my formative years took place throughout the 1980s. Sometimes I wonder how I ever got through that decade and developed into someone who could be called normal. And then I remember that . . . . . . . . I didn't. I blame a portion of my wonderful abnormality on Mr. Burt Reynolds. Why? Well, with his Smokey & The Bandit movies and The Cannonball Run films he was often my favourite companion as I sat watching the TV on a rainy afternoon. I often forget just how many times I used to watch these movies but today, having caught The Cannonball Run for the first time in decades, it all came flooding back to me.Director Hal Needham and star Burt Reynolds always seemed to have one reason for making their movies together. To have some fun. No matter how dated the films become, and how lame the humour often is, you can't help but feel some of that fun emanating from the screen, even if your resolve stays strong right up until you get to the gag reel running alongside the end credits.Written by Brock Yates, The Cannonball Run doesn't take many words to explain the plot. A bunch of drivers race each other across America, trying to delay each other and avoid the police. Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise are the two men we spend the most time with, and the two that you are supposed to root for, and they come up with the grand plan of using an ambulance to speed across the country, complete with a wild-eyed doctor (Jack Elam, who is pretty hilarious) and a pretty patient (Farrah Fawcett, who is pretty). Other drivers try different tactics. A couple of Japanese men (including Jackie Chan) use the latest in modern technology to help them. Sammy Davis Jr. and Dean Martin pretend to be a couple of priests so that god will be on their side. And, most memorably of all for any young man who was the same age as I was when they first saw this movie, the gorgeous Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman portray two gorgeous women in a Lamborghini who always seem to find a way to distract the traffic police whenever they get pulled over.The Cannonball Run still has some decent moments of car carnage on screen too, but it's certainly lacking in the action department compared to many other releases from the legendary Golden Harvest Company, but there's just no escaping the fact that the whole thing feels like a very loosely connected series of weak gags put together so that a bunch of people could have a good laugh while being handsomely paid for it. Mind you, where else can you see all of the aforementioned nonsense plus Roger Moore playing a young man who keeps pretending that he's . . . . . . . . . . Roger Moore? "},{"Title":"Silly but OK","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run, for me, disappears into an pit of indistinguishability with the Smoke And The Bandit movies - Burt Reynolds, lots of driving stunts, some sort of pursuit, yadda yadda yadda (you should admire my being able to say yadda yadda yadda - I'm not even American).This one has an excellent cast, albeit many of the cast members are slightly past their sell-by date.But, for me, the two things which make this film really worthwhile are - no, not Adrienne Barbeau (well, yes, Adrienne Barbeau, obviously) - Jack Elam's boggle-eyed Dr Van Helsing, and Dom DeLuise's inspired and hysterical (dan dan daaah!) Captain Chaos.This film is fun, and you don't get that in movies as much as you used to. "},{"Title":"The 80s answer to 'It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Let explain the review title first. In 1963 MGM released a film titled It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World which starred many famous actors and actresses at the time and also involved a big race between others except not cross country, like in 'Cannonball'. Cannonball Run like 'Mad Mad World' features famous actors and actresses of the 70s and 80s built around a chase- type plot.The film follows name actors and actresses like Bert Reynolds,Dom Delouise,Farrah Fawcett,and Roger Moore........ just to name a few in a somewhat wild car race to California. Along the way the racers try to dodge the police and pull tricks on each other. The film is filled good laughs and good parodies of some actor's persona's, such as Roger Moore being a James Bond-type character (as we all know Moore played Bond seven times from 1973-1985). The racers all vary from Japanese drivers in a high-tech Subaru,An actor, famous for playing in spy films in an Aston Martin DB5,guys impersonating priests,an Arabian prince etc. Cannonball Run is filled with fun action sequences and sets a very laid back rhythm surely good enough to please anyone.Like I said, the film is very laid back and calm. For most parts it didn't really interest me, but it did keep me intrigued by some of the crazy situations the characters would get themselves into. That is where I think the movie failed. This film could've been an easy five stars (ten since its IMDb), but it kept going down a very mellow track in which a lot of the dialogue between characters is meaningless. I wouldn't really consider this a high-tailed chase film, until the very end. This film would've been better if they crammed it with crazy car stunts and chases between the other racers and the police. Besides the the plot, this film's list of stars is endless. This always kept my eye out for people that I've seen in previous films or T.V shows before. You'll run into stars like Jackie Chan, Adrienne Barbeau,Sammy Davis Jr., Peter Fonda etc. Its an interesting mixed bag of stars coming under one movie. Another interesting note is that the film company who distributed this, Golden Harvest, a famous Hong Kong film company. Was responsible for making martial art's legend Bruce Lee and soon Jackie Chan big stars. In fact for the film's Hong Kong release, Jackie Chan was topped billed and Bert Reynolds was second(Jackie Chan was already famous in Hong Kong for his martial art's film The Drunken Master,1978,). This was not Chan's first US film. The year before he was in Robert Clouse's The Big Brawl released by 20th Century Fox and distributed by Golden Harvest as well. And of course stars like Dean Martin,Roger Moore,Farrah Fawcett etc. don't need any explanations. "},{"Title":"Good Ole' Character Comedy","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run is a very fun film. To start off, this film has a nice star-studded cast with the likes of Burt Reynolds, Dom Deluise, Farrah Fawcett, Sammy Davis Jr., Dean Martin, and my personal favorite Jack Elam-- who all constantly throw out laughs. Everyone is excellent in their unique and very eccentric roles. There are amazing comedic duos who are wildly out in their prime such as Reynolds & Deluise, Davis & Martin, Bradshaw & Tillis. Plus there are great amounts of eye candy between the like of Farrah Fawcett and Adrienns Barbeau. The fact that this film is also based off of a real race makes me want to have seen it all for myself. This is a very character-based comedy and is nothing compared to it's more well known ancestor It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World. However it still makes it's mark in the rat-race genre. I highly recommend Canonball Run to anybody who hasn't seen it. Take a risk and see how you like another classical and loopy take of cross-country greed and chance. "},{"Title":"A lot of stars race across country.","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie was pretty good, not the best comedy of the 1980's its main attraction was less the plot or anything the movie had to offer, but rather its huge cast of characters. Burt Reynolds and Dom Delouise are the headliners, but aside from them there is Roger Moore of James Bond fame, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr., Adrien Barbeau and even Jackie Chan. The plot is fairly simple, the cannonball run is about to take place and a host of oddballs is entering to win the prize. Burt and Dom are on the same team and they figure out the perfect vehicle to race cross country to avoid the police if possible an ambulance. It is actually brilliant and quite frankly I do not see how they did not destroy everyone else who was racing, because most of the vehicles consisted of sporty cars, the types of which the cops are looking for. Granted Adrian's team had a nifty trick that worked a lot, but was not fool proof. The comedy also at times makes no sense, they establish that Burt and Dom know Sammy and Dean's team, early before the race yet for some reason Dom's character gets fooled by them later during the race. There is also a rather pointless fight scene near the end of this one too, where all the main stars duke it out with a biker gang or something. Also, Dom's character has a bit of a split personality which as a kid I liked, but now I have to say it was rather silly. Still, it was an okay movie and is better than the sequel. Part two is essentially the same movie and I thought even Speed Zone was better than that one. "}{"Title":"Cops and speeders","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The first part of The Cannonball movies offers some mindless fun, just like its sequel.A bunch of crazy people participate in the Cannonball run throughout the nation.J.J. McClure is a has-been race car driver who now teams up with Victor Prinzim and his alter ego, Captain Chaos.They drive around The United States with an ambulance.They're also accompanied by the creepy doctor Nikolas Van Helsing and a blonde they call Beauty.There are many other wackos in that race, including two entertainers dressed as priests.Burt Reynolds is terrific as J.J.The great comedian Dom DeLuise, who passed away this year, is brilliant both as Victor and Captain Chaos.Farrah Fawcett, who sadly lost her struggle with cancer last summer, is a real angel as Pamela Glover, aka Beauty.Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. make a great team as the former race car driver Jamie Blake and the scam artist Morris Fenderbaum.You gotta like Roger Moore as Seymour Goldfarb, who thinks he is Roger Moore.The American football quarterback Terry Bradshaw plays Terry and country singer Mel Tillis is Mel.Bert Convy is the welthy executive who drives on a motorcycle as the other half of the newlyweds.Milton Berle's nephew Warren Berlinger sits in the back wearing a wig.There's a lot of fun stuff in this movie.You laugh every time when you see the appearance of Jack Elam.Roger Moore's James Bond routine is hilarious.You know, the guy from The Fly Who Bugged Me.The fighting scene is a riot.It's always hilarious when Captain Chaos appears, and this time he shows them hooligans.In the end we see some bloopers.We see Dom DeLuise laughing hysterically.They sure had fun making this movie. "},{"Title":"Cynical and rather ordinary feature that has nothing going for it bar the novelty value of seeing all these names and faces on screen at once.","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run was worse than I thought it might have been; a wax-work museum of yester-decade stars of the previous generation, mugging their way through a plot-less, rather humourless, but pro-consumerist and recklessness road movie during which its characters start at point 'A'; physically travel through to point 'Z' but basically end up right where they began in terms of everything else. It must've been a sad moment, back in the day, when children, young adults and seasoned adults alike were watching their past/current heroes in the form of Dean Martin; Sammy Davis Jr; Burt Reynolds and Roger Moore engaging in nothing more than tired pastiches; slapstick comedy and acting as pawns for advertisements.The film doesn't even deliver on what it promises in the form of a race of some kind. The opening is overly long; too talky and takes too much time establishing what are essentially either clichés or archetypes, while for all the talk and build up of the race, it's essentially nothing more than a rare series of pratfalls and incidences in which in order to laugh, you have to find either speeding cars; women in revealing outfits or persons impersonating those of a medical profession, funny. In a bizarre change of tact towards the end, there is a mass-brawl between the racers and a load of bikers; the leader of which is Peter Fonda who I guess is sending up his Easy Rider role, which just sees the film throw its hands up and announce that 'Yes, we've finally run out of ideas'.The Cannonball Run gets across its highly unmotivated and desperate sense of the sheer spectacle to act as a means of laughter, very early on, when two characters whom are the closest we have to anything at all resembling 'leads', land an aeroplane in the middle of a public street, run into a shop and buy beer before taking off again. The characters are J.J. McClure (Reynolds) and Victor Prinzim (DeLuise), two people that later acquire a van, disguise it as an ambulance, kidnap a woman, bung her in the back and pretend to be off somewhere where she can receive help &#x96; and they're the one's we're supposed to root for. Along for the ride is Jack Elam's doctor, named Nikolas Van Helsing; an incompetent and slurring individual who's the victim of one of the film's many re-occurring gags; that being that he has an odd looking face and that if we crash zoom in onto it to some mock-horror organ music now and again, everyone will laugh. Another rather sad, tragic even, ingredient to this quartet is DeLuise's character's habit of donning a cape and mask; from whence he brandishes them from, I'm not sure; and breaking off into bizarre, mock-super hero skits complete with his own fan-fare sound effects. While everyone else watches on and, I'm sure, laughs their heads off; I actually found it quite sad to watch.Partaking in the race, a journey from Connecticut to California, are a number of names and faces doing it purely for kicks. Jackie Chan and Michael Hui are the more technologically-advanced-than-anyone-else-Japanese, although they themselves are Chinese and according to what I read, they speak Cantonese on a Japanese TV show when selected for the race. They exist solely to provide advertising for Subaru. Then we have Roger Moore, a man playing a character named Seymour Goldfarb, Jr.; who's a send up of his James Bond character, a role he still occupied at the time of shooting. His inclusion reminds me of a recent time when the producers took years and years to make a sequel to 1998's The Mask of Zorro, while in the meantime Banderas, who played the role of Zorro, sent up the character in 2004's Shrek 2 by way of voicing Puss in Boots. A year after that film, a sequel was actually made, entitled The Legend of Zorro, with Banderas once again back in the role. No, hang on. A year ago you were creating a pastiche and sending up this character for the comic creation it was. Now you've gone back to it and you're making heaps of money in the process out of, what is essentially, something you've already discarded as a joke. Moore in The Cannonball Run fits exactly this situation. He sends the thing up in a tired spoof, then goes back to it for consequent Bond films Octopussy and A View to a Kill. Suddenly we're supposed to forgive and forget? I don't think so. Was it not the case that after The Cannonball Run, everyone got on Moore's back over his Bond role? Then you've got the slack-jawed Southerners; the typically rich, eccentric Arabs in the form of Jamie Farr's Sheik plus the jewellery-clad African-Americans, all of whom are partaking. Where does it all lead? Well, it leads to a glut of Goodyear tyres and Camel cigarettes product placement, while at one point, DeLuise is relegated to that of a performance chimp as he dances in front of the camera and sings a Dr Pepper jingle; seconds after it ends, the film restarts again with Reynolds walking back into shot ready to spout the next line of dialogue that'll move everyone on to the next pratfall. It's a shame that so many people have taken to this; like with most films of this ilk, I'm tempted to say that when people come to re-view The Cannonball Run, they're reviewing their childhoods and how happy they were when they first saw the film as opposed to how good it is as a stand alone piece. But with a distinctly leery sensibility at times; a running theme of total disregard to superiors and authoritarian figures, such as the law enforcement, plus every highway code rule broken under the pretence of We're having fun, The Cannonball Run burns out pretty quickly after the starter's gun goes off. "},{"Title":"Weird event in the beginning","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" In the opening sequence, about 3 1/2 minutes into the movie when the Director of Photography credit is on..Both the Lambo and the police car are driving down a 2 lane road in the left lane for no apparent reason. Soon after, a car passes them going the opposite direction and therefore also driving in the left lane. Has anyone else noticed this? I've rolled back through this a number of times. I can't see anything based on the plot or even based on filming requirements that would explain the reason for running on the left side. Also, I wondered if maybe this was filmed outside of the US, but I don't see any reference to overseas filming locations. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This picture opened in theaters every in the country on June 19 1981 starring Burt Reynolds as JJ McClure, Dom Deluise as Victor Prinizim, Farrah Fawcett as Pamela Glover, Dean martin as Jamie Blake, Sammy Davis Jr. as Morris Fenderbaum, Jack Elam played the doctor, The Gorgeous Adrienne Barbeau as Marcie Thatcher, Lamborghini Babe #1 The Lovely Tara Buckman as Jill Rivers, Lamborghini Babe #2, along with Terry Bradshaw, Mel Tills, and Jamie Farr as the Sheik. This movie was about a bunch of people who wanted to race in the Cannonball Run a Race that went from New York to California and the first one to stamp there card wins the prize. Let's start with the drivers as they arrived at the hotel where the Cannonball Race will stat. There's Marcie Thatcher and Jill Rivers riding around the highways going 220 MPH and spraying traffic and speed limit signs. Then you got JJ McClure and Victor who are also in this race. Victor and JJ are trying to figure out what kind of vehicle they need to win this race. So JJ can think first they go riding in an airplane, landing the in the middle of town in order to get beer. Next they go boat riding, only to crash and both JJ and Victor and up in an ambulance. JJ asks the doctor how far away is the hospital and he was told about 15 miles. But they were also told it would only take 5 minutes because with an ambulance you can go in and out of traffic with no one bothering to stop you. So they look at each other and laugh as they continue to fly through traffic. Next you got Jamie Blake and Morris Fendebaum who are dress like priest but they sure don't act like one. So everyone one is at the hotel having a party the night before the race starts. That's when JJ discovers Pamela Glover a very young and beautiful girl who happens to like trees. As JJ is trying to talk to Pamela he is interrupted by Victor who wants to talk about the doctor. JJ tells Victor that they need a doctor to ride in the ambulance so right before the race starts Victor finds Doctor Nikolas Van Helsing but JJ doesn't want to know where in found this doctor. So while the race has started, and JJ realizes that that they don't have a patient for in back of the ambulance. So as there going down the road they come upon and accident where Pamela Glover is standing when JJ and Victor pull up. Pamela ask if they will help the young man and so JJ opens the door, get Pamela Glover inside and Victor takes of leaving the man behind. As there going down the highway a New Jersey State Trooper has his lights on stopping the ambulance. Inside the doctor has given Pamela laughing gas to make it look like she really sick. The girls had a few tricks of the own. You see they would go down the states highways like a bat out of hell only to get pulled over by State Troopers. They were both wearing one piece suits so they open up the zipper show a little and the State Troopers would let them go every time. Who wins this race? Where does Captain Chaos come into play? How many of them get caught and don't finish the race? Here are some thoughts of my own on this movie. I thought the plot and the comedy of this movie was great from beginning to end. However, I bought this movie because of Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman and I sure once disappointed. They walked around in those tight spandex and they were looking real good. Based on that and the great comedy I have no problem giving this movie 10 weasel stars. "},{"Title":"Off-the-cuff comedy","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Off the cuff comedy, based upon the real trans-continental Cannonball Run, is a lot of laughs as many of our favourite action heroes poke fun at their own images. Especially enjoyable are Roger Moore and Jackie Chan sending up the heroic ideals that they usually portray.Plenty of chuckles are delivered by leads Burt Reynolds and Dom De Luise as they play off each other and off the comedy duo of Sammy Davis Junior and Dean Martin. Greenie Farrah Fawcett and proctologist Jack Elam also add to the mayhem.Hal Needham doesn't have to do a lot of work with Brock Yates' script as it allows the players to go for broke and make the most of the comedy. A warning though that The Cannonball Run is an inherently silly show that is not recommended for all audiences.Saturday, January 11, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"Like Smokey and the Bandit, But With Cars...And It May Be A Tad More Enjoyable Today","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This really is like Smokey and the Bandit in that there is a deadline, a great race, and an all-star cast, which makes this work like an unintentional (?) remake of It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. This was my very first glimpse of Jackie Chan on the big screen, too, as it was for many Americans.This flick stars Burt Reynolds, Roger Moore, Farrah Fawcett, Dom DeLuise, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Jack Elam, Adrienne Barbeau, Terry Bradshaw, Jackie Chan, Bert Convy, Jamie Farr, Peter Fonda, and dozens more! The only one missing from this work was Sally Field, and she WAS sorely missed.This has been held in chronological remake order as 2 of 3 in the set; the set being It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World , Cannonball Run , and Rat Race, but in the #3 spot in terms of popularity. Unbelievably, Rat Race is a tad better rated.This is still one of my favorites from the early 1980's, and as such, it rates a 7.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"With this many stars and this much fun it just can't be legal","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is one funny film. The chemistry is just so great. Burt Reynolds and Dom Deluis were meant to be together, just as Laurel and Hardy or Abbot and Costello. And Jack Elam. He is an American original. But the secondary big named talent is just as great. Roger Moore spoofing his James Bond character, Jamie Faar as an eastern prince, Mel Tillis and Terry Bradshaw. Farah Fawcett's clueless seriousness is right on the money to make it even funnier. The other single greatest pairing is Dean Martin and Sammy Davie Jr. Director Hal Needham has recreated the great American classic road race here. You just have to watch out for the dirty tricks. Relax and have fun with this one. "},{"Title":"5.5?","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" How does this have a 5.5? This should at least have a 6.5. Its a hilarious movie. It's just like the comedy classic It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. The two movies are very similar. It's about racing, and it has an all-star cast. Some of the most talented people are in it, like Burt Reynolds, Dom DeLuise, Roger Moore, Farrah Fawcett, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr, Mel Tillis, and more. It's like a big budget Love Boat. We are lucky to have movies like that. Not enough movies like this are made today. Everybody puts on a terrific show. Also, if you loved this movie and it's stellar array of stars, then you'll love the sequel. It has twice as many great stars, and it's just as good. See this movie. "},{"Title":"Decent all around car movie","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I rented this movie on a whim cause it had cars in it, and was about the Cannonball Run, plus an all star cast. I have to say i was somewhat disappointed with this movie, while it is a comedy, there wasn't much car based action and the best of it was at the start of the movie with the intro credits with the Lamborghini being chased by the cop car.The movie seemed to drag out in places, especially at the start, and not a whole deal of focus on the cars themselves. It's not all bad, the character interaction and the comedy was top stuff, enjoyable movie for that, but for a movie to do with an across country race it did lack in the action department with the cars, yeah there is a couple things thrown in here and there for good measure, but never really did much for me.Good comedy, but even that could of been better slightly, the doctor had so much potential but was rarely used. If anything Farrah Fawcet was one of the redeeming qualities, but even her character wasn't used greatly, not that it mattered as she was more eye candy *and also bringing the movie's rating up slightly for me ;) and she had her high beams on at the start of the movie too hahaha* Lastly, while Jackie Chan was in this movie, he barely had any interaction at all with any of the other castOverall a relatively enjoyable movie i could watch many a time, but had a lot of potential in many areas to be better. A classic? well that's purely for you to decide, but for me, i'm not so sure "},{"Title":"Complete over the top fun!","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This must be one of the most ridiculous movies ever made, but it actually works brilliantly! The Cannonball Run contains laughs aplenty, and is a wonderful over the top road race film. The storyline is highly unlikely and the acting not expertly carried out, but that's not the point! Upon first viewing I laughed out loud, and I still do, so many times I have watched it now! Released in 1981, The Cannonball Run has significantly dated and looks as if it was filmed in the 1960s, but because it's so lighthearted and fun, it doesn't matter. Burt Reynolds and Roger Moore are the main stars of the show, but everyone else takes part in just the same manner, and there's a whole host of TV and movie stars you can think of Sammy Davis Jr., Dean Martin, Peter Fonda, Adrienne Barbeau, Farrah Fawcett (looking beautiful) and Jackie Chan to name a few! The Cannonball Run was Fawcett's first major successful film after leaving Charlie's Angels in 1977. Shame she had to wait four years...However, in a nutshell, The Cannonball Run is utterly over the top and looks significantly older than it is, but the sheer laughs and ridiculous moments you witness in everyone's objective to win this illegal road race across America is sure to be enjoyed! "}{"Title":"Decent schlock!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" You know, I wasn't actually sure if I had originally seen this film or not when I rented it recently. I had definitely seen parts of it before, and I do vaguely remember catching it once on television. However, I don't think I ever watched it from start to finish, but my memory of its representation of the 80s road films made me want to check it out one more time.Well, it's not great. 'The Cannonball Run' is reminiscent of 'It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World', and both are equally as boring in parts. Like the former film, we are introduced to an array of characters who want to compete in the biggest illegal road race across the USA. The main characters are J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) and his sidekick Victor (Dom DeLuise), who as a strange alter-ego that both of them would rather not talk about. They have the perfect vehicle in an Ambulance for speeding in this race, but first they have to recruit an unwilling patient (and potential love interest for J.J.) in Pamela Glover (Farrah Fawcett) and an actual doctor who would stoop low enough to assist them in Dr. Van Helsing (Jack Elam). However, the race is not going to be easy for J.J and his crew with many wanting glory in this race.Their main rivals are Rat Pack duo in Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jnr, aptly disguised as priests. These two provide some competition as well as Roger Moore who plays someone who pretends he's Roger Moore, and he has many James Bond references and music cues (which, actually still work even 20 years later). Elsewhere, Jackie Chan has a computerised Suburu, two sexy vixens (Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman) who have arguably the coolest car, and a Shiek(Jamie Farr) all provide entertainment and rivalry. Other characters seem unnecessary; such as motorcycle duo consisting on a Wall Street type character, and two annoying Budweiser-guzzling hillbillies who have a tendency to shatter windows. The film cuts from one character to the next as they progress through the race, and that's your basic plot there.As for the comedy, it's very dated at times. Some works, but most feel like a joke to show how obnoxious some drivers can be while racing. There is a fair dose of cheese in there, especially when DeLuise becomes his alter-ego- which is, ummm, not that funny! Other parts are pretty funny, such as the use of Chan, Moore and particularly, Elam as the wacky doctor! All in all, it's fairly decent schlock! 'The Cannonball Run' doesn't really stand the test of time very well compared to other 80s vehicles, but at least we know the mustache was in full force back then. Jack Elam- an actor I'd never really heard of- is the best thing here, and it was good to see Chan show off his stuff to Western audiences. I noticed the Good Year product placement a little too much, and there was some wayward jokes that wouldn't be tolerated in comedies these days, such as some racial slurs. However, not to be taken too seriously in a film where cars are just as crucial to the story as the drivers. Great end credit sequence with some funny out-takes. Not essential 80s viewing, but you can forgive its enthusiasm for fast cars and silly comedy due to its time.*** out of *****! "},{"Title":"A rip-roaring good time!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I think when movies are rated, their intended purpose should be taken into consideration. The Cannonball Run was never intended to be an award winner or a highly artistic movie and thus should not be rated against such movies. What it sets out to do - just be a cross-country riot - it does beautifully! The movie has an amazing cast, and just about every interaction leaves me in stitches! And to the poster who commented on the censored versions - I totally agree. The movie loses its edge with the mild profanity cut out. When I tried to get this movie on VHS, I only found the edited version. However, the DVD I bought is the original movie. Just FYI, the original IS PG. The profanity level is not high enough to be rated R. The other version, which for some reason was the only one I could find on VHS, was a made for TV movie, so even the mild profanity was cut. "},{"Title":"The Mother of all road trips!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Burt Reynolds, Hal Needham and crew capitalized on the success of the first two Bandit movies, threw in some hot babes along with recognizable stars for a blast of a film. Who needs plot with all the eye candy? Also, you can tell that everyone on screen's having a blast doing this movie which adds to its enjoyability. Having the original Rat Pack reunite in these films perhaps signaled a passing of the torch to the new Rat Packers of that time, lead by Burt Reynolds. Being from Pittsburgh, Terry Bradshaw's involvement fueled his fan support as this was made after he won his fourth Super Bowl. This movie inspired my friends and I to take off on two cross country road trips. Although we could not find any spandex Lamborghini babes we almost had as much fun as these guys! "},{"Title":"Lots of fun and major nostalgia - a real blast!","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I was only a kid when this movie came out and it made a real impression on me. I already thought that Burt Reynolds was just about the coolest dude around (I wanted his black Trans Am so badly!) so the chances were pretty high that I would like it regardless of whether it was a good film or not. I ended up recording a copy off TV and pretty much burned out the tape watching the flick over and over again (Cannonball Run II as well). As I recently prepared to watch the film for the first time as an adult, I was a bit concerned that it wouldn't stand up to the high acclaim I had awarded it as a kid...particularly after noting the poor rating it has here on IMDb. Nevertheless, as I kicked back and turned it on I was immediately giddy with the initial scene of the Lamborghini chicks really putting the machine through the gears. While the humour is admittedly silly, that is what the movie is about - it's a silly but extremely entertaining movie with hot 80s chicks and fast cars. If you want to catch a fun movie with major nostalgia - take the Cannonball Run for a test drive! Don't let the ratings here turn you off, this movie is a blast. "},{"Title":"It doesn't pretend to be anything other than it is...","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Which is to say, it's not high art and doesn't pretend to be. This film is like McDonald's. You know the food isn't going to be all that great and it isn't going to be good for you, but you still leave satisfied. The Cannonball Run is pure entertainment and, in the end, isn't that all you really want in a film is to be entertained? If you want a film to change the world then keep sending Michael Moore your money. this film is about star power, laughs, and car chases. Most of all, look at the fun the cast is having. It clearly shows on screen that the whole cast is having a blast and nobody is taking anything too seriously. If you have any doubts, just watch the bloopers that run during the closing credits to see how much fun they had. If you doubt me, I'll have to stick these rosary bleeds up your nose. "},{"Title":"Popcorn Fun!","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This may not be the greatest film ever made but it is certainly entertaining. Every once and a while this little gem shows up on late night TV and it's still fun to watch. Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise were by far the best comic duo in their day and the supporting cast is equally enjoyable. Roger Moore spoofs his own 007 image to outrageous levels; Jamie Farr is downright hilarious as The Sheik; Dean Martin and Sammy Davis, Jr. play the perfect pair of disguised, perverted priests; and of course, this was back in the day when Farrah Fawcett was substantial eye candy.If anything, women should find this film delightfully amusing, considering that it repeatedly mocks the whole male machismo angle men obsessed with beer, women and speed that spend all of ninety minutes trying to see who is faster, who gets the girl and who has the bigger (put your own thoughts here) when all is said and done.It's more or less an extended version of Smokey and the Bandit hot shot speed demons trying to stay one step ahead of the law and dish out one-liners while shamelessly advertising Budweiser along the way.If anything, the outtakes at the end are worth sitting through the movie to see. Clearly the cast had a lot of fun making this film and it shows on screen. So just sit back with the popcorn and shut off your brain for a while...it's a therapeutic necessity. "},{"Title":"3, 2, 1, Go!!!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" A wide variety of race competitors participate in a wild and illegal cross-country car race, one of the best of the all-star comedy chase movies. The drive they make is 3000 miles going from New Jersey to California and the cops are waiting to bust the Cannonballers at every turn. Let The Race Begin! All scores are out of a possible 10 Story 6 - Its several stories with no real background, but very fun concept of everyone meeting up.Acting 5 - Everyone is way over confident, yet slick and cool about why they're here for the race. Some shining moments have to be Roger Moore playing his James Bond part perfectly, regardless that its a totally different movie.Music 3 - Nothing real catchy, but there is a funny Japanese jingle whenever Jackie Chan's scenes come up.Sound Mix 3- Also not too impressive. The crazy doctor appearing gives a quick pipe organ sound whenever he appears, and all of the cars are revving with speed in it.Camera-work / Lighting 5 - Chase scenes get pretty intense though you can predict what will happen. Some good aerial shots showing how close the cars get and long jumps over obstacles take place.Editing 6 - Pretty easy to follow along with each character's scenario, but again there's a LOT of main characters so it gets a bit confusing on who's winning the race.Uniqueness 7 - Rat Race, Cannonball Run 2, and others... this WAS the original so it was fine at its time. Now its just overdone.Worth 7 - Definitely worth watching. its an all time classic. its just two decades old.Overall Score (Not an average) 7 - Worth watching. The sheer amount of 70's/ Early 80's stars makes it likable for anyone really. Its got a lot of quick funny bits and who doesn't love Burt Reynolds?! Reviewer's Insight (Including bias) This event actually takes place in Europe! I really liked the way that every actor meets up with one another and everyone gets involved. Jackie Chan has a decent role in here too, with Fight Scene! "},{"Title":"Better than it's namesake, by far.","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" A lot of people don't seem to realize that this movie is obviously taken from Cannonball in 1971 starring David Carradine as a 70's good guy.... He was framed for a crime, etc. etc., then races across country to get back on the right track.I absolutely love this movie, it was one of the earlier films I remember watching over and over. All the way from Jackie Chan, who doesn't have to speak much in order to give laughs and smiles, to Roger Moore, making fun of himself as a Secret Agent. Even Dom Delouise, in his usual fervor. All fantastic, all the time.Fabulous, and sad to think this generation probably has no idea about it, or Mad,Mad,Mad,Mad World.. "},{"Title":"Hello, Jay Jay!","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  What? If you're expecting a serious comedy, then you will undoubtedly be disappointed.As far as comic-book characterisation and 80's chic go, this film is perfectly tongue-in-cheek.The chemistry between Jay Jay and Chaos is superb... still funny well into the 2000's.In line with a ream of other comedies of its time (Planes, Trains and Automobiles, Trading Places and Spies Like Us - all SNL spawned classics) and superior in its way to all clones made since.Que the music - tan-,tan-,taaaah!!! "},{"Title":"Decent movie for a lazy afternoon","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is an enjoyable movie as long as you aren't expecting much. It's got it's moments, some you'll laugh at, and some you'll shake your head at. But all in all not a bad way to spend your time on a lazy afternoon. And the director should thank Jack Elam, without him this movie would have lost over half of it's laughs. "}{"Title":"great comedy","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This was a funny movie.  Maybe it didn't have the best plot or most money used, but it was all comedy.  Captain Chaos was one of them.  It was just a good relaxed movie.  Everybody in the movie were okay.  It's almost like slapstick comedy.  Pretty good. "},{"Title":"We're trying to win a race, not set a record!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I actually saw CANNONBALL RUN 2 before I saw the first movie. I must say I preferred CR2 more than this first film, but this film still has greatmoments. Most of the celebrities were a little unfamiliar to me as I'm a non-American, but I still enjoyed the whole race. There's a bunch of cool vehicles in this picture and the drivers are a bunch of lovable eccentrics whose adventures we follow throughout the story.The Cannonball Run is an illegal race from Conneticut to California, with a $1 million prize to the winner. The film focuses on this contest and the various competitors in the race. Our main characters are Burt Reynolds as J.J. McClure and Dom DeLuise as his schizophrenic partner Victor. At times Victor dons a mask and becomes Captain Chaos, a would-be superhero and great race driver to boot. J.J., however, gets aggravated whenever Victor becomes 'Him'. These two enter the contest with a ambulance, pretending to be eccentric millionaires who go around helping people. They complete their disguise with a freakish doctor and a patient in the form of airheaded tree-hugger Farrah Fawcett, whom they hoodwink into coming with them. The other racers are a colourful bunch. They include Sammy Davis Jnr. and Dean Martin as a pair of unsavoury characters disguised as priests, a Roger Moore look-alike (played by Roger Moore) who likes to pretend that he IS Roger Moore, a crazy Arab shiek, a pair of jumpsuit-clad ladies who use their 'charms' to get out of trouble with the police (schwing!), a motorcycle tycoon and his overweight assistant, and a pair of Japanese racers in a computerised sports car. All of these guys get up to assorted mischief on the race. Meanwhile, National Safety Council jerk George Furth tries to do everything within his power to stop the race.The performances are reasonably good. But Burt Reynolds is a jerk for most of it (he's always giving Dom a hard time), and Farrah Fawcett is such a space cadet that it's unbelievable. DeLuise is lovable as Victor and his alter-ego Captain Chaos. Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman are both pretty good as the cunning Jill and Marcie, but I personally preferred Susan Anton and Catherine Bach who played these characters in the second movie. The others all do pretty well, but the Roger Moore joke got really old really fast. The car action is enjoyable, but the fist fight near the end is rather gratuitous (well considering the director was a stuntman, it makes sense why he'd want a big fight, and is is staged rather well, but maybe the film could have done without it.). Anyway, as I said before, I enjoyed CR2 more, but this film is still worth a look in. "},{"Title":"Still A Fun Movie","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I saw this when i was 10 and i liked the movie.now as a adult i get the more adult humour.the cast list is as big as any all star cast.and most were at the height of there careers.the Stunts are first rate.if this was made now it would be fake cgi,instead of death defying stunt work. shame.by the end of the film it seems everyone had a party making this and that sense of fun translates to the screen. "},{"Title":"A very funny film, laugh-a-minute!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Cannonball Run...one of the funniest films of all time!  I dare say that this ranks 2nd to Caddyshack as far as funny goes.  Featuring one of my favorite (and most funniest) movie characters ever...HIM!  A must-see for moviegoers, Burt Reynolds is great, Sammy Davis, Jr. and Dean Martin are hilarious, and Roger Moore is very funny.  Rent it at your local video store! "},{"Title":"One of my childhood favourites.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't know why this film makes me laugh. I really don't. Did I, I'd tell you! I would!! But I can't. I can't defend this immoral film about a crazy bunch of speeders, razing across America in pursuit of... fun!! There's nothing to it, but a great cast from the 80's and a lot of good-willed humour. (That and some BADLY filmed fighting, by a young Jackie Chan).If you like Police Academy, you're gonna love this one! Honest!I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, and easy on the brain...","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I remember exactly when I saw this movie. I was at one of those dollar theatres that would show a bunch of movies that had already made the rounds and I had just paid to see Bad News Bears - Breaking Training... I could only watch it for about 5 minutes and it was soooooooo bad I was having trouble keeping my popcorn down. So rather than ask for my dollar back, I just got up and walked into the movie they were screening next door. I wanted someone to stop me so I could tell them how bad the Bad News Bears movie was but no one did. So that is how I found myself in the movie The Cannonball Run... It was really funny and I was delighted to have stumbled upon it. I really hate bathroom humor but the proctologist in the ambulance really cracked me up when he put his finger out when being told he would have to examine a patient. I would recommend this movie to everyone, but males will probably enjoy it more.   "},{"Title":"Great Cars","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The movie on the whole is not very good, but if you like fast cars and great stunts, enjoy!  Burt and Dom have a chemistry that seems to generate laughs from their work on The End?  and the sequel to this movie.  I did like the Roger Moore acting as 007 reference.   "},{"Title":"A mad-capped star-studded laughromp of a race movie.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Made in the hey day of the car chase/race movie craze, Cannonball Run is not only filled with a cast that can be immortalized as 80's stars, but has enough car stunts to please any Smokey and the Bandit fan. The premise is simple and the characters are so outrageous that only in a movie like this could they exist. No thinking is required to view this film, just sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"You know what I like best about trees?","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" All-star comedy about assorted characters competing in a cross-country race. The main stars are Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise. But the cast is full of Burt's friends, as well as the likes of Roger Moore, Jackie Chan, Peter Fonda, Dean Martin, and Sammy Davis, Jr. Of those, only Roger Moore is fun. The best part of the film is Adrienne Boom Boom Barbeau's cleavage. I also love the Valerie Perrine cameo. Farrah Fawcett is Burt's love interest and her nipples are erect throughout the whole movie. She wears no bra, of course, which she was known for back then. Every time they have a tender scene, Farrah's headlights are on bright and you can't help but giggle or drool or a combination of the two. Her tree fascination is pretty cute stuff, though.It's painfully unfunny at times, especially when DeLuise is doing his thing. His thing, by the way, is being the unfunniest person on the planet. I know Burt thought he was hilarious. I also know Burt had a drug problem back then that no doubt colored his judgment. It does get better as it goes along but never rises above passable. Also worth mentioning is that several of the participants in this race drink (a lot) and drive. Doubtful that would happen today in a frivolous movie like this. I guess this is one case of times changing for the better. "},{"Title":"Mindless crashing","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I did not watch all the movie. It had a lot of actors in it but I did not think it was funny.All you see in the beginning is people crashing the cars and motorcycles they want to race. What a mess.They seemed to use religion in it to make fun of different religions. Sammy Davis Jr I believe turn to the Jewish faith during his life and in the picture he holds up the Star of David but is was not in a respectful scene which it was used as a gimmick in the place where they were.Later him and Dean Martin who looked like an old drunk were dressed as Priest.They were betting on a horse and they acted really stupid. The story goes on and then it make fun of another religion I think Islam, I am not sure.When Dean Martin started swearing and dressed as a Priest he used God D m I stopped watching the movie. I alway thought he was a drunk but I found this so offensive I could not watch the rest.Lots of stars but no talent. Don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"Fast, Furious and Funny!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" One of the most madcap action comedies of all time is The Cannonball Run. In it, star Burt Reynolds and director Hal Needham are reunited after their stunt-rich classic Smokey and the Bandit. The rest of the cast boasts many names such as Dom DeLuise, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis, Jr., Jackie Chan, Terry Bradshaw, Adrienne Barbeau, Peter Fonda and Farrah Fawcett. The story follows everyone on a mad dash across the country in the infamous Cannonball Run, an insane (and illegal) race from the East Coast to the West. Lots of the humor is lowbrow, but it will still make you laugh. The quintessential character of this story has to be DeLuise's alter ego Captain Chaos, since the movie is pure chaos itself. The Cannonball Run is a nice mix of adrenaline and laughs! "},{"Title":"The Cannonball Run RATED R VERSION","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Does anyone know why all the DVD/VHS versions are rated PG?! I bought this movie on DVD (have it on VHS, rated R) and began watching it...After a minute or so I knew something was wrong. Checked the back of the box and it was PG! The 'R' version is HILARIOUS, and the 'PG' SUCKS! There are too many instances to count. The only difference is copious amounts of swearing, but it makes the movie SO much more enjoyable/funny.Nice car father...Thank you a$$hole. Or the PG Nice car father...Thank you very much. <---A LITTLE different. I can't see sh/t can you?! No problem man no problem! PG-I hope you can see more than me... WTF?! I'm not going to list all the differences, but they are major. Anyone know where I can get the R version on DVD?! My VHS copy has seen better days, but I refuse to watch anything but the R version. Any help would be vastly appreciated. "},{"Title":"A wonderful entertaining display of money over content","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Ok so this film was never going to win any awards. It was never going to stand out in history as an all time classic. In fact I doubt if it will ever even become a cult classic. It is however highly entertaining twaddle made with the intention of making money and having fun. And to that extent it works. "},{"Title":"Wild and Fun","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film is for those who just want to have a little fun. By no means am I saying this is a comic treasure, but with a cast like this, and the antics you see on screen, make The Cannonball Run pure fun. Love the performances by Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr. and Adrienne Barbeau. "},{"Title":"That's Okay JJ -- I always wanted to be ... Captain USA!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Anyone who cannot enjoy the madcap antics of Victor and JJ should check their pulse to make sure they're still alive. Dom DeLuise at his finest. He captures the shy and loyal Victor and then instantly can transition to the bold and Courageous Chaos without missing a beat. What an actor! Stand up Mr. DeLuise -- you deserve it! "},{"Title":"You were expecting maybe Citizen Kane?","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film wasn't meant to win Academy Awards or Golden Palms; it was made for one and only one purpose -- to make money for Hal Needham and 20th Century-Fox.  The plot, such as it is, can be summed up as drive neat cars across the country as fast as you can, and the cast was obviously handpicked (a) to be funny and (b) to be as recognizable (read marketable) as possible.In short, it was meant to be FUN!  Obviously, they got it right.Set in the late 1970s, when the double nickle speed limit was still in effect (and almost universally ignored ;^P), and based loosely on an actual event (the Cannonball Roberts Memorial Trophy Dash), this movie was designed to appeal to all the wannabe race drivers and other assorted leadfoots in America.  After all, who wouldn't love to take a high-performance car and open it up, just *once*, to see what it could do? Even today, it's still a major-league hoot!So, get the tape or the DVD ready, grab a couple cans of your favorite beverage and a bag of snack chips, and settle back in the Laz-Z-Boy.  If you have the time, make it a double (or triple) feature by screening Cannonball Run II and The Gumball Rally as well.Gentlemen, start your engines! "},{"Title":"One of the greats!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie should be rated up there with the greats; Citizen Kane, Casablanca, The Godfather, Goddfe...... no, I'm just kidding.  This movie is very poor, but is can be enjoyable in a slapstick sort of way.  It's nice to see Sammy and Dino together, and there is an all-star, unusual cast.  is this the first American film with Jackie Chan in it?   This movie received a rating of 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but entertaining","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  What can I say?  I have a soft spot for movies where the actors obviously were having a good time.  For me, it's contagious. If there is anything disappointing, it was the under-use of the over-the-top action possibilities of Jackie Chan.  Oh well.  I liked it when I was young and not too critical.  I like it now that I'm older--and quite critical--for the same reasons I did when I was young.  If it took itself seriously, it would be different.  Fortunately, it has no such pretentions. "},{"Title":"Overgrown buddy movie on wheels.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Here was another fuel-injected fun vehicle for Burt Reynolds, amongst a handful of action comedy flicks that proved ever popular in the early eighties. It has all the elements that make a good pop-corn action movie; mad-cap characters, wise-cracking side-kicks, a handful of suped-up cars, some T & A, and a stunt at every opportune moment. It also features a well chosen, mixed bunch of respected Hollywood stars of that time, a few sports personalities and some personal friends of the director, making the film appear like an overgrown (and at times a little self-indulgent) buddy movie on wheels.The chemistry amongst the cast is the film's obvious strong point. Reynolds and DeLuise play a perfect double act while the late Sammy Davis Jnr. and the positively paralytic Dean Martin (who appears almost completely drunk throughout the entire movie,) provide ample rivalry for Reynolds and co. to bounce off. Roger Moore hams things up as the rich playboy who actually thinks he is....Roger Moore!?! Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman supply sexual sizzle as the sly babe competitors, while Jack Elam's unbalanced proctologist is irresistibly funny and fits seamlessly into the cartoon comedy.Stunt wise the film has it's fair share, but none are particularly eye popping, and most gratuitously run of the mill. Even viewers accustomed with Jackie Chan's phenomenal fight scenes in other films will be a little let down by the performance here. Surprisingly for a race movie there is actually very little racing going on, and the scenes featured are usually just a few brief ones with the protagonists often getting the better of the local 'smokey's.' For car chases you'd be better off catching 'Mad Max,' 'Bullit,' or even 'The Blues Brothers.'The end of the day The Cannonball Run is more about the personalities taking part than the race itself and despite cruising along without anything vaguely resembling a script the film manages to score on both points, right up to the end titles and accompanying out-takes, which surprisingly contain some of the best gags of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Needham's Department","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  After the success of Smokey and the Bandit, director Hal Needham tried to capitalize on Reynolds' great screen persona by casting him alongside a mix of singers, models, foot ballers and a James Bond in a silly car chase film. Say what you may about it, it works! It's a heck of a lot of fun and the cast is enjoying themselves through the entire film. The  outakes are quite amusing as in DeLuise's campy role as Captain Chaos. It's an entertaining film for anyone that enjoys fast cars, quick laughs and some pretty ladies. This kind of film is Needham's speciality and it works just fine. "}{"Title":"What? I liked it.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I liked this movie the first time I saw it. Of course I was ten, but I still hold a fond place in my heart for this one. I dunno, I like the racing movie formula and this one took it to almost ludicrous proportions. Nowadays, when I can recognize bad movies, I still like it, but I recognize it for the crap it is. At least it's entertaining crap. Damn fine entertaining crap. "},{"Title":"Mediocre race movie","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Silly, insignificant and most of all forgettable screwball action/comedy; principally made to further cash in on the success of the Smokey & the Bandit movies with largely the same cast and crew. The concept is actually a complete rip-off of the obscure but totally awesome so-called 70's carsploitation classic Cannonball, directed by Paul Bartel and starring David Carradine. There's a bunch of eccentric people participating in an illegally organized cross-country race from to New York to California. That's pretty much everything. The rest of the film jumps back and forth between the large variety of characters and their crazy encounters along the way. The main polestars are macho man J.J. McClure (star Burt Reynolds) in his ambulance, his jolly chubby sidekick who transforms into superhero Captain Chaos, two heavy-drinking gamblers dressed up as priests in a Ferrari, a spoiled rich boy convinced he's Roger Moore and two voluptuous babes in a Lamborghini. Cannonball Run was probably the most fun to make and (re-)watch for all the major stars involved. They're clearly having a terrific time hanging out with each other, both in front and behind the camera. The list of famous names is impressive, with apart from Reynolds and Moore also Farrah Fawcett, Dom DeLuise, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Jackie Chan, Adrienne Barbeau and Peter Fonda. They're enjoying themselves, but it's not like they're giving away great performances. The only fantastic performance comes from Jack Elam as the totally deranged and crazy-eyed doctor Van Helsing. The film contains a disappointingly small amount of car stunts and/or action sequences. The aforementioned Cannonball is a lot better, also because it features more sarcasm and black humor whereas this film continuously remains politically correct. "},{"Title":"Sheer Mad-cap Brilliance","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I remember watching Cannonball run when i was just a child, the opening sequence with the black Lamborghini simply blew me away, and i have loved that car every since. That sequence simply sets the tone for the rest of the film.OK so it's dated now, and probably isn't very appealing to todays generation, but this is the original road movie epic and is crammed full of cheesy gags, road rage, fights, great characters, sexy women, sexy cars, and even the odd super hero (Dun Dun Darr - it's Captain Chaos) Oh i forgot to mention the all star cast - Burt Reynolds, Dom Deluise, Farrah Fawcett, Roger Moore, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jnr, Jackie Chan; Oh! Sod it there's too many to name, just watch it and see for yourself.Terrific Fun 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Cannonball Will Fall To The Forces Of Islam !","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Cannonball Run is an east to west coast across America illegal road race, and racing-driver J.J. McClure and his sidekick Victor are out to win in an ambulance. Can they beat the motley group of reprobates competing, and will killjoy Senator Hoyt spoil their fun ?Needham and Reynolds made six big-budget race-car movies in the seventies and eighties, all of which are dumb but fun, and I think this one (which came between Smokey And The Bandit II and Stroker Ace) is probably the best. It starts off with a dynamite title sequence featuring a Lamborghini Diablo, has some nice songs and stunts, is filled with enough screwy characters and shamelessly mugging stars to keep you amused, and almost never tries to be anything but a big joke. I like the way these pictures, in a politically-correct and environmentally-conscious age, are gloriously offensive, as out of date as Fawcett's huge sunglasses. The chief attractions are the cars (a Ferrari, an Aston Martin, a futuristic Subaru, a Rolls Royce and several others) and the large cast; DeLuise is terrific, Chan does some groovy stuff, and don't miss the scene where an unbilled Valerie Perrine out-cleavages honeys Barbeau and Buckman. Personally, I prefer Paul Bartel's earlier, wackier Cannonball, but this is still good-natured fun with a bunch of drunken good ol' boys driving recklessly. Oddly, despite being all-American nonsense, this movie was financed by the Hong Kong-based Golden Harvest film company. Written by Brock Yates, the architect of a real version of the race in the early seventies, who has a small role as the race organiser. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but really stupid","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I'll confess that there were a few times when I laughed while watching this film, as much as I hate to admit that fact.  Nevertheless, this film is about as brainless and plotless as major motion pictures can get.  Most of the jokes land hard with a thud, and the racing scenes are standard at best. It is a mildly amusing distraction, but let's face it, you can do MUCH better than this if you're looking for a good time.  Watch only if you have the need to see an enormous bunch of talent being pitifully wasted. "},{"Title":"102 Octaine hilarity","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Starring Burt Reynolds and company. I couldn't agree more that Burt is at the top of his game. He had the best 'laugh', in Cannon Ball Run. Whenever J.J. and Victor ( Reynolds and Delouise ) would get into it and be crackin' -up, everyone else would too. Now here is the original, we are all on strike (The actors) and this is where we are gonna hang out and party while being in this movie! The actor's strike, what an uprising! This is one of those non ' Politically correct.' you gotta love this one, type of movie. Jackie Chan in his early days before many knew who or even what he was....talented. From Roger Moore, playing himself, (no identity crisis there) you gotta love him, to the tree loving-Farrah Fawcett and her new beau, the 'Wild Bull' marching on Washington D.C. to ban the sale of colored toilet paper, due to irritation! But the best being, all the speed hungry degenerates looking to qualify and get into the race. The major major running cross-country from sea to shining sea, in the shortest amount of time. The cast is heavily-packed with old-school 'giants', that came together and made the race more fun altogether. Two priests in a Ferrari 308. An English agent in an Astin Martin. A big man and a suave guy with a crazy-eyed doctor in an ambulance, along with a female -hostage passenger from an auto wreck, to an all female team in a black Lamborgini, that can get to a sailing pace of 220 miles per hour! Whoa. A Japanese racing team with night scope glasses and a rocket powered Subaru. This band of un-policed road-range nuts are out in full force and flying down the highway!! If you catch a glimpse I'm sure it will be accompanied by a deranged smile. Forget Jimmy Carter and sky-rocketing gas prices, this feature delivers more laughs per mile than a hybrid gets good mileageIn the whole simple plot-based laugh road rally, this is a fun and intoxicated comedy for the undiscriminating comedy viewer. The fun and hilarity is infectious!! The actors, since being in the middle of the actor's strike, had time to hang out and through-out the movie you see the uninhibited lunacy that putting all these personalities together, with a lot of alcohol will do. Then at the end credits its role 'Bloopers' more enjoyment with the ones who couldn't keep their lines straight! This is a staple comedic kill the 55' mile per hour speed limit and blow away the other racer out and out good time! A classic for decades to come. Sheer madness, but all in good company!Recommended, oh yeah... ()***() "},{"Title":"Sickening unfunny - a stain on the medium of film","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I was looking for a good 'car' movie at the video store when this caught my eye. The cast, writer and concept promised so much.I am disgusted.This movie makes me want to break things in my revulsion.I utterly hate it.A car chase comedy without jokes or car chases (or even any cars travelling at high speed, all that is done with sped-up camera work) is pointless. When it is executed this badly it could make impressionable types suicidal.The only reason I got the whole way through was the paralysing horror of the film rooted me to the couch. I was awestruck at the ineptitude of the humour and directing.For a movie about a cross country car race (an inherently exciting idea, I think) the plot revolves almost entirely around people sitting about in dingy gas stations and car-parks talking about racing.The humour is so broad and poorly written you could plant a flag on it and claim it as sovereign territory of laziness.This film made me angry, it made me hate, it fills me with rage. Show it to the Hulk and his shade of green would be so dark it'd be black.The only thing that could have made this worse is CGI.I am too enraged at the hideous abortion of a film that this is to write anymore. I am going out now to buy a copy and then I will torture it.The worst abuse ever committed to any media be it prose, poetry, film or music. "},{"Title":"Something to pass the time","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" If you're coming to this movie as an auto enthusiast interested in the coast-to-coast car race, the real life event that inspired this movie, expect to be mildly disappointed. This film, a decent comedy, doesn't zero in on the cars so much themselves or the geography and distance of the race or the test of endurance the competitors are about to go through. Nope. Instead, this film zeroes in on the bizarre characters undertaking that race. To be sure, there are some rather funny characters in the movie -- and rather brainless ones. But don't expect to come away having witnessed a good race movie; this is standard comedy. I kept wanting to know where the drivers WERE locationally and a good bit in to the movie after the race has begun we find out they are in New Jersey (though you never see a coast). A few minutes later, then, we see The Arch of St. Louis. But parts of the movie are rather refreshing, specifically the fact that individual relations between men and women don't end up in fornication or scenes of gratuitous nudity. In that sense, the men and women are respected for who they are. Made in 1981 and lasting about an hour and a half, this movie operates as something to pass the time, especially in certain quiet days of the year, like those hours of solitude leading up to Christmas Day. "},{"Title":"funny movie !","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  OK for those of you people who saw this movie when you were 12..i would not expect you do like it because its mostly adult humor..if you are under 17 don't see it , i highly doubt you will find it funny, thats number one...number two for those of you who always want a genuine plot in movie then go read a book or a novel..sometimes people just want to be entertained OK!, now enough schooling as i find myself usually doing ...sorry just hate people with no sense of humor or intellect , this movie was great in the sense that the screen chemistry was great all the way through ..there was burt reynolds who in my opinion this was his best movie..next too smokey and the bandit...dean martin and sammy davis jr. were both very good together and jack elam who played the not so sane doc!! was especially funny...anyone who likes a fun ride of a movie and lots of different actors with funny lines(not cheesy) go see this if you are over 17 i would pretty much guarantee you will enjoy this film....people in there late 20's or mid 30's will LOVE IT!!!..........8 OUT OF 10 ....  "},{"Title":"Running on Empty.","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Seemingly every big name actor and celebrity of the time period was brought together for this demolition derby-styled dud. Burt Reynolds, Dom DeLuise, Farrah Fawcett and Jack Elam lead the way as cross-country automobile racers trying to beat countless others to the finish line. Dumb, overblown, stupid mess that those with short attention spans will eat up wholeheartedly. Another case of so much talent being put in for such an empty production. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "}{"Title":"Which one is the blooper?","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  There are three things which stand out to me.  The first is, as has already been mentioned, there is a huge continuity gap at the conclusion.  Since each racer has a punch card, why was there a footrace at the end, as if the first one to reach the clock would win?  Secondly, Jackie Chan's character is supposed to be Japanese, so why does he speak Chinese in all his parts? This becomes most absurd when he's on the talk show and the host speaks Japanese to him.  Jackie answers in Cantonese as if they're actually carrying on a conversation!  Later, during night scenes where the viewer can't see Jackie's mouth, they repeat the same audio track over two different scenes.  Thirdly, watch the end very carefully.  When Dom DeLuise comes up with the Capt. USA mask, there is much laughter and mirth; Burt Reynolds moves in and hugs DeLuise.  Yet later, we see that that scrap of film was culled from one of the bloopers!  They just changed the audio track and spliced it in.I don't know, this remains one of the more pleasureable of my guilty pleasures.  If you don't need attitude in your entertainment, then this bit of fluff is wholesome distraction.  From the Chuck Mangione-esque theme song to the CB culture, it doesn't get much mellower than this.  "},{"Title":"Very silly, but fun movie.","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Cannonball Run is basically the movie version of that old classic cartoon Wacky Races. Its packed with stars, Burt Reynolds, Roger Moore, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis JR, Farrah Fawcett and even Jackie Chan! Its fun to watch but little or no effort has been made in trying to put some kind of plot into the film. Roger Moore sends up his James Bond character so much I'm surprised the Broccoli's let him make another one! He even drives around in the Aston Martin from Goldfinger which was a Sean Connery Bond film! It would have made more sense to have him drive the Lotus Esprit from The Spy Who Loved Me, but then I'm probably putting more thought into the film than they were.  This was Jackie Chans first American film, in an interview I seen him do once he complained that they never let him bring any of his own stunt guys over from Hong Kong to make the fights faster, plus they made him fight on sand which he says makes it much harder to stage some impressive action.As for Burt Reynolds he's simply coasting along, just being well...himself really, this was probaby one of his last major hit films, if you want to see what a terrific actor he can be check out Deliverance.The car stunts are pretty good though and Dean Martin and Sammy Davis JR make a very funny pair, Jack Elam's brilliant as a mad Doctor. Plus Farrah Fawcett and Adrien Barbeau look fantastic! So my advice is get a few beers in and switch your brain off if you want to enjoy this movie. *5/10*  "},{"Title":"The Cannonball Run 6/10","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Cannonballers. A person who participates in the annual race called `The Cannonball Run'. The Cannonball Run is one of the annual movies that is broadly funny with a whole slough of stars.One pair of two is J.J. and Victor (Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise), a bumbling pack of two who use an ambulance for this cross-country race. This means they need a patient, so they kidnap Pamela (Farrah Fawcett). Other pairs include Sammy Davis, Jr. and Dean Martin as priests, Roger Moore as a James Bond type character, and Jamie Farr as a Shiek. Obviously there's not much plot, so just go along with the flow.Constantly throughout this movie, I was reminded of It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World, with groups going on a wild chase through the country, except this time it's not hidden under a big `dubya'. I laughed quite a bit, but I wish they were lingering and the plot more sustaining. I wasn't expecting more than this, which I guess is good.Movies like this don't require much talking about, so I won't. See it if you want a mildly funny ride, but if you are looking for a hilarious, meaningful film, skip this one.My rating 6/10Rated PG for language and destructive behavior. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good. Yeah, it's one of those films.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Where do I start? Oh, boy.This is worse than Plan 9 from Outer Space. At least Ed Wood was quite frank about not having enough money for a decent film, yet he attempted on doing exactly that. He failed miserably.Cannonball Run is quite frank about having enough money to make a decent film, and not even trying to do so, generating so many laughs in the process, it's kinda excusable.It lacks everything. Character development. A strong plotline. Well crafted humor. Nice racing sequences. Yet it's a sweet failure, just because it's so bad, yet so true, you can't do anything except watch in amazement and say I can't believe it.What am I talking about? Well, remember the ambulance incident? It's true. It actually happened. Yes, it did happen to Brock Yates, his wife and director Hal Needham. They entered the race in the ambulance, they were stopped in New Jersey, and the dialogue is shown in the film (with a bit of artistic license, of course).Remember the guy who rammed the entrance of the hotel? Well, the character is based on a real guy who did ram walls in order to get to the highways faster than the rest. And he did ask at the hotel he stayed, Where are the w____s at?Watch it while knowing many things are based on fact, and you will see the movie is so bad, you can't help but wonder how on earth this race could have been run for 5 years.It's good. "},{"Title":"Cannon BOLLUX Run, more like it.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" ...Not enough testorogene in the house, then get some of the most infantile kind with this ... Cannon Bollux Run. See Middle Aged Menapausal Men, way way past their peak drive big metallic symbols really fast. Gosh, I spent most of the time actually watching the other punters in the South London dive where I saw this with my (then closet) buddy. The 'Phooorrrr' and the 'Corrrrrr, some of that' kept on a coming as Sappy Studs like Burt and Roger  (double Oh - Blank) go from 0 to 70 in a second or two. While watching the Lads in the cinema get into it I wondered if maybe, I did not have such a huge massive cock I would be able to get down and into it with the others. "},{"Title":"Valerie, Adrienne, and the movie go bust","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Big-bust enthusiasts will greatly appreciate Adrienne Barbeau's mostly-unzipped outfit, and a nifty cameo by Valerie Perrine as the only cop who slows her down. (Since the movie is rated only PG, it skips the obvious next step in the Perrine-Barbeau fantasy, in which Adrienne would use more dramatic measures to worm her way out of a ticket.) The rest of the movie plays like a car-crash version of The Love Boat, in which aging stars amuse themselves with supposedly hysterical cameos. (Aging Rat Packers Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. scrape the bottom of the barrel as bogus priests.) Why do the bustiest stars always appear in the wor "},{"Title":"The Wink","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Yes I actually chose to see this. Its a mess of a movie, mere life filler from a period where cars could be characters.The idea was the allow the episodic to become extremely fine grained, and to shift things so quickly that if one thing wasn't amusing, there was always something else around the corner before you could develop impatience. (This was when that lag time was longer than now.)I watched it because Burt Reynolds is a fascinating actor. He really is a serious actor who mastered that notion of straddling the line between character and buddy of the audience. Clooney occupies this space now, Willis before him.I saw Reynolds recently in an amazing experimental film by Figgis, and also in the included footage, where he asks questions about where that line is supposed to be. (Answer you decide.) It reminded me that we once thought he would be an important actor.Watch him here. There is essentially no acting challenge, no real character or story. Watch how he fills the space. Its pretty interesting, possibly affected by what we know of his romance with Sally Field, another one in this category. Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"SOOOOOO BAD, THAT IT'S ALMOST...","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" ...GOOD, quoting one of the critic who wrote this sentence, before me. True, true...this movie has one of the worst scripts ever, the story filled with holes, terrible acting...I mean, boy oh boy, really, everything in this movie is so pathetic, but than, for this reason it can be quite funny. The only mentionable thing is an opening scene with one of the most beautiful cars in the world and some nice ladies in it. Though, too bad, that the crew didn't produce a better movie. I mean, who wouldn't like to watch an illegal race with a super sport cars, based on the truth story. The plot is great, just waiting for the right producer to make it into a successful movie. I couldn't imagine why I liked this movie back in the 80's, when i was a kid (maybe, because I WAS a kid), but now, well I guess it's an icon between pathetic movies and because of that it deserves more than one star.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A genuinely bland movie","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I was honestly very disappointed with this movie. I kept hearing from my fellow co-workers about how AWESOME this movie was and were amazed that I had never seen it. You HAVE to see this movie, they chanted. So I did.Other than seeing a lot of Bond movies with Roger Moore, and Jackie Chan of more recent times, most of the big name actors in this movie never really appealed to me that much. I never cared much for Smokey and the Bandit movies, for instance. Maybe I just didn't have the emotional attachment to the actor's reputations that apparently a lot of people have.With all that in mind, I instead watched the movie hoping for a fantastic movie that stands on its own merit instead of riding the coattails of a bunch of (mostly) washed-up actors. Unfortunately, this comedy had no sense of comedic timing, the slapstick was poor, the gags were not funny, none of the jokes are original or particularly funny, and there was never any real likable characters (except maybe the cross-eyed doctor) in my view.Why anyone would think this was anything but an expose' of once popular Hollywood talent is beyond me. I was able to watch this movie all the way through, which is saying something. However I just kept waiting for the entertainment that never materialized before the end of the movie.I give it half a star. "},{"Title":"Dun Dun daaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I loved this film. It was very cool and the fight scene entertained me more than anything and with Jackie Chan being in the movie just made it better. the car chases were cool and so were the out takes at the end. Overall I'd give it 8 out of 10. Weldone Hal Needham. "}{"Title":"Painful to watch.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Absolutely horrible. At first I though a team of monkeys had written the script. Then I realized that there probably never was a script.  Very painful to sit through.  A bunch of stars spout off some unfunny lines which are made even worse by downright awful comedic timing and editing. You do get to see a little of Jackie Chan doing some kung fu fighting.  Other than that the outtakes during the end credits is the only entertaining portion of the film. "},{"Title":"Dated, unfunny, boring and offensive","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" If you took Death Race 2000, took out all of the blood, all of the nudity, made it unfunny, boring and only had the racing begin halfway through the film you would have a pretty awful movie. Well, 1981 brought us just that! The Canonball Run, a lousy, offensive comedy that shows that just because the stars are having a good time, it doesn't mean that anyone else will. The film is about a cross-country car race across the United States, where teams of two or more racers compete for no prize at all besides bragging rights (how exciting!) The team we're supposed to be cheering for is J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) and the sidekick he has abused into submission, Victor Prinzim (Dom DeLuise). Every team has to have a strategy to avoid getting busted by the cops during this outlawed race so these guys come up with the actually pretty ingenious idea of empowering what looks like an ambulance with a powerful motor. Against the heroes are a slew of wacky racers, including Jackie Chan and Michael Hui as Japanese drivers with a high-tech car; Jamie Farr as an Arabian Sheik; Roger Moore as what is either himself, a Roger Moore impersonator, or a man named Seymour Goldfarb who is a secret agent, an assassin and a philanthropist who also acts in films under the pseudonym of Roger Moore; Dean Martin and Sammy Davis, Jr. as two drunks pretending to be catholic priests, two spandex-clad hotties who seduce their way through their speeding tickets (played by Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman) and more. Because J.J. is a nearly psychopathic horn-dog, he and his team also kidnap an airhead tree hugger they brainwash into calling herself Beauty along for the ride (Farrah Fawcett).This film was an absolute chore to watch. The film is extremely predictable and further hindering it is the fact that we do not see our titular characters race until 42 minutes into the movie. I've forgiven films for starting up slowly before because they were setting up a big story or developing the characters but everyone here is a one-joke paper cut-out that isn't the least bit exciting. Burt Reynolds is a player who always has one eye on the finish line and the other peering down the shirt of every girl in the vicinity. Dom DeLuise is an idiot with a split personality that we're supposed to love because he was a kind heart and is the constant butt of jokes. I hated the both of them... almost as much as Farrah Fawcett's character Beauty. She literally gets kidnapped, drugged and dragged across the United States against her will and barely protests. When her character is introduced, she's a total ditz, meant to be sexually ogled by the audience and the people in the film and it gets really old really quickly. At first, the film threw me for a loop. When she is introduced, she comes off as the kind of person who would be against an illegal car race because she's hanging out with some hippie stereotypes with sticks up their butts. I figured she would be somehow roped into joining the race and would argue with J.J. constantly until they inevitably fell in love. At least, (I thought to myself) she isn't a dumb, ditzy blonde that joined up with the level 3 vegan assembly without knowing what she was getting into. If that was the case, she would be too stupid to argue against J.J. and would, as the film goes along lose more and more clothing to make her an obvious sex object. Just a few scenes later and we can see her wearing a white sweatshirt and no bra underneath, ready to be fooled by the dumbest lies and convinced to abandon her name because of J.J.'s charms.Forget that the characters are bland and that the film is boring, the least it could do is be either funny or charming. It's neither. It plays like an inside joke between this group of friends that are having a great time and don't care who they are alienating. It's like everyone was having such a good time they didn't realize how downright offensive the movie gets. Take for example the introduction of the Japanese Team. They cast Jackie Chan, who is Chinese, as one of the racers. As for his girlfriend, the top movie star of Japan, she's clearly Philipino and is described as appearing in many Godzilla movies. We've got the broadest stereotype of Arabs in the form of the Sheik, several jabs at Jews and we're supposed to let it slide because these actors were having a good time? I rolled my eyes at the endless Roger Moore-James Bond references. We get it! You played 007! Can we move on? Yeah, Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman are attractive, but they don't do anything with these characters. I would have laughed hard at an obvious joke they SHOULD have done, which was see these two being held p for a half hour while a particularly frisky state trooper insisted on strip-searching them after they attempts at seducing him. That would have been clever though and there's nothing clever in this movie.I didn't absolutely loathe this film as much as I did say... Freddy Got Fingered but I cannot think of a single thing that was good about this movie. Some people would say the stunts and yeah, a couple of them are good but the terrible fight choreography edges that out. I found it unimaginative, offensive and worst of all completely boring. I cannot think of anyone I would ever recommend the film to so I have to be honest and give this film a 1 / 10. Don't watch it and stay away from the sequels, which I hear are even worse. (On DVD, May 8, 2014) "},{"Title":"What is this exactly?","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I believe I liked the Cannonball Run movies when I was younger because of the car stunts. There's no other reason to like this movie. The chemistry between Reynolds and DeLuise is good, it also has Jackie Chan,but why an adult would be entertained I have no idea. "},{"Title":"THE CANNONBALL RUN (Hal Needham, 1981) **","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is one of those films watched during my childhood days which, unfortunately, didn't now live up to my recollection of it; even if I knew it doesn't have a good reputation (despite the box-office success which spawned a sequel three years later), I still expected the film to be more entertaining than it proved to be! The film is said to rip-off THE GUMBALL RALLY (1976), which I haven't watched; ironically, I had intended to check it out for this Christmas season as well but its DVD is currently unavailable at my local rental outlet. Being only a little over one and a half hours in length, the narrative doesn't have enough time to adequately accommodate its roster of stars, all of whom seem to be there for the fun of it anyway a pity, therefore, that this sentiment isn't always transmitted to the audience! The cast is led by Burt Reynolds (a regular in ex-stuntman/director Needham's films &#150; having been also the star of the Smokey And The Bandit franchise), Dom De Luise (whose character has a superhero alter-ego named Captain Chaos &#150; one of the film's few inspired touches), Roger Moore (playing a man posing as Roger Moore and with the expected rampant nods to his James Bond image!) and Rat Packers Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. (who spend most of the time disguised as priests)! Also on hand is Jack Elam (as an eccentric doctor who likes to inject himself with whatever he's administering to his patients!), Jackie Chan (who manages to demonstrate a bit of his martial arts prowess but his scenes are otherwise among the dullest in the film), Jamie Farr (as an Arab sheik, whose role will eventually be expanded in the sequel), Peter Fonda (as the leader of a biker gang, what else?) and, of course, a number of women including Farrah Fawcett (who naturally hitches up with Reynolds) and Adrienne Barbeau (as one of two female competitors who don't think twice about using their generous cleavage to get ahead in the race). To be honest, having been a few days since I watched both films anew, their proceedings (and jokes) now seem not only interchangeable but have begun to fade in the memory; I do recall, however, that the race is finally won by the two sexy girls (after Captain Chaos is called upon for help just as he's about to tread the finishing line)! "},{"Title":"I Just really like one line","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  after a couple of interuptions Farrah finally gets to tell us why she loves trees. because you can lie under them at night, and look at the stars, and listen to the wind in the leaves, and ball your brains out! Other than that, who cares? "},{"Title":"Adriane Barbeau !!!!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A mere good natured romp? Not hardly my friend. Mr. Needham portrays the very essense of a restless post-Watergate, Vietnam, Anita Bryant, et al. America. The Land of Freedom sorely needed a laugh cavalcade-a bromo if you will to sooth our collective, disillusioned, gaseous belly. Plop plop fizz fizz... YES! our thirst was quenched, our churning acid soothed. Dean Martin! Sammy! Farrah! Terry Bradshaw WITH Mel Tillis!! Jamie Farr! Joe Klecko! Ray Milland! A young and strapping Jackie Chan! Adrianne Barbeau! Roger Moore and so many others!! Not to mention of course the legendary comedy duo of Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise (sp)!! Mr. Needham on behalf of a Grateful Nation we thank thee. How can one man give so much and yet ask for so little in return. A Kennedy Center Honor should lay in your future my friend! Sure we would have liked to have seen Lee Marvin, Connie Francis, Jerry Reed, Mean Joe Greene, and Jimmy Caan in Cannonball - maybe even that chimp from Every Which Way But Loose. Alas these are the stuff of lovely, lovely dreams. Like the song says... It's not what you do it's how you do it. You be you and I'll be me...     Just For the Hell of it Indeed. A big 10 out of 10 stars for this Good Natured Romp P.S. Bert Convey, Godspeed my man. You were an original. You will be missed! "},{"Title":"the first of two good movies!","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  the cannonball run is a funny movie, and some scenes are very funny. i like the second one a little better than this one though. What i can't understand is why people like this movie, but hate the second one. The second one has the same jokes, and everything. There's not much difference at all. I just think the jokes in the second one are slightly funnier. i give the cannonball run *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Major Actors Embarrassing Themselves","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Burt Reynolds, Dom DeLuise, Farrah Fawcett, Roger Moore, Sammy Davis, Jr., and other major actors gather in a movie as competitors in an illegal car race across the country. Sounds like fun? Ah, if only it were.There are a few amusing bits, namely a car crashing into a roomful of hippies attending an anti-automobile meeting, or Jackie Chan continuing to fight a bunch of interfering bikers while his co-driver says, Hurry up, dummy, we are losing the race! But basically there is surprisingly little car action and a lot of scenes where the racers stop and interact in scenes which are supposed to amuse and often don't. There is also surprisingly little sexuality beyond cleavage shots, either. Best to avoid this sorry mess. "},{"Title":"The Cannonball Run","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" I knew two of the stars of this road based movie, but I surprised it was quite the all star cast film, and I was looking forward to at least trying it, from director Hal Needham (Smokey and the Bandit). Basically this sees various contenders as they take part in the big illegal Connecticut cross-country road race, and they are all keen to make it to the finish line first and scoop the prize. The teams are J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds) and Victor Prinzim (Dom DeLuise) with his alter ego Captain Chaos in an ambulance, Englishman actor or spy Seymour Goldfarb, Jr. (Sir Roger Moore) who poses as movie star Roger Moore (so he is essentially playing a James Bond mock version of himself) in an Aston Martin DB5, Jamie Blake (Dean Martin) and Morris Fenderbaum (Sammy Davis Jr.) in a Mercedes 280 SEL sedan, Jill Rivers (Tara Buckman) and Marcie Thatcher (Adrienne Barbeau) in black Lamborghini Countach, Jackie Chan and Michael Hui in a Subaru GL hatchback, Terry (Terry Bradshaw) and Mil (Mel Tillis) in a Chevrolet stock car, and The Sheik (Jamie Farr) in a white Rolls-Royce Silver Shadow. Obviously as it is an illegal race the police are chasing after the teams they can, but also new participants join some of the racers, such as the oddball Doctor Nikolas Van Helsing (Jack Elam), photographer Pamela Glover (Razzie nominated Farrah Fawcett), and a Chief biker gang leader (Peter Fonda). After so many attempts to speed things up on their cars, near misses with the police and trying to find ways to stop the other racers, in the end there ins't really a clear winner. Also starring Bert Convy as Bradford Compton and Bianca Jagger (Mick's daughter) as Sheik's Sister. I may have giggled at the antics of Moore, when he was at the height of his Bond status, and it was nice to see stars like him, Reynolds, DeLuise, Martin, Davis Jr. and Chan trying to be funny and create some kind of new live action Wacky Races laughs, but I can completely see why it is two stars out of five, it is not funny or original, and you are not even bothered about the winner of the race, a silly action comedy. Adequate! "},{"Title":"WOW What a disappointment!","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was excited about seeing this movie.  When I was in grade 6 I wanted to see the king of burnt rubber Burt Reynolds.  This movie is based off the Cannonball, and the Gumball Rally.  A big budget, and big name actors alone can not make a movie.  Great idea but no script.  The first movie I saw on the VCR was this one, I waited 2 years to see it, and my sister's boyfriend Blake was right this film is flat. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Are you one of those Volleyballers?","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Car race comedy written by Brock Yates, who may have been inspired by the television cartoon Wacky Races, though his screenplay steals more liberally from Cannonball! and The Gumball Rally, both from 1976. The whole thing looked like yesterday's news even in 1981, what with star Burt Reynolds on auto-pilot, surrounded by a slew of his off-camera friends on sycophant-duty. Hal Needham directs without inspiration, and even the photogenic pairing of Reynolds with Farrah Fawcett fails to come off. Slurpy-mouthed and manic-stupid, with a withering finale at the finish line. A big hit at the box-office, nevertheless, and followed by a sequel in 1984. * from **** "},{"Title":"Very Daft But Not Unentertaining","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":" Never mind about pens being sharpened I had the knives out for THE CANNONBALL RUN and when I read that it was directed by Hal Needham the same director of SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT the knives were getting extra sharp . I mean we've got a movie full of stars ( A film full of stars is usually the sign of a not very good film especially if one of them is Burt Reynolds ) set against a story of characters having a road race which sounds like an over produced version of THE GUMBALL RALLY and if truth be told that's exactly what we've got , but it's nowhere as bad as I feared Okay let me point out that THE GUMBALL RALLY is not a great film but by the same margin it's not an awful one either . It's very daft where Jackie Chan plays himself except he's Japanese ( ! ) as does Roger Moore who's actually Jewish ( !!! ) and this sums up the movie in that it's entirely mad but in an endearing way . It's very good natured and I can understand why many people describe it as  fun  . It's inoffensive without being politically correct , amusing without being laugh out loud and silly without being embarrassing . If it has a problem it's entirely forgettable but I do remember liking it after seeing it ten minutes ago , not immensely but I did like it "},{"Title":"Thin at best.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This popular 1981 movie can best be described as a flimsy excuse to string together as many gratuitous car stunts as possible. Hal Needham, an ex-stuntman, made an insipid directorial debut with Smokey and the Bandit in 1977, but then also made one of Burt Reynolds' best movies, Hooper, one year later. Here he's back in Square One, and Burt has rarely looked more tired. The film does have an amazing cast, but most of the actors don't have roles, they have cameos. I especially disliked Roger Moore's self-conscious spoofing of his James Bond persona, he's so much better when he plays Bond straight with a subtle sense of humor. The only performance that REALLY stands out is given by Jack Elam; he has a perfect deranged look!      (*1/2)   "}]