[{"Title":"Great, weird plot - and everything else is even better","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"66 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Today, most films have a structure so simple, you can abstract it in one mere sentence. Diva is not such a film, it has so much plot that I don't know where to begin. Maybe I'll begin with the two tapes the film is all about.  Tape one is the bootleg record of the beautiful aria Ebben ne andro lontana from Alfredo Catalani's opera La Wally, taped during the recital of the famous opera singer Cynthia Hawkins. On tape, two Nadja, a prostitute, discloses who is the man behind a prostitution ring.  The man who possesses these two tapes is Jules, a postman; tape one because he's the one who recorded it (for private use only, of course), tape two because Nadja slipped it into his bag just seconds before she's killed. Not really knowing why, Jules finds himself fleeing from the police and from the mob because of the latter tape - and since Cynthia Hawkins always refused to make tape recordings of her voice, two guys from the Taiwanese mafia, who sat just behind Jules when he recorded his bootleg, see their chance to make a fortune with it, try to get it and blackmail the diva.Meanwhile, Jule becomes friends with Cynthia Hawkins when he brings her back a dress he stole after her recital (but not after having sex with a hooker wearing it) and they spend a day together. He also encounters Alba, a nice, glib girl with a talent for shoplifting (she developed a technique that makes you wish you're the guy behind the counter) and Gorodish, the man she lives with, two people who will help him a lot in the course of the film. All this is handled by director Jean-Jacques Beineix with virtuosity. But I'm only talking about the twisted plot here, whereas Diva is so much more.It is its pop-art style, it is its unique genre-mix of Thriller and Romance, it is Jules' apartment, which looks like combination of a studio and a garage, it is its two killers who look like they escaped a Jeunet-film (and indeed Dominique Pinon, who plays one of the two killers, went on to star in Delicatessen, La cité des enfants perdus and Amélie), it is that wonderful chase scene where Jules drives down the stairs and takes the Métro with his moped, it is that absurdly funny scene with the blue Beethoven bust, it is Thuy An Luu, playing Alba as a cheerful girl that makes you wish you had a girlfriend like that, it is Wilhelmenia Wiggins Fernandez, a real-life opera singer in her only film role, playing a wonderful Cynthia Hawkins (how I love that look she gives when someone reminds her of her age), it is Gorodish ingeniously solving two problems at once, it is its wonderful ending I will not reveal her with the perfect last words (Shhhh, listen...)... I could go on with this list forever.  With its hilarious story, its beautiful images, its weird characters and its joyous direction, Diva could open the door to the cinema of the rest of the world for those whose Top 10 list consist only of films as Pulp Fiction, Taxi Driver, Goodfellas, The Usual Suspects or The Godfather. It is a film I immensely love and could watch over and over again.  "},{"Title":"Best movie ever about bootlegging concerts","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"40 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva is a movie that seems just as stunning and unique to me today as it did when I first saw it 20 years ago. One of those movies that you will remember forever. On the surface, it's an exercise in pure style, combining exciting, hip visuals with great music (opera as well as some great atmospheric incidental music). But there are hundreds of movies like that. What makes Diva so memorable to me is the way it combines this stylish cinematic eye candy with a suspenseful plot, good acting, a touch of romance and sex, and even a smattering of philosophy (as the title character explains her reasons for not allowing her voice to be recorded, not to mention the immortal bread-buttering scene). It sounds like a recipe for a boring, highly stylized European movie, but this is a film where the excitement never flags for a minute. One of the true gems of 80s cinema. As a friend said If you wanted to be hip in the 80s, you had to have seen 'Liquid Sky', 'Repo Man' and 'Diva'. But even today, you should see it just because it's a great movie. "},{"Title":"Super cool thriller/art film. One of the most stylish movies ever made.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I watched 'Diva' the other day for the first time in at least fifteen years and it really held up. Long regarded as a pivotal 1980s art film, it has influenced many subsequent film makers, in advertising, and music videos. I'd say Ridley Scott was aware of it when he shot 'Blade Runner' and that opens up a whole can of worms. One could argue that 'Diva', though by no means science fiction, was a strong influence on William Gibson and other cyberpunk writers. Director Beineix is probably best know for the erotic classic 'Betty Blue', but this is a much more original and interesting movie. Beineix uses every trick in the book to make this movie visually stunning, but the plot is also strong, concerning the confusion between tapes of an Opera singer who abhors recordings, and evidence which can nail a corrupt cop. A young messenger (Frederic Andrei) gets caught up in this mistake and his life is soon at risk. Along the way he also comes to have an odd relationship with the singer in question (Wilhelmenia Fernandez), as well as a strange art student cum shoplifter (Thuy An Luu). Nothing is straightforward in 'Diva' but it is consistently watchable. Keep an eye out for Jean-Pierre Jeunet regular Dominique Pinot as a cool looking punk thug, and also the outstanding motorcycle sequence. A very good movie. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Beautiful visuals, sounds, performances. Wow","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I saw Diva for the first time as a college student in a film class art theater marathon. I'd just finished the most boring excuse for a movie ever made (no offense to fans of My Dinner with Andre) and went in to see Diva.I was floored. The most beautiful example of disastre deluxe I've ever seen - everything is so rundown it's gorgeous. The music perfectly matches the whole film. The performances are not realistic, but they are not meant to be.This is obviously not a piece of cinema verite and shouldn't be reviewed as such. Diva is a 2 hour tour de force of cinema as experience. One of the finest films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Stylish, charming,  and always original","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A wonderful combination of many genres - Action / Drama / Mystery / Romance / Thriller / Music/Art, this tale of two tapes may actually change the way you think about opera.Wilhelmenia Fernandez as Cynthia Hawkins (Diva) who always refused to be recorded - is a revelation; her voice, a magic mixture of melted pure gold and crystal is a miracle. There are so much more in this absolutely unique film - just to mention a certain shoplifting technique, or the coolest chase which started in the streets of Paris and ended in the subway's car. The most fascinating thing for me is that Diva was released about twenty years ago in Moscow, I remember the title - but I never saw it back then. Better later than never. Highly recommended - 9/10 "},{"Title":"views from a true fan","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I admit having seen this picture about twenty times. To me, it's the perfect balance between suspense, love story, music film, and comedy. And then the pictures! Every single scene has been carefully built to reach maximum optical effect. There are so many details to discover that seeing the movie once is not enough. This picture is a MUST for every true movie fan... "},{"Title":"Viva Diva","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Jean-Jacques Beineix's first film is a quirky colorful pop mixture of action, romance ,music and fairy tale that is based on a pop novel by Delacorta. The story concerns a young French postal delivery boy named Jules, who is also an opera lover & a big fan of the beautiful,& eccentric African American diva Cynthia Hawkins who is performing in Paris when the movie opens. Ms. Hawkins played by opera singer Wilhelmenia Fernandez refuses to sing for recordings, and this quirk of hers is what sets the action of the movie moving. Jules decides to tape Hawkins in performance, after which he goes backstage to meet the diva, and promptly steals the gown she wore at the concert, which he sometimes uses as a scarf when its not hanging in a shrine he has made to her in his large loft filled with disgarded cars. The plot really gets tangled when Jules, while on his way to a delivery witnesses the murder of a barefooted young woman who is carrying a tape that has a lot of plot and secrets on it. Who is she, and why does she wind up with an icepick in her back is one of the movie's many enjoyable plot devices that slowly unravels as the film goes on. While on her way to the icepick the lady drops her tape (unknown to him at the time)in Jules delivery pouch, and the chase so to speak is on. Jules charmingly played by Frederic Andrei is not only in danger from the very creepy killers of the lady, but also from two shady Japanese record producers who want his pirated tape of Hawkins beautiful aria from La Wally that Jules recorded. Very much influenced by American crime thrillers & film noir but very much it's own film, Diva is a delight from the very beginning to the beautiful ending which takes place on an empty stage and always moves me to shed a few tears. One of the terrific things about Diva is it's lively cast of characters all wonderfully played. Thuy An Luu as the young & sexy Vietnamese model Alba, is most winning as the companion of the strange & seemingly very wealthy recluse played by the great Richard Bohringer. These are characters and performances to embrace, they make one feel good. There are many wonderful set pieces including a quite amazing chase on motorbike through the Paris metro, a stroll in the early morning hours around Paris with Jules and Hawkins, and of course the gorgous singing of Ms. Fernandez. Beautifully photographed by Philippe Rousselot this is one of the highlights of 1982, and among the very best of the decade. The newly released and happily restored DVD does justice to the film both in the quality of the picture and sound.   "},{"Title":"The rich colors and soundtrack make this movie great.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva was very influential on me as a young college student.  Diva represented the archetype of a foreign art film.  Sure it was new, strange, and unpredictable as Avante-Garde films tend to be. But it was more than that.I've seen Diva three times -all in the 1980's.  Twenty years later, what I remember most is not the plot and the message, but the rich texture of the film. As a viewer I was submersed in a new and different reality; one that was visually stunning, intriguing, and edgy.  The submersion was achieved both visually and with the hauntingly beautiful soundtrack.The colors man, the colors... Diva included many beautiful shot scenes with intense colors and dramatic lighting.  There are several shots the stills of which could be turned into farmable artwork.  At the time I was thinking they would make great dorm-room posters.I think Diva has had a lasting influence on cinematography.  You may have noticed that movies, TV shows and especially advertisements have moved to be very color intense.  Dramatic lighting showing sharp contrasting hues, are the norm.  Diva was the first film I can remember with rich color saturation made intentionally to make this type of artistic impression.Another movie whose cinematography was likely influenced by Diva is Betty Blue (1986).  "},{"Title":"A French 1980's Thriller Romance Diva","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Diva (1981) Frederic Andrei, Wilhelmenia Fernandez, Thuy An Lu, Richard Bohringer, Jacques Fabbri, Chantal Deruaz, Anny Romand, Roland Bertin, Gerard Darmon, Dominique Pinon, Jean Jacques Moreau, Patrick Floersheim, Raymond Aquilon, Eugene Berthier, Gerard Chaillou....Director Jean Jacques Beineix, Screenplay Jean Jacques Beineix Adapted from the novel by Daniel Odier, this 1981-1982 film from French director Jean Jacques Beineix marked a new wave of French cinema for the 1980's. Previous French films in the 1970's were darker and moodier, more pretentious in many ways and a lot more philosophical/intellectually serious in their art-house endeavor. But Diva is a combination of art-house, comedy and thriller made up in a colorful fabric of cinematography, nuanced acting, beautiful music and an engaging story. It's deluxe look employs many of the advertisement gimmicks from popular 1980's French magazines. It's a slow moving movie, so for anyone seeing it for the first time, it should feel as long as any foreign film usually does. The topping on the artsy cake is Italian opera - the constant use of the soprano aria Ebben N'andro lontano from Catalani's La Wally is forever linked to this movie. The French cultural signature is on this but it's nothing heavy. It does lead up to a climatic finale and has all the ingredients of the typical thriller fiction - detectives trying to locate the bad guy and bring him to justice. There are chases both by car and foot, attempted murder and a murder, and the seedier side of Paris (prostitution, drugs, white slavery, poverty) despite the genuine goodness of the lead characters. It's a movie that seems to want to emulate modern American movies, especially in its touches of comedy and comic relief, and in the attitudes of the characters, who, despite being youth of the 1980's, also seem to be reminders of counterculture from the 1960's and 1970's, free spirited, hippie-intellectuals.Set in President Mitterand's early 1980's Paris, the film follows what appears to be an episode in the life of a poor, bohemian dreamer and postal worker Jules (Frederic Andrei). His romantic obsession for the African-American opera singer Cynthia Hawkins (Wilhelmenia Fernandez) leads him to secretly tape record her singing voice at a Paris concert. His intentions are pure. He wants to keep a memento of her and to have access to her beautiful voice from his own home. He also boldly steals one of her expensive gowns (this out of sexual longing, like stealing a woman's panties). But before long, he finds himself involved in a plot involving a murdered prostitute, two police detectives and the head of a drug cartel and prostitution ring. The recording also featured the confession of the prostitute who was murdered, who had sought to expose a corrupt Police Captain who had been operating as prostitution ring from Africa and Paris. This forces Jules to become involved in a sticky situation and he's soon being hunted by both the cops and the baddies, each trying to get that tape that's in his possession. It also calls for the eponymous diva, who has long refused to make recordings, to consider finally recording her voice to save herself.Among the characters that compose the good guy group are Gorodish Richard Bohringer) and his Vietnamese lover Alba (Thuy An Luu) who is a kind of chic thief and bohemian girl. Gorodish is a loner, lives in a large but unfurnished loft where he is constantly meditating to low-bass New Age music and thinking of strange things like trying to stop the ocean waves. Jules is himself an artist and collects (through theft) various objects which he uses for artwork a la Andy Warhol. Strangely enough, it's this strange poor prophet who saves Jules' lives when it's endangered by the Mafia-type men who seek to destroy the tape he made. But even these bad guys (Gerard Darmon and Dominique Pinon) are straight of comedy as Le Cure constantly expresses his hatred of garages, police and everything. The comedy is in the perfectly timed dialogue scenes. This is also a cop movie. Jean and Nadia (Jacques Fabbri and Chantal Deruaz) are a male-female detective duo who are hot on the trail of the men responsible for killing the hooker and eventually discover the police Captain's corrupt alter ego.Perhaps the most touching aspect of the film is the romance. Jules and Cynthia Hawkins have a connection - opera. Jules is an opera connoisseur and admires Cynthia so much he followed her from Paris to Munich, always on his mini bike/motorcycle/mobilette. He is physically drawn to her but they don't engage in sexual activity, not even after what seems to be a romantic date. Cynthia is a proud black artist (probably modeled after real life 80's divas like Jessye Norman and Kathleen Battle) who believes that business ought to work its way around art. She has integrity and refuses to be part of a commercial enterprise and to sell out. A more romantic and yet restrained and sober relationship on film you'll be hard-pressed to find. I enjoyed this film and highly recommend it to any French culture class. This is one of the early masterpieces of French cinema du look from the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Hated it the 1st time, liked it the 2nd","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw Diva I hated it so much I walked out with only 10 minutes to go because I didn't want to waste another minute of my life. I saw it again last night, years later, and for the life of me couldn't figure out why I had hated it so much.Diva is a very stylish, very esoteric, very French film. So if any of those descriptions scare you, you might end up hating it. On the flip side, beware if you're a hardcore art film fan, because this movie is also a straightforward crime/action flick. So if the phrase action flick makes you cringe, you might end up hating it also. In other words, Diva straddles the worlds of Godard (Contempt) and Michael Bay (The Transformers). And it has the potential to offend anyone who hates either extreme.The plot, based on the 1979 novel Diva by Daniel Odier, is about a young moped-riding hero who finds himself in possession of two different tapes, one wanted by criminal gangsters and the other wanted by equally vicious corporate suits. The kid himself is mostly clueless, but he is taken under the wing of a mysterious millionaire who gets involved... sort of a Bruce Wayne without the Bat outfit. The Diva in the title is an opera singer who is played and, even more impressively, *sung* by the amazing Wilhelmenia Fernandez who in real life is known for her haunting rendition of La Wally as sung in this film. She is the one whose voice ends up on a bootleg tape, which is wanted by the corporate suits, who are chasing our hero, who is also running from gangsters, who want a different tape he has.If the plot sounds tricky, perhaps comical, that's because it is. There are a lot of twists, turns, criss-crosses and surprises to keep you entertained. And while there aren't any outright punchlines and gags, there are some bits of humor and over-the-top characterizations that can only be interpreted as satirical. Example the grumpy gangster played by the awesome Dominique Pinon whose only lines seem to be I hate cops, I hate Beethoven, I hate parking decks, and so forth (stick around til the end to find out evidently the 1 thing he likes).But the real reason to enjoy this film is its artistic, stylish presentation. Directed by Jean-Jacques Beneix, this is perhaps his best example of a film style he practically defined in the 80s, known as cinéma du look. This style is characterized by non-naturalistic, self-conscious aesthetics, notably intense colors and lighting effects. For example, the millionaire's loft is drenched in vivid blues. The city chase scenes seem to have an eery, artificial red/pink hue. And the Diva's rooms are a high-contrast, Kubrickian white.Everyone in this movie is cool. Like too-cool-for-school cool. It glorifies classical music fans, gangsters, hipsters, rich folks, poor folks, Americans, Koreans, French, kleptomaniacs, prostitutes, good guys, bad guys, and everyone except that one poor slob who works at the carnival. Everyone is cool and in control.Add to that the creative camera shots, for example lots of reflections (in the bad guys' sunglasses, or in the hubcap of a car, etc), and there you definitely have stylish.The music is artistic, but artistic in a very 80s sort of way (almost pop, a little bit cheezy at times but still cool). And of course Wilhelmenia's singing of the operatic piece from La Wally is gorgeous, and the film opens with a generous music-only scene where we can truly enjoy it.So, upon my 2nd viewing, I recommend this film. I think the only reason why I hated it at first was because I was comparing it to Beneix's 1986 masterpiece Betty Blue (37°2 le matin), which digs much deeper into poetry and character development, while sacrificing the intense plot that Diva has.I would compare Diva to the more plot-oriented films of Wim Wenders (Faraway, So Close, Until the End of the World, End of Violence) and Ridley Scott of the 80s (Black Rain, Someone to Watch Over Me ...incidentally Wilhelmenia Fernandez was also on the soundtrack of that one, singing La Wally). With Diva's exaggerated colors and large sets, I might also compare it to the visual style--visuals only--of Jean-Pierre Jeunet (City of Lost Children, Amelie), Tom Tykwer (Winter Sleepers, Run Lola Run) and the talented Japanese filmmaker Hideaki Anno (Ritual). There might even be a dash of Kieslowski (The Double Life of Veronique, Three Colors). If you like any of the films or directors I've mentioned, you should give Diva a shot. And if you hate it the first time, be sure to try it again a few years later. "}{"Title":"Pure Hypnosis and Music","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film isn't about piracy, prostitution, blackmail or even murder- although it has loads of all that. At its heart, Diva is about music- no, not the loud jarring sort but the kind that occupies the space between silences. And we don't just listen to it; what is more, we actually see this music in the eerie emptiness of Diva's cinematography; in the uncluttered labyrinth of Parisian urban lofts; on an enchanted castle by the sea; in the surprisingly meaningful relationships between strangers; and in the wild applause of an empty opera house. Beineix's weaves a world that is, for lack of a better word, hypnotic. And we, his viewers, simply drift through it. "},{"Title":"Diva","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die is where I found this French film, it had a good sounding title and was rated well by critics, so I looked forward to what it would offer. Basically in Paris, France, young postman Jules (Frédéric Andréi) lives a bohemian lifestyle, and he has a small circle of friends, but more than anything he is a great fan of opera, especially the beautiful, celebrated and exceptional American opera singer Cynthia Hawkins (Wilhelmenia Wiggins Fernandez). Cynthia has never had her voice or performances recorded, and refuses to do so, Jules attends her latest performance, and being obsessive secretly and illegally records it on cassette tape, he also steals the gown she wore from her dressing room. One night Jules is travelling on his moped, prostitute Nadia Kalonsky (Chantal Deruaz) drops another tape into his bag, it contains the prostitute's testimony about high-ranking police Inspector Jean Saporta (Jacques Fabbri), as the boss of various rackets, she is murdered after the drop. Jules is now in danger from Taiwanese gangsters seeking the Hawkins tape, and from Saporta's enforcers who want the testimony, inadvertently tangled in a conspiracy of murder he finds refuge with his new friends, mysterious bohemian Serge Gorodish (Richard Bohringer) and his muse young Vietnamese-French woman Alba (Thuy An Luu). Feeling guilty, Jules returns Hawkins's dress, she is initially angry, but does forgive him and is intrigued by his adoration of her, they form a kind of romantic relationship, she meanwhile is being blackmailed by the Taiwanese into recording for them, claiming they have a copy of her performance. Saporta sends his henchmen to take care of Jules and the testimony tape, there is a chase through the PArisian subways, Jules is rescued by Gorodish, but he is almost killed by Saporta himself when returning home, but Gorodish saves him again and forces Saporta to fall down an elevator shaft. In the end Jules plays the tape of Cynthia's performance for her, she is nervous as she has never heard herself sing, and all the crime gangster and corruption stuff seems to disappear and things settle. Also starring Roland Bertin as Simon Weinstadt, Gérard Darmon as Spic, Dominique Pinon as Le Curé, Jean-Jacques Moreau as Krantz and Patrick Floersheim as Zatopek. It is a simple story, a bootlegged recording tape and a tape containing incriminating evidence getting mixed up, and the innocent bystander caught in the middle, it does get a bit in experimentation of style, but it has great camera-work and imagery throughout, and the operatic music is always a joy to listen to, all in all it is a compelling cult crime drama. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Perfect Courtship of Style and Story","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Jules (Fréderic Andréi) doesn't need any of the assorted divas that the world bows down to. The other lonely young men of the Earth's population have Donna Summer, Diana Ross, Cher. He could laugh at their mainstream appeal, their obsession with dancing/voguing the night away at the nearest discothèque. But he's much too shy (and straight) for that nonsense. Instead of waiting for a Madonna of some kind to help him shimmy down the dance floor for the rest of his young life, he opts for Cynthia Hawkins (Wilhelmenia Wiggins Fernandez), an opera star renowned for her glamor and exquisite singing voice. Cynthia is a diva, no doubt, but she is Jules' diva. As she hates the idea of the business side of music, she has never recorded a performance or, heaven forbid, an LP. So one only has the option to see her live. The few that know of her don't just listen, watch; they change as a human. They leave a concert with a completely new, romanticized outlook on life.At least that's how Jules regards her. A massive poster of Cynthia's stunning face rests next to his bed, acting as guidance; when she holds a recital near his home, he not only steals one of her dresses -- he also captures her performance on a professional quality audio recorder. These acts are not out of malice but of desperation. He lives the life of a lonely postman, having little to cling onto besides his beloved diva.As the film opens, nothing is at stake. Cut just a few minutes into Diva, though, and you'll find Jules going from nobody to human target in a dramatic flash and bang. Attending the very same concert are two Taiwanese gangsters, who takes notice of Jules' cunning. He becomes a danger to himself, as they would do anything to get their paws on the priceless recording. But things don't end there. The following day, when performing his usual mail route, a prostitute (Chantal Deruaz), killed moments later, drops a cassette in his moped's carrier pouch. That cassette, as it so happens, bears a story that could spell the death sentence for an important law enforcement figure. Also complicating Jules' situation are a flirtatious Vietnamese gigi (Thuy An Luu) and her mysterious lover (Richard Bohringer), who have decidedly unclear motives.On its surface, Diva appears to be a De Palma meets Godard visual orgy, but after you cut through its many layers of innovative, celebratory, stylistic cues, you'll find yourself infatuated with its quasi-convoluted (yet simple) story of intrigue. Here is a film deserving of applause for its near-perfect courtship of style and story. Diva is an obvious cinematic enchilada of all your favorite thriller delicacies, but it is also so much more than that. Though it was the directorial debut for the now cinema du look defining Jean-Jacques Beineix, it is so assured in its every decision that we feel as though our lives are being manipulated by something akin to a roller coaster, safety controlled but also head-spinningly unpredictable.Beinix likes to toy with us, and for once, obeying the puppet master proves advantageous. Look at the climactic, wildly implausible moped vs. police car chase, for instance. It takes detours down stairs, through narrow alleyways, and into the subway. It's all fantasy pulp, but Beineix's extravagant fondling of the camera makes it all seem possible. That's a sign of a good film, making sheer artificiality seem real. He is a visual poet of the highest common denominator.His images speak louder than words. The opening, focusing on the concert, flips back and forth between the complexions of Jules, through medium shots, Cynthia, through awestruck, close/far angles, and the gangsters. We know that Jules will be the hero, Cynthia the lovely female lead, because cinematographer Philippe Rousselot handles their faces, their bodies, with transfixed appreciation. The criminals, by contrast, are only judged by their sunglasses, which the camera sees as a defining feature. The scene contains no dialogue, unless you count Fernandez's soul stirring voice. But it develops the characters, slyly and imaginatively. And other characters, such as the childish Vietnamese girl and her boyfriend (or lover/father figure/spiritual leader?), live in a loft defined by its blue saturation and sparse furniture. The way their motives remain foggy throughout the movie, how they retreat in the apartment as though it were a rich pop artist's oasis away from the European world, makes them seem otherworldly, completely invincible, ageless.Though Diva is extremely stylish, it contains a staggering amount of evocative performances. Andréi possesses a youthful quality that makes him indefinable and difficult to dislike; Fernandez, in her only film role, lives up to the title of the diva and acts as an impossibly knowing, appealing obsession. Luu is agreeably strange and pixieish, while Bohringer stays simultaneously trustworthy and untrustworthy -- he is stupendously enigmatic.Some have said that Diva has better visuals than it does actual story, but such an assumption undermines Beineix's mastery. He finds a deft balance between artistic and tonal strength, through his visual ticks and plot implausibilities. It is a wild ride, a thriller ready to delight through its giddy unconformity. "},{"Title":"Effective crime thriller en Francais","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Overambition is always risky. Diva is so plot heavy that it almost cracks, but it is delicious and entertaining. As far as genre is concerned, this movie flirts with several, but I think it is safe to label Diva as essentially a neo noir. It is darkly romantic, full of corruption, and photographed in spectacular fashion. The colours are rich and the camera work is exquisite. The movie is almost great but not quite. In an attempt to bring everything together, it has a little climax trouble. A tape of evidence with exposes the Chief inspector of Paris as crooked ends up in the moped satchel of a mail boy named Jules, who suddenly finds himself being hunted down by goons with guns. But that's not his only problem. Jules has made a secret recording of his favourite opera singer live in concert. This singer has blatantly refused to do any recordings, and when word gets out that such a recording exists, different people are going after it. It is ever more essential that Jules keep it hidden, considering, that he and his singer friend have become intimate friends. Even though Diva enjoys piling it up by the pound, it does so in a compelling fashion. It is a good balance of bold and slick. There are a few clichés buried beneath the labyrinth plot that a picky person may be drawn to pick out, but I enjoyed Diva for its sense of non- convention. It puts character before character type, and tension above twist. Cinematography plays an exceptional role in this motion picture, which captures Paris in a far more exuberant way than I am used to seeing (and I've been there). One item about the city which has never appeal to me is that it is very grey, with not enough green. Grey is the last of the colours on Diva's colour pallet (execpt when necessary). This motion picture prefers something a little more romantic or expressive. like a jazzy blue, or a fiery red. I can easily give Diva a pass, and I can recommend it on numerous grounds. As a non-Hollywood thriller, Diva is exceptional, but it is not a film for the soft minded. It gets a bit too convoluted, not too messy, but there is a sense that it could use a slight reworking. This is not a light motion picture, but it ain't a dull one either. "},{"Title":"She's the queen of the night.","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I can relate to the star (Frédéric Andréi as Jules) in this film, as i have had a love affair with an opera star. Ever since I heard and saw Julia Migenes in Carmen, I have loved her, but not to the extent that Jules loved Cynthia Hawkins (Wilhelmenia Fernandez).Jean-Jacques Beineix who won a César for this, his first job as director, really presented two stories. First, the obsession that Jules had for opera and for Cynthia; and a second story of being in the wrong place at the wrong time.This is actually a police drama in the middle of a love story. It will be slow to those who do not like opera as it frames the story. The music is divine as Wilhelmenia Fernandez is truly an artist of note.A superior French actor, Richard Bohringer, and an enchanting Vietnamese actress, Thuy An Luu, provide support to Jules as he evades capture by those who want a pirated tape of Cynthia's concert that he made, and another group that wants a tape that fell into his lap that revels the head of a prostitution ring between Africa and Paris.He is just trying to spend time with Cynthis, but wherever he turns, someone is waiting.All's well that ends well, and this ends well, but how it gets there is suspenseful and full of twists and turns. "},{"Title":"Either you get it (you lucky thing) or you don't","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's no overstatement to say that this movie changed my life. Right away, I broke up with the boyfriend who complained it didn't make sense and her French wasn't very good. Then I started going to live opera performances, and two or three times in the past 20 years I have been privileged to see and hear a leading lady as thrilling and regal as Miss Fernandez. (Who, by the way, has a face the camera loves. Even if she couldn't sing a lick she'd be a screen icon.) What grand opera couldn't do for me as a kid -- make it worth my while to suspend disbelief -- Diva did at once, and still does today. I have often thought, watching this again & again on cable, that MTV in the 20th century and TV commercials in the 21st have dulled viewers' capacity to be dazzled by director Beiniex's visual tour de force. The gas-station apartment, the reflecting street puddles, the mirror shots were all fresh then, if not completely original. (Gorodish's apartment I can take or leave; to each his own.) What devolved by 2006 to grad film student gimmicks were take-your-breath-away startling in 1982, when I first saw this film. Kids, take it from a geezer who knows See this movie, Blade Runner, and Wings of Desire if you missed the '80s and need to write a report, or if you just want to experience the decade's cinematic high points. All ages Ecoutez. Movies were invented so movies like Diva could be made. 10/10. "},{"Title":"DIVA deserves to be a niche in the time capsule","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" If one considers this as a white-knuckle thriller contingent on its narrative coherence, DIVA, Beineix's groundbreaking feature debut, is not a qualified specimen, but by retrospect, it is a pioneer piece of work which commences a specific style in French cinema from 1980s, CINÉMA DU LOOK, where a lurid visual approach presides over the essential narrative, exemplified by Luc Besson, Leos Carax, and of course Beineix himself.To each his own, but there is a difference between foundering on fabricating a plausible storyline and discarding the conventional narrative arc in preference to its stylish extravaganza. Unfortunately I consider DIVA is a case of former, not just because the source material, Delacorta's novel, is firmly grounded in its entangled involvements of two tapes, an intrepid postman Jules (Andréi) who is a fervid opera fan of singer Cynthia Hawkins (Fernandez), a drug cartel and prostitution ring in Paris, the inept police department, a Taiwanese gang who deals with pirate tapes and a mysterious man Serge Gorodish (Bohringer) with his young Vietnamese lover Alba (Luu), who phlegmatically keeps the upper hand of the dangerous game. More critically, it is a film deceptively imposes itself as an intriguing police procedural and cat-and-mouse chaser, only during the creative process, as if Beineix had lost the competence to juxtapose these paralleled happenings and commotions with a probable consistence, so he would opt out of the imbroglio and execute a visually-impressive strategy instead to dispatch the task, in order to shift the focus from viewers. The sentimental but fickle affinity between Jules and Cynthia is virtually has no bearing in the main plot at all, yet, it is the most enthralling part, as the title infers, we are more tempted to peek the high-strung temperament of a real diva than a shoddily- concocted heroic actioner to disintegrate a criminal cartel established by an evil police officer.The real-life American soprano Ferandez's rendition of Alfredo Catalani's LA WALLY (the only masterpiece he made during his shortened lifespan) is divine and instantly keeps audience hooked, but as a drama actress, her bent is pretty limited, the rest of the dramatis personae is no better, save the enigmatic Bohringer, Serge is a badly written character in the story, ludicrously becomes an omnipresent last-minute saviour and a crafty criminal himself, but what is his back-story? Living in a huge apartment with an eye-opening parade of post-pop art, one might want to watch an entire movie solely based on his exotic way of life with Alba.Equipped with a neon-lit pizazz, its fixation on opera and female nudity, all I can say is that DIVA deserves to be a niche in a time capsule for epitomising the zeitgeist of its time, when most of us have no mood to revisit, in spite of being obtrusively garish and full of far- fetched whims in its vein. "},{"Title":"Stylish thriller made in France","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The french touch of the new wave era.A story built around Catallani's La Wally aria with a Diva who never makes records, some notorious businessmen from Taiwan, a corrupted chief policeman and a postman, all skillfully webbed. Inspired and inspiring, fresh, edgy and stylish nourished my personal myth (i even thought of becoming a postman!) and i must admit it still does.There is an undoubted elegance throughout the film that leaves a gentle savor so sensually purifying.I envy so much the morning walk among the statues in the awakening Paris.NOT TO BE MISSED "},{"Title":"You've got the look","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A young opera lover surreptitiously tapes the performance of a diva. The famous singer has never been recorded before believing that art should be experienced live not reproduced; unsurprisingly she is livid when she discovers there is a bootleg of her performance out there. Add to the mix two Taiwanese mafia hoods who want the tape and two French gangsters who are on the hunt for a different tape that gets mixed up in the chaos; their tape exposes corruption in high places, including the international trafficking of women into prostitution.The plot line in Diva isn't probably it's strongest point. It's fairly convoluted and artificial. However, this doesn't matter too much in the final analysis. Diva was one of the most prominent films in the cinéma du look movement that was popular in France in the 1980's. These were films that were all about surface sheen and stylishness. They didn't put nearly as much focus on depth, the image was always elevated above almost everything else. The films of Luc Besson were maybe the most famous but Diva was one of the first and most influential. I have always had a fondness for movies that favour cinematic style over all other considerations, so it is perhaps unsurprising that I enjoyed this one. There are some good set-pieces, some elaborate sets and interesting fusions of old with new and high art with commercial reproduction. With it's combination of Pop Art imagery, eccentric characters and beautiful Parisian locations, Diva has a lot going for it so long as you don't go into it expecting any focus on realism. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of all Time","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The best movie of all time.(Be careful when you buy the DVD. There are badly copied, unwatchable DVDs available for purchase.) The Zen Art of preparing garlic bread, with a knife that is neither too sharp nor too dull, is merely one example of the philosophical richness of this one of a kind film.When I arrived in Taiwan in 1987, it did not enforce copyright laws. The script writer used this anomaly to create Taiwanese gangsters that formed plot book-ends to the Parisian gangsters. This is only one of the plot elements which are not in the novel on which the movie is loosely based. "}{"Title":"My favorite film of all time","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is what cinema should be about. It has everything; a good story line mixing 2 thrillers into one film. When it was released, the photography was unusual and even today is very special. The script is sharp and witty (especially if you understand French). The acting, by relatively unknown actors, is outstanding. Above all, this well directed film is stylish and has superb backdrops; look for the silhouette in a puddle of the white Citroen Avant, the pan shots of the young postman's living space on the top floor of an old warehouse and both the interior and exterior shots of the lighthouse. There is also the music which introduces us to a little known opera (how many of you will know of it?). In brief, this film is the equivalent of eating in a 5 star Michelan recommended restaurant but without pomp or pretensions. Anyone who loves cinema should see this film but do bare in mind that it is made for the big screen and so much of the sheer style is diminished some what by seeing it on a TV screen. "},{"Title":"Art film that grabs you","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is one of only 2 films I have paid full price to see twice (the other was The Sting when it was rereleased). The music was captivating, the suspense was taut and there was enough black humour to keep anyone interested. I'll never chop onions again without thinking of this film.Years later I read the book that was the source for the screenplay. As with all adaptations there are changes, but the heart of the book was preserved. The skinhead thug with the tinny ear-piece, the vintage cars were all part of what gave the film its presence and feel. An interesting cross between French art film and film noire. "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Made Foreign Film","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When I first seen this movie back in 1983, (it was released a few years later on Cable TV) I thought it was really well written, the plot is very intriguing and it is easy to get into the soundtrack, being that it's about Opera music which I have grown to love since I was a young child. I thought about this movie recently as I was looking for the soundtrack on line, it is a bit tricky to find the original soundtrack if you go to a site like Bearshare but I am sure if I were to go to Amazon, I'd find it a lot easier there. I thought that it was a powerful song when the character, (Played by Cynthia Hawkins) Didn't want to have her vocalizations recorded, for fear it would take away the beauty her voice would sound like on vinyl recorded albums, (yes I Do Come From That Era). I didn't think it would ever be thought this way by any Opera performer, that a recorded voice would sound any less important or vibrant than the real performance. It is a good premise to go on if it were true, which of course, is not. The story is very entertaining and doesn't lose you, even for those of you who are hard rock fans, unless you aren't into foreign films, then I'd suggest something like The Rocky Horror Picture Show Otherwise, I would say it is a very well thought out plot line to rent to watch or buy. I give it a 10 since I have seen this movie just about a dozen times, so I can only say if you haven't seen it, then you should give it a try and you just might be surprised as to how great foreign films really are. "},{"Title":"Surrealisticallly weird...","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  When I watched it on TV many years back, not only I was moved by the dark, surreal atmosphere that spawns fear, but also the fact that sometimes, when we temper with illegal schemes, result might be lethal.When our hero tries here to do good by keep on listening to a good opera singer, he records it. But as he's a courier, he mix it up with a compromising tape. And those two shady caracters who are on verge of new wavers are simply scary... It gives us at least a good cat-and-mouse pursuit in a Paris which is more sordid than the Eiffel Tower...Well written and good performance. Bit slow, but for its caracters, dark atmosphere and the fact that at the end *spoiler* the Diva forgives her fan, the movie's worth a watch...Welcome France to a second Nouvelle Vague...  "},{"Title":"Long Live The Diva!","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Wilhelmina Fernandez plays an American opera singer who has never recorded her performances. Jules is a Parisian postal carrier and an opera enthusiast who secretly tapes her but for himself. Then there is a second tape by a woman who gets murdered. She has a secret worth killing for. There is entry of suspense and melodrama here especially between the soprano and Jules, an unlikely romance. This film has plenty of memorable moments whether it is the chase in the Metro or the opera scenes. Paris still looks the same as when I last visited it in 2007. Paris is timeless in this early eighties film. I enjoy seeing the opera house and other locations in Paris. "},{"Title":"Fantastique!","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Not everyone's taste but this film has it all at whatever level you want if you just prompt your imagination the teeniest little bit. All you need is an unknown young lead actor who will never be seen again, character acting in support that just drools its nationality and fruity flavour and an American Diva with a great singing voice. Oh I forgot the Metro chase for visual effect and the most convoluted and deliberately surreal plot (and filming) and hey presto its like nothing else. It was probably considered too commercial to win French awards and too French to win global ones but this film induces a breathlessness that you can feel from the start. Yet it is so tongue in cheek, poking fun at the early 80s France. "},{"Title":"Cinema Du Look...","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film had a unique opening in England. A couple of young guys had bought a tatty cinema in Kings Cross, London, with the idea of turning it into an outlet for art house films. They renamed it The Palace and started up a video label with the same name. They would probably have gone broke within a year, had it not been for Diva.A fabulous movie, but French. Death in England. No-one wanted it. Nevertheless, the Palace boys bought the full UK rights to it, had nice clear, literate subtitles placed on the film - then did something previously unheard-of.They opened it at their cinema and SIMULTANEOUSLY issued it on VIDEO. IDIOTS!And yet it proved to be a shrewd move. The thing was, being such a beautiful movie, those who were able to, STILL went to see it in the CINEMA - and then bought the video. Those who lived out of town settled for just the video. And EVERYONE bought the soundtrack album for Vladimir Cosma's haunting Sentimental Promenade and WWF's incredible rendition of the aria from La Wally (pronounced valley).Palace cleaned up.Eventually, it found its way to wider release and after only a short time, Britain's then-trendy new TV network, Channel Four. It was the success-story of the Eighties - and deservedly so. I'm not even going to rave about it - plenty of others in this strain have already done the job FOR me.I'll just add that if you haven't seen this masterpiece, ignore the comments of the few who just didn't GET it - and ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Dazzling","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A young man finds himself in possession of a tape of bootleg music and a tape of a murder victim's incriminating message, leading to him being chased by two parties. The plot is preposterous and the dialog is sometimes embarrassingly pedestrian but it is all offset by vibrant energy and an audacious visual style. A dazzling film debut for director Beineix, who infuses the film with his innovative camera work. Fernandez is beautiful in the title role, with a voice to match. Andrei is appropriately geeky as the postman who lusts after her although her attraction to him is never believable. Luu is rather annoying as a free spirit. "},{"Title":"Diva","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A cassette tape containing the corrupt dealings of a homicide chief make their way into bicycle courier Jules'(Frédéric Andréi)moped bag thanks to the prostitute who recorded it shortly before she's stabbed in the back with a knife. Jules is an avid follower of famous opera singer Cynthia Hawkins(Wilhemenia Fernandez)and bootlegs a recording of hers one night for his own personal afterward enjoyment. He allows an artist, Gorodish(Richard Bohringer)and Vietnamese lover/photographic figure Alba(Thuy An Luu)listen to the recording before actually having that grand opportunity to meet his idol in her hotel suite..in the film's opening meeting, Jules is able to swipe Cynthia's scarf just so that he can have an excuse to return it to her. The homicide chief has two thugs, willing to kill, who are pursuing Jules while two other police detectives(who have no idea that their boss is behind a major prostitution/drug smuggling ring)are trying to keep tabs on the courier. The film's over-plotted story also has two Tawainese thugs offering bribe-money to Gorodish for the illegal recording of Cynthia's concert..she has never had a performance recorded live so this bootleg would rake in a lot of dough if she doesn't commit to a record contract with them. So Jules is carrying a load of problems on his back..he has this cassette holding information many will kill him for while also having an illegal recording others desperately crave. Jules never wanted to pose this problem to his Diva and will try to retrieve it from Gorodish..that is if he can stay alive long enough. What Jules doesn't realize is that Gorodish has plans with the tape containing details about the Homicide chief he plans to exhort money from.Plot-heavy and maybe a bit too slick for it's own good..all the resolutions tie together oh so neatly with a pretty ribbon at the end. But, this film is so well made that one(or at least I did)would forgive the screenwriter for allowing his hero to make through several perilous situations. Beautifully filmed using Paris locations with fleshed out characterizations. "},{"Title":"stylish masterpiece","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I first watched this film as an impressionable 18 year old-and it certainly left it's mark.I left the city centre, art-house cinema walking down a street full of buildings that seemed to have shrunk during the previous two hours, such was the grand scale of everything on the screen. I loved the style, the characters and the music (was extremely irritated by it's use in many poxy TV ads, but couldn't really blame them!) Bought the soundtrack as soon as I could and have listened to it often since. I bought the film on VHS because I loved it, but hardly played it, partly due to the poor quality of the transfer, partly due to the impossibility that it would match up to the initial big screen experience, apparently the DVD transfer is also very poor- it needs an HD remastering but will probably not get one. The film has a kind of naive pulp fiction feel, very unreal, cool, with separate plot threads, at times violent and also comic. There is a definite materialistic urge reflected in the film, the cool apartment, the vintage car, the unique recording of the diva herself, all those desirable objects and locations left me drooling! "}{"Title":"A very romantic film best viewed in Springtime.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It seems every decade has a film or two that tends to influence the other films that come after them more than any other. Every decade has one or two and Diva (1981) is such a film of the 1980s.I love the way the director of this movie (Jean-Jacques Beineix) has the ability to find beauty in the oddest places A deserted factory, inside a storm drain, Gorodish's spartan loft. Paris never looked better and you really don't see a lot of tourist spots, if any.Here is also another example of a movie with excellent music. I remember the first time I saw this movie, which was probably a year after it was originally released in the U.S., I went out and bought the movie's soundtrack cassette. I love playing it during Springtime. My favorites Aria from La Wally, Sentimental Walk, and Gorodish.The films only drawback - some violent scenes, although no where near as bad (again, no where near) as some movies made today, seems unnecessary.My favorite scene Morning time with Jules and Cynthia in the park with Sentimental Walk playing in the background, of course!I also can't help but feel there are a lot of directors out there who want to be the next Jean-Jacques Beineix. How about a Polish one?Krzysztof Kieslowski and Trois couleurs Rouge (1994) or La Double vie de Veronica (1994)? It's odd, but even  Jean-Jacques Beineix couldn't repeat how well he did in this film! "},{"Title":"The movie I want to rent every time I go to the video store","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Complex, tight action. A plot worth watching three times before you get the full story. You'll miss half the jokes the first time, at least. I'd love to find a dozen more like this. If Thomas Crowne is supposed to be a thriller for thinkers, think again.  "},{"Title":"It's the best","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is the best film I've ever seen. It has everything in spades--action, comedy, romance, a killer chase sequence the music is astonishing--the opening opera sequence begins the movie on a musical peak--be sure you see it with a good sound system. Likewise, the photography is luscious and painterly. However, there's a patina of irony over everything, from the spoof plot complete with hitchcockian macguffin, to the Bond elements if you thought Austin Powers was mindless, here's a parody with brains to spare.   "},{"Title":"It's a Blue, Moody, Artsy, Sleazoid, Occult, Operatic Flic Flick..","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva is high on my top-ten list of favorite films.  I was fortunate to see it in an art theater when it was first released, in '81-'82.  Since then I've watched it numerous times on video.  This film profits especially by viewing on the big screen both audibly (that fantastic aria from La Wally and Cosma's synthesized drone in Gorodish's apartment) and visually (the moody, blue, artsy cinematography).  I've had a copy of the soundtrack, on cassette, for some years and listen to it often.Some of my other favorite features of this film The parallel stories of the pirated tape of the Diva's performance and of the tape implicating the Parisian political corruption, the two tied together by the activities of the young mail courier; Gorodish, the Lone Ranger, and his pithy, occult comments on life and the universe; Sexy, witty Alba; Idealistic Jules and his obsession with the Diva; The Diva herself, and her independent, secluded lifestyle; The two flics and their attempts to unravel the complex case; The bad guys sleazoid, low-life and amusing, in a black-comic way.  I've just talked myself into watching Diva again tonight! "},{"Title":"Zen Master, How do I reconcile my love for the Diva's music","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Let's see what we have here.  Young man is obsessed with the singing of a brilliant young diva, who only performs live. (Ala Harry Haller in Hesse's Steppenwolf, can't stand the sonic compromises of recorded music.)  He also falls in love with a teenage shoplifter who is taken care of by a mysterious man in a white suit who meditates to a wave machine.  Am I missing anything?  Oh yeah Taiwaneese music pirates...All in all a zen masterpiece about the relationship between art and life, and clothes, lifestyle, antique cars, recording, artists, their fans and the type of industrial lofts with freight elevators that are now popular even on Nash Bridges.I've seen it a couple of times in re-release after its original run, and can honestly say this is a movie that would play well on the small VCR TV screen.  It has the ambiance of a TV show in it's message that those things we worship are really no big thing -- nothing really worth sweating about. "},{"Title":"Style and substance","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva is, for me, the ultimate in French cinema A film whose hipness neither overpowers the plot nor withers with time. I have watched it many times, and I will probably watch it many times more. My favourite thing about Diva is the role that music plays in this film, and the way that it's used (it should get top billing). The titular diva is an opera singer who never records an album due to philosophical reasons. Her music, as well as other music is a living, breathing presence here, not to be ignored. "},{"Title":"Diva  A classic in the end","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I can't think of another movie that starts out as badly as Diva and yet completely redeems itself as the film progresses. The beginning is all tawdry French 80's cop film, with a weak plot and poor cinematography (as well as poor acting). After about 20 or 30 minutes, the story turns existential and, by the end, the cinematography is breath-taking. The sequence of Paris in the rain is a side of the city one rarely sees on the silver screen and the lighthouse and forest shots are exquisite. I saw this on TV in France about 20 years ago, but I had the opportunity to watch it at the cinema again recently, giving me a fresh look at this great classic. Now I know where my love of lofts and ambient music comes from... "},{"Title":"style beyond the skin-deep","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What impressed me most about 'Diva' was the fact that it defined the style of French cinema of the 1980s but appeared very early in the decade.  It has a complex plot that is followed and achieved by quirky, sometimes inexplicable characters, but most importantly, it has 'the look'.  Because of this, it is difficult to see this film as what it is today a dated, once-shiny, now-worn toy that provided memorable hours of challenge and amusement many years ago.  The visual aesthetic of 'Diva' is flawlessly crafted and smooth, yet perfectly self-conscious.  And it provides a curiously interesting background for a slightly bizarre plot that maintains its strange allure on subsequent viewings.  The film that is composed of these elements, then, is one that is well-remembered, and for good reasons.  There are few films that I have seen that have such a sleek appearance yet manage to interest beyond the superficial, and even fewer that manage to maintain this interest. "},{"Title":"Diva ***1/2","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I've been intrigued by this movie ever since I saw a still from it in one of my father's film magazines from 1982; little did I know that the menacing, short-cropped-haired man with dark shades in that photo was Dominique Pinon who would later become associated with Jean-Pierre Jeunet's films. As it turned out, Pinon seems also to have had an almost as healthy working relationship with another French maverick film-maker, Jean-Jacques Beineix. Pinon's grumpy, taciturn, no-nonsense characterization of a hit-man named Priest is just one of the considerable pleasures gleaned from this entrancing film.Anyway, I was happy to confirm that Beineix's famed feature-length directorial debut is every bit as good as its reputation would suggest. I'm no fan of opera, but the repeated lyrical song in the film (and the formidable rendition of it by real-life opera singer Wilhelmenia Wiggins Fernandez) becomes its emotional core. It must be said that DIVA does move at a deliberate pace and the complex plot-line (which at times involves six different people chasing our hero!) needs the viewer's full attention but the film is nevertheless an exciting, funny, romantic and at times magical experience, conducted with a disarming touch of irony and flawless flair by Beineix; apart from featuring a couple of breathtaking chase sequences and a plethora of other thrills, it manages to perfectly capture the drudgery of the life of an obsessive fan who, at first, is content simply to live in the shadow of his diva, compulsively listening to his pirated recording of a live performance he had attended but, as the film progresses, gets increasingly enmeshed not only in the private life of his idol but also in the sleazy Parisian underworld of drug-dealing, prostitution, hit men and police corruption. As I said before, DIVA delivers not only in the action stakes - including the murder of a barefooted key witness that must surely be a nod to Cloris Leachman's turn in Robert Aldrich's KISS ME DEADLY (1955) - but also deliberates on the perennial battle between the integrity of an artist and the commercial exploitation of art and the illusory star/fan relationship to which us avid film-goers are certainly no strangers. "},{"Title":"Supercool French thriller twisty-turns nicely","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The French have been carrying the torch of quality in this Hitchcockian-noir genre for some time now and this is a typically classy display. The plot twists itself up well as a (fairly) innocent postman gets himself caught up in all kinds of trouble through a series of oddball events and strange deeds, and then, with a little bit of help from his friends, attempts to save the day, and all the strands unwind themselves in a satisfyingly clever finale. Though the opera theme is a bit eighties, the rest retains its sheen of cool throughout, and some of the characters are great; the uber-French Dominique Pinon (of Delicatessen/City of Lost Children fame) is fun in a minor role as a disgruntled thug, the hero's beatnik-crook new friends are very very stylish, and the lead himself has that look of perplexed panic perfect for this kind of character. Good "}{"Title":"Needs Re-Evaluating","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Two tapes, two Parisian mob killers, one corrupt policeman, an opera fan, a teenage thief, and the coolest philosopher ever filmed. All these characters twist their way through an intricate and stylish French language thriller.What I liked about this film Dominique Pinon, in a very early role. Also, the colors that made this come across as a new wave film mixed with something more... almost like a spy thriller or a murder mystery.Roger Ebert wrote, The movie is filled with so many small character touches, so many perfectly observed intimacies, so many visual inventions&#x97;from the sly to the grand&#x97;that the thriller plot is just a bonus. In a way, it doesn't really matter what this movie is about; Pauline Kael has compared Beineix to Orson Welles and, as Welles so often did, he has made a movie that is a feast to look at, regardless of its subject. Here is a director taking audacious chances, doing wild and unpredictable things with his camera and actors, just to celebrate movie-making. "},{"Title":"My rating 8","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A different film. Lovely film typical from the 80's. Interesting because the main character was driving a moped and listening to classical music on it. Another character intoned puzzle as big as the floor of a room, which was the image of a wave against the sky and a little white bird between them. There was a small Chinese girl who wants to be a woman. There was also a black woman, a very good opera singer (the diva!).There was little action, praising record technology and more opera. Interesting scenery, a clash between the highest idealistic forms of human thought with monotonous everyday life giving birth to haters, crimes, corruption, prostitution.It was very art film. But it's worth watching.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Quintessential 80s European film-making","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In the same way 'The Breakfast Club' defined a certain kind of 1980s American filmmaking, and 'Blow Up' defined 1960s hipness, 'Diva' defined a certain kind of 1980s European cinema. That doesn't mean it's great, just seminal. It marked a turning away from deep psychology, philosophy, politics or even plot, and marked an emphasis on style, energy, colors, etc. The movie is about being a cool movie, with cool sets, cool shots, a cool car chase, etc. The plot is just enough to hold it all together. All that said, it is great to look at, the chase is fun, and the film is fun too, in an empty calorie, music video sort of way. It's frustrating. If the acting was a little better (the leads range from pretty good to very awkward) and the story had a little more heart and brains, it could have kept it's grand style, and been a great film, not just an entertaining, great looking film. "},{"Title":"Ebben ne andro lontano","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Catalani's opera La Wally has one of the most beautiful arias for a soprano, Ebben ne andro lontano, which also serves as a theme for this 1981 film we saw when it first came out. The one thing it did was something akin to what happened when Jonathan Demme's Philadelphia showcased the aria La mamma morta, because a lot of non operatic music lovers turn to get recordings featuring the immortal music that have delighted music lovers for ages. Not having seen it since its release, we recently took another look at this satisfying picture.Diva is basically a clever thriller in which an elusive soprano, Cynthia Hawkins, is reluctant to make recordings. Because she is such a rarity in our modern world, Ms. Hawkins' disregard to share her vocal gifts with the public at large, elicit all kinds of illegal recordings because ardent fans will go to whatever extreme necessary to capture her voice for their own pleasure, or perhaps to sell it to unscrupulous merchants for a profit.Jules, the intense young man, is seen going to the recital Cynthia Hawkins is offering. He has a hidden recording device. There are two Chinese men that are also interested in getting their hands in the material; they will stop at nothing to get what they want. When Jules meets Nadia, an adventurous young woman, she brings Jules to meet Gorodish, a strange man she has been living with. The trio go into an adventure that will take them all over Paris trying to protect Jules' treasure from falling in the wrong hands.After gaining Cynthia's friendship, Jules confesses he is the one responsible for stealing her gown from the recital, something that elates her because she finds the young man's attention flattering. What's more, she has never heard her recorded voice, something that only Jules will help remedy.This was Jean-Jacques Beineix's second film. We thought that after Diva became such an international hit, he would go to bigger things, but alas, nothing happened. His other films have not done as well. In fact, with the exception of Betty Blue, we have not seen any of his other films. The director contributed to the adaptation of the film.Frederic Andrei is a personable actor that kept reminding us of Jean-Pierre Leaud, perhaps a comparison to other movie watchers. Evidently, Mr. Andrei decided to go for a television career, something one wouldn't have expected based on his appearance in this movie. Richard Bohringer and Chantal Deruaz make good contributions to the enjoyment of the film. Wilhemina Fernandez Wiggins, a singer in her own right, appears as the gorgeous goddess-like figure of Cynthia Hawkins. "},{"Title":"Stylish and Quirky","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film has loads of style and some quirky humour. It doesn't make much sense from time to time, but it does keep you watching.It's set in Paris and it's an intrigue chase type thriller. There are twists and turns galore.I liked the Paris montage, but there is opera and I liked this less. To listen and see a scene of a woman singing arias may be music to some people, but not to others like me; however she is a most beautiful woman so at least that kept my attention.This movie is like a bag of potato chips, it's tasty and but once the bag is empty you toss it out. "},{"Title":"What a Fun Revisiting!","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I initially saw this film when it first came out, when I was 8 or 9 years-old. I saw it last night at the Kendall (only 2 other people in the theater, opening night!), and it was wonderful. The opera music is lovely. The interesting 1980's French style quirks. The great camera work. And they even spoke in English a few times to give my sub-title reading eyes a break. However, I found the premise a bit unbelievable. It's quite funny that people would threaten people's lives over opera bootlegs. It's fascinating that the opera singer said she's never listened to herself sing on a recording. But, the singer could have been lying, an interesting twist. Another interesting aspect is the fan boy/star relationship which is played out. Would a star really react as openly to a fan boy as the star does in this movie (after her initial threat to call the police)? This movie raise interesting questions! I highly recommend this feature, in the unlikely event that it shows at a theater near you. "},{"Title":"There are classics and then there are classics!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Diva is one of my top favorite top 100 films. The direction was fantastic and the photography (scene shots)great too. The film is filled with different emotions. Ie desire, lies, style, crime and on and on. It was one of the great 80's films. Up there with The Hunger, Liquid sky and other films like Sid and Nancy or Something wild. If you check out the films that they say you might also like if you like Diva, not even close to the same level; sorry. If anyone can recall Wings of Desire (1986), this is a great piece of cinema and a classic! If you like one, you should like the other even though they are worlds apart. Class above most 4 1/2 out of 5. Not much today made above 1 1/2. "},{"Title":"Interesting picture","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva is an interesting French picture which never relies on conventional thriller techniques.The film features odd characters but they are so well written.The story is a little complex, but it works well, after all, thriller should be complexed. The French subtitles are pretty good, very easy to understand.The film's direction is stunning, very stylish product from France. The photography is beautiful, France never looked better. The films' background is stuck to reality whilst the characters really do stick out like 3D.The acting is stunning, excellent performances all round. The singing is quite exquisite!The screenplay is well written.Overall, a very nice French picture! "},{"Title":"A superb film","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I've just watched Diva on TV. I came across it by accident and found it in it's original undubbed version. The plot was fantastic, the chase scenes even better.I'm normally put off by films with subtitles as I tend to spend most of the time reading the dialogue and not focusing what's going on, but this film had a great balance between dialogue and action and I was able to follow the film throughout it's entirity.This is the first French film I can remember watching all the way through without switching channels to see what's on...I'd recommend it to anyone... "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE EVER MADE","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Well, maybe not the best, but the best movie I've ever seen more than 100 times.  During the early 80's, I saw Diva every weekend for the entire year-plus run at the old Nickelodeon in Boston.Yes, it's moody and some people think its violent, but it changed the way I see the world. "}{"Title":"stylish French thriller--","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  great feel and music.   the Vietnamese teen aged girl was tremendous. Very charismatic.  Plot is a bit far fetched but sort of works as James Bond type over the top.great action (catch Metro scene)  great scene with the bread being buttered. j'aime pas (whoever) is the coolest.starts a bit slowly according to my friends but I don't agree.  I think I have seen it 5 xs or so (video).   "},{"Title":"Great music, goofy romance, average bad guys plot","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Diva features some of the best singing you'll ever hear in a movie - unfortunately, the first DVD release contains probably the worst transfer in DVD's history. Mono, a lot of hiss, and a poor picture. This wonderful film deserves a top-of-the-line DVD. Fortunately, there's been a second DVD release that is just fine - all the sound problems resolved. The romance between the bootleg taper and the Diva is very unusual (and wouldn't be done this way today after the many stalker incidents of recent years). Unlike the rest of the movie, the gangster plot is totally by the book and would best be ignored except that it takes so much of the screen time. Well worth seeing, but be careful that you're getting the top quality disc. "},{"Title":"My favourite film","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva is my favourite film of all time and it is the combination of plot, style and music that does it for me. The plot is so fantastic as to be completely unrealistic, but still manages to hang together and, in its own way, be far easier to accept than most of the Hollywood plots which are actually meant to be taken seriously! The scenes and people are so stylish and, for the first and last time, I bought the movie soundtrack because the aria is so good. If you like films such as Betty Blue, Subway, Nikita, Leon etc. which are all favourites of mine, you'll love Diva. "},{"Title":"A rare gem","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Very interesting movie, one of the five or six that I've seen a huge number of times.  The plot's a little confusing at first, but the obscurity is intentional, and a pleasant challenge.  One of the very best movies I've seen "},{"Title":"The perfect lifestyle accessory in the 1980s","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The plot's not central to this movie, but for what it's worth a young postal worker with a serious fetish for an opera singer makes a bootleg recording of her in concert, and some local hoods notice him doing so. He goes on the run, meets up with precocious Asian girl and a mysterious underworld figure (Richard Bohringer - terrific), and hangs out in fancy stylish locations. The look of the film is what's important, as with other French movies of the 80s (Betty Blue, Subway...) and it doesn't disappoint. Some of the performances are a bit awkward, but the thugs are great, the music's terrific and it's all way cool. "},{"Title":"Coolest film ever","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Totally brilliant shadowy Parisian underworld, heartbreakingly beautiful operatic aria (even if the rest of the opera is rubbish), wonderful imagery, particularly the lighthouse and The Tuileries. I've seen this movie about 9 times and every time I love it more. Sadly, I've yet to meet anyone else with the same enthusiasm for it.  "},{"Title":"Top Ten Film of All Time (for all the cinema/music/intelligent loving)","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Being an American who's been lucky enough to travel around the world a bit to places like Paris, which is a really cool place (and Parisians are no more assholes than New Yorkers or anyone else for that matter), I absolutely LOVE this film. If I had ten films to take with me through eternity, this would be one of them. The music is perfect, the story keeps you guessing and the climax is held for a long time. There's nothing unnecessary to the film (like too much action, too much sex, too much of anything) - it is a perfect balance of elements, from acting (which is superb by the entire cast), Beineix's direction is great, the cinematography is stunning, and the pacing is couldn't be better. If you don't rate this film at a 7 or higher, you must be a dimwit. When I looked up the cast's careers, I was surprised to see Wilhelmenia Fernandez (Cynthia Hawkins' character) has done so little in her career after this film - what a voice! I hated opera until I saw this film, and she helped change my mind (as did Cantalini's composition La Wally). I heard Richard Bohringer's character Gorodish (my favorite hero/anti-hero of all time), was going to do a 'sequel' but I never found it. So enjoy - it's a great film.In case you're curious, here's my top eleven (as in Spinal Tap), in no particular order 1) Diva 2) Casablanca 3) 2001 A Space Odyssey 4) Il Postino 5) The Matrix 6) Apocalypse Now 7) Gladiator 8) Contact 9) Deep Impact 10) Schindler's List 11) Saving Private Ryan "},{"Title":"Ars Gratia Artis","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film has no purpose beyond mere existence.It is as if in some sort of moviemaker's primordial soup it has suddenly emerged and pronounced Cogito,ergo sum.View it as an artefact,the ultimate example of Timothy Leary's adage.It is a lovely shiny plastic(in the original sense)thing,to be sure,but it is just a thing,it's only concession to humanity being an appearance by the remarkable Miss Wilhelmina Wiggins - Fernandez. Don't misunderstand me,I loved Diva but I wasn't seduced by it. It's a film that defines itself in inverted commas.It's enigmatic but not enigmatic.Last Year at Marienbad was enigmatic.It's comedic but not comedic.Amelie was comedic.It's tragi - romantic not tragi - romantic.Jules et Jim was tragi - romantic.It is in its entirety a cleverly constructed contrivance.It was said of Shane that George Stephens would wait for days in order to get the right cloud in the sky for a particular shot.In that respect,Diva belongs to the Shane school of cinematography.The overwhelming feeling is that every shot is the result of a conscious effort on the part of the director to attain visual perfection. In all this painstaking cleverness that at the same time condemns and glorifies things at the expense of people,none of whom,to be fair,apart from the eponymous Diva are particularly likable,there lies a dazzling and wholly admirable technique that is gloriously out of control.If you enjoy movies for movie's' sake you will love Diva at an intellectual level,but,like a pointilliste painting it works best if not looked at too closely. "},{"Title":"really slick","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a very odd and stylized film that I really liked. Now I don't generally go for a lot of artsy-fartsy stuff in movies, but this movie gave us both opera and the early 80s New Wave and managed to keep my attention. This is especially unusual since I generally like neither! The story is about a strange young man who snuck into an opera with a hidden tape recorder to copy the beautiful voice of a diva who has consistently refused to have her voice recorded. However, instead of getting in trouble with who you'd expect, he is pulled into a world of really freaky looking hit men! The bald guy with the radio (or is a hearing aid?) in his ear is just creepy! This is an extremely beautiful and well-crafted piece. Considering I first saw it when I was a teenager, it is amazing that I was this intrigued by any foreign movie. Now that I am old (my students at school tell me so), I can see how this movie helped spur my interest in international cinema. "},{"Title":"Hey, It's Existential!","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Hey, guys,No one seems to have reviewed this as an existential comedy/drama. As such, many questions you above have had, are either answered or become meaningless.One  Gorodish is God!  You did read or see Waiting for Godot, right? That explains how he attains so many small miracles, all to achieve final justice.Now, what that makes Alba, I'm not sure.Dan "}{"Title":"wonderful magical movie","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  wonderful magical movie, the first movie that after I watched it, I thought Movies can actually be cool.  I loved everything about it, even to this day I will show this movie to friends and they are blown away.  They will start to grumble that this is bad Godard or this is weird eighties crud but after the movie unfolds they all love it! One of my favorite movies! "},{"Title":"Stylish but convoluted","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Jules is a moped riding postman obsessed with opera singer Cynthia Hawkins. He secretly records her concert performance and steals her gown from the dressing room. He befriends Vietnamese girl Alba who shoplifts records. Outside a train station, he runs into a disheveled girl on the run from a couple of man claiming to be cops. They end up being dirty cops who kill her but she leaves a tape recording of evidence in Jules' mailbag. The cops come looking for the tape and trashes his place. He decides to hide out at Alba and Serge Gorodish's place. He returns the gown to Hawkins and she is fascinated by her stalker. Somehow a bootleg of her concert has gone to Taiwan and Hawkins is threatened with its release unless she signs a contract.This movie has lots of style. It is great to have so many interesting ideas and visuals being attempted. However I don't like the convoluted unengaging story and the bland lead Frédéric Andréi. There is possibly a great action thriller here but the story is too complicated to be thrilling. I liked the movie up to when he meets up with Hawkins. I want him more of a stalker vibe which is lost when he becomes her friend. Also I rather have the opera being the background more than in the foreground. It's got some interesting stuff but the lead doesn't have enough charisma. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" One of my all-time favorites! I LOVE this movie, and, yes, I also love Tarentino. The slightly surreally hip characters juxtaposed against the operatic music give this film a special appeal.I remember that I was slightly (okay, more than slightly) drunk when I first saw Diva. Although young and inebriated, I quickly realized that I was viewing an exceptional film and that I needed to see it while sober. I haven't seen it recently to observe my reactions to the film again, but I remember the astonishment and enchantment of my first viewing. Maybe that's overstating the case? I don't think so.I would like to obtain a copy of the film, but am dismayed to hear that what's available is of poor quality. Has everyone who owns it found this to be true? "},{"Title":"Godard + Touch of Evil + Smiles = Diva","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva is a wonderful, lovely movie. As you watch it, you are reminded of many other movies, some of them classics, and yet you rarely wish you were watching those other films, because Diva is delightful enough on its own. If the Godard of the 60s had made Touch of Evil in a good mood, he might have come up with Diva. I give it a nine on a scale of ten.  "},{"Title":"Beware the Dub","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A superb film but if at all possible, see it in the original French - with subtitles if you don't speak French like I don't. Whatever you do, try to avoid the abysmal dubbed version which uses bad American actors with constipated voices and totally ruins the ambiance and flow of the film. "},{"Title":"Mediocre thriller, but there are some memorable moments","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The opening of Diva is beautiful and shows signs that it could be a different kind of thriller. Seeing the protagonist sit in a theater simply watching a musical performance does not sound exciting at all on the page. However, somehow with Diva, it works. Because the music in question is perfect sounding and the introduction of the protagonist makes him out to be so mysterious, as well as a little bit creepy, the scene feels extraordinary. Any time a film opens without any dialogue and simply lets music and action of the characters dictate what is going on, it's a solid opening. It's easy to open a scene with dialogue between characters. It's harder to slowly build up to the first lines of dialogue. The opening and ending are oftentimes the two most important parts in movies. In the case of Diva, at least the first scene is incredibly successful.Unfortunately, Diva, like most thrillers, is unable to live up to its opening scene. After that first scene and a lengthy set-up, director Jean-Jacques Beineix presents the audience with the typical thriller conventions double crosses, corruption, and of coarse, chases. To be fair, one of the chases in Diva is better than most. It helps that the chase involves a motorcycle rather than a car. What makes the scene stand out is the fact that while there are certainly stunts in the scenes, nothing that is done on the motorcycle seems impossible. The audience is not required to suspend disbelief to such an extent that it becomes unbearable, as is the case with almost all thrillers, especially with the ones that have come out in recent years. On the downside, the chase is exactly that, a chase. It's cool to watch, even fun to watch, but it doesn't necessarily serve the plot. The chase could have been cut in half and the impact would have remained the same.I must admit that once the car chase was over, my interest began to wane. It became clear that this simply wasn't a movie for me. I was hoping the main character would be killed off towards the final act. That sounds like a horrible thing to say, but at least then I would have been somewhat surprised by the plot twists. The hero of Diva has the convenience of slipping away from danger and death too easily. It's not so much fun to watch when the audience knows that a character in danger can get away at just the right moment, outrun the bad guys at the most opportune of times. It is for this reason that the ending lost me. The final showdown that takes place in the giant warehouse is more predictable than anything in the entire film. It follows the pattern that whenever someone is about to get shot, the shooter is taken out before he/she can fire the weapon. I lost count of how many times this happened in Diva, but it was way too many for my liking. There are positives to Diva. All the performances are decent. The production values are admirable. The only real letdown is the story and reliance to the thriller formula. There's no doubt that Jean-Jacques Beineix has talent. However, talent is not always put to the best uses. "},{"Title":"See this movie - even if you think you don't like French films","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The previous reviewer makes a good summary of the film, but I can't imagine why no-one else has commented. This is a French film even for those who don't like foreign-language films. It's full of suspense, great visuals and a really cool soundtrack! It has often been criticised as superficial (in France it seems it is classed under cinema du look by snooty reviewers) sure, the visuals are great and the cast attractive but it has the story, the chases and the romance angle covered with skill and charm. The opening scene should be enough to draw anyone into this great film experience. There, now you've got to check it out to see if I'm right. If you're not convinced then I'm not chrisjtyler. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but silly","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Jean-Jacques Beineix has a reputation for making beautiful and stylish films with rather extraordinary plots. This film is art direction taken to extremes at the expense of story. Some scenes look as if the plot was worked around to suit the visuals. For instance, the principle character lives in an apartment styled entirely after the artwork on a packet of Gitanes cigarettes. The Diva plot may be just an excuse to include a haunting aria from La Wally on the soundtrack.Overall an enjoyable if slightly surreal film. "},{"Title":"Interesting, different...even if it does border on unbelievable.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie quite a lot even if it did stretch the bounds of believability more than just a little. I enjoyed the performances, found the pacing adequate, and the story interesting and different. Maybe it is a good idea, once in awhile, to simply abandon audience expectations and simply tell a fantastic little story....just for the heck of it. "},{"Title":"Very Bad Guy We must get that tape! (that microfilm, that knock list, that car, that kumquat...)!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A parcel delivery guy gets embroiled in a mix-up with the mob when he records a notoriously disk-averse opera star whom he is devoted to.You really should only see this film as an exploration of 80s style. I bought it a few years ago based on my memory of it alone and was surprised to find how badly it aged. Back when it came out it was easy to fall under the spell of the rapturous reviews it received, but it's really just so much padding. You get to hear Willhemina Wiggins Fernandez sing her aria from La Wally about five times; it's lovely but five is a few times too many. The song supplies gravitas to proceedings that would otherwise be a flimsy eddy. The strange relationship between Goru and the Viet Namese girl is memorable but the whole missing-tape-puts-elaborate-plot-in-motion is by the numbers. The central love interest story is sweet, but improbable too and not especially deep. And of course everyone remembers the moped chase. Adding a 2nd tape doesn't really help things. Overall it's sleepy, dull and anticlimactic to boot. And oh what an uninspired surprise the surprise recorded voice turns out to be.At the point the money drop goes down, and the ransom-bearer passes a hip tableau of mannequins, you'll know it's time to break out the Ah-Ha! CD.It does depict mundane daily aspects of Paris in a fairly straightforward manner. Jean Jacques Beineix went on to make the deeply-reviled Moon in the Gutter. "}{"Title":"Obsolete Disposable Pop","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Man, what a downer, like visiting your old childhood neighborhood, a once magical place, only to find a Wal-Mart parking lot &#133; or like running into an old flame, now fat, grey, and droopy.Things change &#133; world spins round and round &#133; no going back. What 26 years ago seemed a delicious pop lollipop is now dated, slow, predictable, pretentious. Movies have gotten so much better, faster, denser, so much more interesting to look at, so much better written, edited, scored, and shot.This movie belabors the obvious. Its hipness has faded, turned passé, stale. The once cute and mysterious, dark or beautiful, is now silly, prosaic. The opera diva's lip-syncing is terrible. The creepy shaved-head bad guy, wearing sunglasses and an ear bud, is now about as creepy or dangerous as a high school sophomore playing at being tough. Action, movement, are sparse, too long-delayed, while talk, posturing, go on forever. Never truly original, the movie dealt in stylistic clichés, once new, now not. "},{"Title":"An Exercise in Kitsch","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Diva looks like a vacuous attempt at creating art. Although it tends to lack the overdone sweetness that is typically associated with kitsch, the film fits the definition of kitsch almost perfectly. There is no semblance of truth or reality within the frames; it is merely a ridiculous story played out by awkward caricatures of artificial people. Diva is dominated, however, not by its preposterous plot but rather by its stifling attempt to force art down the throats of the audience. The worst part of the film is that it takes itself quite seriously. It looks upon itself as a true work of art, and asserts its own self-regarding presence throughout its entirety.Perhaps the most obvious example of the artless pushing of artistic ideas in Diva is its use of blue ad nauseam. Initially, the color blue appears to be an interesting motif. It adds to the general atmosphere &#150; the accents of blue make the film look imaginative and slightly surreal. The use of blue, however, soon throttles the picture with its overbearing occurrence. Any meaning that the color could have had is dissolved by the attempt to implant it wherever and whenever possible. One continues to notice it not because it is interesting or provocative, but merely because it is so overdone. Examples of such exaggeration abound in the film. When we learn that Le curé (Dominque Pinon's character) had been listening to classical music in his ear piece, it is neither amusing nor intriguing, but simply hokey. Similarly, virtually every death scene (from Nadia's to the Koreans' to Saporta's) is so maladroit and contrived that it ends up being more humorous than anything else. Moreover, in spite of its spuriousness, the film looks upon itself as powerful and important. A high self-conception is evidenced by several allusions to film itself within the film the illegal tape of Cynthia Hawkins looks like a film reel, as does the light that the black prostitute has, as does the pulley that pulls up the elevator. Here we see the film presenting itself, respectively, as beautiful as the music of an opera singer, seductive as the mood lighting of a prostitute's bedroom, and powerful like the machinery that lifts an elevator.The film attempts to cover a ridiculous plot with exaggerated artistic ornamentation. Unfortunately, the silliness of the plot still shines through, and (worse still) the ornamentation lacks any real substance. The final result is a film that looks garish and artificial, yet pretentious. "},{"Title":"Diva Is A Disappointment","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Wow, I was sucked into renting another lemon of a film by reviews which just raved about the great visuals and style in here. Well, in 1981 when this came out maybe it was noteworthy but I've seen hundreds and hundreds and films that looked a whole lot prettier, stylish and well-photographed than this one. Philippe Rousselot is one of my favorite cinematographers and a big reason I rented this movie. This was his first film. Well, he's done a lot better since and, since most people agree the story in here is not much, it makes the whole experience NOT worth your time and expense. Skip it.The characters are stupid and their dialog will insult your intelligence. The main characters say and do things that will leave you shaking your head. It's almost like this was a lame effort at comedy.By a third of the way through the film, most of you will have lost your interest in any of these people and their inane dialog. Don't listen to the elitist critics who think anything European must be good. "},{"Title":"Another stupid movie where the plot is to get the tape!","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" You mean to tell me that no one has a freaking dual cassette deck? The stupid tape changes hands a dozen times. A dozen people listen to it. Not a single person has the good sense to make a damn copy? Of course not. Because if anyone had any sense in this movie, there would BE NO MOVIE.I don't know if I should laugh or cry. Having seen Beneix's Betty Blue several years ago, I thought I could count on him to deliver another thoughtful, artistic film. But this is utter tripe.This stupid movie has so many loopholes I lost count. A car chases a moped for 10 minutes and fails to catch up with it. Aha, so this must be some sort of hyper-nitro magic moped, eh? OK. But then why, in the next scene, do we have a man chasing it on FOOT for 10 minutes, and he DOES catch up? This logic tells us that a man can run on foot faster than a Pugeot. Alrighty then...A man gets shot in the left shoulder. Why, then, does he use his left arm to support himself as he stumbles oh-so-dramatically down the hallway? And then there's my favourite scene where someone sprays a can of what looks like endust in a guys face, and the man instantly drops unconscious (without even taking a breath!).Don't get me started on the horrible acting. The chick may be able to sing, but she can't deliver a line to save her life. And her awful accent doesn't help much.But I suppose everyone can overlook the lame plot, the plot holes, the awful acting and the continuity errors because there are so many colorful sets! Yes colorful sets are all this movie has to offer. A big blue apartment complete with a brooding idiot who spends all his time sitting on the floor in the lotus position while listening to the worst new age music you've ever heard. This is, I assume, supposed to add a sense of drama and art to the film which would otherwise be a bad Hardy Boys episode.Yes, I say Hardy Boys, because the poorly-chosen star of this film is a skinny twerp of a kid who looks like he's 15 years old. But somehow he manages to seduce all the women in Paris.Is this a joke? The only good thing about this film is Dominique Pinon as the killer who says about 3 lines in the whole film I hate cars, I hate Beethoven, and I hate parking lots. Seriously, those were the highlights of this movie.Now get that cassette tape! It's worth MILLIONSSSSS!!! Get that tape!! "},{"Title":"Clumsy, bad dialog, very very so 1980's and not worth the time","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Great beginning--first twenty minutes. Clever ending--last five minutes. But not worth it unless you want to fast forward and make it a 25 minute mini TV show. Some reviewers must have seen a different movie. Diva is needlessly complex and meandering in a sloppy, undisciplined way. The plot makes no sense whatsoever and you won't be curious enough to sort it out afterwords, only wondering why you wasted the time.1981. Dynasty was hot. Rubiks Cube hit the market. Juice Newton was cool, so were Kool and the Gang and Eddit Rabbit. But for intellectuals--people who go to films, not movies--it was Diva that had everybody in the chattering classes chattering. While many reviewers talk about the films stylishness, they neglect to add that most of what passes for stylish in any particular moment ends up looking silly and dated very quickly. This is proof. Unfortunately, there is a great concept trapped inside--a passionate and quirky young opera lover who lugs along and manages to surreptitiously tape a beautiful opera recital using a semi-portable top-of-the-line old Nagra (the best tech available in its day.) But that's all lost in the mish-mash of global prostitution ring, silly sunglass wearing bad guys with bad bad guy dialog (I've got a bad feeling about this) and endless shots of a profound wave machine from Sharper Image or somewhere which is the meditation device for a character who is utterly incomprehensible.Don't say you weren't warned. This is not a classic...it's a washed up period piece. "},{"Title":"Major disappointment","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I saw the first scene of this movie on a TV arts showcase which was going through some opera videos. I was totally intrigued; the opera was beautiful, the lighting and color consolidated the mood, and the main character, recording secretly with teary eyes, seemed like a creepy, artistically sensitive but also somewhat fanatic protagonist. I developed the delusion then that 'Diva' must be some sort of psychological, dramatic type of film, a little like Taxi Driver but not so insane, about yearning and obsession, the mystery about another human, admiration from a distance, and the...elite, or elect, or beautiful, or celebrity--the Diva--whatever you want to call it else. Instead, after the first few good minutes, which end after the main character steals the singer's dress, I was unpleasantly introduced to the actuality of this movie as a thriller. And what a poorly written, shot, acted and edited thriller it is. It includes all sorts of bad TV show thriller clichés multiple and switched tapes, chases, foreign mafia type of people (except this time they were having a hard on for a bootlegged cassette-- now this is interesting the two taiwanese guys (apparently the ENTIRE world in this movie has a real hard on for Italian opera) WERE actually present during the first scene when the main character was recording...and yet, even though they are chasing people right and left, with sunglasses on, for the recording, they did not record it themselves!!--anyways, back to my list...) drug and prostitution dealers, inept and corrupt cops, an utter lack of understanding (or perhaps concern) of the function of a human body and how people die (or not) when stabbed, and magically and quickly faint when they are exposed to some sort of mist-spray, and REALLY REALLY REALLY awful deux ex machina. Of course, they had to cater to the majority of the critic population, so they jammed in other irrelevant artistic stuff. There is an artistic type who sits on a large bare floor while putting together a puzzle, and these slow mo shots of a wave machine keep repeatedly appearing with bad new age music in the background. Then there is a completely out of place (well, so is nearly everything else in here) and very long discussion on buttering a baguette. Everything is shot in blue to give yet another out-of-place melancholy noir feeling to a cheesy TV show plot. There are also tedious scenes involving metafiction on the medium of film with reel shapes rotating in various places. I've never liked this type of self-conscious self-reflexivity because I think art should do as a drug and kidnap its audience into its own world, not nag about its form or dress. Anyways. There is also this extremely annoying and stupid technique of panning or zooming at something peripheral during or at the end or a scene. The most stupid of these moments were when, after the main character had walked off screen, the camera takes several seconds to move towards a shot of an ordinary small pool of water. Another time, while bad guys are mishandling a character, the camera moves to a wallpainting of a little girl in a bus (??). For a movie which involves music a great deal the background music is awful. It is absent at certain moments where I think it could have benefited, but it is plenty and repetitious at certain moments when it is utterly superfluous and inappropriate. In fact, the whole recording is really botched, I'm not sure if it was lost in the transfer or what, but the ambiance and environmental sounds and totally lacking...it was as if they just recorded the dialog in an empty and bare studio. This kills any potential thrill considerably. Anyways, when the predictable ending played out (apparently elite sopranos are easily seduced by blank, fawning postmen) I had already lost all my reservoir for caring about the movie. Mediocre at best; in my opinion could have made a lot better of itself. "},{"Title":"Stylish...but little else","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In France Jules (Frederic Andrei) is obsessed with beautiful opera singer Cynthia Hawkins (played by real opera star Wilhelmenia Wiggins Fernandez). He illegally tapes one of her performances with a concealed recorder. The next day a woman drops a tape in his pouch (next to the opera tape) before she is murdered. It seems the tape has information on a drug and prostitution ring--enough to put the head in jail. Soon Jules has the police and murderers hot on his trail.I saw this back in 1981 when it was released. It was a huge hit and became an immediate cult movie. I personally found it vastly overrated. My opinion hasn't changed today. The film IS very stylish with some incredible visuals (love Jules' loft) but it doesn't have a strong enough story to go along with it. The plot is, to put it mildly, wildly improbable and has annoying quirky characters that got on my nerves instantly. Alba (Thuy An Luu) and Gorodosh (Richard Bohringer) especially act weird for no reason whatsoever. Also the constant barrage of visuals gets wearisome and halfway through I was bored silly. The movie crams your face into its visuals and seems to be screaming at you to see how beautiful it is. I give it a 4 because I did like the first half hour and there is an exciting chase sequence, but this is mostly an overrated French film. It has a following but I'm not among them. "},{"Title":"Not a classic. For French film fans only.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Diva (1981) is a so-so French crime/drama flick with a curious rather than interesting story. On the long side the film mixes some peculiar characters together sufficiently to maintain interest during a two hour watch. On the short side the 20 year old (at this writing) film is technically inferior, grainy, with poor French-to-English translation. Not for the new millennium, Diva will be most enjoyed by French film buffs. "},{"Title":"Bad 80s flick that takes itself too seriously","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The 80s was mostly an embarrassment. Parachute pants, big hair bands, Reaganomics and, last but not least, bad movies that took themselves too seriously.Here we have an excellent example. DIVA has the worst plot ever conceived, as another reviewer has already summarized in 3 words GET THE TAPE. It's the precursor to the 90s bad plot of GET THE DISK. What's next for the new millennium? GET THE MP3 DOWNLOAD? As you can expect of any movie with so dumb a plot, it's riddled with loopholes, inconsistencies and bad acting. But that's not its fatal flaw. Its fatal flaw is that it pretends to be a colossal work of art. Yes, you'll get tons of long, meaningless scenes of blue-lit rooms where people sit on the floor and pause for 10 seconds between each line as if they're pondering the universe while the camera hangs in fawning obeisance. We get ridiculously contrived montages of two people sitting with their backs to each other in silence while a brooding piano plays the same 3 chords over & over (ah, but isn't that the recipe for art?). And worst of all, we get the most horrendous acting, notably from a girl who wishes she could be as sexually charged as Brigitte Bardot but tries so hard to show it that she comes across looking as clumsy as a high school slut.Loopholes, inconsistencies and miscellaneous stupidities(1) Professional recording equipment that seems to operate without any power and can be smuggled under a jacket. This is 1981, people. Equipment of that calibre weighed a ton and took hours to set up.(2) People acting as if making an illegal recording were like shooting the Pope. Again, folks, illegal tape duplication & exploitation has been around since the Beatles. Record companies and artists learned to deal with it. They certainly wouldn't throw a hissy fit & start crying over a bootlegged tape, like our heroine does in one laughably bad scene.(3) People drop dead far too quickly. Even if a knife were to pierce a main artery, it takes a human several minutes to bleed to death. But in this weird 80s world, people die like switching off a light. They also fall unconscious from chemical sprays within 0.5 seconds.(4) Oh, but when our hero is wounded, he somehow manages to run several miles to safety (bleeding all the way) and wait 20 minutes for someone to come rescue him, after which some DIY surgery with a first aid kit in the back of a car seems to restore him to full health. All I can say is vive le 80s! *shakes head*(5) Are the Parisian police IDIOTS? Seriously, are they?(6 through 999) Too many to list.You've already wasted enough time reading my review about this awful movie. Don't waste any more. This is really a bad episode of Baywatch but masquerading as art. And there are no hot chicks (unless you count that stupid Brigitte Bardot wannabe who insists on speaking in a whisper all the time. God I wanted to throttle her.) "},{"Title":"Not so hot. . .","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I saw this the other day, I didn't like it.  Maybe if I had seen it closer to the time it came out, but today it doesn't really hold up.  What is the vietnamese girl doing on roller skates witht the ultra hip nobody in the bathtub with the miami vice neon lights on the floor? Anything with a woman singing opera for longer than two minutes is not going to fare well with me anyways.  So, whatever.  Don't get this.  Its bad. "}{"Title":"Boring, bad, pretentious movie","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Boring stuff, unrealistic combination of characters, ridiculous Chinese gangsters, bad actors, irritating Vietnamese girl. Totally unrealistic story; bad combination of subplots. Totally overrated. I don't understand the fuzz about this movie. C'est complètement nase !!!  "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Sorry, did I fall asleep? *yawn* Oh, right, Diva, I remember this movie. That's the plot less movie about the opera singer and the mailman, right? God what a shitty piece of poo. Yeah, I remember it didn't have much of a plot and the characters were mostly lame. Forgot what happened at the end. Something about bootlegging? Hmm. Pretty forgetful, I'd say.DivaOverall D-Acting D It's bad.Writing F Wow it's very bad.Direction C- Could have been worse, but still sucks the big ass.Style F BOOOOOORING.Music B Not too bad, actually, could have been worse. "},{"Title":"boring and odd","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Maybe because I thought this movie was a real thriller, I was so disappointed!! This is one of those boring and odd movies that some people call artistic. Maybe it is, and I did not get it. Or maybe I am right and you should rather watch something else, more meaningful perhaps.  "},{"Title":"Not logical","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not exciting. I finished the whole thing because Istarted. It is not logical at all. for example, how did those two Chinese fromtaiwan province got involved in this whole deal? How did they findout the secret meeting place, etc. Also why would the malecharacter run into a parking garage when he knew that he waschased by a car, not by someone on feet. And the two gangsters look tough, but they are merely acting. Theydidn't give me the actual fearful feelings.Therefore, I don't think that this is a successful movie at all. "}]