[{"Title":"A hauntingly beautiful portrayal of cynicism and the pathetic human condition","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I stumbled upon this movie at the Nickelodeon on Cape Cod the year of its release...at a time when VCR's and DVD's weren't a part of our culture...when you had to travel to obscure and far-out theaters to see obscure and far-out films during the fading window of opportunity offered as its limited run at the movie house. What a gem. I was instantly riveted by the story and the classic performances that brought it to life. The pathetic human condition personified in Cutter, Bone, and Mo is so exquisitely rendered as to be tragic...only salvaged by the clear-eyed wit and insight of John Heard's Cutter and the tempered and logical cynicism and indifference offered up by Bone(Jeff Bridges)as the balance that only these begrudging friends could provide each other. Lisa Eichorn's character(Mo) exhibits equal measures of the qualities both her male couterparts have and her subtle performance points up the conflict she feels in simultaneously rejecting and craving their opposing energies. The scene where she chews them both out for their selfish and naive plot and their spirited responses seems to spill from their beings as genuine emotion...not written dialogue...and it still sends chills through me...very powerful...and the scene where she is made painfully aware of Bone's incurable drive to bed women as she falls prey to his momentary sympathies ..when coupled with her husband's(Cutter) inability to give a soft refuge to her is so tragically realistic...tears flow. Everyone's shortcoming's cross-up everyone else's and as the surrealistic climax develops its symbolism and power are Shakespearian. This movie works as a crime thriller, a portrait of the underbelly of American culture most evidenced in its loss of confidence and embrace of cynicism that came to the surface post-Vietnam...but most successfully as a great character-driven love story and tragedy. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Political Thriller Still Resonates...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"47 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  `Cutter's Way' Ups the Bar on Mysteries- Harrowing, MovingIt is one of the more bitter ironies in the business of movies that a motion picture this good can remain such a secret; all but buried under the gloss and glitz of the 80's and 90's hyper-insensitive cinema. Since it was released in the beginning of the Reagan era, circa 1981, the only film to equal it in its mystery genre is The Usual Suspects, but even that film, with all of its intricacies of plot; fiendishly delightful manipulations; twists; turns; and eccentricities of character, remains a conventional who-done-it, when compared to the import, and mystery, of Cutter's Way.Told within the context of dazed and confused post Vietnam era America, it features a breathtaking performance from the brilliant, and never since better, John Heard as Alex Cutter. A hard drinking Veteran who was crippled by a land mine during the war while walking point, (`Only place to be!'), Alex is the biting conscience of an era trying to numb itself with booze and sex to it's recent past. While his cynical ravings about America and Americans appear to be the drunken ravings of a lunatic when he pronounces them, his alcoholic fugue really just dulls the jagged edge of the brutal truths he speaks enough so they fall just short of a lethal weapon. `Playing' at being a cripple, Alex remains insulated from the threat of getting his head pounded in, and he takes full advantage of his disability, managing to at least appear to hold the higher moral ground during even his more assaultive tirades. He remains clear, truthful, and precise while denouncing the sinister intrigues he observes swirling about him in the mundane world he inhabits, (`The routine grind drives me to drink. Tragedy I take straight'), so when his best friend Richard Bone, played by Jeff Bridges, inadvertently stumbles onto a real life crime of the most lurid kind, one that `may' link the most powerful elder in the community of Santa Barbara to the sex attack and murder of a teenaged girl, Alex takes to his trail like a dog to a bone. This is not the kind of Vietnam Vet it is fashionable to play anymore, nor is it considered politically correct to even acknowledge once existed as our primary mythological figure that had returned from the jungles of that strange war. But, this film was released at the beginning of the Regan era folks, before the more cynical memories of the Vietnam era were more or less painted over by that `new feeling in the land' that was gaining momentum back then. But, there is still Alex Cutter, a biting testament to the time, in one of the best performances from an actor you will ever committed to film. Mr. Heard displays the astonishing breadth of character very much evident in the range of work offered by the Jack Nicholson, or the great Gary Oldman, (who has played everything from Dracula to Lee Harvey Oswald), and he fuels Alex's emotional life with the range of King Lear. This guy rocks! He simply chews through the scenery, yet, while going way over the top in his focused and insightful ravings, he always manages to remain within the realm of believability. And, while Jeff Bridges gives us still another chance to see first hand why he is considered one of the great American actors of his generation, it is the beautiful actress Lisa Eichhorn as the doomed, suffering wife of Alex, who is a true revelation here. Her unforgettable portrait of Mo, (Maureen), alcoholic, lonesome, and lost, gives us the quintessential bruised angel for the era. A tragic figure, Mo is the `hippie chick' that met a one-night stand at a sixties party, and got her skirt caught in the door when she tried to get out. She is loyal to Alex, because she truly loves him, but we always know that somewhere down the line she took a wrong turn, and this is not the street she should be living on. Ms. Eichhorns heartbreaking performance has haunted me since 1981 when I first saw this film at the Cannery Cinema in San Francisco, and I have been in love with Mo since that day. If there is anything about the web that I can say `I love', it's that I can encourage other folks out there to finally give this film and this wonderful actress the attention she and it so richly deserve. I still mist over slightly when I think of Mo quietly weeping as Jeff Bridges holds her in his arms and whispers tender secrets, and soft encouragements to her during their love scene. It's one of the most heartrending, moving, and beautiful moments I've ever seen on film. Ms. Eichhorn shows us vividly how much it means for Mo to be held and to be loved, and how desperate her need for kindness is. I ache for that character and her predicament even today when I think about her. This is when acting is a true art form. I haven't seen this film in a long, long time, but this moment is as clear to me now as if I had seen it yesterday. Ms. Eichhorn paints such a moving and humane portrait of Mo's lost yet loving soul in the precious moments when she is on the screen, that it is very clear she would have become a major international film star, as she was once expected to be, had only things happened a little differently for her. And, while it's true that I gave up taking the Oscar race real seriously a long time ago, having decided when John Wayne beat Dustin Hoffman for Best Actor that there was no justice in it, I watch them just to savor the moments when they do get it right, and it is still amazing to me that none of the principles involved in the creation of this great film, neither it's writer; director; composer; nor any of it's magnificent stars, were recognized in any way by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for their work. Not one nomination went to `Cutter's Way' for anything. This film disappeared from theaters almost as soon as it arrived. Oh, to further peak your interest, I should tell you that there is a dark secret of epic proportions brewing beneath the surface of this story, one that is never openly discussed nor revealed, not even at the end of the film. Yet, we're always strangely aware of something within the narrative teasing us along, well hidden within the action; illuminated only in the subtext of dialogue; and story; keeping us deceptively riveted on the murder mystery, while imperceptively tugging on the coattails of our subconscious, drawing us further down a rabbit hole to peek behind the mask of a killer in that marvelous way only a master director, (Ivan Passer), can. Oh, you have a good old-fashioned who-done-it here too folks, and I can pretty well promise you fans of that genre that they won't be disappointed even if that's all your looking for. It's just that, well, like `Blow Up' and more recently `Eyes Wide Shut',  Cutter's Way is, at its core so much more than just a `murder mystery'. Critics naive enough to have dismissed this storytelling as too simple have missed the secret of this film by a wide five miles, as well as cheated themselves out of the sheer fun of watching it and trying to figure it out. Hey Guys, you seriously need to give this one another chance. `Cutters Way' is a classic, one of a kind murder mystery. (Indeed, it was recently released on DVD as part of the MGM `Classics Series'.) I doubt anyone who sees it will ever forget it. It's darker secret will more than likely elude you as it has so many others on the first viewing, but not to worry. Like all the great films that remind us why we go to movies in the first place, you'll be drawn to watching `Cutters Way' again. Be forewarned though, this film keeps a secret even after the shattering, final blast echoes into the darkness of its last frame; one that will resonate with you for many years to come.  "},{"Title":"Don Quixote At The Country Club","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Cutter's Way cannot be overpraised. This movie is a masterpiece of the first order. Ivan Passer, a compatriot of Milos Forman, came to the USA as an experienced Czech movie director. Not unlike Alfred Hitchcock or some German directors 30 years before him, he seems to have made a thorough analysis of the American social conditions and general manners. He then transformed his findings into movies. Two of them I know deal with New York. They are appropriately gritty. The setting of Cutter's way is a Californian beach community for the rich and beautiful &#150; and the movie is appropriately glossy. The whole story takes place in those paradisiac locales. They are presented like an enchanted kingdom, a country of its own.Under the glossy surface, there is a darker side to the place. There is prostitution, drug abuse and murder. Cutter, living on the fringes of the enchanted kingdom, sees that more clearly than everyone else. He has his own code of chivalry by which he wants to live. He develops conspirational theories and strains to convert them into hard facts. The world around him, populated by indifferent, amoral rich and beautiful people, does not understand him, does not even want to listen, laughs at him. So Cutter mounts a white stallion and rides a charge.Repeatedly the film slips into surrealistic situations, in which the impression made on the viewers is more relevant than the storyline. This technique was well known in the forties (e.g. in film noir), present day audience are less used to it. In the earlier days of film making, surrealism was created on a soundstage, and the change between reality and dream became immediately clear. Passer uses real locations for situations removed from reality &#150; a daring experiment that rewards the viewers with hauntingly beautiful pictures but might also confuse many. The director took this risk and we are rewarded with a magnificent picture about a distinguished slice of America. I predict Cutter&#145;s way will one day become an honored classic.  "},{"Title":"Misleading homage to noir","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Here is a film that sneaks up on you.  It starts out by introducing you two three off-kilter characters--Jeff Bridges as the drifting playboy Bone; John Heard as the crippled Cutter, a man of uncompromising rage and a razor-sharp tongue; and Lisa Eichorn as the Cutter's terminally depressed wife Mo. Within the first half-hour of meeting these pathetic folk, the narrative drops in a murder mystery a girl's body is found in a garbage can and Bone is the chief suspect.  When Bone has a momentary revelation and thinks that he saw local millionaire JJ Cord disposing of the body, Cutter becomes obsessed with proving Cord's guilt.  They have no evidence, you see, but as Cutter is a Vietnam vet scarred from the war and Cord represents all the fat cats that sent young men to 'Nam to die, Cutter thinks a little payback is in order (He's not just anybody, Cutter growls.  He's responsible!).After this bizarre set-up, the film takes an unusual turn.  It stops being about the mystery and more about Cutter's efforts to push Bone into taking some kind of action--any action--to give his life value.  In fact, the question of Cord's guilt is left hanging, and we are treated instead to a powerful climax that leaves us breathless as the screen goes black.Clearly one of my favorite films, the performance of John Heard alone is worth the price of admission.  The mutilated Cutter is missing a leg, an arm and an eye, and he hobbles about swearing and growling like a drunken pirate.  Some critics find Cutter offensive; I totally identified with his anger, although I felt that he took it too far at times.  Nevertheless, Heard has given us one of the screen's truly memorable characters.  You won't forget this film soon. "},{"Title":"not really underrated but more like ignored. This movie is very good.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A friend of mine gave me the novel Cutter and Bone (AKA Cutter's Way) was based on, so that immediately creates a problem, comparing two different art forms.Forget the novel (by the obscure Newton Thornburg) for this purpose only. The movie is a moving meditation on power, desperation, and paranoia. It is also a great love story.I always end up writing ...you've read the other comments so you know what this is about but Cutter and Bone is so many things, it cannot be pinned down easily.As noted in the favorable reviews here, this is chock full of great film acting that moves the story along as well as making come alive. Who was the clueless shmoe who said nothing happens? What movie was he watching?Adrift in post-Vietnam America, Cutter finally finds something in life that has meaning; the murder of a young hitchhiker.But any meaning is too much for the damaged Cutter who becomes relentless in the pursuit of a possible killer who also is of the wealthy, powerful elite that sent OPS (other people's sons) to Vietnam. Cutter finally has a genuine target (he's not anyone Rich, he's RESPONSIBLE says Cutter to Richard Bone in a great line delivery by John Heard) for his unfocused righteous anger.Bone tries to sabotage the investigation but ends up buying in at the very end. Why? He has the rage also, as did many Americans who weren't politically active, did not serve in Vietnam. It's a rage that infected a nation with guilt, self-doubt, and eventually, a new hubris, a kind of never again attitude toward less developed nations that has us yet again on the brink of yet another war in a series of wars that seem to never end and we hardly even notice anymore (remember Grenada? Bombing Tripoli and Benghazi? proxy armies in Nicaragua and El Salvador, etc.?)The other part of Cutter and Bone is a love triangle and a very well explicated one at that. Cutter and Bone both love Mo who can't love herself. Bone is not as shallow as he appears and it scares him. Cutter is too damaged and angry to love her enough until she is gone.I've known these people in one way or another, and that is why this movie has always meant so much to me. It is also about a great country I used to live  in that began to disappear about the time this movie is set, and has since metamorphosed into a large wounded, angry monster, bereft of the tears for near-paradise lost that this excellent movie depicts. "},{"Title":"Superb latter-day Noir","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent movie and one of the most consistently underrated. John Heard has never been better, and he is (alongside the late J.T. Walsh) amongst the most under-appreciated actors ever (one of the few mistakes in 'The Sopranos' was to let him go). However, Jeff Bridges yet again proves his credentials by turning in a beautifully nuanced performance as an unattractive, self-absorbed failed playboy in counterpoint to Heard's righteous crippled Vietnam veteran.This is a companion piece to 'Chinatown' in its study of corrupt power structures, but is more intimate and believable (and 'Chinatown' is superb). We still wait for its recent equal in the noir stakes. "},{"Title":"Radically better than anyone could expect....","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ostensibly this film appears to be a buddy movie from the 1980s, but it is actually something much more interesting. Employing standard Hollywood clinches with its thriller/ investigation narrative and many of of its stock characters and situations, the little guys - Heard and Bridges - take on Mr Fat Cat Capitalist who rules the peacetime world like an untouchable and corrupt monarch. The film, though well-executed and enjoyable, at first seems no more than a well-scripted, well-acted (Heard is particularly good as the embittered, crippled Vietnam Veteran) genre piece. However, what emerges by the end is something far more exciting and radical - an indictment of US politics and power relations, and a genuinely bleak reflection on the impossibility and rarity of real justice both at the micro and macro levels. Vietnam and its true significance is used to great effect in the film, as is the interplay between the two buddies. Whilst Bridges won't accept that he has witnessed the ultimate, bleak truth of US power relations until the film's abrupt, punchy end, Heard knows the truth intuitively and automatically because he understands and hates the world from the the start. He has given up on notions such as forgiveness and even the need for legal process, and seeks only revenge on the rich and the powerful. He understands, correctly, that is the only way a kind of momentary justice is possible, since everything else is either controlled by the elites or made to protect them. Without wishing to spoil the film's brilliant final moments, it is here that the whodunnit story is stripped away and the guilt they have been seeking to prove, as Richard Bone realises, becomes entirely political or metaphysical, and the the crime itself becomes irrelevant. "},{"Title":"And be the white whale agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" How many movies can you name where a very grizzly Ahabian figure, peg leg eye patch and all, prowls the seemy backalleys and streets of Los Angeles trying to pin a gruesome murder to a powerful oil baron? The movie starts with very direct Moby-Dick references, Cutter, the one-legged veteran back from Vietnam with scars to last him a lifetime, refers to Bone as Ishmael and the small bar they meet is called The Encantado, before it segues into a pattern of various 70's crime/noirish diversions to very basic human questions, life and death, pain and loss. Cutter is convinced the oil baron is the man they're looking for, the wealthy upper-class who is above justice and above reproach, yet the movie proves mercifully ambiguous, wonderfully 70's in that aspect.Cutter and Bone never know for sure and neither do we, but at some point it stops to really matter. The movie is not really a whodunit not because we never discover who done it but because we don't care, the movie doesn't care, because at some point Cutter and Bone, lower-class thirtysomethings with broken lives, nowhere to go, and their friendship permanently shattered by something that involved Bone and Cutter's wife, barge into JJ Cord's mansion uninvited, and somehow, in a strange quiet almost surreal way, one-legged Cutter is suddenly riding a white horse through the gardens in a frenzy, stomping party guests and upturning tables in his furious path, like he's back in the Vietnam jungle and running not away from something like enemy soldiers will run from enemy fire but towards it in a final mad dash, and out of the bushes and trees of JJ Cord's mansion emerges Cutter's Way, the movie now pure sublime and primeval, going out in a final upflare of stubborn and dying revenge.Cutter confronts JJ Cord and when he puts on his mirror shades, we understand that we're looking at the personification of Uncle Sam, so that he may not be guilty for that one girl's murder but he's guilty for something, and more, that Cutter is there to strike not at the mysterious old man, but through him, to strike ...all that most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly personified, and made practically assailable in Moby-Dick ... and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Perfect. Even Apocalypse Now didn't transfigure the enigma that lies in the heart of its literary source in a way quite as faithful simple and effective.The powerful thematic content and the subtle-but-not-so-subtle way Ivan Passer handles it is one thing Cutter's Way does right. The movie is fierce gritty and stubborn, like its halfmad protagonist striking in fits of rage the air with his cane and shooting holes in the sea, but it's also quiet bittersweet and tender and takes its time to get where it needs to. I like how the crime mystery slowly fades and dissolves in the haze of the hot summer Los Angeles afternoon before it's allowed to become tedious or an end in itself and instead we get to spend time out in the pier or inside cramped living rooms with the heavy curtains pulled, there are empty whiskey bottles on the floor and a soft jazz tune is playing on the pickup. It's like the movie is whispering to itself there's still time or maybe we still have one last night left, because we're looking at people broken who can never be made right again, the pieces were cracked long ago or in faraway places and they can't be found again, so there is this one last night left for everyone. When Bone makes love to Cutter's wife, the one woman he could never conquer, she breaks down and cries. There's not much joy here, but sadness and regret is mixed with a feverish desire for doing things now, even when it's too late. "},{"Title":"it's a great, great film...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Cutter's Way is one of my most favorite films.  The characterization is excellent, the plot is both persuasive and surprising, and the acting is flawless--Lisa Eichhorn, whom I'd never heard of before, in particular.  It's a travesty that virtually no one has heard of this film; all I can say is that it is well worth watching, if you can find it at your video store or watch it on late-night TV.... "},{"Title":"Love Story, Thriller, Character Study -- And They All Work","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of my favorite films. I don't have much to add to the positive reviews here except to say that Cutter's Way repeatedly alludes to Herman Melville, especially Moby Dick -- A character explicitly refers to Moby Dick early in the film; Cutter has a false limb, like Captain Ahab; his wife's name is Mo; he says, Thar she blows when he sees the villain's huge office building; after that part of the pursuit, he angrily shoots at an animal in the water; the whole story takes place in and around boats, and it begins at the El Encantado (Melville wrote The Encantadas, or the Enchanted Isles).What does all this add up to? I don't know exactly, but this film is an excellent mix of character studies, love stories, and suspense -- with great dialog and performances.I watch it every few years and am never disappointed, except by the fact that one of the main characters (the sister) suddenly and permanently disappears, as if she'd never been in the movie at all. It's not a great loss, but it's certainly one of the worst continuity errors I know of. "}{"Title":"Unsung masterpiece, in some ways better than Chinatown","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What is exaggeration to one class of minds, is plain truth to another. - Dickens Perhaps the last of its kind, Ivan Passer's Cutter's Way is a richly allegorical post-Watergate, post-Vietnam noir. Operating as a kind of sequel to Pakula's Parallax View, the film stars John Heard as Alex Cutter, an angry Vietnam veteran who's returned from what he now regards as a meaningless war minus an arm, an eye and a leg.The casting of Heard is significant. The actor made a trio of films, now largely forgotten, in which he played disaffected twenty-something American's, all suffering from a 1960's hangover (Between the Lines, Head Over Heels etc). In Cutter's Way Heard pushes these characters to their extreme. He paints Cutter as a perpetual drunk, a messy tangle of counter-culture eccentricities, post Vietnam angst, bitterness and barely contained rage. He's emblematic of America's Lost Generation, high on drugs, booze and paranoid blues.The film opens on a L.A. street parade. It's an ominous black-and-white image, into which patriotic reds, whites and blues slowly seep. We then begin to coalesce on a blonde girl dancing in a white dress. She vanishes, foreshadowing a girl's murder later in the film. The figure of a man riding upon a white horse is hidden, almost imperceptibly, in the centre of this introductory image. His significance becomes apparent later on.Passer's introduction conjures up every offbeat noir from Out of the Past to Blow Up to Parallax View. But what's intriguing about Way is how much it actively tries NOT to be a noir. In this regard much of the film centres on Richard Bone (Jeff Bridges, always cool), a Santa Barbara gigolo, yachtsman, beach-bum and slacker (the genesis of Jeffery Lebowski?) who we first see trimming his whiskers and flexing his brawny body over the bed of a female conquest. Passer paints Bone as Cutter's opposite self absorbed, non committed, forever without attachments and riding through life on a wave of perpetual youth. Significantly, Bone's nickname is Rich and he's periodically tantalised with the prospects of an esteemed job; the tanks of Reaganism are on the lawn, and Bone's soul is ripe for picking. Sooner or later you're going to have to make a decision about something, characters say, but his ears remain deaf. This is the film's underlying preoccupation making decisions, taking a stand on something.The film's noir plot begins late. Bone witnesses a man discarding a dead girl's body. He tentatively identifies this man as J.J Cord, a powerful oil tycoon, but isn't sure. Indeed, for the purposes of the film, Cord mightn't even exist. He's a spectral figure, part archetypal noir puppet master, part scapegoat, part State power personified. Bone wants to leave Cord alone, but Cutter latches on to the murder mystery with the ferocious tenacity of a pit-bull. These two opposite motions &#x96; yin and yang &#x96; influence Passer's aesthetic. On one hand his film's oddly relaxed, non-committed, skirting around its red herring narrative and refusing to engage its own plot, let alone acknowledge the girl's murder. On the other hand, it's at this very apathy, this narrative slackness, which Cutter chips away (Bone plays with toy guns while the impatient Cutter blasts away with the real thing). In his quixotic quest for justice Cutter's then transformed into a one legged Ahab obsessively in pursuit of his own Moby Dick (the white whale echoing Cord's saintly white horse). But whose side do we take? Cutter shows flashes of genius, mentioning Hamlet, Moby Dick, LA history and Marx, but he's a hothead, embittered and drunk, and his judgement may be clouded. Though it is suggested that Cord murders Cutter's wife, Passer is careful to leave every act of violence ambiguous. Cord's wife, Mo, may have killed herself, their home may have been burnt by a disgruntled neighbour and not Cord, and the film's climax never resolves whether or not Cord is guilty. Are Cutter's actions radically, politically and righteously motivated, or is he deranged? In Neon Noir author Woody Haut argued that Vietnam not only damaged the body politic, but blurred the line between the perpetrators of crimes and those who investigated them. In Cutter's Way, social justice has been left up to rejects, outsiders and the dregs of society. Cutter himself is plainly a visual emblem of cultural trauma (see Ashby's Coming Home). Interestingly, while Passer emphasises Bone's masculinity, his chiselled body, his physical perfection, it is the cripple Cutter who emerges as the film's masculine ideal. It must be tough playing second fiddle to a one eyed cripple, Mo tells Bone. Meanwhile, Cutter attempts to force his friend out of passivity and into emotional and ideological commitment. The film then ends with Cutter and Bone holding the gun that kills (we assume) Cord, at last joined in previously denied phallic power. Hence the film's title doing things Alex Cutter's way is doing things right, pursing a moral conviction all the way (see Altman's The Long Goodbye).End result while the film registers a certain masochistic pleasure in the loss of centrality, of white privilege, its ultimate message is fairly subversive for a Hollywood noir. Wealth/power may exist beyond the reach of the ordinary, Passer says, but more importantly, change is bulldozed by escapism, non-commitment and vacillation. I don't feel anything, Cutter's wife repeatedly states, as she drowns herself in alcohol. Her husband may have zombie limbs, but she's the zombie. By the film's end you're left with two poles Richard walking away is what you do best Bone, seemingly on the fast track to a white collar wonderland, and Cutter, whose existence suggests that agency now lies only in a radical form of madness. Beyond all this, the films works equally well as a detective movie, romance and a drama about the camaraderie between a gang of castaways and would-be gumshoes.8.9/10 &#x96; Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Lost Classic","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie for the 1st time on proto-cable (Select TV) in the early Eighties. John Heard is over the top in the role of a lifetime. Jeff Bridges is the cluelss 'beach boy' who can't reconcile his amorality and his affection for his best friend's wife. Cutter carries his rage and war wounds like a Bronze Star and uses them to guilt the world into letting him have his way. Then there's Lisa Eichorn, who loves them both and can't forgive herself for it. Each character is morally bankrupt and foundering. Then Bone finds a corpse in a dumpster and the Fate has her way with all of them.(Spoiler)It isn't clear (at least to me) whether Eichorn's character's death is a horrible accident, a suicide, or part of a conspiracy to frighten the amateur sleuths into silence. The plot turns slowly on a dime and builds to a slo-mo frenzy. Who killed the girl? becomes a litmus test for the nature of each of the protaganists.I intend to buy this on DVD.  It's not a 'blockbuster'. If you don't get the premise of the movie, or if you're not into character studies, rent The Terminator. This is technicolor noir, with John Heard at the top of his game. Pull the curtains, break out the Jiffy Pop and stay on the edge of your seat for about an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Heard is excellent, giving off a feisty performance in the title role of this quite intriguing little thriller. It is a bit too meandering to properly keep up the suspense and thrills, however there are still some moments of excitement, and there are also some interesting philosophies, especially about justice in the world. It only has a very run-of-the-mill mystery driving the plot, but there is still enough to the film for it rise above the norm. Although some aspects of Heard's character are not credible, he is an certainly interesting element, and at the very least, the film manages to end on a powerful note. "},{"Title":"Paranoia Strikes Deep","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With its tremendous sense of time and place, its trio of disillusioned characters and an overriding atmosphere of despair and disaffection, Cutter's Way is a powerful and often poignant murder mystery in which paranoia, bitterness and cynicism are never far away.Richard Bone (Jeff Bridges) is driving through an alleyway one night when his car stalls and through the rain he sees a man dumping something into a trash can. The man then drives off at speed and after abandoning his broken down vehicle, Bone completes the rest of his journey on foot.On the following day, the body of a high school cheerleader is found in the alleyway and Bone becomes the chief suspect. After having been questioned by the police, he gets released and later joins his friend Alex Cutter (John Heard) at a street parade where he sees the man that he believes he saw in the alleyway the night before. Bone doesn't know who the man is but crippled Vietnam War veteran Cutter does and immediately wants to follow through on this lead.J.J.Cord (Stephen Elliott) is a powerful oil tycoon who Cutter has known about for many years. He's aware of some terrible things that he's done in the past and resentful of the fact that people like him don't seem to get punished for their crimes. Cutter learns that Cord's car was found burnt out on the night of the murder and the victim (who was sexually assaulted before being brutally murdered) was last seen near the hotel where Cord was attending a function. These pieces of information are enough to convince Cutter of Cord's guilt and he decides to try to expose him as the culprit.Cutter and the murdered girl's sister then devise a plan to blackmail Cord. Bone is reluctant to get involved but is eventually (against his better judgement) persuaded to help. The blackmailing scheme doesn't go as planned but Cutter continues with his efforts to bring Cord to justice right up until the movie's excellent conclusion.Cutter and Bone were part of a generation that, after the idealism of the 1960s , became deeply disenchanted in the 1970s. The ways in which the two men reacted to this situation, however, were quite different. Cutter had lost a leg, an eye and part of one of his arms in the War and returned home angry and bitter and also full of hate for some of the powerful people in society (such as J.J.Cord) who never suffer in the same way that the veterans do. Cutter's ever present fury led to him becoming a volatile alcoholic who became obsessed with satisfying his overpowering need to take his revenge out on Cord who, in his eyes, was the very embodiment of evil and corruption.Bone by contrast worked as a yacht salesman and was a part time gigolo. His experiences had made him cynical and seriously apathetic. He no longer had any beliefs or commitment to anything and had no desire to challenge anyone with Cord's type of wealth and position.Cutter's wife Mo (Lisa Eichhorn) had seen her world collapse and had also responded by hitting the bottle. She was tolerant and understood the ferocity of her husband's feelings but her situation had also made her habitually depressed. She cared deeply for both Cutter and Bone but also felt that her existence had become directionless.The portrayals of Cutter, Bone and Mo are all exceptionally good and leave a lasting impression. Ultimately, it's the performances by Heard, Bridges and Eichhorn and their memorable characters who are so redolent of the time in which they existed, that make this movie a work of considerable substance. "},{"Title":"Jeff Bridges & John Heard shine in this 80's gem.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Heard gives an Oscar-caliber performance in Ivan Passer's psychological-thriller.  A well-crafted script delivers the goods from start to finish, and Jack Nitzsche's score complements the story beautifully.  A must-see for fans of the genre.  "},{"Title":"More Relevant Than Ever","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The title Cutter's Way is a reference to the main character, Alexander Cutter, perhaps cinema's all-time best antihero. John Heard plays the difficult role of an angry Vietnam veteran who returned from what he now regards as a meaningless war minus an arm, an eye, and a leg. He hates the fat cats-feeling that they conned him and others into patriotically serving while they stayed home, and he resents his best friend Richard Bone (Jeff Bridges) who avoided the war and continues to avoid any involvement or commitment. Commitment is Alexander Cutter's one remaining virtue, when he sets his sights on taking down an arrogant oil tycoon who has gotten away with murdering a 17 year old cheerleader, he stubbornly refuses to give up this mission and insists on doing it his way.Heard should have gotten the Best Actor Oscar in 1981 (it went to Henry Fonda for On Golden Pond) but Cutter's Way was not popular with critics and viewers so Heard was not even nominated. It is an amazing performance as Heard must win audience sympathy for a character who is not only unpleasant, but terribly abusive to everyone- especially his wife and his only two remaining friends. But he earns our admiration with his final act as a knight (on a white horse) who gallops into danger to avenge his wife's murder.With this Cutter is finally revealed as a romantic who is willing to back up his angry words and seemingly empty threats. His anger is over more than his wasted wartime sacrifice. He feels frustration and confusion because while he has remained the same, the world has changed around him in ways antithetical to his beliefs (can you identify with that?). He recognizes that he has become irrelevant to this world but is not going out until he has made a last stand. His commitment ultimately gets Bone to take his first moral stand and finish what his friend started, doing it Cutter's Way.Like Fat City (another of Jeff Bridges' early films) Cutter's Way is more appreciated now than at the time of its release. In part this is because both of these films have held up very well, if anything their political messages are even more relevant today. Thematically Cutter's Way is a political film-both anti-war and anti-power; very much in the tradition of Chinatown and the world of Raymond Chandler adaptations.This film is essentially a character study with an expressionistic ending. Most action/adventure fans will find it way too slow and cerebral for their tastes. The acting and the themes are its strength, the contrived story is a non-fatal flaw. The multi-dimensionality of Cutter, Bone, and Cutter's wife Mo (an extraordinary performance by Lisa Eichhorn) are carefully crafted and revealed by director Ivan Passer. Cutter's other remaining friend George (Arthur Rosenberg) is equally well crafted but more secondary to the story.A fifth character (the dead cheerleader's older sister played by Ann Dusenberry) appears to be a victim of the post-production process as she simply disappears without explanation about 20 minutes before the film's end. Normally the absence of a supporting character would go unnoticed but Dusenberry had done such a nice job developing this character (maximizing what little she was given to work with) that the absence is glaring. Contemporary audiences will see a lot of Dominique Swain in Dusenberry. They not only look enough alike to be sisters but they have the same confident flare to their acting style. Passer had to work hard to keep Dusenberry reined in but succeeded in getting a nice restrained performance from her, her high intensity peeks through just enough to convey that there is more to her character than meets the eye.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Brilliant script and direction","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is beautifully shot with a great score that sounds unlike any other score I've ever heard. Then you have a great performance from John Heard and a great screenplay that obviously had a tremendous novel behind it.If you like those gritty late 70s early 80s California noir movies like Straight Time, Who'll Stop The Rain and Chinatown, this is as good as any of those. I have just watched it and I don't think I will forget it anytime soon. It's packed with memorable moments and fully-developed characters.They don't make movies like this anymore. It makes me wonder what Jeff Bridges thinks about on the set of Iron Man 2 - I've never been a huge fan but the guy did a string of great dramas in the 80s like Fabulous Baker Boys, American Heart and this. He must be thinking what happened to all those good scripts that used to be knocking around?? "},{"Title":"LA Noir","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Czech director Ivan Passer rounds out ten years of post Watergate film noir movies set in LA that deal with deception both personal and and larger than their protagonists.  Check out Polanski's Chinatown (1974) and Altman's The Long Goodbye (1973).  These three movies make a good triptych of an era that lost faith in its government and itself. Surreal "},{"Title":"forgotten yes...gem no...","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I admit I am also very puzzled by the huge predominance of positive reviews given to this movie on this site. The only possible explanation I can see for this is a sort of virtue by association, since certain features of the film (the presence of actors like Bridges, Heard and Eichhorn; the setting in a seedy milieu with the Vietnam War and Watergate lurking vaguely but potently in the spiritual background) do draw it, superficially, into proximity with masterpieces of 70s cinema like certain films by Bob Rafelson or Arthur Penn. But the proximity is indeed superficial and misleading. Cutters Way displays certain stylistic and thematic points in common with the profound, structured, satisfying masterpieces of 70s cinema - but the sad fact is that it is itself neither profound, nor structured, nor - for just these reasons - in the least bit satisfying as a film. We are - or should be - all aware of the dangers of praising ambiguity as a meritorious quality in a work of art. I'm sorry, but I'm just not convinced by the implied contention - and in most of the reviews here this contention is indeed only IMPLIED, not frankly asserted and argued for - that Passer somehow made a conscious artistic decision to break with conventional structures of plot and narrative here. The fact that we are left, in the end, radically uncertain whether the man Bridges and Heard are pursuing - and whom Bridges presumably actually kills - committed the crime or not cannot seriously be presented as a dramaturgical or moral strength of the film. The vague piece of empty existentialist piety that some of the reviewers come out with - the film is not about the need to do any particular thing but rather the need to TAKE ACTION per se - is one of the most repellently ridiculous things I have ever heard. Does this film seriously propose to us that, since society is vaguely rotten and the true culprits of this rotten-ness cannot be reached or even clearly identified, we are morally required to break into the houses of random rich people, who look suspiciously content and well-situated, and murder them? I think we do the director a favour if we choose to classify the utter inconclusiveness of the final scenes as an example of the same narrative confusion and sloppiness as, say, the unexplained vanishing, two-thirds of the way through the movie, of an apparently central character the victim's sister. I honestly don't see how anyone can fail to get the impression that - far from conveying some deep symbolic meaning - the final sequences of the movie were just cobbled together in an attempt to close with as many dramatic and emotional images as possible. Certainly, any psychological coherence that the Cutter character might at some point have had is jettisoned in the last five minutes. After being portrayed for an hour and a half as being doggedly and single-mindedly determined to carefully coordinate the exposure of the Cobb character as a murderer, Cutter's plan to do so turns out in the end to consist in nothing more than to go hobbling wildly around the man's house, run away from his bodyguards, jump on a horse he finds in his stables, and then fling himself randomly through some French windows, promptly breaking his own neck. I have no idea whether this scene was present in the original novel, but I must honestly say that this risible spectacle of the hero careening wildly through the garden party - emotionally beefed up by some cheap and predictable subjective camera shots intended to positively FORCE the viewer to identify with Cutter in a way that his actions themselves make it pretty much impossible to do - seems to me a textbook example of directorial desperation and the frantic attempt to give direction and conclusion, by the sheer illusory spectacle of velocity, to a film that really wasn't going anywhere at all. Sorry, but to even vaguely imply that a messy, confusedly pretentious movie like this can be mentioned in the same breath with 70s classics like The King of Marvin Gardens or Night Moves is to do grave disservice to the memory of 1970s US cinema. "},{"Title":"A tight thriller made better by three great performances.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If anyone ever asks if a mediocre script can be turned into a great movie through the performances of the actors, simply point at Cutter's Way. While Jeff Bridges and John Heard have given other memorable performances, combined with the once in a career performance of Lisa Eichhorn this film rises above itself and achieves a level of success that could otherwise not have been expected. People who view this movie either love it or hate it, but are never indifferent about it. The fact that the movie succeeds even though none of the characters are truly sympathetic is amazing. Heard has the most to work with, playing a badly disfigured VietNam vet with a bad attitude, Bridges gets to be a disinterested con man and scoundrel and Eichhorn plays an alcoholic who has lost her own self esteem. Add Ann Dusenberry as the righteous, but somewhat light headed, sister of a murder victim and you have the makings of a tight thriller built around extraordinary characters. This is definitely one you will want to rent and after you watch it you will want to own it. "}{"Title":"A haunting metaphorical movie","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this movie over 20 years ago, and it haunted and deeply affected me. I'm sad to report that the movie's impact has lessened in the two times I've seen it since then. I believe this is because of political changes and advances in movie-making rather than any deficiency in Cutter's Way.John Heard's acting produces one of the most memorable characters in movie history, the tragic Alex Cutter, an embittered and crippled Vietnam Veteran, a man who both resents and exploits his physical condition, living a self-destructive lifestyle seething with the unquenched fury that epitomises the helpless rage felt by so many survivors of the Vietnam conflict.Despite its rather chaotic throughline, the movie is about Alex Cutter's personal war against the wealthy J J Cord, whom he holds responsible for the unsolved murder of a teenage cheerleader and who symbolises the insulating privilege of those guilty for the woes visited upon society's underclass. Throughout the story's development, Cutter's obsession with Cord's guilt can be regarded as either a pathetic quest to find meaning through a conspiracy theory or as the discerning insights of a person who understands the dark heart of upper class society. Jeff Bridges serves as both a confidante and counter-balance to Cutter's lopsided obsession, a man of apparent reason, yet ultimately loyal and sympathetic to Cutter.The movie itself is probably more of a metaphor about the guilt of the privileged and wealthy than it is a film-noir. The dead cheerleader and Cutter himself serve as strong symbols of society's unchampioned victims, and is something that drives Cutter to fight the cause of an unknown teenager. But his obsession has its price - Cutter's lover, Mo, is killed in a fire that could be seen as either arson or suicide, which acts as a catalyst that drives Cutter to exact revenge on J J Cord.The movie culminates in a powerful juxtaposition, where Richard Bone (Jeff Bridges) is finally able to have a private conversation with the disaffected J J Cord as Alex Cutter (John Heard) charges apocalyptically through a lawn party on a white steed before crashing tragically through the window into the very room where Bone and Cord are talking. Like so much of the movie, this is a powerful metaphor that serves to suggest the irresistible power of unpleasant truths to crash in on the lives of the overprivileged.In the end, the movie isn't about whether Cord was guilty or not, or whether Cutter was justified in his personal war; it is about social injustice. In this, Cutter's Way is memorable and justifiably earns its place in classic movie history. Made in 1981, it demanded social justice at a time when America was on the brink of the Regan era, an extreme conservative administration which would've found such the views depicted in this movie unacceptable. It is probably this which hindered this movie's deserved recognition.The world has changed a lot since 1981 and this possibly accounts for this movie's lack of punch. For one thing, the social politics which underpins the movie's subtext barely exists anymore. For another, in our homogenised world of political correctness, Vietnam is no longer the painful tragedy today that it was in the era this movie was made.Even so, that shouldn't deter you from seeing it. John Heard's powerful performance and the rich interplay between the characters and their shared tragedy add up to a memorable viewing experience. "},{"Title":"Very bleak, but a must-see","Date":"30 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The brilliance of Cutter's Way is that it keeps you thinking about the witnessed crime in the film's opening, but it's really about the three main characters; individuals so adrift and hurting that you just hope for some kind of catharsis for these people. John Heard and Lisa Eichhorn really shine because of this, although Jeff Bridges is no lightweight. This is a crime/character drama that I couldn't peel away from. You get the unshakable feeling that everything about the picture Heard's character has painted for us is wrong, and that we're heading for a very tragic ending. But it speaks to the narrative's strength that I had to find out, one way or the other. And it is most certainly a sad end (ambiguities and all), which continues to haunt after the credits finished rolling. Outstanding movie.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cynical buddy movie with a hidden heart","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is very much a product of the time and place from which it originates. Released in 1981, the original novel (Cutter and Bone) was published in the Seventies and the film version positively oozes the cynicism and self-absorption that permeated America in the aftermath of Vietnam and Watergate.The plot is centered around crippled Vietnam vet Alex Cutter (John Heard), his best friend Richard Bone (Jeff Bridges), and Cutter's wife Mo (Lisa Eichman) who live in sunny Santa Barbara. Cutter is drink-sodden, embittered, and cynical due to his war injuries and his conviction that life is meaningless. Mo is also lost in alcoholism and terminal disconnection from her husband, Bone is a low-rent pretty boy hustler who unintentionally witnesses the body of a cheerleader being dumped in a back-alley trash can. This dysfunctional trio team up with the victim's sister to expose the oil tycoon whom they believe is the killer.All three lead actors offer strong portrayals of people who deeply care for each other but are too wounded to really connect. They are thrust into a situation where each one of them is forced to take a stand and fight for justice, friendship, or love. The dialogue is absolutely razor-sharp and the myth of America as a a classless land of equal opportunity is torn to shreds. All in all, a gripping, blackly funny, and heartbreaking gem. "},{"Title":"Amazing Acting from John Heard","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alex Cutter (John Heard) is a drunken disabled war veteran. His wife Mo (Lisa Eichorn) is also a drunken mess. Their best friend Richard Bone (Jeff Bridges) is a witness to a murder, and he thinks that the killer is this powerful oil tycoon JJ Cord (Stephen Elliott). Cutter refuses to let it go, and together with the victim's sister Valerie Duran (Ann Dusenberry) harasses Bone to get JJ.The main drawback is that their plan was never going to work. If they really thought about it, they would see it as a fool's errand. The plan actually insulates JJ from any testimony from Bone. The plan actually helps JJ.However we know Cutter is a drunk bastard. So I'm willing to believe that he would come up with a poorly constructed plan. It's the acting that is so superior in this. John Heard really goes all out, and Jeff Bridges' calmness makes them the perfect duo. I just love how crazy John Heard gets. He really shines. "},{"Title":"First Rate Thriller","Date":"18 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Master Director Ivan Passer takes a strong screenplay by Jeffrey Fiskin, and with one of the greatest cinematographers Jordan Cronenweth at his side, created this first-rate thriller. The editing is tight, never draws affected attention, and enhances the luminous but always understated camera work. Casting of Jeff Bridges, John Heard, and Lisa Eichhorn seem perfect for Mr. Fiskin's exacting, sharp, and biting script. Jack Nitzsche was still in good form when he composed the music for the film. Even Santa Barbara never looked better as a locale for a movie.The finely executed photography, in a number of ways, creates the critical core of this film, underlining Mr. Fiskin's deceptively simple dialogue and underplayed performances by the cast. "},{"Title":"Unusual buddy film about very odd characters indeed","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is a classic 'sleeper', to use film industry terminology, which became an unexpected success with audiences and developed a reputation which its distributors never anticipated. They reissued it under the above title to cater to this surprising market interest. The original title of the film was the same as that of the novel by Newton Thornburg (published in 1976), upon which the script was based, CUTTER AND BONE. Changing that was a good idea. Such a cutsie punning title may work for a book, but not a movie. (Richard Bone and Alex Cutter are the names of the two main characters, played by Jeff Bridges and John Heard respectively.) Heard plays a Viet Nam veteran who has come back from Nam missing an arm, a leg, and an eye. Bridges is his long-time friend, and they see each other constantly. Heard's wife Mo, subtly and excellently played by Lisa Eichhorn, has turned to sullen drink because of the collapse of her love life and the wild ravings of her husband, who is also becoming an alcoholic and gives constant demonstrations of rage by crazily smashing things (such as driving intentionally into his neighbour's parked car just for the hell of it, when half drunk). Bridges is a strangely passive and detached character who 'makes it with the ladies' and shows off his chest. These three misfits, or outcasts from normal society, live in a fantasy bubble of their own, the atmosphere of which is perfectly captured by the excellent direction by Czech director Ivan Passer. I would say that John Heard over-acts and Jeff Bridges under-acts. However, that strangely works, and maybe it was intentional. Certainly we end up really believing in John Heard as this character who will do anything. And indeed, as the amazing ending of the film shows, he really and truly will do anything. This film portrays a vivid streak of anarchy amongst these desperate people who are dragging out their lives together, and who end up having nothing to lose. That in a sense is a comment on the very large proportion of the American population (more now than then) who live in a state of hopelessness and despondency, utterly powerless to raise themselves up any ladder at all, as they watch rich acquaintances cavort at country clubs. The plot of the film concerns the mysterious murder of a 17 year-old girl by a powerful oil man, who eliminates those who get in his way without compunction. Heard's obsession with bringing him to justice results in his own wife being murdered by the man. The oil man represents 'the powerful', and Heard, as a tragically maimed veteran, perfectly represents 'the powerless', in this dark drama of retribution. It is disturbing in its wider implications, which is precisely what it was intended to be. "},{"Title":"A band of would be extortionists","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cutter's way, aka Cutter and Bone is one of the finest films of the 80's and the finest mystery of that decade. It proves that the salvaged movies are usually treasure of the bunch, and thankfully this movie was saved from oblivion to become a cult classic. One doesn't know where to start with all that works for this cinematic diamond, there are finest performances all around, especially by Heard and Lisa Eichhorn, who mesmerized me with her portrayal of burnt-out wife with loads of existential sorrow and honesty, which she radiates all around her, like a halo, along with beauty from within her troubled soul. The story is well written and the dialogs are great.Czech school of directing always blended well with Hollywood, when Hollywood was about art and not sales, and we have numerous examples of that through the works of Milo&#x9A; Forman, Karel Reisz and finally Ivan Passer. He directs this film with a sense for bringing out the best from each of the principal characters who are all lost souls, wandering through the wasteland of their lives. Jordan Cronenweth's masterful photography that makes this film look 10 years ahead of it's time, only add to the overall beauty. If you can, be sure not to miss this one. Fantastic. "},{"Title":"Better and better with the passing years","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw this film shortly after its belated release and was rather bored by it - but it was my fault. I wanted to see it because its director was Ivan Passer, who directed the beautiful Czech film Intimate Lighting.Since then I've seen it three more times, and each time I saw it, the film got bigger and better. It has what is probably my favorite movie line ever, spoken by Cutter (John Heard) Some day in Tahiti, we'll look back on all this and laugh. The cinematography (by the late Jordan Cronenweth) is splendid, with its emphasis on shade and sunlight streaming through lush trees. Lisa Eichhorn gives a heartbreaking performance as Cutter's alcoholic wife, whose brutal self-honesty makes her into an almost tragic heroine. Jeff Bridges is brilliant as Cutter's gigolo friend Bone - the origin of whose name becomes obvious in the opening scene.But Passer is the true hero. He took what would've been a mediocre film in someone else's hands and made it utterly irreplaceable. This is truly one of the great American films of the 80s. "},{"Title":"Cutter's Way","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A very unusual, very unconventional film which can not seem to decide if it wants to be a character study/mood piece or thriller. Richard Bone(Jeff Bridges)is an irresponsible, commitment-phobic ivy-league pal of boozing, hardened Vietnam vet, Alex(John Heard). Mo(Lisa Eichhorn, very good)is the troubled, sad wife of Alex who seems lost to the world as she watches her husband sliding down a spiraling emotional slope. These three characters are surrounded by the wealthy means of the rich nearby a marina whose boyhood pal is George(Arthur Rosenberg), someone who is seeing green pastures thanks to the mighty powerful JJ Cord(Stephen Elliot photographed as if he were a mighty unmovable pillar)who is a business giant with lots of powerful corporate friends. It seems that it's possible Richard saw the mighty JJ dumping a dead woman's body. Alex, enraged at the thought of any mighty man of means like JJ just dumping off people like him(this anti-establishment rage courses through his veins thanks to the war which left him a cripple..it is people like JJ who sent him over there to die in 'Nam, he believes wholeheartedly). Soon the dead girl's sister, Valerie(Ann Dusenberry)wants revenge towards JJ when Alex tells her that Richard could identify him as the one there that night. Valerie wants to take JJ down and along with Alex, concocts a plan to blackmail JJ turning him over to the police when the money is supposedly handed over. That doesn't quite succeed because Richard doesn't have it in him to hand over a letter proposing that JJ give them cash claiming he saw the man caught in the act. The film exploits the fact that Richard just can not commit to much of anything always drifting in and out of relationships, jobs, anything demanding of him. Alex is the exact opposite looking for the cause to stamp out any injustice always giving his whole heart. Interesting enough, Richard seems to benefiting a lot more than Alex..perhaps that's a statement into itself. The thriller seems secondary to the awkward friendship of Richard and Alex.Mo seems to be a chess piece between them as Alex has her and Bone has always desired her. Mo doesn't wish to give into Richard because it would be fulfilling his one last conquest. Meanwhile, Valerie enters this story and leaves without much explanation as to where she went. She's very vocal about seeing JJ hand over that money, and her ulterior motives are never quite clear. She seems to be in this story as the injured sister, but becomes very involved with the two men(..perhaps not sexually, but we really never fully know)pushing for the blackmailing idea to be carried through. When Richard chickens out, she joins Alex in the quest to take down JJ..but once she leaves this scene we never find out what happens to her. And, the climactic meeting(after a house burning leaves one of the three dead)between JJ and Richard seems rather unsatisfying.I will admit that I had problems with the last 30 minutes of the film where the thriller is supposed to develop at the height of tension, yet doesn't commit, much in the same way as Richard. The answer to the riddle..did JJ not only kill the girl at the beginning, but another character by house burning. It isn't specified so the viewer will have to decide. It does end with a bang. The film is certainly fascinating with good performances(..although, I felt Heard overexerts himself into a near-parody;he could almost resemble a pirate with the saying of, Shiver me timbers! to seal the deal.), but I felt a prolonging sadness in the material. These three people we ourselves commit to seem destined for tragedy. I guess it's just in the cards. "},{"Title":"I don't know what everybody is talking about the ending is quite clear.","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I liked this film and I liked the performances. But everyone saying the ending is ambivalent is not true.Plot SpoilerThe rich guy did it. And Bone sees justice is done by making his friend look responsible for it. Innocent people now matter how wealthy and powerful NEVER place sunglasses on their head and go What if I did? Folks, get a grip.The ending is a easy to figure out.Nice little film noir. No really great themes here except Cutter is Ahab. No one doubts the white whale is responsible for Ahab's wife's death. Just is Ahab going to let it go and live his life?Another SpoilerVery few alcoholics kill themselves by arson. And Mo wasn't drunk enough to fall pass out and burn herself up. It's another event easy to figure event.The film is still a bit of a Rorschach test. If you are one of those people who believe that rich, responsible people would never stoop to mob levels you will see the events as coincidence. If you are politically minded you will see it as commentary of American politics. If like me and you are into a nifty little film noir you will NOT be disappointed. The Vietnam war stuff is sauce to the goose in Cutter's character allowing the rich, cynical, and selfish to doubt his quest. Which IS very Quixotic - more sauce to the goose. Bone is a selfish playboy who sees everything in shades of gray - until the end. Ha ha - selfish to the bone?Nicely done. Applause. "}{"Title":"The world according to Alex Cutter....","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I gotta go, I go. On point, only place to be, Purple Heart land. Toyota's a shitty car anyway. What do they call you cats these days anyway? Cutter's Way is perhaps the most quotable movie ever made. John Heard's Cutter is absolutely unforgettable. The world lacks heroes is his ultimate statement, and perfectly describes what drives the movie to greatness. Every character in Cutter's Way revolves around Cutter and his passionate pursuit of justice. Bone is merely swept along, in this rising tide of enthusiasm. The ending is one of the most genuine conclusions ever put on film. If you only see one DVD. See Cutter's Way. It is a masterpiece. - MERK "},{"Title":"Finest entertainment","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is what movie making is about. The real essence. Unfortunately most films today focus on just pure entertainment with use of astonishing, mind blocking action and explosion scenes. Movie making is about showing human beings in their life, because mankind itself is so multi layered and a secret in its own. This is mastered in excellence in the movie, the suspense is generated by the characters, a not often seen deep character portrayal. On the fly everyday themes like depression, dolor, friendship and love are addressed, integrated in a thrilling plot, which slowly develops, and culminates in a radical finish. With love and extraordinary detail a really special film from an artist . As conclusion finest entertainment "},{"Title":"full of cool things","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Picked this up for a dollar in Victoria, heard nice things about it without any clue what it was about. Turns out to be one of the two or three best scores of my whole VHS-spelunking sojourn this year, a lost almost-masterpiece from the tail end of the seventies' adult drama period, drenched in class consciousness and ironic distance. The characters in this sorta-mystery about some losers aiming to 'get' a mysterious cheerleader-murdering (?) millionaire are unlike any I've seen in an American movie. You feel like you've seen them all before but not on screen. There's something very off-center about the whole picture, from the fascinatingly unpredictable failings of the leads to Jack Nietszche's Morricone-goes-to-LA soundtrack, but it also stands up for commitment in the face of utter futility, an inspirational and timely theme! I can forgive the speechy bits although they stick out like a sore thumb. And who decided to drop Ann Dusenberry in the third act? Her hormonal glare shtick is unlike any dead-cheerleader's-sister in movie history, one more cool thing in a movie that is full of them. "},{"Title":"Well done.","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cutter's Way (1991) is a great film by director Ivan Passer. What really makes this film work is the acting by the main trio (John Heard as Alex Cutter, Jeff Bridges as Richard Bone (Cutter's best friend), and Lisa Eichhorn as Maureen Cutter, 'Mo' (Cutter's wife)). Especially John Heard, who took on a very challenging role as a Vietnam War veteran who has lost one of his eyes, arm, and legs, and has also taken to the drink. You can see his unfocused life and his anger, wanting to blame someone for what has happened to people like him. The death of a teenage girl leads him to focus again on his life by blaming J. J. Cord, a rich citizen of the same city they both live in (Santa Barabara). Also great is Lisa Eichhorn as his estranged wife who tries to rectify her depression due to her husband's condition by drinking and also falling for Richard Bone. A very intriguing film that shows what the Vietnam War has done to certain people. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bridges And Heard Cut It Well In This Classic  Gem!","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cutter's Way is a superb film that is only just beginning to get the Recognition that it truly deserves. It's a gem of a film one of the Best from the eighties, Jeff Bridges, And John Heard give fine Performances, As the troubled friends Who get a lot more that they bargain for. Bridges plays Richard bone a boat salesman, and somewhat gigolo who on a rainswept night, catches a glimpse of a man dumping a dead body in an alleyway ,Bridges then becomes implicated in a Mysterious murder investigation, Heard and bridges attend the towns parade festivities when bridges catches a glimpse of the killer In the parade, who as it turns out is the towns local tycoon, Bridges is convinced that it's him, Bridges aided by his radical Vietnam- vet pal Alex Cutter,(played to the hilt like an alcoholic pirate! (John Heard) as well as the victims sister,Decide to blackmail the tycoon who may or may not be the culprit.Jack Nietzsche Contributes a strange and effective score that has a distinctive down Mexico way feel to it, Cutter's Way is a superb, emotional and Relentless film Which captivates you until the final reel. Czech Director Ivan Passer, has directed numerous other films That deal with Downbeat realism about the down side of the 'American Dream Including 'Born to Win' 'Silver Bears' this is one of his best. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies of the '80s & Beyond","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, during its initial release, I was stunned at how powerful and moving it was. Every aspect of it is outstanding, and the score is one of the most haunting, evocative musical works ever done in cinema history. It was composed by the late, great Jack Nitzsche (who worked with a lot of Vietnam era rock'n'roll's best). I took a friend to see it a second time, but he wasn't taken with it. Our friendship didn't last, by the way...I've often thought back on it over the years, and have mentioned it to numerous people, most of whom haven't seen it, or don't even recognize the title. I saw Lisa Eichhorn on a recent episode of Law and Order CI (she's apparently done a lot of L&O's), and I instantly flashed-back to Cutter's Way. As others here have written, she gave a phenomenal performance in this film, as did John Heard and Jeff Bridges.Although I never read the novel it was based on, and can't find it (it's out of print), it's probably just as well. This may be one of those very rare instances where a novel might be a disappointment in comparison to the movie version.I plan to buy the DVD of this movie ASAP, whether or not it has any extras. "},{"Title":"You've Got To Be Kidding","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Did the other reviewers see the same movie? We watched this, remembering it's reputation from the 80s as a good movie. Instead, we got bad American fake noir with a meandering script, one-dimensional characters, and poor Jeff Bridges wandering around looking for a decent scene where he can keep his shirt on. We stopped caring about halfway through, but decided to wait for the prescribed cat and mouse game of the CD jacket. Sorry, missed the mouse as well as the cat -- just a couple of weasels running around trying to find justice instead of taking whatever evidence they had to the D.A. like big boys. CW has not aged well -- drunken wife-beaters with drunken wives are no longer considered pathos, just pathetic. Hangers-on who can't make a decision and sleep with their best friend's wives dopes. Rich guys who are responsible for the ills of the world? Sorry -- watch Chinatown.Best part was recognizing Will Roger's Sunset Boulevard ranch and stable in the final scenes and during the polo match. Otherwise, a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Shakespearean Overtones","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Heard's Cutter is a character straight out of Shakespeare. His over-the-top dramatics are more theatrical than filmic. The other central characters are more standard film characters. This effortless blending is a fascinating and curious aspect of the film. The film's showing of California's dark side in edenic Santa Barbara is in some ways comparable to the darkness descending upon the paradise of Carmel, CA in Eastwood's PLAY MISTY FOR ME (1971). as well as the general disillusionment and darkness of Steinbeck's (Elia Kazan's) EAST OF EDEN (1954). CUTTER'S WAY presents more questions than it answers, but remains firmly anchored in singular place. An unusual work of art. "},{"Title":"Fanny Babs wrote a brilliant yet cynical review of 'Cutter's Way'","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film is truly a masterpiece both in plot as well as performance. I remember my uncle telling me in the early-mid 70's of this great novel he was reading called 'Cutter and Bone' and kept nagging me to read it. He went on to state very bluntly '...you remind me of Cutter.' Having seen the move in 1981 I was amazed at the incredible product i.e. few novels translate properly to the screen.The qualms I have with Fanny Babs is to somehow 'mock' John Wayne's Oscar received for a mess 'True Grit' while not even granting how Wayne himself had been robbed in a more egregious fashion in 1957 with 'The Searchers'. Also the snide remark towards the Reagan Era. It never ceases to amaze me the 'legion' who never look at the preceding occupant of the executive branch.Nonetheless as Fanny babs so brilliantly laid out a great unknown gem is 'Cutter's Way'. At the risk of being jeered at I also found 'Mike's Murder' to be another in the same genre - Paul Winfield, Debra Winger who come to know each other because of the weak young man Debra Winger fell in love with 'Mike' - try it sometime. Admittedly not as tightly wound as Cutter's Way but still not a waste of an evening. "},{"Title":"I've never been able to get through this without zoning out by an hour.","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think this movie is overrated, it's not at all important. as some people seem to believe. It's not all bad though.I saw this in the theater when it originally came out and wasn't impressed much. The performances are fine, but there is something about it, even after seeing it probably six times over the years, that makes me not give a damn about it. Maybe it's just the general downer theme, I don't really know what it is. I'm not a young person who finds movies like The Godfather too slow, because they actually tell a story, but this movie seems way too long. Not worth watching again, I don't think I will suddenly say, Wow, I missed that!, but worth watching at least once. "}{"Title":"Deliberately Paced Character Study","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jeff Bridges is a passive, educated drifter in paradisaical Santa Barbara who half-glimpses a murderer he can't later describe to the police. Bridges avoids complications in his life. Anything resembling excitement and purpose is alien to him. He friend, John Heard, is just the opposite. He's a Vietnam vet who has lost an eye, a forearm, and a leg. He's become a raging alcoholic. His wife, Lisa Eichhorn, does her best to enable him and keep his rampages damped down enough to avoid the attention of the police. She also has an eye for the tanned and strapping Bridges, and vice versa.A week or so after the murder, which has put Bridges' photo on the front page, the trio are watching the local Spanish Fiesta parade and Bridges impulsively grabs Heard and shouts, That's him!, meaning the murderer. The person so identified happens to be one of those impossibly rich barons of industry that you only read about or catch a photo of, with a trophy blond on his arm. Bridges explains that he's not really sure, but Heard has latched on to an adventure mystery and is determined to follow it through.Somewhere around here the plot gets a little weird. Heard hatches a plan to trap the baron. They'll hand him a letter demanding blackmail and when the baron pays up, they'll turn him over to the police. Things go wrong and Heard's wife is killed when their house burns down under mysterious circumstances.The stricken and now sober Heard incorporates the incident into his fantasies. The baron, he believes, burned the house down because he'd seen Bridge's photo in the paper and thought Bridge was in the house.There is a party at the baron's mansion when everything comes together and the murderer dies of a gunshot wound.It's pretty slow. It captures the lush atmosphere of Santa Barbara very well, though, rendering it perhaps lusher than it actually is. There are scenes that look as if they'd been shot on the Florida keys. Thank you, Josan Russo.The dialog isn't bad and has its occasional felicity. The performances are quite good too. John Heard has by far the splashiest part, hobbling around like Richard III and speaking in menacing squawks. He's got his drunken persona wrong though. All drunks do not cackle like maniacs to show they're drunk. And they can't sober up in two minutes by gargling mouthwash. It's a one-dimensional drunk. Lisa Eichhorn is wall eyed and has classical features that seem to radiate perception and understanding. And she does some nice work, sobbing with guilt while making love to Bridges.But it's not a particularly taut script. The ambiguity of Heard's paranoid fantasies is well done but there are a lot of divagations into the relationships between the three principals, and there are times when the murder mystery seems almost irrelevant to the goings on. At first I thought this was deliberate but now I'm not so sure. The climax has Heard galloping a white horse through a garden party and crashing through a window. What is this, the Marx brothers? The scene only seems to be there to provide a little much-needed action.But, at that, I must say it's refreshing to see a movie about characters like this investigating a murder, and not have to sit through another car chase or more exploding fireballs. The problem is that there wasn't really enough murder mystery to go around and the lacunae in the story seemed filled up with aimless scenes of Heard stumbling drunkenly around and smashing cars and furniture.There's a good deal of potential in the skeleton of this story. A neurotic and manic cripple, a self-satisfied surfer, and a patient wife who is slowly losing her patience. Maybe the murder should have been simply thrown out and the story built around the characters. Or the other way around. "},{"Title":"A bit confusing but worth the time","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Cutter's Way was a bit confusing to me the first time I saw it.  It took me awhile to understand exactly what relationship there was between Cutter, Bone and Mo, but once I figured that out, the rest of the movie became clear.The film is an odd whodunit...Bone (Jeff Bridges) is a young gigolo/yachtsman with no direction to his life who witnesses someone dumping a body in an alleyway and then thinks he sees the same person in a parade, the person being one of the most powerful and influential people in the town.  Cutter latches on to his identification and the situation and wants to bring him to justice for the murder (the body was that of a young hitchhiker).  Bone doesn't really want to be a part of it, but Cutter (and the hitchhiker's young sister) bring him into it.   Cutter's wife Mo is mostly on Bone's side, but is very out of touch with her own life. She later dies in a suspicious fire that prompts Cutter to action and he and Bone confront the suspected man, and Bone finally makes a decision...about Cutter, the suspect, and everything else.Jeff Bridges is excellent in the film but it is really John Heard's performance as one-eyed, one-armed, one-legged war veteran Cutter that makes the film.  Compared to a lot of Heard's other, more introspective roles, the brash Cutter and his unique philosophy is a welcome change. "},{"Title":"Great for it's era","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has what many films lack today, characters and character. Some subtle insights into the power structure that were evident a quarter decade ago and a large helping of quick flippant sarcasm from Heard. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review similar to Mystic River","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Cutter's Way is a serious drama about a war veteran and his various problems. It is similar to Mystic River, another serious drama, in that both of them involve murders that aren't central to the plot. If the point of the film is realism, why include a murder, which is not exactly an everyday occurrence?The film drags a little, not paced like a murder mystery at all, and frankly I don't go for depressing films like A Simple Plan and Leaving Las Vegas... or the even closer match, Adaptation. But, I have to admit it's a masterpiece. The acting is sensational and it's played very realistically. Nobody is a kung-fu expert. They avoid making the veteran screwed up but lovable, you know, prison inmates in Hollywood films are always lovable, something which always strikes me the wrong way. And the ending is classic.Who should see this film-- Drama lovers only-- Anyone who liked Mystic River-- Action flick guys like me, see it but only on a rainy day. It's not really a murder mystery after all.I'll give Cutter's Way an 8 out of 10, barely. "},{"Title":"People misunderstand this film","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Most people seem to misinterpret this film as some kind of hippie, leftist, pacifist statement. The truth is that this film is about the need to take action -- sometimes violent action -- in the face of evil, even when that evil is sometimes ambiguous (like communism in the 60's, or Islamic extremism today).Yes, the move reflects the uncertainty and doubt of the 60's and 70's (despite being made in 1980). And the main character (Bridges/Bones) is filled with that self-doubt prevalent at that time. However, note that he grows up at the end, as encouraged by Cutter, by taking violent action against an actor he knows to be evil, even if his responsibility for a specific crime is somewhat unclear.In the end, the film is therefore a statement about America's need to grow up and accept responsibility as the leader of the free/democratic world, even when that means making painful and difficult choices, or sacrificing. This understanding, of course, was generally accepted later in the 80's and 90's, as the U.S. grew out of it's 60's/70's adolescent angst, and resumed the mantle of global leadership.Sadly, many even today want to shirk or ignore that responsibility, as western civilization and enlightenment values are threatened by lunatics in the middle east, north Korea, etc. A viewing of this film might help them realize that weakness and vacillation in the face of evil is in no way a morally superior philosophy, and is rather simply the abdication of responsibility towards others. Such abdication, as in the 30's, generally only leads to greater suffering for ourselves as well as others, and is therefore probably best avoided. "},{"Title":"Nothing Really Happens","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Heard has got back from the war (it's not clearly said, but it's obvious it's Vietnam) with a patch on his eye and minus a leg and a hand. He's p-i-s-s-e-d off on the whole world, drinks a lot, and so does his wife. Jeff Bridges is a friend of both of them. He is a witness to a murder right in the beginning of the movie (so pay attention). John, with the deceased girl's sister thinks he knows how to nail who he thinks did it. Jeff doesn't really want to take part in it, you really don't want to see this movie. NOTHING happens. And they try to add a complication near the end, involving a history of a guy we hardly know... I'm sure it's a bad adaptation from the book, I hope so. "},{"Title":"Cut's through nothing.","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I read some great reviews that got me interested and excited about this film, but it just never happened. I had trouble following the story and the characters. I will admit, Heard's Cutter was outstanding. I was surprised that he was not up for an award for his role in this film, but Bridges just seemed to lack on every level. Unless he is handed an exceptional script, Bridges plays the same sort of character over and over again. I also had trouble with the female character of Mo in this film. It was never really understood what her relationship was to everyone until I read some reviews, which then made sense. I also had trouble with Cutter's physical condition. It seemed like he was fully able to do everything, except sleep with his wife, as a normal person would. I guess that was the point. Create a character that is so believable that you don't see the physical condition. Too bad I did. I really wanted him to lift up his eye-patch to reveal to us that perhaps he was none other than One-Eyed Willy himself. That would have been a perfect twist.There were gaping holes in this film as well. The plot seemed to jump around without any explanation. I needed more story on who the friend was and his connection to J.J. Cord. The girl that follows Bone and Cutter around seems to have disappeared midway through the film and it was her battle they were fighting. The only redeeming aspect of this film was the ending. My decent review of this film was dependent on the ending and it succeeded. The ending leaves all of it up to the viewer. The imagination can play wonders with this and I think it can be interpreted in anyway. I especially loved reading about the Hamlet reference that I didn't see it until now, but it makes perfect sense. That is why I watch these films. I want to see how other people see life and their representation on camera.Overall, Cutter's Way was not a great film, but the ending redeemed itself in someway that I will never be able to explain. Grade *** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am a huge fan of Jeff Bridges, so I rented this to explore his early career. Boy was I disappointed. Not that Jeff was bad. Rather, his character was simply boring. But what makes this movie so disappointing is the horrible script and the moronic character played by John Heard. Heard's character Alex was absurd and over the top. There's nothing artistic about playing a bitter drunken amputee. Why are people so impressed when an actor portrays a intoxicated lout who lacks self control? Where's the talent in shouting and stumbling and acting like a fool? Playing such a character doesn't appear to require much acting for many of Hollywood's talent.But even if Heard had delivered an Oscar worthy performance, the horrid screenplay cannot prevent this film's inevitable fate in the bottom of the garbage can. It is linear and plods along as if the writer didn't know what to do next, I fell asleep about 3/4 of the way through the movie and had to finish watching the riveting climax the next day. This riveting climax (the horse scene) is so ridiculous that I'm laughing as I think about it now. The screenplay appeared to have been written by someone with no creativity, no clarity, no logic. After viewing this crap from start to finish, I can understand why it was so quickly forgotten. The only thing more pathetic than this movie are all those people who wrote such raving reviews about it. Yet, ironically, these wannabe movie critics are very nearly at the top of the movie critic profession... raving about movies no one wants to see. Despite this misstep, Jeff Bridges is still one of my favorites. "}]