[{"Title":"Excellent Trio Make This A Top-Notch Thriller","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This Sylvester Stallone movie may be his best because, unlike most of his more famous roles over the years, this is very believable. He isn't Rambo or Rocky...just a tough New York City cop.Stallone and partner Billy Dee Williams team up in an attempt to stop a terrifying international terrorist (Rutger Hauer) before he kills more people. All three of those actors are riveting in this rough, gritty film.I thought so much of this movie that I bought it twice. The first DVD that came out was fullscreen, no stereo and grainy. Later, they issued a better widescreen print and it was worth upgrading. The movie is a top-notch thriller start-to-finish and Hauer makes an outstanding villain.It might be a cliché but this film always kept m on the edge of my seat.  "},{"Title":"Timely Terrorist Movie","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It was 1981 and the world had just gone through a decade of terrorism. Casting Rutger Hauer and Persis Khambatta (she was the bald woman in the original Star Trek movie) as heartlessly cold terrorists was great casting! Billy Dee Williams and Stallone as street cops suddenly transferred to a terrorist unit do a good job. Stallone had not become a parody of himself yet and his diction is better here than it had ever been up to then. The movie's pace is unrelenting. This is a movie that I almost always have to stop and watch, easily getting swiped up into the story again and again, when I see it on television. Excellent twist ending and monorail scene. Recommended highly. "},{"Title":"Hauer steals the show","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Remember a day when Rutger Hauer starred in good movies that actually saw wide theatrical release? No. Hmmmm. Hauer is one of my favorite actors and stars in two of my top ten favorite movies (Blade Runner and The Osterman Weekend), so it's hard not to already be slightly biased about the movie. I remember first hearing about Nighthawks on the Headliners and Legends biography of Stallone and how it was not as well received as his Rocky and First Blood movies. For shame, because Nighthawks does manage to be a top notch thriller most of the time. I could go into the plot, but I believe in telling people what I liked and disliked instead of parroting the plot details like almost every other review. (See, a movie to me is more fun when I only know a little about the story, instead of the first hour or so, because someone felt that they had to readers digest the entire film.)Anyway, now that I've ranted, I have to admit that I enjoyed it for the most part, with the exception of the initial pacing. It continues to drag in places towards the middle, and takes a little over an hour to set up the crucial players backgrounds. The only real problem is that every time the film stops to focus on DeSilva (Stallone) and Fox (Williams), it spends twice as much time focusing on Wulfgar. Wulfgar is certainly a well crafted maniac, but when the movie is over we know almost nothing about Fox and only a little about Dee DeSilva. Still, the movie does succeed in making you care about our two main characters, by thrusting them into danger and having them do what is morally right (i.e. Towards the beginning of the film the two are in a drug raid, and refuse to take bribes from the perps who had apparently already paid off the cops from the first raid on their operation.They're good cops, and it's their good guy image that endears them). I guess it would have been nice also to see a little more of Stallones relation to what's her name. (sorry, I haven't seen this in a about a month now.) I was interested in the prospect of a hero who was torn between the relation with his ex (who he was trying to re-ignite the flame with), and his duty. But, alas, she was just a narrative device who the writers have decided is only important in the last 15 minutes or so.With all these cons, why did I still like it? Sudden scenes of high impact, good cast and acting all around, a villain who wasn't just a cardboard cutout, and Stallone's bitchin' beard, and a wholly convincing scenario.The bottom line This film is more akin to The French Connection than it is to Rocky. Methodical and often stylish, NightHawks deserves to at least be rented and watched with an open mind.8 Stars out of 10  "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films...","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best action movies out there, even to this day.  It's a must see especially for Stallone fans. If he chose more of this type of movie, he would be much more respected in Hollywood. Rutger Hauer is awesome as Wulfgar, the international terrorist.  All performances are notable, Billy Dee Williams/Sylvester Stallone pairing works well.  Stallone really is a great actor, given the right material, and this one certainly provides it.  It's a shame he sold out with the Rocky sequels. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly interesting...","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) is an international terrorist not to be taken lightly&#133; He is wanted by half the countries in Europe&#133; He is currently financed by no one... He becomes trapped as 'Persona Non Grata'&#133;Wulfgar manages to succeed where others have failed&#133; His pattern is the instilling of fear&#133; He makes female contacts to establish safe housing for his armory&#133; He always covers a woman who is clean... He loses one, he finds another... He has a liking for fancy food, expensive clothes and the most varied nightlife&#133;Wulfgar doesn't think like a criminal&#133; He wants to be a hero&#133; Since the London incidents, he wants to prove himself as invincible as he ever was&#133; So he decides to change his look, and strikes without warning... Wulfgar's associate is Shakka Holland (Persis Khambatta), a pretty cool woman, with no maternal instincts, who murders without apparent provocation&#133;DaSilva (Sylvester Stallone) wants to treat Wulfgar like 'some mugger' on the streets&#133; He makes a mistake when he finds himself unexpectedly facing the malevolent killer... He refuses to act in the same ruthlessness Wulfgar does, and to use deadly force in defense of the lives of innocent hostages&#133; He hesitates to shoot and kill&#133; DaSilva rejected to pay attention to the impact of the terrorist's actions on his thinking and beliefs&#133; This mistake enables the best policeman to meet the dangerous terrorist on equal terms&#133;'Nighthawks' turns out to be surprisingly interesting&#133; Rutger Hauer easily holds our attention throughout the film&#133; He is a disciplined terrorist indifferent to his victims, cold and calculating&#133; His mission to harm the enemy transcends any concern about his victims&#133; For Wulfgar, the end justifies the means... Stallone and Billy Dee Williams make good partners&#133; Stallone doesn't play his usual character, the ruthless policeman who combats violence with greater violence&#133; He seems to be more human desperately trying to do the right thing at the right time&#133; "},{"Title":"Long Before Terrorism Was On Our Minds...","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Long before terrorism was on the minds of most Americans, NIGHTHAWKS tackled the thorny topic. Sylvester Stallone and Billy Dee Williams are decoy cops -- that is, they venture into rough neighborhoods to bait muggers and other forms of scum -- assigned to track down the cold and calculating Rutger Hauer. It seems the devious mastermind has landed in the media capital of the world, New York City, to try and regain his place among the terrorist elite.Although it's a fairly decent action/suspense effort, NIGHTHAWKS is difficult to recommend unconditionally. The performances are certainly solid; in fact, it's hard to remember Stallone, here sporting a thin beard, being so effective outside of boxing trunks. The action is crisp and exhilarating, with one pursuit through subterranean New York deserving of a place in the Chase Hall of Fame. The story is original and much of the plot intriguing. And Hauer, in his American film debut, is a suitably hateful villain, with his motives all to familiar to contemporary audiences.Yet NIGHTHAWKS is not quite as good as the sum of its parts. Even though the film starts out with a bang -- literally -- there's somehow too much build-up and not enough execution. The movie has not aged particularly well, and despite its 1981 release date has the feel of a '70s period piece. And as good as Hauer is, his character is a little too incredible to believe as he pulls off massive acts of terror with little or no sponsorship; what should take a team of experts is accomplished by one man wanted by countless law enforcement agencies.In the end, NIGHTHAWKS is a movie you're bound to like -- either a little bit or a lot. Considering the high ratio of garbage that has and will continue to spew out of Hollywood, I guess that's not such a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Pour a drink for Bruce Malmuth","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was happy to see Premiere magazine remember this flick when they ranked the 100 Best Thrillers of All Time, and after reading today that its director has passed on, I can only hope more people will give it a first or second look. Time has of course given it extra relevance, but there are three reasons for checking this one out 1. As hinted above, in the post-9/11 world, its theme of terrorists plotting an attack in New York City seems eerily prophetic.2. Sylvester Stallone gives an uncharacteristically muted performance that comes off as extremely effective.3. That ending? They got me. They totally got me.Director Bruce Malmuth's work here was competent enough to make one wonder just a little if he didn't deserve better projects than he got after this. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's toughest hero VS Hollywood's meanest villian","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, Sly Stallone stars in a film that he really deserves to appear in! He and Billy Dee Williams make a great team as two no-nonsense New York cops who chase Rutger Hauer, who has a great role as a remorseless terrorist (then again, no terrorist has a heart of gold!) Though he's totally unrecognizable with a long beard, Stallone does an exceptionally good performance because unlike his other cop roles, such as Ray Tango from Tango and Cash, Sly doesn't portray a cocky character, which makes it very realistic. However, our hero doesn't show his muscles in this flick, but, it proves that you don't have to be brawny to be a tough guy.Hauer is also perfect, playing what he does best, an oily villian. He might look very suave at first in this film, but when he shows his true colors, you better watch out. Last but not least is Billy Dee Williams, who does a cool Roger Murtaughesque cop who relies on his partner Sly to do the job.If you're in the mood for suspense and good chase scenes, Nighthawks is your gameplan. Look out for the great conclusion. It might cause you a great deal of shock! "},{"Title":"Promising beginning and a good ending but a weak, underdeveloped middle part.","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie starts well and promising. Initionally the movie seems like a cool, simple, typical '80's action flick, with some well known actors in it. However as the movie progresses the pace is gone and the movie gets filled with underdeveloped plot lines and characters. Luckily the movie re-finds its pace toward the ending, which helps to make this movie still a watchable and good one, for the genre-fans.I think that the main problem with this movie is that its too short. Because of this nothing in the movie really fully gets developed, such as Sylvester Stallone's character's relationship with his ex-wife or who exactly was Peter Hartman, who seemed like a good and interesting enough character but unfortunately was highly underused and developed in the movie. He walked around without a real purpose despite the fact that he could had been a so much more relevant and interesting character for the movie and its story. Also they could had made the whole hunt of DaSilva (Sylvester Stallone) on Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) so much more exciting, tense and spectacular. An hunter who hunts a hunter. Instead now their hate toward each other feels unfounded and perhaps even silly and unlikely at certain moments.Yet the tree main characters of the movie are still quite good. The two cops played by Sylvester Stallone and Billy Dee Williams form a nice and credible duo and Rutger Hauer perfectly plays a villainous cold-hearted terrorist. Hollywood needs more villain actors like him, it would make so many movies so much better. Its definitely true that the presence of this tree fine actors uplift the movie and help to make this a still slightly above average one.The whole plot line of a ruthless, professional terrorist causing mayhem in New York is quite original (at least for its period) and works refreshing and help to make this movie quite an original action-flick, although his motivations still remain a bit in the dark and shaky to find it all credible enough.But of course the movie works well enough as mindless entertainment, though it perhaps could had used some more and bigger action sequences.The movie has '80's written all over it. Movies from the '80's don't have the greatest visual style and also mostly always have some horrible '80's music. This movie is unfortunately no exception on this all.All in all its not a bad action flick and it will most likely please the genre-fans, also thanks to the presence of '80's action icon Sylverst Stallone and villain expert actor Rutger Hauer.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I do not enjoy killing...But it's my JOB !","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the most underrated movies of the eighties. I couldn't figure out why this was so dissed by the critics and the public in the early eighties. Was it because people were not ready to embrace the thought of international terrorism in their front yard? I think so.This is one of Sylvester Stallone's forgotten movies where he reminds you of Al Pacino as Serpico at times with his benevolent nature and the facial hair. He doesn't slur his monosyllabic sentences, or act as if he has lost more IQ points. Until this film came out, I didn't think there was much more to Stallone. Sadly, I was too young to see this all by myself in the theatres and saw it a year later on cable. And when I saw Rutger Hauer, I was amazed at how creepy the man was! He was born for the role, but unfortunately, Hauer doesn't seem to play good guys as well. Whenever I see him, this is the first film I think of. Blade Runner's the second. Billy Dee Williams's character was bland that I didn't find myself rooting for nor hating him. Lindsay Wagner is expendable and I wish the late Persis Khambatta was able to stretch her role a little more. She was Hauer's perfect, plausible counterpart (and spoke some wicked French and German). Nigel Davenport is the typical foreign expert on the subject that gives the film an interesting transatlantic angle.I found myself bored by the end of the first forty-five minutes, until the montage of Stallone and Williams looking for clues to the dead flight attendant at the various discoteques. And then when this movie came on TV, they changed the two songs in the disco Brown Sugar from the Stones and I'm a Man from Keith Emerson to seventies stock tunes. Must of been a lawsuit pending. Suffice the music, there is a brutal, ten-minute-long chase through subway tunnels, a station, and then on the train itself. Afterwards, there's some downtime, but Wulfgar (Hauer) is at the point of no return now that the po-po has a physical description of him. So much for the plastic surgery. You can now sense the desperation he has, and he already knows he's not going to get a happy ending so that's why he decides to air-out Stallone's ex-wife (played by Wagner in two or three brief snippets). So you know that he's gonna lose, it's just HOW he is going to lose makes you watch the rest of it. You can also see that Stallone's character struggles with himself on how he'd rather bring Wulfgar in than kill the terrorist (he's got those law-enforcing ideology and beliefs going on overtime).But the problem about this film is that it is so dated and by-the-numbers judging from today's standards, that it's almost a flat-out documentary. The formula is typical seventies where the exposition is gradually set up until the middle of the film- and by then the viewer is bored- but the action and suspense takes place throughout the rest (you'll notice from the Dirty Harry, Rocky, and Star Wars movies, the later Indiana Jones flicks, along with Serpico, The French Connection, etc). However, Nighthawks was clearly ahead of its time, and I could see a remake or something like this being done down the road from now. See, NOW it might sell because we've seen it in our own front yard. Get Vin Diesel to play Stallone's role; Tyrese Gibson to play Billy Dee Williams; Lindsay Wagner's character's axed; Cillian Murphy will be Rutger Hauer; Clive Owen can play Nigel Davenport's role; Milla Jovovich can be Shakka, and Michael Clarke Duncan will play their Lieutenant.But leave in the I do not enjoy killing, but it's my job-line.Still good for its time ! "}{"Title":"Thrills , tension ,  intrigue with  tough Stallone against nasty Hauer  in a film narrated with great agility and fast movement","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Exciting picture with plenty of action about two-fisted police detectives hunting a brutal , ruthless terrorist . The meaning and relevance of the title is that 'Nighthawks' refer to the men and women street cops of the New York City Crime Unit who patrol the city at night-time . Intriguing story of two N.Y.C. (Sylvester Stallone sports a beard throughout the whole of this picture and African-American Billy Dee Williams) street cops reassigned to chase Wulfgar (Dutchman Rutger Hauer's first American feature film) , an international terrorist holds the City of New York hostage, but Deke DaSilva (Stallone did all his stunts on this movie) , the most dangerous cop known to man, can take him down . But DaSilva's at-home tactics are very much put to the challenge , as he is assigned to special unit led by the British Peter Hartman (Nigel Davenport) that's tracking a psychopath as well as wily killer .The film is combined of unstopped action ,shootouts , violence , fighting , adequate characterization and breathtakingly suspenseful denouement .It's a run-of-the-mill action movie because from start with its explosive first scene to finish the action packed is continued ,in fact ,the final confrontation is impressive and extremely violent , including plot twists . Prior to it's theatrical release, Nighthawks was severely cut for violence by both Universal studio and MPAA. Amongst the scenes that were cut are disco shootout which originally had Wufgar shooting and killing more people, and Wufgar's death scene in the ending which was almost completely cut out . Amongst the scenes which were deleted from original cut of the movie are almost all scenes between Sylvester Stallone and Lindsey Wagner, Rutger Hauer and Persis Khambatta, more scenes explaining the plot better, and many other scenes because Universal wanted fast paced action movie . They also cut most of the graphic and gory scenes due to the concern that movie will get X rating . In preparation for their roles as New York street cops, actors Billy Dee Williams and Sylvester Stallone spent a number of weeks working at night with the New York Street Crime Unit . Nice acting by Sylvester Stallone as conservative street cop DaSilva reluctantly agrees to terminate an international terrorist who has demanded media attention , but is Rutger Hauer who steals the show as a cruel terrorist . The film is from Sylvester's first period after his secondary interpretations in Mandingo , Bananas , Farewell my lovely , Capone, Death race 2000 , and during his successful Rocky I , II , Paradise alley and Fist acting. This supercharged action motion picture was well directed by Bruce Malmuth , including hair-raising moments along the way . When the original director, Gary Nelson, left the project, Bruce Malmuth took over production. When he couldn't make it on his first day to shoot the train chase, Sylvester Stallone directed the chase himself to not miss a day of shooting. Malmuth made his film directorial debut with Sylvester Stallone in this classic thriller Nighthawks (1981), followed by Mary Higgins Clark's best seller, Where Are the Children? (1986) with Jill Clayburgh, and the popular action film dealing with political corruption, Hard to kill (1990) with Steven Seagal and Pentathlon (1994) with Dolph Lundgren, as well a number of other feature films and documentaries until his early death. "},{"Title":"Nighthawks - A Review -","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Considering the past ten year war on terror, its a perfect time to revisit this 1981 movie about a dangerous and complex terrorist known only as 'Wulfgar'. He is heading to America, and he is being met by the challenge of two good guy cops. Sylvester Stallone play's a somewhat clichéd, out of control Sergeant called Deke DaSilva, with a typically cooler minded sidekick, Matthew Fox, played by the often excellent Billy Dee Williams. We see gun fights, chases, and the heat and tension sure builds up in the way that good action movies do, but that's the problem with 'Nighthawks', it should not just be a simple action film. If Stallone hadn't been allowed to be so hands on in this movie, we could have perhaps had some scene's explaining 'Wolfgars' past, what drove him to badly hurt and murder people, as it is, his back story is left somewhat ambiguous, and as a result, we have no other character's to be interested in other than Stallones. Quite frankly, discovering why a terrorist travels the globe to kill for a cause he believes so strongly in, is a much more interesting proposition than watching Sergeant DaSilva argue with his wife about never having time for her, and if Stallone had the gut's to really make a serious movie about terrorist's, then 'Nighthawks' could've been a much better movies than the one we got. I feel sorry for Rutger Hauer here, he could really have brought something fantastic to his role had his back story permitted it. All in all, its not unwatchable, but it's not the challenging film it could have been. "},{"Title":"Solid action thriller.","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks is set in New York where Detective Sergeant Deke DaSilva (Sylvester Stallone) & his partner Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams) are transfered from decoy operations to an anti terrorist unit set up by depol & the FBI, headed up by Peter Hartman (Nigel Davenport) their number one target is the notorious international German born terrorist for hire Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) who is wanted across Eurpoe for several bombings & murders. Hartman has reason to believe that Wulfgar is now in New York planning a bit hit, DaSilva & Fox follow up a lead & stumble across Wolfgar but he manages to escape after a chase. Suddenly the cat & mouse hunt between terrorist & cop has become personal & with a large delegation of UN diplomats arriving in New York for a conference Hartman is planning something big...Originally to have been directed by Gary Nelson who either left the production or was fired Bruce Malmuth steeped in & took over although apparently couldn't make the first day of filming so star Stallone directed the train chase sequence himself, whoever directed what & why Nighthawks is a good solid action thriller that I must admit I hadn't heard of before & only bothered watching it because the television guide made it sound quite good. The script is fairly gritty & tough, the action set-pieces although smaller in scale than some action films are believable& have a certain intensity. The character's are alright, while the film starts off with a fair bit of character development it soon goes out of the window once the chase between DaSilva & Wulfghar gets going & there are a few points that could have been explained better or elaborated on. It's never made clear why Wulfgar is in New York or how he got there or even the purpose behind his latest act of terrorism, there's something about wanting press coverage but that sounds rather flimsy motivation to me. Made during a time when maybe terrorism wasn't in the headlines as much as it is now the character of Wolfgar has this speech about being a liberator in order to justify his actions, on the other hand all the innocent people he kills or puts in danger leaves his excuses as meaningless rubbish. At almost an hour & forty minutes long Nighthawks takes a while to get going but it uses it's duration to build the tension & the situation up so once it does kick off it has an impact.The title Nighthawks apparently refers to the cops of New York who patrol at night, the working titles Attack & Hawks were both used during production. The action scenes are good, from shoot-outs to a subway chase through a speeding train to a cable car hostage situation to a runaway bus (although there's no explanation of how Wolfgar survived the crash). Nighthawks is the type of film you couldn't make today, New York just doesn't look like this anymore, from the grimy dirt filled streets to the graffiti strewn walls to the general sleaziness of the locations used. Nighthawks has a gritty & tough visual appearance. The original story was apparently planned originally as The French Connection III but Gene Hackman didn't want to do a third film & the script was then tweaked & turned into Nighthawks.With a supposed budget of about $5,000,000 this has that gritty early 80's look about it that I liked so much, filmed in New York, London & Paris. The acting is alright, Nighthawks was the first time Stallone played a cop in a film & gets to dress in drag no less than twice. Billy Dee Williams is OK as his partner while Nigel Davenport doesn't have a lot to do. Rutger Hauer does OK as the bad guy, the Dutch born actor is playing a German with a very strange accent.Nighthawks is a tough action thriller with some good action scenes & an early appearance by Sylvester Stallone in one of his forgotten films. I liked it, I wouldn't call it a classic but it's an honest & watchable enough cop thriller. "},{"Title":"Slick and tense action thriller with a twist ending","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" NIGHTHAWKS is a remarkable film on many levels and more than eerily prophetic, considering what took place in New York City twenty years after its release in 1981. It focuses on two undercover police detectives, Sgt. Deke DaSilva(SYLVESTER STALLONE) and his partner Sgt. Matthew Fox(BILLY DEE WILLIAMS)who work in the NYPD Citywide Street Crime Unit as decoy officers. Donning different disguises, they walk the streets of the City's toughest neighborhoods, offering themselves up as bait for muggers and other lowlifes. This unit was responsible for taking a lot of guns and dangerous people off the streets. Unfortunately, in the wake of the Amadou Diallo shooting in the Bronx in 1999, it was disbanded.The arrival in New York of an international terrorist named Wulfgar(RUTGER HAUER) finds the two Detectives temporarily reassigned to an elite counter-terrorist unit called ATAC. A British expert on counterterrorism in general and Wulfgar in particular(NIGEL DAVENPORT) is recruited by the Department to train the selectees in the different strategies and tactics they'll need to deal with this new threat. His character, Peter Hartman, is an old hand at understanding the terrorist mentality and how they operate. He is also a believer in taking the shot when the opportunity presents itself, even if it results in collateral damage, or death to a civilian hostage.Stallone's character has a big problem with all this. He indicates that he didn't join the Department to kill people, whether they're street criminals, terrorists, or especially, innocent civilians. Clashing with Hartman at every juncture, he says he doesn't want any part of this and indicates to the Englishman that he's quitting the unit. His partner talks him out of it by telling him that Hartman sees him as one of the best and that's why he was chosen. In reviewing DaSilva's wartime kill record in Vietnam, Hartman tells him that he has faith that when the time comes, he'll do what needs to be done.Wulfgar is very intelligent, cunning and good-looking and his MO is to hook up with women he meets at discos and move in with them, using their apartments as a safe house. When he meets Pam(HILARIE THOMPSON), an airline stewardess, she asks him what he does for a living. Knowing that she won't believe him, he tells her the truth- that he's an international terrorist wanted by the police in various European countries. When she stumbles upon his weapons stash in her closet after he moves in with her, she realizes too late that what he told her was not a jocular remark. When the police find her body they also find a clue that he inadvertently left behind indicating what his strike target here in the City will be. DaSilva and Fox start scouring the discotheques with the woman's photo in hand to try and get a line on whom she might have hooked up with. They hit paydirt when DaSilva spots whom he suspects might be Wulfgar at a disco with his newly altered facial appearance, courtesy of plastic surgery in Europe. DaSilva uses the police trick of staring Wulfgar down to see if he gets hinky and Wulfgar realizes he's been made. A chase into the subway ensues, with Wulfgar taking an elderly woman hostage at knifepoint. DaSilva gets him in his sights but doesn't take the shot out of fear of hitting the hostage. In the ensuing chase, Sgt. Fox is ambushed by Wulfgar, who slices his face open and then makes good his escape. DaSilva, whose button has now been pushed, will no longer harbor any illusions about what he's dealing with. Wulfgar's associate in terrorism is one Shakka Holland, played by the beautiful late Indian actress PERSIS KHAMBATTA. She is so effective in her portrayal of a coldhearted woman who kills without compunction or remorse, that your blood will be chilled when you see her on screen. Without even saying anything, she will terrify you. You will not forget the look on her face. It will definitely haunt your dreams.We all know that the movie is leading up to a climactic confrontation between DaSilva and Wulfgar. And we know when that moment of truth arrives that DaSilva, now effectively disabused of his I'm not here to kill anyone philosophy, will indeed do what needs to be done. I won't reveal the ending here, other than to say that it reflects well on his training and experience in the Street Crime Unit. This is a well-crafted thriller with excellent performances, beautiful photography, and a storyline that will resonate with the viewer on a visceral level. It will keep you hooked from the opening sequence until the end. Yo Adrian- this is my favorite Stallone film. I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Effective, old-school cop thriller","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks is a much under-appreciated title that sits between Stallone's Rocky and Rambo sequels and shows a different type of character for him.Stallone plays a NY cop who is handed over to Interpol to help track down a freelance terrorist in the Big Apple. At first, his over-cautious cop-on-the-beat mentality lands him at odds with the lead investigator who explains that to combat violence, you need greater violence. This is a nice little clash of ideals that allows for a little more character development that you'd expect.The said terrorist is very well-played by Rutger Hauer in a breakthrough role that gives both charm and menace. Also, there is a nice chemistry between Stallone and his partner Billy Dee Williams.The plot development is quite old school in the way there's a very long build up before the action kicks in with a lengthy set-piece that tops the film. But there's plenty of four-letter words, terrorist-talk and machismo flying around to fill that time nicely. The soundtrack may be dated now, but gives the film a unique quality and in fact the music is one of the unforgettable elements of the film - which has led to controversy over the DVD release.There is clearly a lot of footage that was left on the cutting room floor, particularly a love sub-plot that is abandoned quite early on. And let's not even mention that horribly cut-down ending! All in all however, the film is always interesting and has a great old-style of cop thriller to it, perfect for post-pub Friday night fodder! "},{"Title":"old fashion cop movie","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I got to see t his movie in the theater when i was 16. i thought it was cool then and still think it is cool today. The movie has a great story, and although a tad unbelievable at times, it still builds well with one of the best endings of any movie. Sly was in his prime here and Billy Dee Williams plays a great role as well as his partner. This movie is a good throw back film, showing the old NYC. Great street footage, especially in the first half of the film. This was one of Sly's best cop films to me, much better than Cobra . Recommend for an old fashion throw back 80's film. A fun popcorn rental with some very good action sequences. and a great ending! "},{"Title":"Excellent eighties action-thriller!","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am a fan of Stallone for many years now. Started all with Rocky when I was a kid.Nighthawks has nothing to do with the roles Stallone is famous for His muscles. We don't even see his muscles in this movie. In stead we get a Stallone with a beard and HUGE glasses and acting relaxed.A lot of people say Stallone can't act. I disagree, just look at this movie.Stallone plays a street-cop who has to deal with a terrorist played by our national (Dutch) pride Rutger Hauer.This is a great action thriller, with great actors like Rutger Hauer, Billy Dee Williams and Joe Spinell (who also had a big part in Rocky).The action is great, just look at the sequence when Stallone and Williams are trying to catch Rutger Hauer in the subway. Great music also. The end is nice too, bit of a surprise there.****SPOILER****At the end (when Stallone shoots Hauer) the scene is cut. We see him shooting only two times, but the original scene is with 6 shots. So 4 shots were removed (for television).Another fact is that Stallone directed a big part of this movie because the original director quit or was fired.So if you're looking for a good action-thriller with a nice eighties feel and some good acting, look no further. "},{"Title":"What the f*** is 'Nighthawks'?","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...Something that I've heard again and again throughout the eighties and nineties. It's only Stallone 's and Hauer's best performances in any movie that I've seen them in. I read a positive comment (which encouraged me to write this) about this film. I was 9 years old when this movie came out tried to sneak into it when it played in the theaters (failed), saw it a year later on cable, and I LOVED IT! I resembled a little Rutger Hauer and lived in Los Angeles at the time, so I found myself almost relating to this film. But I was so impressed that it wasn't like all of the other dreck that came out that year, too.Now international terrorism is simply a satire in today's films until 9/11. However, I think that Die Hard changed the industry forever in a bad way. To them more is better- to me, more is more. This movie does not glamorize violence (like the before mentioned) and shows how serious it is when it hits home. This movie did not play very long in theaters (in 1981), and hardly anyone can recollect it. It was made on a modest budget, and so many films have surpassed it since, it is now been archived. I wish Stallone returned to this kind of role he's so enamoured with John Rambo, Rocky Balboa, every other action-hero-cardboard role that he lost credibility. Hauer went down a separate but equal path in demonstrating his difficulties with other directors, he's a strait-to-video icon.To this day, I still remember the lines ...I do not enjoy killing-- but it's my job! and ...now this is for the press...Now you may drop the child, but don't drop this...Why can't people watch this instead of Steven Segal movies? I guess Serpico's out, Marky-Mark's in...   "},{"Title":"Rocky and Lando in the same movie!!!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sly Stallone and Billy Dee Williams star as Agents DaSilva and Fox originally on the NYC decoy unit.  They love their work, so they are dissatisfied when they are assigned to the ATAC squad.  The squad's purpose is to apprehend the world's foremost mercenary terrorist, known only as Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer), dead or alive.  The cops must deny their passive don't get anybody hurt strategy in favor of one of brute force, irregardless of hostage safety, which sits poorly (at first) with Stallone and Williams.Wulfgar as the terrorist is -amazing-.  He works with the NYC underworld to learn the liabilities/weaknesses of the ATAC squad out to get him.  Combined with plastic surgery and a penchant for picking up girls in nightclubs, using them, and killing them, he is a formidable adversary.  If that's not enough, when have you ever got to see Stallone in drag, twice, in a movie! All kidding aside, though, this is a great film to rent, but not good enough to buy.Give it a try! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  About 1 year ago I bought this movie on rummage sale. After seeing 40 minutes of the movie I stopped watching because I thought it was boring. But a few days later I decided to watch the movie again. You have to know that the beginning of the movie is a bit slow with no action. After 30 minuts the 'real' action begins with pursuit scene in the subway.I read much on the internet about this movie. There are differences in opinion about who is the real star in the movie; Stallone or Rutger Hauer. I think Rutger Hauer is the real star in this movie because he acts much better than Stallone. He almost plays stallone off the screen.This is a very good movie. But if you like movies which are full of action, you can better choose another movie. "}{"Title":"THE ITALIAN STALLION TAKES ON THE DEADLY DUTCHMAN!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Before he carved a couple of more Rocky movies and set box offices alight as super-soldier John Rambo, Sly Stallone starred in this tense police thriller, alongside EMPIRE STRIKES BACK's Billy Dee Williams and Nigel Davenport. Hot Dutch actor Rutger Hauer made his Hollywood debut as the villain Wulfgar, an elusive terrorist who has come to New York to restore his credibility after a bomb raid on a London department store went wrong. Sly and Billy are two tough cops, DaSilva and Fox, who are transferred to an anti-terrorist unit, headed by Davenport, who gives them the essential combat training to tackle Wulfgar.  Apparently, in one UK movie mag, Stallone cited Nighthawks as one of his best movies and it's not hard to see why. The story nicely builds up from one scene to another, involving individual characters, until the obligatory confrontation between 'good' (Stallone) and 'evil' (Hauer). Some years ago, when this came on TV, guys in my class watched it and told me how boring they thought it was. I'll admit, the first 40 or so minutes are talky and things pick up after the two cops ID Wulfgar in a night club, then give chase. If you are expecting Nighthawks to be an all-action affair in the vein of RAMBO, DEMOLITION MAN or even ASSASSINS, you'll be disappointed, but nevertheless, this is purely a taut thriller flick with memorable scenes such as the disco showdown, the foot chase, the tram hijack, Sly practising at the shooting range ( I saw this bit in an advert years ago on ITV ) and the exciting finale which has definitely been censored in UK VHS and DVD versions. In a way, this was probably Stallone's first proper action movie of the 80s before FIRST BLOOD and he also manages to perfect that famous 'death stare' of his which was never seen on Rocky Balboa. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone and Billy Dee Williams","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An opportunity to see a younger Rutger Hauer before 'The Hitcher', but not necessarily an entertaining story. The chemistry between Stallone and Williams (fresh from 'The Empire Strikes Back') works well, but at the end of the day the film only facilitated a buddy story for Stallone and the popular Williams to work together. "},{"Title":"One of Stallone's best films.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good slick action thriller. Well written, well acted and very realistic to boot. It has nary a dull moment and Rutger Hauers' Wulfgar makes you shiver with fear. The international flavor of the film adds a nice quality to it and Nigel Daveports character(terrorist expert)is a treat. The pace is fantastic and even though it is an action film, we get to find out enough about the characters in it that we care about them as people. The conflict that Stallone has with his wife as well as being torn as to how to deal with a terrorist who does subscribe to the same set of rules as the ordinary New York street scum he is used to dealing with is genuinely affecting. The chase scene in the subway is thrilling, well shot and engrossing. This film, as far as I am concerned also benefits immeasurably from its New York location. It really could not have been shot anywhere else in the US except maybe Chicago. I am a native New Yorker so I am obviously partial to New York, but after you see enough movies, you arrive at the conclusion that New York is the best place to shoot a film, generally speaking and depending on what kind of film is being made. Thinking about this movie being shot in L.A. for example makes me cringe. "},{"Title":"Eighties Action flick now more powerful then ever.","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nighthawks for me has always been one of Stallone's most entertaining performances. But because of recent events Stallone's character of Deke DaSilva has grown in complexity. Because of recent terrorist attacks on New York City, the idea of a terrorist walking around in the Big Apple, ready to strike at anytime, is extremely frightening. Detective Sergeant Deke DaSilva struggles with the choice to shoot to kill at the chance of killing innocent civilians, or to not shoot at all. His conflict on screen has been intensified dramatically since Sept. 11th. This rediscovered must see now drags it audience along with the tense decision whether or not DaSilva should shoot now and ask questions later, or not take any chances.  Stallone is brilliant at playing a character who must ask himself the question, does the needs of the many out way the needs of the few? Stallone amazingly portrays a cop who must think like a terrorist, a cop who must turn himself off emotionally in order to trap evil doers.  Of all of Stallone's big screen character's, it's Detective Sergeant Deke DaSilva who is America's most needed hero.    "},{"Title":"One of the best terrorism films made","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I find Nighthawks to be one of the top three films relating to the subject of terrorism. Although many films dealing with political terror tend to either make the terrorist/hero character so grotesquely evil/good that they like cartoons (see both Under Siege films, Delta Force or Navy Seals if you want comic book terrorism), or the information relating to terrorism is inaccurate. Director Bruce Malmuth takes information from actual incidents from the 1970s (known in terror circles as Fright Decade #2), a good screenplay, true-to-life characters, and weaves them into a dramatic morality play. In a perfectly cast role, German Rutger Hauer, whose country had it's own war against The Baader-Meihoff Gang/Red Army Faction just a decade before, is at his best as the slick, sinister freelance terrorist Wulfgar, loosely based upon real-life terrorists such as Carlos the Jackel. Persis Khambatta goes evil after Star Trek and goes it well with her portrayal as Hauer's contact, and Nigel Davenport is excellent as the terrorists' European nemesis, Hartman. This, in my opinion, is one of Stallone's best performances. The rest of the cast is in fine form, even adult star Jamie Gillis as Lindsey Wagner's oily boss. Historically factual events give this film a lot of weight. During Davenport's briefings, actual terrorist acts are referenced, such as the Vienna OPEC Raid and the shooting of a policeman at point-blank range. In reality both acts were carried out by The Jackel himself. Slides flashed on the war show actual photos, and techniques used by terrorists are woven into this film. The only downside to this film is the removal of The Rolling Stones' Brown Sugar and Keith Emerson's (Emerson, Lake & Palmer) remake of the Yardbird classic I'm A Man, in favor of something totally unworthy of being put on scotch tape. Emerson's score is a perfect marriage for the visuals in this film, and the removal of I'm a Man from it's place where the hero first IDs the villain is a mistake of the first order. Since Sept. 11, terrorism has been getting a lot of attention. Hollywood will eventually get around to over dramatizing/sentimentalizing it, but even after 20 years, this film stands some pretty harsh examinations. If you're interested in good movies about terrorism, you can't do much better than this. "},{"Title":"A textbook on how to deal with international terrorists","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  More timely and appropriate.   A textbook on how to deal with international terrorists.  America, take a lesson.  Sylvester Stallone does a great job and Rutger Hauer is as usual, brilliant.  Also, Nigel Davenport's character as terrorist expert is right on the money.  Don't miss this one.  Very appropriate in these troubled times. "},{"Title":"I never get tired of seeing this film.","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was fast-paced and held my interest to the very end. Sylvester Stallone may have gotten top billing, but Rutger Hauer was the real star. He never fails to fascinate. Very exciting chase scenes. A real on the edge of your seat film throughout. "},{"Title":"The quintessential well executed eighties thriller","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film stays faithful to itself, and it's premise. It aims to be good entertainment and not much else, and succeeds commendably. Besides a bit too much stress on how great Stallone's character is at the beginning of the film the film flows rather nicely. There is a terrorist, who is a very bad man, which will do anything just to prove himself to everyone else. And there is a cop who likes to do his job clean. But with terrorism it doesn't always work that way, and that is the films meaningful angle. Although it seems like the director realized that entertainment was number one, and nothing should get in its way, therefore the film never stops to ponder too much over the police/baddie similarities, and usually after brief atmospheric tense character scenes it goes back to the action.The action takes most of the film up, although it's not overdone too much, sometimes you do wonder if they could have run around for a bit less time. The script is the only thing that lets this down, with some of the events being a bit dubious. You do get the feeling from time to time that the scriptwriter wasn't quite sure how to chain some events so they seem a bit forced. But other ideas are kind of cute to make up for it.Although it is full of cliches, this is not really a downside to the film, which seems to be shouting out that cliches aren't that bad. And being from the early eighties you could always argue that it was actually laying the ground for cliches to become such.Acting is good, even from Sly, this really is the role he was born to play. He is the Rocky of the NY street undercover police. Hauer rocks in no small way, and Nigel Davenport shouts like no one (you'll see what I mean).Watch and enjoy. That's all folks. "},{"Title":"Rutger Hauer is Spectacular!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nighthawks stars Sylvester Stallone and Billy Dee Williams as NYPD detectives DeSilva and Fox assigned to a special anti-terrorist squad. The world's most wanted terrorist, Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer), shows up in town to disrupt the United Nations.The story line is a little cheesy, but acceptable. Stallone and Williams offer fine performances. Rutger Hauer steals the movie as the chilling and truly scary terrorist. He is GREAT!One of the best scenes ever in a cops 'n robbers movie is the disco scene in which Stallone and Williams have only a composite drawing of the suspect.  "},{"Title":"Rutger Hauer hits the States.. hard","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With Night Hawks, Hauer finally left his successful, though unbeknownst to US, European career behind. The word was out and Hollywood had their eye on this multi-lingual actor's talents. Type cast from the start, he debuts here as a raging psychopathic killer, who is cool and exacting with each act of evil. This frustrates the unlikely buddy team of Stallone and Billy Dee Williams, resulting in the inevitable reckoning. Khmabatta (with hair) is reunited with Hauer (The Wilby Conspiracy). This is the first time audiences found themselves loving to hate the handsome Hauer. Even as a villain, he's somehow appealing.  "}{"Title":"Genuinely worthwhile thriller benefits from strong character development and great acting.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Two dedicated albeit crackerjack cops (Sylvester Sly Stallone and Billy Dee Williams) are on a new case They must apprehend a slick, nefarious international terrorist and not to mention notorious criminal mastermind, Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer). Wulfgar's schemes thrive on the destruction of World Order and democracy. The two detectives, whose beat have always been the petty criminals of the street, have at first expressed animadversion when they are forced to nail the wily villain, Wulfgar. They have never encountered such an eluding antagonist before. No longer can the cops use conventional tactics, but they must resort to new, fresh methods...For Wulfgar dissembles his identity with several incognitos, thus making him a tougher target to capture.NIGHTHAWKS is a well-mounted, well-paced thriller that puts the accent on suspense (with some bloodshed of course).  NIGHTHAWKS is a neat powerhouse! The movie contains riveting chases, a spectacle for a final confrontation, and an aggressively structured formula throughout the entire film. There are lots of opportunities for combustible moments in this film as well.What makes NIGHTHAWKS standout even greater and better than the ordinary action flick is its emphasis on characterization and morals.  NIGHTHAWKS does a terrific interpretation of how fascinating and surreptitious the terrorist bad guy is compared to a troublesome criminal.  Whereas the latter simply relies on survival and desperation in the derelict streets, the former is a very intelligent person with a respectively high I.Q. and an organized purpose. His mission is clear to fight the oppressors who have destroyed his native land and people. The terrorist covers his tracks well and moves from location and location, making his presence less conspicuous. As for the heroic cops, Deke DaSilva (Stallone) manages to preserve ethics first when making a judgment before decisive action. He knows when to call out the shot.  DaSilva refuses to jeopardize innocent lives just for the sake of shooting down the villain, and in most cases, he has earned a level of propriety.  DaSilva's testament to moral values is also well demonstrated in NIGHTHAWKS.Rutger Hauer gave a genuinely eerie and chilling performance as he portrays a very psychotic but also very convincing villain with a substantially bad attitude. Overall, NIGHTHAWKS is a high caliber action film. This above and beyond the call of duty type quality of motion picture is a consistently thorough and memorable film. This ranks among the finest cop dramas ever composed and for over a decade, this film's reputation and aura have managed to stand the test of time.  NIGHTHAWKS is a recommended hit.RATING *** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Solid engaging action thriller","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's a little dated now, but NIGHTHAWKS is still interesting. Stallone's character is an INTELLIGENT, SENSITIVE guy who finds it really hard to put aside his training to become an anti-terrorist force. Rutger Hauer is as creepy as ever. I really like this movie and watch it whenever it turns up on cable, as it frequently does.  "},{"Title":"One of Stallone's Best!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nighthawks is one Sylvester Stallone's best films. It ranks up there  with his other films Rocky and First Blood. The action sequences are excellent and surprisingly has great acting from Stallone, Billy Dee Williams, and Rutger Hauer as the terrorist. Nighthawks is far better and more realistic than his late 80's films such as Cobra and Tango & Cash. For Sylvester Stallone fans, this will hit the spot just like First Blood did. "},{"Title":"One more of the kind","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a street cop (Stallone) who is recruited to catch a terrorist, the problem is that while he is used to catch the bad guys, the trainers push him to kill without hesitation. This dilemma will be the background of his actions throughout the movie. The pursue of the terrorist (Hauer) is a classic one it becomes personal, and of course, the writers can't resist the temptation to make the bad guy say how he is actually the same as the good guy... there must be a law in the US that makes that line obligatory in this kind of stories (maybe it would make sense for ideological reasons, but i won't go into it). The actors do their parts effectively, the settings and atmosphere are well done, the characters are credible... Where the story fails is in the plot regrettably there are crucial swifts in the story which are triggered by implausible events caused by either incredible stupidity on one part, or miraculous good luck on the other part. Actually, it's lack of imagination by the script writers. A shame. "},{"Title":"Average, but good for one evening","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Recap Wulfgar, an international terrorist, falls out of favor with his current employers i Europe and heads to New York to rebuild his infamousness. But there DaSilva and Fox , two polices who work undercover with the NYPD, join a new anti-terror unit. Soon it all turn to a vendetta between Wulfgar and DaSilva with everyone else in between.Comments Rutger Hauer and Lando Calrissian (sorry, Billy Dee Williams) in the same movie. With Sylvester Stallone. Come on, this can't be bad. And it ain't. Neither is it especially good. All in all it is an average actionthriller that entertains one time but will never appear on my to but-list. There are some good action and some suspense, but it has only standard moves, twists and turns. All properly foreshadowed earlier in the movie. You never need to feel surprise or not know what is about to happen. And that is why it is only average in total.However, it is rather fun to see Hauer, Stallone and Williams yet again.5/10 "},{"Title":"Another underrated Sylvester Stallone flick.","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" These types of dramas I actually believe he can pull out & do a good job! This is of course coming from one of his biggest fans. But never to less, I really did think the chemistry between Stallone & Billy Dee Williams (In a fine performance) was really exceptional. Sylvester Stallone has good results when it comes to him & urban elements. Heck he made Rocky Balboa stand out as a street wise individual, the difference between that character & Deke DaSilva was Dasilva had book smarts (lol) Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer making his motion picture debut at the time I believe) gives a haunting experience as an international terrorist coming from London & demanding World wide press coverage Where else to get such a huge thing?? NEW YORK CITY!! The news capital of the world!! One of my favorite lines in the history of movies is spoken You don't think you have a killer instinct, then you're all wrong. WE ALL HAVE IT, IT'S JUST A MATTER OF PUSHING THE RIGHT BUTTON. Creepy dialogue. From the very stylized nightclub scene whereas Stallone's character stares his suspicious eyes at Wulfgar leading to the also brilliantly directed subway train sequence when Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams) has his face slashed by Wulfgar, more than one turning point is in effect. All & all I thought this was a very good film that didn't get the respect it deserved at the time. "},{"Title":"Nearly made its point","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Nighthawkes' deals with the complex and destructive subject of terrorism, i subject now closer to many peoples hearts than it was when this movie was made. The main players are stallone as 'Det Sgt Deke Dasilva' and his partner 'Det Sgt Matthew Fox', played by Billy Dee Williams. They are up against 'Wolfgar',played perfectly by Rutger Hauer, a free lance terrorist intent on inflicting as much damage as he can on the west.Whilst the movie does show just how evil and dangerous 'Wolfgar' is, it falls into the trap of good Vs Bad, and pays no attention as to why men like 'Wolfgar' exist. Being a Stallone vehicle 'Nighthawkes' isn't allowed to fully explain itself, and before we know it the film collapses into a cat and mouse chase between Stallone and 'Wolfgar'. Rutger Hauer has said he felt the movie failed to realise its potential, and on that i totally agree with him.That said, 'Nighthawkes' is watchable if only for Hauers ice cold portrayal of 'Wolfgar'. If its 90 minutes of fairly easy to digest action, this movie may well be for you, if your looking for something more substantial you'll be left unrewarded by 'Nighthawkes'. "},{"Title":"One of Stallone's very few good movies","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this when it first came out on video and liked it a lot. Stallone played his part well, Billy Dee Williams was good as his partner, and of course Rutger Hauer was great as the ultimate bad guy. With the movie made long before 9/11 it definitely had scary visions of New York under attack.Who had it figured that Stallone was dressed as his wife at the end? At first I really didn't think it was him, then again I was much younger when I first saw it.This has been mentioned as a French Connection of the 80's and I agree with that. A very underrated movie in my opinion, they certainly don't make them like that anymore. Too bad Stallone made one bomb after another following this. "},{"Title":"Nighthawks! A classic film!","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A great movie is Nighthawks starring Sylvester Stallone! But he's not the only star in this film because Billy Dee Williams, Rutger Hauer, and Lindsay Wagner joins him in this thrilling action film! Also look for Persis Khambatta, Nigel Davenport, and Thomas Rosales Jr.! This is a very good movie! Stallone performs excellently here! Its one of the best performances that I have seen him do! Williams was good and Hauer also was very good! The action is awesome in this movie! I just love how the movie is made. The music by Keith Emerson was very good and great direction by Bruce Malmuth as well! In My opinion this movie is a classic! If you like these actors I have mentioned and love action films then buy this movie today! I strongly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Action Movies of the Eighties","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Det. Sgt. Deke Dasilva (Sylvester Stalone, in his best movie ever) is a tough N.Y. detective and works with Det. Sgt. Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams). They two are assigned to combat Wulfgar (Hutger Hauer), a German terrorist who is threatening New York City. A trainer comes from Europe to provide special training of how fight against terrorism to the police force. This movie is one of the best action movies of the Eighties. Sylvester Stalone has a great performance and Hutger Hauer is perfect as a cold-blooded killer terrorist. The story and the characters are very well developed and the thriller is intense. Yesterday I watched this movie again, now on DVD. The DVD released in Brazil does not offer any extra other than the trailer of this great movie. My vote is nine. "}{"Title":"Wow...what a great film!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You will hardly recognize Sylvester Stallone (sporting a full-grown beard) in this top-notch action thriller. Stallone is Deke DaSilva, a NYC cop who is part of an anti-terrorist unit. His adversary is the European (his exact nationality remains unclear) terrorist Wulfgar, played by Rutger Hauer. This film boasts several impressive suspenseful scenes that will have you on the edge of your seat. My favourite scene is the one where DaSilva and his partner spot Wulfgar in a crowded night club. The atmosphere is so tense also because of the great score by Keith Emerson. I have always loved this film and it is one of my favourite Stallone films.The soundtrack is also a classic in my book. I bought the LP in 1988 but have been on the look-out for the CD version ever since. Definitely worth checking out should you get your hands on it somewhere!And a final comment Rutger Hauer is Dutch, and not German as a fellow reviewer mentioned below! "},{"Title":"The only difference between him and us will be the badge.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I always make a point of watching a Sylvester Stallone movie whenever they're on television, though as I'd never heard anything about Nighthawks I didn't have high hopes.I found myself reasonably surprised with a decently constructed film that is low-key and initially urban. That said, the year - 1981 - is a give-away that this is a Stallone movie before he went mainstream. One of the first five movies he did after Rocky, just contrast his minimal, taciturn performance here as DaSilva with the all-action, all wise cracking cop five years later in Cobra.That's not to say Nighthawks is an art movie, but it is strikingly directed, particularly the scenes set in the Bronx. The actual content falls clearly short of the visuals, though it still hangs together reasonably well. Surprisingly director Bruce Malmuth has only helmed six films, though as one of those is called Fore Play and another stars Steven Seagull then it's perhaps not worth dwelling on. That said, his clever usage of low-key angles and long shots is what transforms a slightly below average movie into something worthwhile.Characterisation is both underdeveloped and stereotyped, from Rutger Hauer's cultured terrorist, to Stallone's embittered cop separated from his wife. Lando Calrissian seems oddly uncomfortable with his character, particularly in a scene where he threatens to shoot a drug dealer, and there's no real rapport between him and Stallone. But then this adds to the attempted realism, with a bearded, bespectacled Sylvester blending in to what is initially an understated film.Unfortunately, around the halfway point things go awry. A film that had taken in location filming in Paris and London, as well as subtitles and a surveillance search for a terrorist suddenly becomes a run-of-the-mill sub-actioner with helicopters and gun battles. What began as a relatively gritty cop drama collapses into far-fetched terrorism, gunfire and transvestism. It's not bad, and worth a glance, but it all could have been so much better... "},{"Title":"not so sure why people are so keen on this","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nighthawks is, er, different. I think that sums it up. Either that, or men in dresses. Yes, bizarrely, Sly cross-dresses in this remarkable film. Remarkable in a similar way to A.I.- one perfectly defensible part, and one part of utter, utter rubbish. Unlike A.I. where the end is atrocious, it is the start of Nighthawks which you should miss and start watching about 20-30 minutes in. It takes a long time to get going both plot-wise and any-sense-of-any-of-the-actors-not-imitating-short-planks-wise, but the plot is quarter-decent, if utterly unrealistic in a fairly spectacular way. Sylvester Stallone does, by the end, get into his role, although the director clearly felt he needed some scenes with human interest elements, which I think he interpreted as a plot for girls. Sadly, I don't think his scriptwriter had had that upgrade, so these are hardly of a high quality. The portrayal of the English left me baying for blood, and one actress' German accent is fantastic(ally bad). The explosions are second-rate and sadly rather infrequent for my taste, the love story is utterly unresolved at the end, the characterisation for any other than the main two characters is, um, more shallow than an essex boy after 12 pints, so, all in all, it could be worse, but not a whole lot. It is not a good film overall, but not the worst early '80s action film around. "},{"Title":"20 years ahead of its time","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Viewed purely as a cop thriller, NIGHTHAWKS is a pretty good flick. However, since the September 11 terrorist attacks, it has acquired a whole new resonance. It took 20 years and cost thousands of lives before America learned the lesson Stallone's character learns in this film you can't treat terrorism as a law enforcement problem. When you have a terrorist in your sights, you don't read him his rights and let him call his lawyer; you take the shot.Astonishingly, there are still some people who don't get it, including the probable Democratic nominee for the Presidency. Maybe Nigel Davenport should do a lecture tour. "},{"Title":"New Soundtrack - Too Bad","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this video had been re-released with a re-mixed soundtrack, I rented this old friend from long ago. Unfortunately, my favorite memory - that disco scene when deSilva sees Wulfgar for the first time to the pulsing beat of Keith Emerson's I'm A Man - has an entirely different piece of music substituted in it's stead. Wahhhh... nowhere near as effective. Now I gotta find an old VCR version to replace the original memory!  "},{"Title":"You can always count on a cross-dressing Sylvester Stallone to save the day...","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsFrom the on-set of the film,with Stallone chasing a crook wearing girl's tights and skirt (and coat),to the preposterous climax,this appears to be the highlight of the film.This early action feature has the drawling stallion as undercover cop Deke De Silva who,along with his partner Fox (Billy Dee Williams),sets muggers up as bait on the streets of New York.Cut to London,New Years Eve.Lone terrorist Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) sets off the first of what are to be a series of bombs in a store.Cut back to New York,and De Silva and Fox are managing their operations fairly successfully.But they're loose cannons at the mercy of their captain,who all of a sudden transfers them to the anti-terrorist unit.It is here that they become embroiled in the mission to catch Wulfgar before he wages total destruction.As I stated,this is an early Stallone action flick.It's directed by Bruce Malmuth,who would later go on to helm the Steven Seagal flick Hard to Kill and the Dolph Lundgren flick Pentathlon.It features Stallone in the lead role as the hero,which he would go on to play to far more memorable effect (unless you regarded him as more of an anti-hero) one year later in the film First Blood,and Hauer as the villain,which he would,ironically,go on to play to more memorable effect one year later in Blade Runner.Both play their respective roles with the relish that would eventually lead to the greater things they would go on to acheive,Hauer especially who'd developed his menacing edge masterfully by the time he'd starred in The Hitcher.The film is fairly entertaining but unremarkable.*** "},{"Title":"Ahead Of It's Time","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to Nighthawks.Plot In A Paragraph. Deke DaSilva (Stallone playing a Police Officer for the first time in his career) and Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams) are two New York City cops who get transferred to an elite anti-terrorism squad. About this same time, an infamous international terrorist called Wulfar (Rutgar Hauer) shows up in New York City.I'm not to sure why audiences stayed away from this movie, as it is a really good cop movie, with Sly (looking very much like Al Pacino in Serpico) putting in a good performance, alongside Billy Dee Williams and Rutgar Hauer. If anything it was ahead of its time. According to Hauer, Stallone was very egoistic and he constantly interfered with filming of the movie, even writing and adding some new scenes for his character because he was jealous that Hauer's character was doing more cool stuff in the movie. Two test screenings of the movie were shown, one with more Stallone's scenes and other with more Hauer's scenes. The version with more Hauer's scenes was better received by audience. This is why Stallone, known for his big ego, cut out some of the Hauer's scenes from the final version of the movie. The original cut of the movie was almost two and a half hours long. Stallone was said to be really disappointed with the way Universal studio reedited the movie (despite the fact that he did his share of reediting on the movie prior to the studio's interference). He was really upset because of the removal of his dramatic scenes with Lindsay Wagner, including an emotional scene between him and Wagner in a restaurant (only mentioned in the final version of the movie) where his character breaks down and cries after his wife refuses to remarry with him.Prior to its theatrical release, It was also severely cut for violence by both the MPAA. Amongst the scenes that were cut are the disco shootout which originally had Wufgar shooting and killing more people, and Wufgar's death scene in the ending which was almost completely cut out. An original uncut scene showed Wufgar getting shot five times (instead of twice) in slow-motion by DaSilva, and in the end, the final sixth shot hit him in the head blowing his brains out. An animatronic head of Rutger Hauer was made by special makeup artist Dick Smith and used in this scene.After starting in Rocky, Paradise Alley and Rocky 2, this is Joe Spinell's final appearance in a movie with his friend Sylvester Stallone. "},{"Title":"Terse drama - a remake is surely due","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have just watched this film again tonight after a too long a time. Excellent. A terse drama which never lets,even Stallone's romance with Lindsay Wagner is not interrupted by any interludes. For me it is perhaps Stallone's best film,a lot more believable than any of his action films and it had some enlightened moments (at the beginning of the film,Stallone in drag dragging a hoodlum along a railway platform). I am a bit wary of remakes,but after 34 years this is perhaps due for one but with a new cast. Just one little query. In the IMDb,our very own Edward Fox is listed as an ATAC member. Was he is the film (although I didn't see him) and if so,was it a nod towards Fox's career changing role in The Day of The Jackal? "},{"Title":"Solid cat-and-mouse game","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Stallone is no slouch in Nighthawks, but even I'll admit that part of the movie's appeal is watching him be upstaged by Rutger Hauer. That guy's all sorts of menacing. Even so, the two men are what make this movie really work, bringing international terrorism head to head with gritty cop drama. This makes good use of New York locations to that end, and it's kinda like Stallone's The French Connection. It's a surprisingly entertaining movie, still packs a punch, and the tense tram standoff in the third act keeps the blood pumping 'til the very end.7/10 "},{"Title":"Cool Early 80's Cop VS. Euro-Terrorist Thriller.","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Going to watch this again tonight for the second day in a row, this time with the wife who hasn't seen it. Who could not like an early 80's pre-MTV thriller with a fresh off of EMPIRE STRIKES BACK Billy Dee Williams and a young cool looking Stallone? Plus throw in Rutger Haeur as a deranged (yet handsome) Euro-Villain terrorist and you've got yourself a winner! There's a great scene where they aforementioned duo are looking for Hauer in a NYC nightclub while the Rolling Stones' Brown Sugar is blasting, ultra cool! This film is never a bore and it's before Stallone fully sold out so do yourself a favor and watch it ASAP if you haven't seen it yet! "}{"Title":"Stallone Gets in Touch with His Inner Woman","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This would be a routine action film, except for the way women function rather perversely in this movie. Sylvester Stallone, who plays a cop, has two women in his life. The first is his ex-wife. The second is Stallone himself, when he dresses up like a woman in order to lure muggers to attack him. It is pretty funny watching him chase a bad guy while wearing a dress.Rutger Hauer plays a terrorist who has a female accomplice. In the opening scene, set in England, he compliments a woman selling perfume in a department store while he slips a bomb under the counter, blowing up her and lots of others moments later. Then he comes to New York and picks up a woman in a bar to shack up with while he plots his next attack. When she discovers what he is, he kills her, which is ironic, since he jokingly referred to himself as a lady killer earlier. Then he takes a bunch of hostages on a tram, killing one woman and dropping her body into the river just to show he means business.When Stallone foils this plot, Hauer decides to get even by killing Stallone's ex-wife. He slips into her apartment while she is washing the dishes. He pulls out his knife and sneaks into the kitchen behind her. Then, just when he is about to stab her, she turns around and we see that it is not her after all. It is Stallone in drag again, and he puts a couple of rounds into one stunned and bewildered terrorist. "},{"Title":"My favorite Stallone movie","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" My absolute favorite Stallone movie followed very close by First Blood and Cobra, and my favorite Rutger Hauer movie along with The Hitcher.Stallone plays Deke DaSilva, New York cop who gets an assignment to be part of special police force whose job is to catch Wulfgar, brutal terrorist played by Hauer.Wulfgar is in New York where he wants to cause some havoc and impress his old partners and bosses in world of terrorism. DaSilva and his partner must stop him before he does that.VERY underrated and sadly overlooked at the time of it's release, today Nighthawks is cult movie that has lot of fans. It's also worth mentioning that this movie was originally lot longer and bloodier, before Universal studios heavily cut the movie and removed great deal of plot and most of the violence, then the MPAA did the rest of the job by demanding even more cuts to be made which made what was at one point very brutal and violent thriller into average movie which thankfully still got recognition over the years and many fans which would definitely love to see special edition of it. "},{"Title":"not the best cop pairing and odd for them to battle a terrorist","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Deke DaSilva (Sylvester Stallone) and Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams) are two tough NY cops fighting street crimes who are transferred to an anti-terrorism squad. Deke wants to get back with his ex Irene (Lindsay Wagner). Heymar Reinhardt (Rutger Hauer) is a terrorist also known as The Wulfgar Command. His bombings in Europe is causing chaos against the west. Then he fights and kills one of his cohorts. He goes on the run to NYC where he continues to create havoc. Peter Hartman (Nigel Davenport) has been hunting him for a long time and is brought in to lead the anti-terrorism efforts.It would have been better to have the police come after Wulfgar after he commits the first attack in NYC. It would be more realistic for police to take the threats lightly without any actual evidence of an impending attack. It's also more dramatic for the police to be behind and trying to catch up. Not to mention that it makes no sense for the anti-terrorism squad to pull two street cops to fight a threat that may not even exist. The confrontation between Deke and Hartman in the police meeting room seems awkwardly wrong. Sly and Billy Dee never develop enough chemistry for a police buddy duo. They are not always together. Nevertheless, it has some good grittiness. The three leads are good at their roles especially Rutger Hauer. It makes up for some of its deficiencies. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Street cop DaSilva reluctantly agrees to terminate an international terrorist who has demanded media attention. But DaSilva's at-home tactics are very much put to the challenge. A blend of strong acting, a strong story and inventive camera-work earns this Stallone vehicle a rating of 7/10. This suspenseful little thriller sees the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated many falsehoods Although it was made over 30 years ago, it hasn't lost any of its power. The best thing about this thriller it doesn't give away all its information at once. I finished this film wondering, Are we being watched? So are we? "},{"Title":"First-Class Stallone Thriller","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Bruce Malmuth directed two good movies during his 19 year career. The best film that he ever helmed unquestionably was the Sylvester Stallone terrorist thriller Nighthawks with Rutgar Hauer as a cold, calm, calculating killer who takes New York City hostage. As N.Y.P.D. Detective Deke DaSilva, Sylvester Stallone had one of his better roles early during his career. He was flanked by his partner Sergeant Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams of Star Wars The Empire Strikes Back) and the two make an efficient as well as effective crime-stoppers couple. When the notorious Heymar 'Wulfgar' Reinhardt (Rutgar Hauer of Blade Runner) leaves Europe after murdering the plastic surgeon who changed his face, British police man Peter Hartman (Nigel Davenport of Play Dirty) heads to the Big Apple to train DaSilva. 'Wulfgar' winds up taking a cable car load of passengers hostage, and it boils down to a game of wits between the two men. The surprise ending caps off an entertaining thriller. Stallone fans must watch this actioneer. After Nighthawks, Malmuth directed the Steven Seagal thriller Hard to Kill. "},{"Title":"Excellent Cop thriller which needs an Uncut & extended blu ray","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks starts with a bang literally! as Hauer's ruthless international terrorist Wulfgar Reinhardt enters a department store & coolly flirts with the very pretty cosmetic assistant (Catherine Mary Stewart) & leaves a satchel containing a bomb which causes more carnage than his employers( IRA ) wish to have. Upon being informed on he flees to Paris where he teams up with fellow Terrorists Shakka Holland Persis Khambatta(Star Trek the motion picture) upon receiving cosmetic surgery ( a clever transformation courtesy of Dick Smith who contributes to some of the special make up effects used throughout)Wulfgar travels to New York City where he plans to carry out a series of attacks,Stallone' is detective Deke DeSilva and his partner Fox (Billy Dee Williams) are taken off their usual street work and are assigned by their boss Joe Spinell ( Maniac, Paradise Alley) to be indoctrinated in Anti Terrorisim techniques led by the late Nigel Davenport who is on the task force charged with hunting down and 'terminating' Wulfgar.Nighthawks is a very solid thriller featuring some excellent chases and a tense showdown centred around a cable car at Roosevelt Island( which was famously used in Spider-Man) Lindsay Wagner also starts as Stallones estranged wife.Nighthawks is criminally short at 99mins, it is alleged that their is a longer cut of the film languishing away in Universal's vault, their is also many scenes edited For Gore Dick Smith was responsible for the effects. "},{"Title":"Exciting Terrorist Thriller.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone plays Deke Dasilva, a New York City undercover cop who, along with his partner(played by Billy Dee Williams) are recruited to join an anti-terrorist squad(led by Nigel Davenport) to take down a ruthless and media savvy terrorist known as Wolfgar, who has already struck in New York, and threatens to do so again. The two policemen become determined to track him(and his agents) down, especially after Deke's partner is injured.Exciting early '80's action film is quite well written, directed, and acted, and has subject matter that would resonate in a whole new way 20 years later... Only negative is the anticlimactic ending, which is most unusual, but doesn't ruin this otherwise fine thriller. "},{"Title":"A classic '80s crime thriller!","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks is a great 80s crime thriller, in a similar vein to Dirty Harry and the French Connection (Nighthawks was originally going to be called The French Connection III), made in 1981 Nighthawks is one of Stallone's early films, made when he was a rising star after Rocky and Rocky II, but before the Rambo films.The story follows a German terrorist called Heymar Reinhardt (A.K.A Wulfgar), played by Rutger Hauer, who has little interest in any terrorist attacks he commits other than getting his name in the media, his complete disregard for life and sadistic nature makes him a sought after soldier-of-fortune for many terrorist organisations across the world, and Detective Sargent Deke DeSilva (Stallone), an undercover cop who is transferred to a special NYPD-Interpol task force dedicated to bringing Wulfgar down, whom Interpol believes to be in New York.Helping DeSilva track Wulfgar down is a British counter-terrorist specialist called Peter Hartman (Nigel Davenport), a man who has had dealt with Wulfgar in the past and knows his tricks and his M.O.Wulfgar has fled to America after killing an IRA man called Kenna, after a job in London, causing the IRA to place a hit on Wulfgar. Wulfgar learns dignitaries of the United Nations are on a visit to New York, and sees an opportunity to get his name in the media once more.He bombs some buildings in New York's financial district, in an effort to spread fear, causing the U.N delegates to demand special police protection, the next night DeSilva and his partner Matthew Fox (Billy De Williams) find Wulfgar in a nightclub, which he usually goes to find a woman he can persuade to take him home with her so he can hide his weapons stash in her house, they chase Wulfgar through the subway but Wulfgar gets away, not before injuring Fox.The next day Hartman is killed by Wulfgar's accomplice, Shakka Holland (Persis Khambatta), at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, during a U.N visit to the museum. The U.N then board a tram to Roosevelt Island, Wulfgar and Shakka hijack the tram and hold the delegates hostage. As revenge for the subway chase the night before Wulfgar kills the wife of the French ambassador, but not before demanding DeSilva come and see it for himself.Wulfgar decides he wants an infant taken off the tram, DeSilva takes the infant off the tram, but before i does he demands to know why Wulfgar killed the woman, I wanted to the sadist replies, DeSilva asks if Wulfgar will kill him, All in good time Wulfgar replies.Wulfgar has demanded a bus take them to the airport where a jet will be waiting for him, police snipers are in position, DeSilva is ready to take the shot and end this terrible affair. Shakka is killed in a gunfight, and Wulfgar drives the bus into the East River whilst under fire, but escapes.Wulfgar, furious that his plan has been ruined, heads to the house of DeSilva's ex-wife Irene (Lindsay Wagner), he sees who he thinks to be Irene enter the house, he breaks in and gets ready to stab her in the back, Irene spins around and points a gun at Wulfgar, revealing it to be DeSilva dressed up in his ex-wife's clothes and one of her wigs.Cornered and with no-where to go Wulfgar lunges at DeSilva but DeSilva shoots him, Wulfgar goes crashing through Irene's front door and down into the street outside.An excellent film, with a nice blend of action, crime fighting, investigation etc, this film also offers a few sad parts, like when it is learnt children were killed in the London department store bombing, causing the IRA to refuse payment to Wulfgar, and when the wife of the French ambassador is executed.Definitely one of the most under-rated films of the 1980s! "},{"Title":"Eerily Prophetic, and Stallone's Best Performance Ever","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For worldwide press coverage, New York, where else? So says Peter Hartman of Interpol (played with dry effectiveness by veteran British actor Nigel Davenport) of the plans of the evil and vicious international terrorist Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) and his equally nasty sidekick Shakka Holland (Persis Khambatta..you remember, the East Indian chick with the shaved head in the first Star Trek movie). Amazing that this movie was produced in 1981, a full 20 years before essentially the same thing would happen in real life (in, where else, New York). The only difference is that in Nighthawks, the terrorist is essentially a lone wolf, whereas the guys who really did do the deed worked in groups and used airplanes. The results were the same; a bunch of dead people and bunch more really scared ones (the ultimate goal of terrorism..to incite terror).Hartman has recruited several New York City cops (among them sergeants Deke DaSilva and Matthew Fox, played by Sylvester Stallone and Billy Dee Williams respectively) to a counter-terrorist team. DaSilva and Fox have been working decoy, disguising themselves to chase after purse snatchers and the like. Now they've been ordered to be indoctrinated by Hartman in anti-terrorist techniques. DaSilva in particular does not like the idea of being trained to be essentially an assassin, but with some prodding from Fox, he ultimately goes along, begrudgingly. And as the movie progresses, he comes to understand why, and just how evil, ruthless and merciless his opponent really is. As Hartman tells them, This is a terrorist. He doesn't think like a criminal. He wants to be a hero. DaSilva eventually realizes that standard police procedures don't work against guys like him.Stallone's performance as DaSilva is his best ever; very understated and low key, which makes it even more effective. OK, so he looks like Serpico..even down to the glasses he wears..but he wears the look damn well. Williams does an equally fine job as his tough and occasionally unhinged partner Fox (it's fun to watch him essentially go psycho and shove a gun in a drug dealer's face early in the movie, then subsequently admonish DaSilva to take his hat off when going inside a department store to visit his fashion designer ex-wife, (Lindsay Wagner). And Hauer makes a real splash in his American debut. His performance as the thoroughly evil and equally arrogant Wulfgar is maniacally spot-on. To this day it's one of his finest performances ever.One big problem with this movie, and ironically it's with the best and most suspenseful scene in it; when DaSilva spots Wulfgar in a crowded discotheque. All of DaSilva's pious talk about not wanting to hurt innocent civilians goes right out the window when he shouts out, Wulfgar! in a nightclub that's full of them. It actually gets someone shot. But it's still a fun scene.OK, you KNOW DaSilva is going to get Wulfgar; it's the WAY he gets him that makes for such a good climax. A very satisfying ending to this overlooked gem. "},{"Title":"Solid thriller that could have been better","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The biggest problem I have with Nighthawks it's the fact that it doesn't feel at all like a movie from the 80's. It looks like it have come straight from the 70's. The hairstyles , the music , the clothes... Even Stallone reminds me of Al Pacino's Serpico. Don't get me wrong. I don't have anything against the 70's . I just miss the taste of 80's movie here. When I'm watching a movie from the 80's , I simply wanna feel the 80's style . Oh well.Nighthawks is kinda forgotten movie in Stallone's career. Unrightfully. It's a solid thriller and it's a shame that Stallone didn't attempt to make more movies like this in the 80's. I've enjoyed Rambo and Rocky sequels , but I think he should try his luck in thrillers too.The screenplay is good , but for a large part of the movie doesn't know what to do with DaSilva (Stallone). So , while the villain (Rutger Hauer is good as always in this type of role) is making next moves , the hero is sitting and learning about his modus operandi. Stallone is frustrated and so is the audience. I know this is important aspect of the story , but it could have been done much better.Thankfully , after the training part is done the movie starts to be really interesting. The chase scene is wonderful. The tension between Hauer and Stallone is good and the final of the movie is quite memorable. Billy Dee Williams (Empire strikes back) is OK as Stallone's friend.Director of this movie Bruce Malmuth had pleasure to work with 3 action stars  Sylvester Stallone , Steven Seagal (Hard to kill) and Dolph Lundgren (Pentathlon). This is definitely his best movie.One year later after this movie was done Rutger Hauer gave his iconic performance in Blade Runner . Stallone became Rambo and made third Rocky movie . Billy Dee Williams in 1983 defeated the Empire in Return of the Jedi. It's not the best movie in career for any of them , but certainly worth watching . I give it 7/10. "}{"Title":"a good early action thriller for stallone","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" nighthawks is stallone's first action thriller, and while it isn't as action packed and unbelievable as his later movies, it still delivers some top notch action and thrills, and has a great villain in the form of rutger huer, he is a truly heartless villain with no conscience, stallone gives a better performance than usual although he looks a little weird with his al pacino serpico look, it's a solid action thriller but anybody expecting 'rambo' or 'cobra' may be a little disappointing as its quite slow paced and nowhere near as violent as them movies. buts its still a cracking thriller, and most stallone fans should enjoy it as long as they know what there going in too, billy dee williams is great here also as stallone's partner. all in all a solid action movie i recommend "},{"Title":"A nice little 80s action flick with Hauer and Stallone.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks is a perfectly adequate example of what passed for an action film in the early 80s. That is to say it is slow and built around a couple of key scenes. The act of simplifying the plot down to the most direct and necessary elements I like, the fact that much of the 100 minutes remaining could best be described as filler a less welcome by-product.Da Silva (pre-roids Sly Stallone) and Fox (Billy Dee Williams) are partners in New York City. The kind that are willing to see past the usual red tape to get the job done. Who knows maybe in 1981 this wasn't yet a cliché? Da Silva is a bearded ex Vietnam vet with an ex-wife that he pines for and a hatred of unnecessary violence due to his war service.Fox has a beard too, but apparently not much other backstory worth relaying during the film.Gee I wonder if the ex-wife will somehow become involved and if Da Silva might be forced to choose between pacifism or a loved one? Into their standard beating down bad guys existence comes a German terrorist named Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer), who has recently set off bombs in the UK and has fled to the US to continue wreaking havoc. The powers that be decide they need more men on the street to track down Wolfie and so Da Silva, Fox and some others are dragged off the beat and summarily given training on anti-terrorist tactics; tactics a battle scarred Da Silva finds exceptionally uncool.The duo are initially reluctant to continue their anti-terrorist participation but soon Da Silva starts to learn how Wulfgar's mind works, and as he nears the prey things get personal and Wulfgar decides to teach Da Silva a lesson, as well as causing untold horror and mass confusion at the death of many innocent civilians.Of course this leads to various chase scenes and a standoff at the end of the film where many lives are at stake and there can be only one survivor.Nighthawks (terrible title) is actually pretty OK seeing as it is now in its 4th decade of existence. There is a very worthwhile footchase through the streets and subway tunnels of NYC that lasts a good 5 or so minutes and never gets boring. As mentioned it is the classic 80s technique of having two or three showcase scenes, with everything else merely building up to the next one, so don't expect wall to wall action. Perhaps as overcompensation for this when someone gets shot they manage to get knocked back about 40 feet, this is especially obvious in the latter scenes.Sly hadn't yet honed his 'yeah I'm dumb but I don't take myself too seriously' shtick &#x96; he even tries acting for a while &#x96; Billy Dee is surprisingly low key and basically window dressing here, aside from one scene where he is allowed to vent in full mother-f*cking glory. But it is Rutger Hauer as Wulfgar who practically demands you remember him. In the early scenes he plays things relatively straight but as the film progresses he becomes more and more hammy and over the top in his portrayal of what is admittedly a reasonably cartoony character.Nighthawks has precious little that will remain with you after you've seen it, but it remains a solid film with a couple of decent scenes and is a worthy early introduction to one Mr R. Hauer.Final Rating &#x96; 6 / 10. Sure the plot is basic and pretty clichéd, but the film works and manages to at least handle the subject matter well. "},{"Title":"Decent early Stallone cop vehicle","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This serviceable police thriller was made early on in Stallone's career and sees him playing a tough cop &#x96; although he's a more nuanced, human and responsible character here than the ultra-violent man of the law he was later to play in Cobra. Aiming for almost a Cold War-style realism over macho hijinks and explosions, this sees Stallone and his partner Billy Dee Williams (STAR WARS) on the track of a European terrorist with plans to blow New York sky high. It's a little similar to DIE HARD WITH A VENGEANCE in that respect.The film is quite old fashioned when viewed in a modern light the story is simple, straightforward and with only a few principle leads. Stallone underplays his part and Williams is underutilised, leaving newcomer Rutger Hauer to shine as the chilly, borderline-psycho villain (a role he would perfect in the following year's BLADE RUNNER). There are also minor parts for The Bionic Woman, Lindsay Wagner, British ex-pat Nigel Davenport and everyone's favourite MANIAC, Joe Spinell.There are decent chase scenes, an explosion or two and some fun to be had from seeing Stallone dressed as a woman and kicking butt as part of the 'decoy' scheme his department employs to entrap no-good hoodlums. The climax, a hostage situation set aboard a cable-cart high above the Manhattan streets, is well handled, followed by a bus stunt to rival SPEED and a neat twist ending that gets a good laugh. This may pale in comparison to the likes of DIRTY HARRY but Stallone's made a lot worse in his career. "},{"Title":"There is no security....","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Wulfgar a terrorist, who has been plaguing Europe, is now in the U.S.A British counter terrorism expert arrives in New York to help and he chooses Detectives from the NYPD to train on how to deal with Wulfgar.Among the ones he chooses is Deke De Silva, a veteran cop, who doesn't he think he is suited for the job. But tries to do the best he can. Eventually he comes face to face with Wulfgar and hesitates shooting him despite being told that he should shoot him if he has the chance, which not only allows him to escape but to injure his partner.Wulfgar now has his sights set on him as well as his other targets.DeSilva can now only wait for Wulfgar to make his next move...Nighthawks, or the film that Stallone went all a bit Bee Gee, is an absolutely hilarious film to watch, thanks to lack of narrative, gaping plot-holes, and one of the funniest introductions to a hero ever.But thanks to Hauer and Stallone, it's actually very watchable and very action packed indeed. It's a wonder why it's been overlooked in recent years, because it's a lot better than some of the films Stallone has made.There are some silly bits in it though, Hauer having a 'transformation' at the beginning, to look more like Rutger Hauer, Stallone overacting on several occasions with a funky beard and even funkier glasses, but the director knows how to handle the action well, despite it being very formulaic, and having a Brian De Palma ending.A little gem of a film well worth watching.Plus it's the best film with Stallone dressed as a woman at the beginning and the end, ever. "},{"Title":"Above average thriller","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Above average thriller pits New York detective Stallone and his partner Billy Dee Williams against a ruthless European terrorist named Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer). David Shaber and Paul Sylbert's half decent plot could have been milked for the intrigue it contained. Director Bruce Malmuth seems to favour trying to shock us instead, and thus much of the potential in the storyline is wasted.Nobody in the cast, including Stallone, Williams, Hauer, Nigel Davenport, Lindsay Wagner and Persis Khambatta, puts their hand up for a special performance, leaving only the original script to keep Nighthawks above water level.Screenwriter Shaber and some astute editing achieve the above with relative comfort, no thanks to the awful 70's music from Keith Merson.Thursday, July 23, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"A good departure for Stallone, though it is Rutger Hauer who really steals the show.","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a rather good and interesting watch. Not really the typical Sylvester Stallone movie as he is not the super cop by any means in this movie. It also helps that there are fine performances all around as Billy Dee Williams is good as Stallone's partner and Hauer steals the show as a ruthless terrorist. The plot is good and interesting and it never lets up. It also has a nice conclusion as well. The story has Stallone as a cop trying to stop an international terrorist, but he just does not seem sure of the right way to go about it. He seems conflicted about how to go about catching him while the terrorist has no such issues so lets just say he has the advantage through a lot of this movie. The exchanges between Stallone and Williams work out quite nicely and all in all this movie is a nice departure from Stallone being the slow, but really good boxer or the nearly indestructible Vietnam veteran. He is not a super cop either just one with some issues. "},{"Title":"not excellent","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lindsay Wagner got top billing on this movie but she was only in it for about two minutes, which I think must have annoyed a few film goers. Also odd sixties music was used in a party sequence in the early part of the film contrasted sharply to a popular 70's hit by rock group Foghat a bit later on in a club scene. Good character acting by Sly Stallone and Rutger Hauer, but not enough to raise the film into the pantheon of cinematic greatness-and having Lindsay Wagner do a bit part and the music problems that included a terrible score from an Emerson Lake and Palmer band member person didn't help much either. Its watchable, but it's not all that memorable.I give it only a five out of ten. "},{"Title":"Nighthawks( 1981)","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks is one of the best of Stallone's films because it is more realistic than his later Rambo style movies.All the main actors did well but Rutger Hauer steals the honours.The cool calm and collected menace here was awesomely manifest in 'The Hitcher' later. The story line is splendid though there are several goofs in between.It is unlike the Stallone character to shout at the villain when he first spots him at a disco.He could easily have crept in onto him and taken him along.The other unbelievable goof is that when Wulfgur and the bus drops into the sea the police don't try to trace his body although he has brought the town' to its knees' !!! Such irresponsibility has no place at the highest level of security. The script is splendid and the action is well conceived.It is a pity Stallone didn't made more movies like this until later in life.He could have more than matched the best in acting. "},{"Title":"down memory lane","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hold your horses before you're going to shoot me. I know I know, this isn't a horror movie. But I would like to review it because I had memories way back in time. The last scene of this flick will always be in my mind. if it wasn't for my girl I wouldn't be able to track it down. We were talking about movies as we do a lot and I said, there are two movies that aren't horror but are in my mind, and they concern men dressed as women. The first one was easy to find Dressed To Kill but the second one I only remembered the ending, won't spoil it. Lucky as I am with my girl she was also capable to remember it too. She found the title, I had to search me a copy, and I did in the Netherlands last week. Well, the movie is still one of a kind. Sylvester Stallone is in it, still earning his way to the top, in between Rocky and Rambo. Rudger Hauer was also on his way in Hollywood, this is his first real important appearances in an US movie, he was already famous in the Netherlands. Also in the picture is Joe Spinell. At least one connection for me as a horror geek. Spinell is well known for his sick performances in the underestimated gem Maniac and the forgotten flick The Last Horror Movie and of course the OOP The Undertaker. Never forget Spinell who sadly died in 89 due a heart attack. They all gave a real good performance. The movie is for his time still up to date and the killings are really bloody, of course it had to be, it was the period of the slashers. The storyline never lacks and the score made me think of Shaft. The only thing that was a bit too long was the scene at the police office were they explain the thing surrounding the terrorist. Anyway, maybe a bit of a rip off of Dirty Harry but the ending really makes the movie in all ways, acting, lighting, sound, cutting and camera. "},{"Title":"New York Cops Face Off With Crazy Terrorist Dependable Action Thriller","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Deke DaSilva is a tough cop in NYC who specialises in decoy detail, catching muggers and thieves. When Wulfgar, a psychotic international terrorist on the run from Interpol, arrives in town, DaSilva is transferred to a team recruited to catch and kill him. Does DaSilva have what it takes to step up to the challenge ?This is a fairly standard cop vs psycho crime-thriller, high on action and low on subtlety, but I like it more than most for several reasons. Hauer is absolutely electrifying as the deranged killer, pulling us into the madness behind his eyes. The dark and grimy location photography is great and there's a weird symphonic funk score by synth-rocker Keith Emerson. It also features spectacular stuntwork by the great Dar Robinson, including a spectacular chase through the subway system. It has some limitations; the classic thriller problem where the hero doesn't have enough charisma and the villain has too much, and some silly moments, like Davenport's over-the-top antics during his Terrorism 101 class, but overall it's pretty good - dark and single-minded. The idea of a cop who doesn't want to deal with terrorists because he didn't join the police force to kill people is a nice idea, especially in the current climate, and I love the seedy locations in this movie - notably the Roosevelt Island Tramway that Hauer uses to stick-up the UN delegates. This movie also has some weird credits; notorious porn-star Jamie Gillis plays the minor role of Wagner's boss, and it was written by David Shaber (the screenwriter of The Warriors) and Paul Sylbert, a famous production designer who had no other connection with the film. Also, makeup genius Dick Smith was hired to give Hauer (in his first American film) an altered prosthetic face for the first half-hour, which is then removed for the rest of the movie. A good Saturday night thriller. "}{"Title":"Fast paced and suspenseful","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A notorious terrorist (the perfectly cast Rutger Hauer) makes a big impact on New York City and two tough cops (a very hairy Sylvester Stallone and oily Billy Dee Williams) are hot on his trail.Maybe that's a bit careless summary but it about sums up this flick. It's pretty shallow with it's interesting characters, especially Stallone, Hauer and Wagner who could well have been fleshed out more. A background story on Stallone is touched upon but his relationship with Lindsay Wagner could have used more screen time. It does look like someone used the garden sheers here.In the end you get a fast paced and often quite suspenseful movie with first rate performances from Stallone and Hauer. There's plenty of action and it's well handled by director Bruce Malmuth. The final twenty minutes or so are tension filled and the conclusion wholly satisfying. If the film would have examined it's characters a little better we'd have a classic on our hands. Still, it's good and comes recommended. "},{"Title":"The  movie depicts fictional world of international terrorism going into real-world","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Way before New York suffered its newest form of terrorism through the World Trade Center bombings of 1993 and 2001, this movie had depicted the unthinkable that had already happened in real life--a major terrorist incident in a big United States city.Moreover, the Oklahoma City bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building brought alleged mastermind Timothy McVeigh to justice, and he was almost close to being like the fictional Wulfgar in Nighthawks for his ability to create fear around America.Chicago itself had terrorist bombings almost at the time the film was produced, by the FALN extremist group (one of the bombings struck a downtown Chicago theater), and this is just a number of U.S. terrorist incidents that makes Nighthawks quite believable on how international terrorism can bring innocent civilians around the world in fear.No wonder that a little over 15 years later after the movie was released, that New York would face real-world terrorism right at its core with the World Trade Center being the target, as I mentioned before.In Nighthawks, it was Sylvester Stallone (who played New York City policeman Da Silva), who has to meet up with one of the ruthless fictional international terrorists, Wulfgar (played by Rudolf Hagar). Wulfgar had already terrorized Europe with his bombings, and he entered the United States in the purpose to terrorize the country with the same thing. With all that, it was Da Silva who eventually has to stop Wulfgar's terrorist bloodshed. He eventually joins up with an anti-terrorist group called ATAC, which was sort of like Special Weapons and Tactics, also known as SWAT (used by most U.S. police forces), but this a different type of ATAC than one of the James Bond movies that used the term ATAC, which was an acronym for a submarine tracking system.The big turning point was when a top New York police official who masterminded the operation to stop Wulfgar thought he was in the right place at the right time, during a scene involving an ambassador's meeting. But it was at the wrong time, and he was assassinated by Wulfgar's accomplice, Shakka, a character who was from Morocco. As Da Silva saw the official already lying dead on the end of the escalator steps, he realized one thing the police official said before he was murdered--you have to picture the M.O. the terrorist would create for a future incident. This was why Da Silva dressed up as Shakka in his own room (the kitchen) as Wulfgar, armed with a knife, approached the house and into the kitchen thinking that it was Shakka. Wulfgar was wrong, as he realized that it was Da Silva wearing a female wig, as he turns to face Wulfgar with Da Silva holding a pistol...not Shakka! Wulfgar gets mad and is about to kill him but it was the end of Wulfgar as he is shot twice by Da Silva, goes through a front door window and breaking it, and he dies right on the front porch.Da Silva had done his job of taking out a wanted terrorist, although he could have taken him in to authorities instead of firing a second deadly shot.The scenes involving the bombing of a London boutique store and the Wall Street in New York evokes memories of another terrorist-related movie with a New York location---The Siege, featuring Denzel Washington as an FBI agent, which shows similar bombings which included a main Broadway theater. "},{"Title":"Quite Good!","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Back in the day, Rutger Hauer had potential; he could have been a contender. With the proper handling, he may have had a career as successful as Sly Stallone, for example, or Harrison Ford. Alas, but that opportunity is now gone. He has done far too many B stinkers (though they arguably did not stink because of HIM) for that opportunity to survive.After a while, two names became synonymous with the bad B action flick, Rutger Hauer and Eric Roberts. If you see those names, the channel is usually turned, and quickly.But, as I said in the beginning of this review, Nighthawks was done in the day, when everyone waited expectantly for Hauer to be somebody. His performance in this is exemplary, and this is (in my opinion) Sly's best performance as a cop, and he's played plenty of cops. To round out the trio, we have Billy Dee Williams in a pivotal role as Sly's partner, ergo the second good guy in the scenario, which involves a global terrorist (Hauer) and the New York detectives who are after him (Williams & Stallone).All in all? This features some great action, a few truly tense moments, a solid story, and believable dialog delivery (something lacking in most cop flicks of this time). It was fun, interesting, and kept me watching. But in a word, this is dated, dated, dated! but don't remake it, please! Frankly, there were worse (and better) movies, which rate a remake.It rates a 6.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Probably Sly's best acting job","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK, we all know Sly Stallone can't act, but he made a great effort in this movie. It was action packed, dark, gritty, and very relevant even though it was released back in '81. The first time I saw this movie was in college about 8 years ago at 2am in the morning. It's been one of my favorites ever since.Positives were the relationship between Wulfgar and DaSilva, the engaging soundtrack, and the fact that this movie had a GOOD plot (unlike many of Stallone's movies). The scene in the club and the stare down between DaSilva and Wulfgar (while I'm A Man is playing) is legendary.Things I would have changed were that the movie seemed cut-up (their seems to be many scenes that are missing), if there was more scenes between Stallone and Lindsay Wagner, it would have added to the drama. I think Billy Dee Williams could have been in it a little bit more. The ending was well thought out, but I think there could have been more. From what I understand, that was cut-up as well. Lastly bring back I'm A Man and Brown Sugar to the club scene on the Universal DVD, I have no idea what convinced them to take that out. It really destroys the intensity of the shot. "},{"Title":"Great Movie  & Good Action","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks .. was a sleeper .. to me & one day .. I pick it .. up & watch it & .. Wow! Stallone .. blow me away & Bill Dee Willians .. as is parter .. is great .. they work off .. of each .. real great & Rutger Hauer .. is bad as bad .. a good thriller & still works .. for me ..... Stallone .. at his best here & the scenes .. in New York .. are shot great .. for me living .. in the country .. And it .. was super see all the action & chasing .. of the bad guy .. & to watch up .. to a thrilling end .. is so cool .. & know .. Sylvester Stallone .. was just start .. to get name .. for himself .. so set back & eat some popcorn & enjoy .. great .. action .. Nighthawks ... enjoy .... "},{"Title":"Hauer's Best acting role ever","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When Stallone and Billy Dee Williams--streetwise cops who are used to busting common muggers and thugs-- are assigned to an elite anti-terrorist group, they want to do things their same old way and treat the terrorist Wulfgar like any criminal.  They don't pay attention to (and have no respect for) the British anti-terrorist expert who tries to teach them that anti-terrorism is not like common crimefighting. They don't listen, because they know they can easily capture Wulfgar, and crack jokes during their meetings. Finally, after Wulfgar continually out-thinks, out-runs, and out-maneuvers them several times, they finally begin to believe the anti-terrorist expert, and realize that Wulfgar truly is a master terrorist. When the expert is killed, that leaves only Billy Dee and Sly to stop a man who has out-matched every step of the way. In other terrorist movies, the bad guy is always seen as a huge threat and everyone tries to stop him.  Nighthawks is so brilliant because the first half of the movie shows the terrorist expert frustratingly trying to convince Stallone of Wulfgar's power, and Stallone stubbornly doesn't care, thinking Wulfgar is no threat at all.  He thinks it's overkill when the expert tries to prepare him for terrorism scenarios, but those lessons come back to be oh so useful... "},{"Title":"'You need eyes like a hawk at night' = Nighthawks","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nice team up with Sly & the ever-elegant Billy-Dee! (Could his Fox name be a coincidence??)  Two cops keeping their eyes open for riveting Rutger Hauer, the scariest terrorist alive! How he goes through those physical changes in the film is quite a feat! The films' violent ending is an eyesore but definitely gets the point across With all the nonsensical killing Rutger's done throughtout the film, his ending is, well - deserved. There's a surprise twist just before he goes down, too. (If you want to see Sly as a blonde, this is where you'll find him! And he plays it straight! And it works!) Lindsey Wagner plays Sly's wife (another blonde) whom he is separated from. They truely seem to love each other but his job keeps getting in their way. Oh yea, this is the first film Sly wears a beard & goatee. I liked the change.  "},{"Title":"A real fine watch for Rutger Hauer's performance; not Stallone's.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Career wise, this was a very bad move for Sly Stallone.  Sly doesn't have much range and even within it he needs simple things to try to do. Contrasting him with a true actor (Hauer has even got Shakespearean acting background) makes all his shortcomings so painfully apparent that we all but cringe when the camera abandons one excellent scene after another with Hauer in charge to play it's dismal focus on those of Stallone.  The Stone hearted bitch who plays Hauer's girl Friday, Persis Khambatta, is a definite credit to the movie.  Only some camera artistry foolishness in the last scenes seems glaringly out of place in an otherwise excellent actioner. "},{"Title":"Stallone's best thriller","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nighthawks came near end of a string of Stallone vehicles following Rocky where he actually played characters with some depth. First Blood, though it did feature Stallone actually acting a role amidst all the mayhem, ensured that macho stereotypes and phony action would take precedent in his career over gritty and intelligent content. Nighthawks, though of course implausible in many regards, nevertheless is a gritty and intelligently acted piece, a thriller that keeps you interested because of its taut suspense and action sequences that don't become overblown with fake heroics. It features at its heart a character driven plot that, although underdeveloped, succeeds far more as a credible action drama than any ten Chuck Norris or Bruce Willis movies made along the same lines. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 27","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" 27. NIGHTHAWKS (action, 1981) Europe's most feared international terrorist Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) has marked NY City as his next target. Two tough undercover cops, DaSilva (Sylvester Stallone) and partner Fox (Billy Dee Williams), are assigned to a special task force sent to terminate Wulfgar. They're frustrated, however, as their quarry proves more cunning and smart than the usual lowlifes they're used to catching. A climactic cat and mouse chase ensues leaving Fox wounded and Wulfgar holding hostages. DeSilva manages to diffuse the situation but Wulfgar again escapes. DeSilva, now alone, goes after the desperate terrorist who's on the run.Critique Unusually gritty Stallone action vehicle didn't prove successful or widely distributed. Nevertheless, it featured his best starring role and it's a shame most fans haven't been able to pick up on it. Sporting a 'Serpico'-like beard, Stallone cuts down on the gung-ho poses that 'Rambo' and 'Rocky' fans have come to get bored of. Though not a total dud, DeSilva is still a rogue cop who predictably goes over his superiors. The film's international background (which includes scenes shot in Europe and use of subtitles) give it class and an international feel. It's funny to see how NY cops interact with foreign 'agents' and international politics. The teaming of Williams and Stallone proves surprisingly effective, counter-pointing suaveness and toughness. Also outstanding is Rutger Hauer's wicked terrorist Wulfgar (his debut American role). He shows the evil mindedness that would dominate his later screen persona. Smart ending too.QUOTES Wulfgar We're not that different (DeSilva). I don't enjoy killing, but it's my job. Someone has to do it. "}{"Title":"A good concept fails to follow through","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone (one of my all time favorites) plays a true blue loyal by the book cop who finds himself chasing an international terrorist with his partner. Everything on the surface seems to work with this movie but then you begin to realize there isn't anything underneath to really sink your teeth into. Billy Dee Williams and Stallone make a great team and could have made an outstanding action movie together but they never take it anywhere. Rutger Hauer is also perfect for the role of twisted psychotic terrorist but the chemistry between him and Stallone is sadly lacking. The film was originally intended to be something completely different (The French Connection 3) but when Gene Hackman bowed out they re-tooled it into this and you can tell this wasn't the original intention because it lacks any heart or direction. The characters are okay, the story is okay, the action is light but okay but that's all it ever is...okay. This was essentially director Bruce Malmuth's first film as director and I think he just went through the motions and didn't put any heart or effort into it leaving true fans like myself wishing there was more. Even for Stallone fans this is skippable. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone gives it his all as a tough New York policeman","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks is possibly Stallone's most realistic film. It has lots of action and gripping tension throughout, not to mention good acting from all the cast and a gripping storyline.New York Detectives Deke DaSilva (Stallone) and Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams) foil a mugging attempt which takes place on New Year's eve. The action then shifts to London where a terrorist named Wulfgar (Rutger Hauer) bombs a shopping centre. After Wulfgar murders three interpol agents and a plastic surgeon in Paris, it becomes clear to interpol that Wulfgar is now in New York. DaSilva and Fox are assigned to a branch of the ATAC (anti-terrorist action command) and are given lectures on counter terrorism by interpol specialist Peter Hartman (Nigel Davenport). When Wulfgar murders an air stewardess this brings the police one step closer to Wulfgar's whereabouts. DaSilva goes to check out various clubs and discos throughout New York to see if he can get any leads. By a massive coincidence, he spots Wulfgar but ends up loosing the chase. The next day, Wulfgar then goes to take a cable car full of UN diplomats hostage. With DaSilva hot on Wulfgar's heels it is only a matter of time before the first man makes his move...Nighthawks is a gritty and realistic story about terrorism. With this film being made in 1980, the world was not as aware of terrorism as they are now. Likewise, with this film being made in 1980, it was Pre-Rambo and the majority of Rocky's so the audience get to see Stallone as a character actor rather than runner and gunner John Rambo. Sylvester Stallone gives a fantastic performance as DaSilva, as does Rutger Hauer as Wulfgar. The film has many memorable scenes but my personal favourite is the scene where DaSilva and Fox search a disco for Wulfgar and the chase that follows it. Those scenes are so tense and full of action that they arguably the centrepiece of the entire film. The ending will also shock the audience as well.A very underrated Stallone film. If you are a fan of Sly then you will definitely want to check this one out. "},{"Title":"A failure, with only a handful of highlights.","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nighthawks (1981); Directed by Bruce Malmuth; Starring Sylvester Stallone, Billy Dee Williams, Rutger Hauer, Persis Khambatta et al.The film follows two NY undercover cops, Deke DaSilva (Stallone) and his buddy, Matthew Fox (Williams), and how they become involved in an anti-terrorist unit. Their mission is to hunt down international terrorist Wulfgar (Hauer), who is assisted by Shakka (Khambatta, known mostly for her role as 'Ilia' in Star Trek The Motion Picture). They've made the city of New York their next target. The plot is quite straightforward, but it has got some potential, especially with Rutger Hauer cast as the terrorist and Stallone as a tough cop. The end result, however, doesn't use this potential. This is mainly due to (a) an almost complete lack of logic and (b) the absence of a convincing reality.Starting with the unconvincing aspects. Our two main 'heroes' are supposed to be quite uncontrollable and tough-guys, but they only show this through shouting at their colleges, at their boss, at Wulfgar, or by just looking mean and angry. I think this is due to the lack of good direction, the lack of quality acting and the lack of a good script. Wulfgar isn't very convincing at being a terrorist either... You only have to look him in the eye with an angry facial expression and he pulls out a gun and starts shooting, in the middle of a disco (!). This isn't due to Rutger Hauer's acting though, since he delivers a really good performance. He brings a great flair to Wulfgar and makes him quite scary, considering the material he has to work with. He stands out as a highlight amongst the other actors. His assistant, Shakka, is portrayed as a merciless woman, but that's as far as her character goes. Persis Khambatta doesn't bring anything more to her role than the very limited script offers her, but she is adequate. Although others qualify Stallone's performance as one of his best, I found it to be quite bad. We're supposed to feel for DaSilva struggling with his (ex-)girlfriend and with him being trained to think and act like a terrorist, in order to take Wulfgar down. But, he isn't able to make DaSilva a real character, he doesn't bring him to life so to speak and therefore I couldn't care for DaSilva. This is also due to the bad writing, because these two points are completely underdeveloped in the script (and/or handled badly by the director) and should have been worked out much better in order for them to work properly. As it is now, the scenes where DaSilva gets upset over becoming like Wulfgar don't make much sense, because you don't get the feeling he's becoming like Wulfgar. Much of the potential drama is thus missing and this hurts the film badly. Billy Dee Williams is quite nice to watch though, but this is more due to his persona than to the character he's portraying, because he hasn't got much to do, besides following DaSilva around and in one occasion help him stay on the team. A note must go to Joe Spinell, for portraying Lt. Munafo (DaSilva and Fox's superior officer) quite well, he stood out as positive.On to my other major criticism the absence of logic. First, the mentioned scene with Wulfgar pulling a gun in a disco. It's completely illogical for a calculating and professional terrorist to pull a gun on someone he's never seen, especially in the middle of a disco with hundreds of people around. The chase scene following this is quite well done though and is one of the highlights of the film. Another example Wulfgar keeps his suitcase full of weapons and explosives at a girls place without locking it. Upon her opening it, he just shoots her and conveniently leaves a map behind for the police, with the last place he bombed circled. At the film's ending Wulfgar is supposed to be dead and by what we have seen, the logical conclusion is that he is dead, but he magically reappears for a final act of terror and a quite stupid twist ending. If we were given at least a simple explanation for his survival it wouldn't be such a bad thing, but now it just doesn't make sense. I can suspend my disbelief in films, but there has to be some logic to what's going on and that logic is missing in this film. Because you're uninvolved with most of the characters and because you keep noticing illogical plot points, the film begins to drag. Through all this, you just lose interest in the film and want it to end. Towards the ending it does pick up a bit though. There's quite a good scene on a cable-lift cart. Wulfgar and Shakka take everyone in the cart hostage and a rare moment of good film occurs. It's the best thing the film has to offer, followed by the fore-mentioned chase scene, involving a metro. These are sadly the only real highlights, besides Rutger Hauer, and they are too little to save the film.Concluding this film becomes uninvolving and therefore quite boring because of bad characters, uninspired acting by most involved, bad directing and an important lack of logic. There are too few highlights to make this film earn a positive rating. Only watch this when you want to see another good Rutger Hauer performance, or if you think you won't mind the things I disliked about it.It scores 4/10. "},{"Title":"Eat this, Osama","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Dear Mr. Bin Laden! I always thought you were a real bad terrorist, with all your crashing Boeings in the wtc and the pentagon and stuff. But no, leaving a suit case bomb in a cosmetic shop, now that's terrorism. Easily understandable why a guy doing this is the most feared terrorist in the world. And of course, facing that kind of terrorism you send in two cross dressing street cops who spend their days in work chasing half way crooks in the park. Good intelligence, very good intelligence indeed. Also, if an attack on a UN- delegation is imminent, you don't check with whom the politicians get into an enclosure. You rather keep looking for the terrorists in night clubs, and of course, if you're a character of a stupid script, you'll find them there. Then they'll give you their true identity if you look at them really angry. What's more to say? Oh yeah, if you're that kind of smart terrorist, you'll easily get every file of every cop and fed in the world. You ask how? Well, how's for suckers. This is the 80s. 4 points for Sly (whom i love) wearing a beard, and some quite exciting scenes. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone's best movie ever!!!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone is a great action movie star and this film is most definitely the best one he ever starred in. He plays the role of an undercover cop from New York City named Deke DaSilva and he and his partner Matthew Fox played by Billy Dee Williams get assigned to go after an international terrorist named Wulfgar who is played by Rutger Hauer. Wulfgar is a renowned villain from a different continent who had his face changed by a plastic surgeon before arriving in New York City and Deke and Matt are the police officers assigned to figure out what he looks like now so that they can track him down and stop him. This movie has an intense thrilling surprise at the ending, so if you have never seen it before, then go rent it right away!! Nighthawks is an awesome action packed suspense thriller and it is Stallone's greatest movie yet!! "},{"Title":"Reasonable fare","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A reasonable, if uncomplicated, story.  Stallone delivers his lines with his usual monotone aplomb!  Well directed and some interesting camerawork and effects.My main gripe...   Where on earth did the score come from?  That has to be the most annoyingly innapropriate background music ever used in a film.Good entertainment, if a little predictable. "},{"Title":"Simple, yet creative","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty good acting, and the final scene rocks.  Actually the final scene makes this movie for me.  Plus seeing stallone with a beard and big glasses. Plus the goofy keyboard soundtrack just rocks.  80's at its best people. "},{"Title":"Terrorist in New York","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  No this is not a movie trying to make a pay off from the events that happened on September 11. This movie was done way before we ever thought terrorists would attack North America.  This movie is a by the number cop show,which is better than average, but not a great movie either.  The hitcher in this film, and Stallone plays one of his better characters, but the story lacks no matter how good character development progressed through the film. "},{"Title":"A thriller that doesn't evoke enough thrills","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Thrillers are a genre that is supposed to get the viewer's blood pumping harder than usual. They're not always as gruesome as the horror genre movies but the point is to create high tension. Unfortunately I barely felt any tension between scenes in this film. And that's only one part that could have been improved.To start off, Sylvester Stallone plays Deke DaSilva, a discharged soldier of the U.S. army who now is a cop in New York City. DaSilva cares about the safety of the innocent, yet he's too weak to pull a trigger on a villain. Why? He's nervous that he'll cause collateral damage. Well DaSilva, since you were apart of the army at one point, you should know then, that friendly fire isn't uncommon. Partnered up with Stallone is Billy Dee Williams or as everyone else knows him as, Lando Calrissian, plays a character called Matthew Fox. Both actors play their parts but I don't see any personal connection to them. Are they old pals? Or do they just work together really well? As for the antagonist of the plot, making a thriller requires one who has no conscious, and Rutger Hauer shows that perfectly. Hauer plays an international terrorist named Wulfgar and once the viewer sees how he acts, they will understand how he has no remorse. Wulfgar is a real jerk and he will make the audience hope that he dies a painful death. Thankfully, he does but I won't say how...obviously.The execution of the story, I wasn't pleased with. I know it can take time to build tension but look at The Mean Season (1985), no more than twenty minutes into the film, tensions begin to rise. It took almost half the film before Fox and DaSilva FINALLY run into Wulfgar. What's happening before this? Wulfgar is bombing other places in Europe, while DaSilva and Fox are busy learning in a class that teaches them how to fight terrorists. Seriously, how much slower could this thriller go? Maybe if Wulgar somehow slipped into the police station and started making a ruckus, then that would create some nice tension. But director Bruce Malmuth felt that featuring what's happening on two opposite ends of the world can create tension. How does that make any sense? When the movie approaches its second half, the audience will finally get to see SOME interesting scenes. Some parts, I'll admit, I've never seen happen in other films before but there weren't too many. For example, at one point, there was a long chase scene and it seemed to go on forever. The last thing I really could not grasp was the background music. Keith Emerson provides the music to this film and it lacks a lot of importance. It sounded more like it belonged to action scenes from the Television series of The A-Team. Music is supposed to help create feelings and I didn't feel anything.Paul Sylbert's story doesn't seem to make an effective transition onto the big screen. A callous music record, and slow moving scenes can make this thriller not very thrilling at all. "},{"Title":"No Fun At All","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you're expecting a fun, 80's cheesy ride forget about it. Yes there are a few scenes that will make you laugh out loud and even a good chase that's well directed and very exciting. The problem is it stops there. This is one boring movie. There's no other way to say it. Stallone is dull, the characters are badly developed and in the end its just a dated, bland movie that's forgotten for a reason it's a failure. The first half of the movie consists of Stallone sitting in a class learning counter-terrorist tactics while Rutger Hauer blows things up. It drags and drags and when something finally happens (the chase) I just didn't care anymore. It's not your typical Stallone movie and this time that's not a good thing. A tedious little movie that doesn't deserve any attention. "}{"Title":"Bang-up Sly Stallone early 80's action thriller","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tough New York City cops Deke DaSilva (Sylvestor Stallone giving one of his best, most credible, and restrained performances) and Matthew Fox (a fine portrayal by Billy Dee Williams) are assigned to a special unit to stop shrewd and ruthless international terrorist Wolfgar (splendidly played with icy menace by Rutger Hauer). Director Bruce Malmuth, working from a tight and absorbing script by David Shaber, relates the gripping story at a constant brisk pace, builds and sustains a substantial amount of nerve-rattling tension, stages the exciting action set pieces with skill and flair (the ending in particular packs quite a fierce and rousing punch), maintains a hard, serious tone throughout, and makes expert use of the authentically gritty Big Apple locations. Moreover, Shaber's screenplay warrants extra praise for its uncannily prophetic pre-9/11 depiction of cunning and lethal terrorists who think outside the box and possess a terrifying willingness to do their awful misdeeds in a major metropolitan area. The sound acting from the tip-top cast rates as another major asset Stallone and Dee Williams display a convincing and engaging chemistry in the leads, Hauer impresses as a supremely chilling and cold-blooded villain, plus there are praiseworthy contributions from Lindsay Wagner as DaSilva's concerned girlfriend Irene, Persis Khambata as Wulfgar's loyal cohort Shakka Holland, Nigel Davenport as no-nonsense Interpol agent Peter Hartman, and Joe Spinell as DaSilva's huffy superior Lt. Munafo. Popping up in nifty bits are 70's porn legend Jamie Gillis as Irene's slimy boss and Catherine Mary Stewart as an ill-fated London department store employee. James A. Contner's slick cinematography gives the picture a sharp'n'glossy look. Keith Emerson's pulsating score further pumps up the ample suspense. One of Stallone's strongest and most underrated films. "},{"Title":"An fairly well-made suspenseful action/thriller.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In New York City, Two undercover police detectives Deke DaSilva (Sylvester Stallone) and Matthew Fox (Billy Dee Williams) have been hired by the British Counter-terrorist specialist Peter Hartman (Nigel Devanport) to help trap notorious terrorist for hired Heymar Wulfgar (Rutgar Hauer). Which Wulfgar explodes buildings for a living by killing several high-profile civilians. Peter believes Wulfgar's next target are Representatives from the United Nations. Wulfgar is also good at being at disguises and changing his looks as well. Wulgar isn't working along, since he has his associate Shakka (Persis Khambatta) helping him as well. Now Deke and Matthew do their best to find this terrorist, which they had a few close calls. But they don't realized that Wulfgar is extremely clever and he doesn't appear stupid as well. Nothing is predictable with this infamous terrorist.Directed by Bruce Malmuth (Hard to Kill) made an reasonably entertaining thriller with really good acting from Stallone and especially Hauer, who naturally steals the show. This was truly underrated, when it was first released in 1981. The film received good reviews but audiences didn't care at first and it was poorly marketed by Universal. Stallone claims there's was an better movie until Universal re-edited the movie, which it had more fleshed-out characterizations and including Stallone's ex-wife Irene (Played by Lindsay Wagner) in the feature. There's some good action sequences and the suspenseful scenes are genuine. Nighthawks has life somewhat popularity on video, especially when it is played on television. There's some really slow spots in the movie and the music score is really dated as well. But it shouldn't not stop you from enjoying. Nighthawks is a good underrated Stallone movie with a sharp performance by Hauer makes it worth viewing. Joe Spinell from the infamous Maniac fame appears in a bit role and a young Catherine Mary Stewart appears as a sales clerk. Also some viewers might get a few silly laughs seeing Stallone in drag in a few key sequences. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Hawk the slayers...","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone plays a fairly liberal cop who is promoted to a special unit in the police force to battle terrorists (Led by Rutger Hauer) Stallone at first seems in his element but when he learns that Hauer plays for keeps, it's time for even a liberal cop to become a killing machine. Billy Dee Williams lends good support as Stallone's partner. Nighthawks is surprisingly one of Stallone's more obscure efforts despite the fact that is easily one of Stallone's overall best movies. I think the reason it isn't remembered as well is that it got it's thunder stolen by First Blood (Which to be fair is equally as good as this) also the fact that this felt more like a 70's style policer instead of the new era of 80's action might've contributed to this factor. However one of the biggest shocks about Nighthawks is how much more suspenseful it is then truly action packed. Indeed the shootouts are all adequate and such but Malmuth uses a far more intense approach to the action and delivers more a police suspenser rather than a police styled actioner. All and all it works very well at what it sets out to do, and if there is any surprise is that Bruce Malmuth went on to direct mainly B.movies after this, including Hard To Kill (Which was fine) and Pentathlon (Which was awful) As it stands I have no reserve about saying that this is the highlight of Malmuth's career.* * * out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"Hauer is great in his first American film","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rutger Hauer, in his first American movie, plays Wulfgar, a terrorist with his eye on going international by coming to New York. It's up to the at first reluctant cop Deke Desilva (Sly Stallone) and his partner to bring him down. The film is interesting enough and Hauer makes a great contemptible villain. One of Stallone's non-franchise films. I put it right alongside Cobra in the enjoyment category. The ending, however, seems sadly edited a lot. However it's still a great film to watch with tight performances by pretty much all the major actors involved.My Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Stallone's best film away from the Rocky series","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Chillingly photographed action-thriller with a tight pace from director Bruce Malmuth (an 11th-hour substitute), featuring a solid cast headed by Sylvester Stallone in arguably his finest film away from the boxing ring. Tough New York cop Sly tracks down a mad bomber, played with relentless ruthlessness by Rutger Hauer. Film has a grim look and no frivolity, showing the audience little sympathy right up to the 'surprise' finish (which probably looks more obvious now than in 1981). Lindsay Wagner is lovely yet stuck in the proverbial (and thankless) love-interest role; otherwise the picture, though strictly formula, has a tough attitude and enough gritty style to make it worth-seeing for genre buffs. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Cliché Guevara","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The moment you start looking for plot holes and clichés in Bruce Malmuth's Nighthawks, you're done for. Yet, this cops and terrorists flick is just interesting enough to keep you watching. Rutger Hauer plays terrorist mastermind, Wulfgar (you know, the kind of mastermind who makes just enough mistakes to get killed off in the end) out to bring his brand of Communist chaos to America and Sly Stallone is the stone-faced and angry undercover cop who is assigned to find him (I'd be angry too if my career was a smoldering wreck; okay, that was a cheap shot).Malmuth keeps the movie plugging along with New York covered in a wet and grimy muck for atmosphere and Stallone (with Billy Dee Williams in for token black-guy partner support) chasing after Hauer, as the baddie knifes and shoots and blows up a fairly small portion of the Big Apple's population. The trouble with Stallone is that he is SUCH A PROFESSIONAL that he keeps missing Hauer. A British intelligence agent (Nigel Davenport) repeatedly yells at Stallone to start thinking like a killer and stop with the Police Academy crap! Ultimately, Stallone underacts, Williams resigns himself to be underused, Persis Khambatta (as Wulfgar's backup gal) understands that her boss is a liability to the International Union of Terrorists and Hauer gets to give a very spiritual send off to the poor shlubs he slaughters, You go to a better place. Oh, well. It's a way to blow up a hundred minutes. "},{"Title":"One of Stallone's better vechiles","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rutger Hauer plays a terrorist out to prove he's still competent by planning an attack on New York - where an undercover cop (Sylvestler Stallone)is waiting for him. There's a non-stop series of action set pieces, while Stallone's restrained performance make this one of his better star vehicles. "},{"Title":"Good movie but........","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie but it would of been nothing if it was not for Tim Marquart who plays the Central Park Mugger. Tim Marquart was excellent, I would watch this movie just to see him.Rating for Nighthawks  Six Thumbs UpRating for Tim Marquart  Ten Thumbs Up "},{"Title":"Old Classic.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Got hold of this movie after months of looking for it. After seeing it I realize that it's a neat, entertaining action movie, but in no ways comparable to the action flicks of the 90's. For movie collectors Yes, see it, but for all you other wanting the best of film-making, it is not a must see. "},{"Title":"Stallone and Lando....together at Last!","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, this is one of the few films of Stallone's which was Good, that no one saw. He and Williams are a solid pair of homicide detectives, they take on Rutger in one of his typically Christopher Walkenish type roles, though done to a turn here. I liked it a lot, I remember Sly(SPOILER ALERT!) in the dress at the end and still just shake my head at how big a surprise it was the first time out. There's the tramway scene and whatever else-i have always thought this one deserved better than it got.Plus who can forget Sly doing the Serpico beard bit?*** outta ****, quite good.  "}{"Title":"YO ADRIAN...I FINALLY STARRED IN A GOOD FILM SINCE ROCKY!hehhee","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of only a handful of SLY STALLONE films that is actually worth the watch!! Action yarn involving two NYC detectives (SLY, BILLY DEE WILLIAMS), who are on the trail of an international terrorist (RUTGER HAUER). While this plot has been tackled a million times before, it still made for an enjoyable film. Also look for a cameo by porn legend JAMIE GILLIS, as the apparel store owner/boss of LINDSEY WAGNER. As many of you may or may not be aware, SLY began his career in SOFTCORE ADULT FILMS. Thus having given his friend JAMIE a small role.  "},{"Title":"There is no security.","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I cannot imagine why Sylvester Stallone and Rutger Hauer (Blade Runner, Sin City, Batman Begins) have not been matched up more. No, I don't do games so I have not seen them in Rambo II, the video game. These two really played well off each other and did a credible job as the cop vs terrorist. They both kept you glued to the screen to see what would come next.Billy Dee Willams (Brian's Song, Star Wars V and VI) made a great lethal Weapon-type sidekick to Stallaone and Persis Khambatta (Star Trek The Motion Picture) is the terrorist partner that I definitely do not want to mess with.The ending is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Nighthawks","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Exciting shoot 'em up with Stallone and Williams as cops who try to nab terrorist Hauer, who is fantastic in his first American film. Wagner is here for good measure, I suppose. Great final scene with the tables turned on Hauer.  "},{"Title":"Stallone's worst movie.","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Trust me. If you thought Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot was bad; this is worse. I sometimes wonder if the people writing my TV listings mag' are on drugs. They've given this rubbish 3 ticks (out of 4) and described it as gripping and an excellent star vehicle. Truth is, it's plain awful. Rutger Hauer plays a freelance terrorist who murders an IRA contact in London and flees to the USA, offering his services to anyone who wants them. He's so dangerous that some English anti-terrorist expert assembles a team of New York cops trained to kill him. Hauer and Stallone (the hero) both put in good performances in spite of the rotten material and Joe Spinell (Willy Cici in Godfather 2) was excellent as Stallone's boss but the script is dreadful, the plot is even worse, and my DOG could have written the hideously dated music. For a start, NYPD officers are not and never have been assassins. The IRA never in all its history used freelance bombers. Hauer's character (the near-perfect terrorist) leaves an unlocked case full of weapons in a girlfriend's closet and kills her, leaving behind a map with his last target circled. Hauer knows intimate details about Stallone and his team. HOW? There is, literally, no plot development at all. The whole movie feels like a pilot for a kids adventure series which was (thankfully) never picked up. I'm giving Nighthawks 3 out of 10, but ONLY because Sylvester Stallone and Joe Spinell put so much enthusiasm into their roles. "},{"Title":"Utterly forgettable film","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Most films lose something when they're on TV, and this one certainly does. This movie is a completely neutral, run-of-the mill cops-after-mad-bomber movie. It's forgettable for a number of reasons the plot, the characters (who are in many movies playing the same exact characters), the situations, the usual conflict of what price for good etc. It also suffers from the same fate of Robocop II and Austin Powers II, in which the villain, Rutget Haur, is given much more screen time it seems than the hero himself. At least that's what it seemed to me, and Haur is his usual creepy evil self. All in all, a forgettable movie that for some reason I'm wasting my time reviewing. "},{"Title":"The Off Switch Was Never So On","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The film opened with quite possibly the worst theme music I have ever heard. If a tone deaf cat could play the fiddle it would still have come up with something better. The film titles sequence looks like it was written on cardboard. And then the film itself - how 80s can you get? Talk about dated. Looked like cheap porno filmed on Super 8!Still, Sly looks cute with his beard and Lindsay Wagner is in it so I give it a chance. That chance was up about ten minutes into the film with the drugs bust. Cartoon characters in a loft. Motherf dialogue. And Sly's accomplice in fear of losing it. Yawn! The off switch was never so on. "},{"Title":"It`s Not Meant To Be Serious","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Stallone`s best films which isn`t saying much I know , but still NIGHTHAWKS is an entertaining very dumb thriller . Absolutely nothing in this film is meant to be taken seriously least of all its portrayal of terrorism . Wulfgar is very obviously based on infamous playboy terrorist `Carlos the Jackal ` but you cant help laughing at Rutgar Hauer as he resembles a Swedish folk singer complete with guitar , or the fact he travels from Europe to NY with a couple of suitcases containing guns and grenades , or laugh at the scene where Da Silva recognises Wulfgar by looking at the artists impression - which in no way resembles Wulfgar . Come on this is a deliberately dumb movie which is a million times more enjoyable than serious films like THE DEVIL`S OWN that deal with terrorism  "}]