[{"Title":"Brilliant and Brutal","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps the most brutal filmic portrait of youth ever made; Charles Dickens meets Hieronymous Bosch in this tale of a group of boys struggling to survive in the reformatories and mean streets of Brazil as the cycle of prey transformed into predators is documented.The saddest detail is to realize that this film, made almost twenty five years ago, documents a world that in terms of its poverty and depravity, has apparently changed very little.  A brutal reality captured here but with some of the most layered acting I've ever seen in the history of film by a group of amateurs picked from the streets of Sao Paulo with no previous experience.  Not one or two good performances, the entire cast is quite simply remarkable, and even sadder is the fact that most of them have probably now been swallowed by the street life they portrayed.Not as sophisticated a vision as Bunuel's 'Los Olvidados' or as sensational as Clarke's 'Kids,' but in this genre of 'children growing up in the streets' it is easily the most emotionally powerful film of them all. "},{"Title":"Horror","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Pixote A Lei do Mais Fraco deals with what is perhaps the greatest of all Brazilian themes poverty. And along with poverty the other unnatural feelings and actions it brings; prostitution, violence, crime, rape and murder.Brazil is the country of paradoxes, and its social problems are present everywhere. The difference between the rich and the poor; the beautiful and the ugly; happiness and the most profound human decay.Pixote is one of the films that dare to touch and open these so painful wounds, and does it without the slightest glimmer of hope, in an honest portrayal of a country that, like Pixote himself, is already lost. "},{"Title":"emotionally devastating Brazilian film","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pixote concerns the (mis)adventures of the eponymous hero, a pre-adolescent boy in urban Brazil, abandoned by his parents, who first endures the horrors of a youth prison, and then those of life on the street. Filmed in a quasi-documentary style with real street kids instead of professional actors (for the most part), Pixote will leave the viewer utterly devastated at the end of its 2+ hours.  It is particulary effective when it develops other characters as they are seen by Pixote, especially those of the streetwise transvestite homosexual Lilica and the aging alcoholic prostitute Sueli (unforgettably portrayed by Marilia Pera, one of the few pro actors in the cast), who become surrogate parents to the young boy in a kind of improvised family whose economy is based on mugging Sueli's clients.  Both the tragic denoument (which comes at the end of a film in which tragedy follows tragedy, ad infinitum), and the final shot of Pixote playing alone on the railroad tracks with haunting accompanying music on the soundtrack, are unbearably poignant.  A masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The violent death of Fernando Ramos Da Silva only eight years after the completion of this film, only adds to the poignancy of dierector BAbenco's powerful message. The film is split into two halves - the first in a reformatory where a group of youngsters are abused and violated by the violent law enforcers and guardians. The second backdrop is the city where they are confined instead by their own actions and morality, which includes mugging, pimping and killing different characters who enter their lives.The differing gender and sexual roles in the film allow for constant changes in the characters as they interact with other people. Particularly interesting is teh character of Lalica, a transvestite who is mother and lover to some of the children. Her reaction to the arrival of Sueli, a prostitute is both poignant and tragic. There is no happy ending to this story and i reccomend to watch it with caution as there are some very uncomfortable scenes to watch especially in teh opening twenty minutes. But whilst watching it, it is important to remember that this is not just a fictional tale. The actors are not trained professionals but instead boys selected from the streetsof Sao Paulo. They actually lived this life that is portrayed so vividly on screen and in da Silva's case, died at the hands of the police who are depicted so brutally. A documentary? A piece of fiction. It borders on both but it certainly makes for heart wrenching material and is a film that actually leaves you breathless and thinking long after having watched it.10/10   "},{"Title":"Not for the faint hearted","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Pixote over 20 years ago, and the thing that I always think about the movie is how, when I was first watching it, my friend who was also watching it nudged me and whispered His face...look at his face, referring to Fernando Ramos De Silva.  His face is growing harder, and older, and angry...how do you ACT that?  It's true watch the movie and you'll notice that the face of Pixote becomes visibly more and more changed over time due to the life that he lives.  The see-saw of the adult means of which he's forced by circumstance to live his life and the reality of being a boy, a little boy alone, looking not only to survive but to gain at least a small semblance of childhood that is pretty much a lost cause.  I think the most heart-rending scene is when he nurses at the breast of the prostitute - not for sex, but because of his need to have a mother, to be only a baby nursing at his mother's breast.  You see that, and you also see that the prostitute recognizes his suckling for what it is, and for a moment she accepts this, and encourages this, until she remembers who she is, and that she is not about to undertake raising a child.  She then stops his nursing and sends him away.And that's just one moment out of so many in this movie.  This is a film that, without being in the least exploitive, nonetheless throws doors open wide to let the viewer see exactly what exists on the streets of Brazil (reminding us that if it exists there, the chances are pretty good that the same sort of thing exists elsewhere).  It doesn't show us anything but the truth.  There's no need for embellishment - the actuality is sobering enough.  It's a hard movie to watch.  I haven't watched it since I've had children of my own - truthfully, I've been kind of afraid to.  I will again, though.  This movie is too, too good to see only once, even if once is all you think that you can stand.  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is no walk in the park. I saw this when it came out, and haven't had the guts to watch it again. You will never see a more horrifyingly devastating or depressing movie. I felt like I'd been severely beaten. What kind of world are we living in when we have children who are treated worse than garbage? This is our world, what we have created, what we have allowed to happen. And I would hesitate to say that I-ME-WE are not responsible for this. Babenco made this film to wake us up, to shake us to our very core, and he succeeded. How can we be cruel, or self-indulgent, or neglectful of our children, when we see the graphic results of such behavior? He is pointing a finger of accusation at us all for doing this to the lowliest and least powerful of our society. And if you aren't doing something each day to prevent it, then you are part of the problem. I am NOT a religious fanatic, but this movie made me think about the state of my soul. "},{"Title":"If this doesn't get to you, you must be made of stone.","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a difficult movie to watch, and would have been even more difficult had I known then that the actor playing the protagonist was in fact killed in his home by police at age 19. Pixote (PeeWee) is a street kid in Sao Paulo who is caught in a roundup triggered by a murder in which he had no involvement. He is committed to a juvenile prison where he witnesses brutality and exploitation that ordinary citizens try very hard to believe doesn't exist. When finally he escapes, he and three comrades survive by the only means they know, which is crime. What makes the film so heart-rending is that both Pixote and the actor portraying him clearly do not wish to be the characters life circumstances have made them. Pixote tries to trust and to love and to bond, but there simply is no room in his world for the gentle side of human nature. One is left at the end wanting desperately to do something for the Pixotes of the world, but what? Building more children's's prisons with higher walls surely is not the answer... "},{"Title":"either you deal or you'll get dealt","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pixote is probably the most powerful film I have ever seen.  An aspect so rarely attained in most films is the gritty reality that Babenco exposes with paramount ability and care. It truly will stay with you forever--you will be touched in such a deep way no matter who you are, no matter where you're from, no matter what movie genre you favor.Considering that Da Silva's own life was one of the streets, leading to an early death at nineteen, when he was killed by corrupt cops in a drug raid, the film becomes all the more disturbing when we realize that Da Silva truly is Pixote in a circle of life imitating art imitating life.With no reliable source of aide, these street kids are forced to exist at a most extreme disadvantage.  The brutal truth in this film may be difficult to digest, but we can't turn a blind eye.  Ultimately, words aren't strong enough to do this film justice, you'll have to experience it yourself. "},{"Title":"Horrifying but fascinating","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The film opens with the director talking to the camera and saying he is going to show a story about Brazilain street kids whose families live in poverty and must steal and kill to survive. In fact the main character (Pixote) was played by an actual street kid only 11 years old. What follows was one of the most brutal, depressing and horrifying film I've even seen. I saw it about 17 years ago (on a double bill with Black Orpheus) and have never forgotten it. I don't think I ever want to see it again--it was just too much. SPOILER AHEAD!!!! The scene which will not leave me is when Pixote meets a prostitute who has to abort her own fetus. You don't see her do it...but you get a quick glance at what she got out. It's almost 20 years later and just recalling that scene upsets me. SPOILER END!!!!!The movie gets more brutal as it goes along and ends the only way it can. What's all the more harrowing is stories like this really did happen in Brazil in 1981...and are STILL happening today.A harrowing brutal film...but it should be seen if you can handle it. I'm surprised this got an R rating--I've seen X rated film that are less graphic. A 10. "},{"Title":"...emotionally devastating...","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pixote is the one of most powerful, shocking, and moving motion picture to come from Brazil. It's about the lives of street kids on the streets of Sao Paulo and Rio De Janeiro, and it centers around a ten-year-old boy.  The camera follows them around in an almost documentary style;from the juvenile detention center (where most of the staff is as corrupt as the police) and back to the streets, and it never turns away from the horrors of the city. Prostitution, drug use/dealing, corruption, and murder are all witnessed by these youths; yet it's something they're painfully used to.  Director Hector Babenco used real street kids as the actors, adding to the films brutal reality.  Although not for everyone, a film I highly recommend.  An emotionally devastating movie. "}{"Title":"turn left","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Amazing, controversial, and painful are some essential adjectives to allocate this important piece of art, that depicts the searing and factual adolescence of the marginalized children; i.e. victims of our global village.Pixote prepubescent, with the unflinching stare of the innocent-all-knowing, left an impression of raw truth in finding credence to the old African saying, It takes a village to raise a child. The awful reality, though, that director Hector Babenco visualized is that Brazil, with it's confusing, twisted, and socio-economic disparity, is the cause of this robbed innocence. In desperation, we see these children in search of nurturing and love, but only permitted leftovers of what society has tossed aside. Institutionalized rape, prostitution, drug dealing, and murder are the only voice they have in order to be nurtured, be loved, and have power. The only thing that Brazil has to offer these lost children are predators; repeating the cycle of hopelessness. Brazil, as a nation is an unworthy parent.In retrospect, I believe the film Pixote is a parable on the world governments turning a blind eye to the hunger pains of the destitute and impoverished victims of an ever-expanding economy; and the force of irresponsible globalization is leaving blood soaked tear trails of destruction through the interconnected avenues of the world. We see through the symbolism of a child that the inequality or disparity in society has a snowball effect causing cannibalism within ourselves. "},{"Title":"Difficult film, but one of the greatest","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Pixote' is a hard watch - even by todays standards and desensitization culture it comes across as shocking. It's brutal, yes, but this is not a violent film. Perhaps the shock arises from the realization that stories like Pixote's are happening around the world every day, as sometimes the most horrific scenarios are uncovered by simply turning the cameras on ourselves. The plot loosely revolves around a child, Pixote, who fights to survive in the Favelas (I'm hesitant to use the term 'fight to survive' because of the pitying imagery it conjures, however, it fits - we've never seen a child fight as hard as Pixote) and through him we are given a glimpse into a world that thankfully few of us see; crime, drugs, prostitution, police brutality and murder are just a few of the iniquities that Pixote is forced to reckon with each day. Not since maybe Elem Klimov's Come and See has a young protagonist been exposed to so much tragedy. It is the only world he knows and he takes it on with a look that implies detachment and wisdom beyond any adult in the film. Shot with minimal crew in a raw, documentary style, 'Pixote' throbs with a vibrant seediness (the only way I can describe it), and contains some of the bravest performances ever put to film. Now - if only it were made available for people to see. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Following the robbery homicide of a Brazilian judge by a street gang, the authorities make a sweep of the local street kids in the area and intern them in a young offender's institution. The film is in part a social issue film where the way the children are treated by the system is condemned and in part a story about a young lad who grows old far too soon. The social issue, although maybe broadly relevant, is hardly au courant some three decades after the film was made, however I didn't feel like this detracted much from the film due to the excellent characterisations and strong story line. It's also not limited by the generics of the prison movie as a lot of the action takes place outside the prison walls.The main character, an extremely small boy, Pixote (pronounced Pichote), is especially winsome and actually played by a real life delinquent who was subsequently shot by police in a shoot-out. He has developed a firmness of independent judgement and level of character that you generally only find in people well into adulthood, something that he's had to do to survive. It's painfully clear at some points though that he is just a skinny little boy that needs his mother.There is charisma to spare in the acting performances, including a youngster who does an extremely catchy homage to Roberto Carlos (the great Brazilian singer as opposed to football player) for the prison gig, and appears destined for stardom if he can stay alive.The kids are in peril because the police are beating them to death in order to find out who killed the judge, whilst the incompetent prison authorities turn a blind eye and fall into a state of apathy concerning the well-being of their wards (see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil).Babenco appears fascinated by prison culture and in both this film and his return to the genre with Carandiru (2003) he uses nakedness to remind us of the fundamental vulnerability of the human captives in his film. In the poster for Carandiru you can see the survivors of a prison riot lying naked in a yard, stripped of their clothes (in which they could conceal weapons), in Pixote a hole packed with naked children. Beaten, unclothed and helpless it's quite easy to connect with the camouflage of swagger and defiance that they need to survive is taken away. Fundamentally a human is a fragile creature that hurts and most of their persona is just a coping strategy.There's a dream-like feel to a lot of the film, which is often brazenly erotic (the transvestite Lilica dancing in front of a crowd whilst having her under carriage rubbed by an onlooker's raised foot), and anarchical. It's not easy to label the film as nightmarish because some of the experiences, even when negative, are extremely rich, and the friendships heartfelt.A classic faux pas of many non-Anglo movies is that whenever whites appear, they are cardboard cutouts, but here the old American john is as well-realised and succinctly characterised as he could be.Favourite scenes of mine include the post-glue-sniffing fascination of Pixote, and the half-lit dormitory riot which is truly mad. "},{"Title":"Pixote - The real story","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm originally from Brazil... the sad thing about this movie was the exploitation that was done to that boy. They told his life story and he never got one centavo (Brazilian cent) of that movie. Fernando is not the first and will not be the last to go through that life style in Brazil. Sad... but that is the world we live in. It's about making money not saving lives. Question is Where is Fernando today? Most probably... dead. We tend to want to live in this Disney filled fantasy bubbled life. When someone comes up to the plate to help... along comes the higher power and says What do I get from this? Where's my cut? - I wish people's conscience would speak up! "},{"Title":"Unflinching, powerful examination of a child's life in the favela.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At the time of Pixote's production in 1980-1981, over half of the cast of City Of God wasn't even an idea or even a twinkle in their father's eyes. Over two decades before the release of Fernando Meirelles' ultra-violent crime saga depicting feral youth growing up too fast in Rio, Pixote A Lei do Mais Fraco set the bar as high as Christ the Redeemer overlooks the city in terms of capturing an accurate reality of the brutal favela life. This hyper-realist, Oliver Twist-by-way-of-Larry Clark account of wayward Brazilian youth still by today's standards provides stark, grim and shocking imagery. Regardless of the generational gap, what truly separates Pixote from City of God is that it didn't need to use highly stylized violence to compel the viewer. It relied more on the realism and hopelessness of the characters, the blunt sexuality, and a much more punctual yet effective treatment on street violence and state power. In the beginning of the film, (and not every version may feature this) director Hector Babenco (who went on to direct some mainstream American films such as Kiss of The Spider Woman and Ironweed) makes a brief fourth wall breaking announcement of his intentions to depict the daily life of a child in the urban landscape of Sao Paolo. Within this prologue, he reveals the lead protagonist, Fernando Ramos da Silva as himself in his natural habitat.As the child on child violence in City of God seems sensational, when one of these children in Pixote does commit a heinous act, you see the innocence being chipped away frame by frame. Unlike the murderous, maniacal Lil Ze from Ciudad de Deus - who seems to attribute his penchant for crime to something inexplicably innate and evil inside him - Pixote and his cohorts start off as confused, troubled innocent kids who escape their prison-like orphanage and enter the crime world out of survival. In other words, Pixote strives to capture the root causes of youth delinquency, and puts it into a much more constructive context. As far as structure, Pixote is very much like Full Metal Jacket (although it came out five years before, I'm aware). It's split into two parts. The first is the children's experiences in a youth detention center, where they witness and unsuccessfully dodge sexual assault and corruption. This first act could serve as the basic training, complete with the vulnerabilities, the bonding and the resistance soon to follow as seen in Full Metal Jacket. Once a brave select group manages to escape after one of their fellow boarders mysteriously disappears, the four adolescents flee to Rio De Janeiro. Act two is the struggle and eventual dissolution of the four youngsters as they experience complications from drug trafficking, pickpocketing and prostitution in Rio, which offers some beautiful and gritty establishing shots of the city at night. These sequences are parallel to the urban warfare, sniper-dodging chaotic second act of Full Metal Jacket. There is one particular moving scene on the beach when the youngsters share their aspirations within their delusions of freedom and future success. It's just so inspiring yet depressing to see how much hope these kids still have after everything they have gone through. And their situations only gets worse. What makes Pixote even more ahead of its time is how it treats the theme of sexual identity so sensitively. In an incredibly powerful performance, Jorge Juliao, who portrays the gender dysphoric Lilica provides depth to the character. Lilica takes on a maternal role towards Pixote, as she is several years elder than the titular protagonist. This film demonstrates the ability of humans to overcome their differences in the name of survival and trust. There is genuinely a familial bond between the characters, but their dynamics are not restricted. In a time and place where LGBT representations in media would have been taboo, Lilica brings about a character that is far more multi-dimensional than anything US cinema has attempted to do up to that point. Juliao manages to balance the nurturing with the self destructive aspects of her character without slipping into the hysterical gay stereotype. Last but not least, the second half also displays the development of the runaways' relationship with Sueli, an aging yet destructively young at heart sex worker, brilliantly portrayed by Marilia Pera. The climax unravels as these kids move in with Sueli. They take on a pimp role and subsequently use her to bait clients that they can rob. As criminal amateurs, they must deal with their own priorities and their complex emotions come into play as they each search for a role within Sueli that she may not be able to provide for them due to her own insecurities. While it is certainly fair to debate if this is art or exploitation, in short, we could conclude that Pixote A Lei do Mais Fraco, is provocative and disturbing but necessary and politically resonant. When Larry Clark's Kids was released in 1995, it was critically summed up by Janet Maslin as a wake up call to the modern world. Well if Kids was a wake-up call, then Pixote was the equivalent of your car alarm going off in the middle of the night...and it's parked a block away. "},{"Title":"Brazilian director Hector Babenco shows why it is difficult to change the fate of homeless children in his country.","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The military use of children as soldiers continues to disturb all peace loving people as a wrong message is sent by making them go to war. However, a different kind of war is continually being waged in Brazil which is considered to be one of the most dangerous places in the world. It concerns the involvement of young, homeless children in various senseless acts of violence. This contemporary topic has been deftly handled by famous Brazilian director Hector Babenco in his film Pixote, the law of the weakest which is brutal yet an honest film about the vicious circle of violence whose victims happen to be children who have all been rejected by their families. Holding family members responsible for the plight of their children, Hector Babenco shows how poor children are forced to choose a criminal career path as they have been abandoned by their family members. Although Pixote was made in 1981, it has not aged a bit due to its status as a work of reference documenting the plight of homeless Brazilian children. Some scenes and situations might shock sensitive viewers but Pixote doesn't fail to deliver home the message that life is stranger and harsher than filmed images as this film's protagonist Fernando Ramos da Silva was killed in 1987. His death was the result of police brutality, an action which continues to give bad press to Brazil. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but brilliant film","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Pixote - A Lei do Mais Fraco' was made in 1981 but the subject matter is just as relevant today. 'Pixote...' (pronounced peeshot) is very well known in Brazil but unfortunately less known elsewhere. I had heard of the film some time ago but when I finally saw it I was overwhelmed.The film is directed by Hector Babenco, probably best known to English speaking audiences for 'Kiss of the Spider Woman' which was far from his best work (i.e this). The subtitle of the film literally means 'the law of the weakest' and here Babenco presents us with a harrowing and all too realistic portrayal of the life of a Brazilian street child. Pixote (Fernando Ramos Da Silva) is a 10 year old boy who is taken from the streets of Sao Paulo by the police along with a group of other boys. A judge has been murdered and the street children are always picked up as suspects. However, Brazilian law states that nobody under 18 can be tried as an adult so those accused are simply thrown into reformatories as punishment without trial.The hell that is the reformatory forces Pixote to become tougher just to survive. On his first night he witnesses the rape of another boy. His hair is shaved off and he smokes dope for solace with his friend Fumaca. In the reformatory the boys watch violent TV shows and act out planned robberies. Another boy, the homosexual Lilica, is accused of the judge's murder but refuses to admit to a crime he did not commit. A group of the boys are forced to attend a staged identification parade and Fumaca is accused of the murder. Fumaca is returned to the dormitory later having been so badly beaten that he dies of his injuries. His body is dumped on a rubbish tip. The police then blame Fumaca's murder on another boy who is also beaten to death. This boy was Lilica's lover and in his despair and anger Lilica leads a rebellion and the dormitory is set on fire. Lilica is then accused of his lover's murder and attempts to kill himself by cutting his wrists.Lilica, Pixote and two other boys, Dito and Chico, then escape from the reformatory and return to the streets and to petty crime. They soon become involved in selling cocaine. Lilica and Dito fall in love. The group then take the train to Rio to visit drug dealer Debora who double crosses them and refuses to pay what they are owed. Pixote and Chico later meet Debora by chance and in the resulting fracas Chico is killed and Pixote fatally stabs Debora. The 3 remaining boys then meet up with a prostitute called Sueli and pimp for her so that they can then rob her customers. Dito and Sueli grow close and Pixote treats Sueli as a mother figure. Lilica becomes jealous and leaves. In a clumsily bungled robbery attempt Pixote murders one of Sueli's customers.The film is more about the relationships between the boys and the suffering they go through than it is about crime and violence. However, Babenco does not spare his audience any of the grim reality of their lives. Nothing is glamorised. The drugs scenes and violence are very real. The boys are not portrayed as heroes, just sad survivors. Pixote is not bad , just someone trying to survive through daily doses of death and horror. The police are corrupt and evil. The drug dealers and prostitutes are deceitful and vicious. Ultimately though, what makes this film truly great is Babenco's gritty direction. There's no fancy camera angles or atmospheric music. Everything is left to the actors who are filmed in a chilling matter-of-fact style which makes you feel almost as if you were there watching the horror of the boys lives first hand.The acting is astounding, particularly when you consider that many of the cast had no previous acting experience. All of the child actors in Pixote are from Brazil's streets, coaxed into the film by Babenco in order to call attention to their living conditions. Jorge Juliao as Lilica is excellent and plays the part with a sensitivity that makes it clear that he just wants to be loved no matter how he does it. And as for Fernando Ramos Da Silva as Pixote, with his sad eyed, distant resilience, you could not expect more from a child actor playing such a demanding and gruelling part. You feel that Da Silva actually 'is' Pixote and he may well have been. What makes Da Silva's portrayal of Pixote even more poignant to me is that after completing the film he went on to sink back into poverty and crime, and at age 19 was shot dead by police who claimed he was involved in a robbery. His life became the subject of the 1996 film 'Who Killed Pixote?', which showed that despite the outcry created by Pixote, Brazil had done little to alleviate the conditions portrayed.In summary, this film is a magnificent and moving study of the dark and dangerous lives of Brazil's street children. However, if you are easily upset or shocked then give it a miss. There are painfully realistic portrayals of violence and drug abuse. There are also scenes of a strong sexual nature. But to me what was hardest to stomach was the suffering and abuse that these children endured. Nobody deserves this sort of life. Furthermore, I know that this really goes on in Brazil (and to be fair, probably many other countries) and that is one of the sadnesses of this otherwise beautiful country. Still, this film is not really about Brazil. It is about poverty, resilience, desperation, the search for love, and man's inhumanity to man (or in this case child).I cannot recommend this film highly enough - but be prepared for an uncomfortable ride and don't let the kids watch. "},{"Title":"A tremendously powerful look at the life of a street child in Brazil","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A deeply disturbing and heartbreaking neo-realist film, about an abandoned, unwanted 10 year old living first in a reformatory, and then on Brazil's mean streets. The performances Babenco gets from his non-professional cast are amazing, especially his tiny young lead. The film almost totally avoids the twin traps of false sentimentality (although it's got plenty of emotion), or needless flashiness. It occasionally feels aimless, but somehow, in the end, it always adds up. Probably the weakest, most problematic moment is the opening, where the 'director' (Babenco, or an actor?) tells us that these actors are real people, gives us some facts and figures about them, and tells that their lives are much like those shown in the film. It then took me the next few minutes to forget about that, and get involved with the characters, and not get all caught up in pondering the artistic complexities of 'real people' playing a dramatic variation on their lives. The film doesn't need that kind of blunt framing device.So perhaps I don't consider this terrific, important film a 'perfect' masterpiece as so many do - but I deeply admire it and respect it, would encourage everyone to see it (though you doubtless find the experience upsetting) and look forward to seeing it a third time. You will never be able to look at a poor kid on the street quite the same way again. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Disturbing","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've been studying Brazilian cinema since 2004, when I stumbled onto Cidade de Deus / City of God. Let me tell you something, this movie is probably as good or BETTER than City of God.The acting, cinematography and music supervision make this movie a unique experience. I have not been to Brazil yet, but this movie presents the harsh reality that is beset before the citizens of São Paulo.I recommend this movie if you enjoy good cinema. This movie is disturbing and you may feel a bit despondent after watching it.Something you want to watch, but nothing you want to go to sleep on. "},{"Title":"Horrific...but real.","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was really a nightmare of a film; i saw it about nine years ago on cable TV and haven't forgotten it since. Pixote is a 10-year old boy who lives in the streets of Sao Paulo (Brazil) and leads a criminal life in the company of his teenage friends Lilica, Dito and Chico; they steal, pimp, sell drugs and murder in order to survive each day...In the first half of the film Pixote is caught by the police and sent to a sadistic foster home where he witnesses every kind of abuse from the older inmates and guards to the rest of the kids; one night, Lilica's boyfriend is killed after a beating, so Pixote and his friends decide to escape during a riot. The rest of the film shows Pixote's descent into a criminal life; he doesn't show any feelings or remorse after killing someone, maybe because he knows that good feelings are of no use in the world in which he lives...But there is, however, a gentle scene in the middle of the film; Pixote and his friends are at the beach, missing (and wishing) one of his friends from the reformatory was there. I thought it was a poetic and melancholy scene in the middle of all these horrible events...the boys are obviously longing not only for their friend, but for a better life. Director Hector Babenco's Pixote is a brave and depressing film that doesn't shy away from showing the harshest reality many people -including myself- tend to ignore or misunderstand. This film will probably open your eyes and make you a better and compassionate person. "}{"Title":"subtle, yet immensely effective","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pixote was a surprise. Combining straightforward humor and intense drama with superb visual impression, the film lures the viewer in and holds him in its grasp till the end. The most remarkable aspect of this gripping movie is the sheer strength of its plot. Pixiote, a young delinquent in Sau Paulo, Brazil, is tossed about through an adolescence supported by the turmoils of animalism. Deprecating humanity and urbanity with its stunning imagery of the sordid existence of a juvenile sentenced to a life in the underworld. Deprived of a childhood and desperately in need of a sense of stability, Pixote is forced to adopt the mentality of a fugitive in this horrifying tale of twisted virtue. Technically, the film excels, with immaculately structured close-ups and long, drained-out shots providing insightful glimpses into the enigmatic characters. Pixote is not only complex and thought-provoking, it presents a curiously simple glance into a psyche bereft of innocence. . . taking the borders of sanity and truth to a level almost beyond comprehension, Pixote delivers subtly, yet uncomfortably close. "},{"Title":"RIP Fernando Ramos da Silva, and anyone else in the film gone","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Pixote is directed with barely a shred of sentimentality. And yet I more than imagine Hector Babenco owes some of his film-making chops with this film to Vittorio De Sica's neo-realist style, in particular Shoeshine (that film, as with Pixote, takes place mostly inside a children's prison). And yet while I might still prefer De Sica's film if it came down to deciding between the two it's so close because it is, no pun intended, like choosing between two children. They're both marvelous works of raw drama, and with Pixote Babenco has an extra edge and harrowing quality to deal with in that this isn't filmed in conditions brought on after a world war. This is how it was in Brazil- one would see it with slightly more flair and awe in City of God, perhaps in some of the same locations- and these children were on the streets before and after the film was made. Some aren't alive some 20+ years later, for all anyone knows.The star, pre-teen street kid Fernando Ramos da Silva, plays the title character, a youth without a father or really any family who will look out for him, and placed among dozens of other street kids and delinquents in a reformatory for boys. The conditions couldn't be much worse, and are made even more unbearable as two children are killed one after the other by some cause of the guard duty. There's a riot, and an escape, and halfway through the film we find Pixote with a few other youths, including Lilica a practical transvestite not even 18, and they become pickpockets, drug dealers, whatever to get by. None of this, I should repeat, is shown with a kind of ham-fisted earnestness- certainly you would never in a million years see Ron Howard or Paul Haggis direct this kind of picture- and yet there's an emotional honesty to everything exactly because nothing is trivialized.Nearly every scene is significant to showing how fragile life is for Pixote, and how he could be killed or die some way at any turn, and so without even reaching puberty yet he has to be on the level of those around him who are a little older (though not by much at all) and become things that will haunt this person forever. Despite Babenco's usage of a tender and mournful musical score and one or two scenes with people crying a lot, nothing feels forced. As with De Sica, maybe more-so given the consistent conditions of San Paolo and Rio street kids, he's a natural director of children, and coax's out of Ramos da Silva and Jorge Julião and others some really fine work that provides just the right touches of cinematic drama (that is not so real that it becomes documentary, which isn't a bad thing per-say) and even subtlety in some scenes.Pixote may not be as well known as it's later 21st century Brazilian films that look back on the horrors of Rio, or even neo-realist films, but it should be. Anyone wanting to get a good, hard glimpse at what it was like should seek it out at a library or other and soak in what is the best foreign film of 1981. "},{"Title":"Top 10 Latin American films ever!!!!!","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Trust the excellent and accurate Junagadh75 review! This film is compelling and moving in that roughest, most brutally beautiful film-masterpiece way. File under UNFORGETTABLE STRONG MEAT. Or FILMS THAT HOWL AT THE MOON. Pixote gets into your nervous system and elevates you despite the pain on the screen. Here's an unrelated list of films that did the same thing for me, i.e. engaged, destroyed, transformed,inspired, resonated... this category transcends nerdy film top ten lists that seek film perfection. A Woman Under the Influence , Wiseblood, Wages of Fear Saint Jack Funny Bones Out of the Blue. "},{"Title":"A great raw movie","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably the best movie from director Hector Babenco. It shows a Brazilian reality unknown by foreigners, which is the same reality that haunts all of the Latin American countries, poverty and a survival instinct. The most affected in this reality is the children usually left orphans, or abandoned by their poor parents have to make it in a dog eat dog society many times falling into the gap of delinquency, prostitution and crime. Very well acted and with a no frills approach, this movie will get to you, Great story plot, a must have movie on anybody's collection. The starring role went to Fernando Ramos da Silva, a young boy who fell into the crime wave, killed some years later during a robbery. I would suggest people to watch the movie Who killed Pixote? so you can have a more in depth idea of the lives of these characters. Some other Characters from the movie had a similar fate, some died and others are in jail. None the less this movie will last for a long time in your memory "},{"Title":"Tough ghetto life in Brazil perfectly recorded -- totally devastating.","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Pixote is a little boy left abandoned on the streets and has to live a life of pimping, thieving and worse.Cinema has many roles to play, including providing the population with general entertainment. Occasionally it shines light in to areas that some people would rather not have light shone. This is not only a totally engrossing film, but it is all very very true.With such ammunition any film maker with an ounce of talent could make an interesting film. Indeed this plays more like a documentary than a film, involving non professionals. Quite why it should be celebrated in Brazil is hard to say, given that it portrays its own country in such a poor light.Like Shindler's List, the subject itself might well overwhelm many viewers. Strangely I was not as moved as others nearby, maybe because I have seen first hand bullies, criminals and low life's - you might be upset by what you see, but can't be punched in the mouth by a film!The setting doesn't really matter - people that slip between the cracks of society are always treated badly. Millions of children don't have a childhood, some don't go on to have an adulthood (Fernando Ramos Da Silva - the star of this film - was himself murdered at 19), so I am glad that we have this movie as a testament to these forgotten people. Not a film you can really enjoy, but a film you really should see. "},{"Title":"liked it, was disturbed too","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Film about the failure of government and the selfishness of adults. Overwhelming impossibility of dealing with life and the means the children go to to try to achieve living.  Only living.  Staying alive in a cruel world.  A nightmare world, we are afraid to watch it because we are seeing truth and are afraid to see it.  To see a world of despair when we are all so comfortable in our own lives and even complaining about what we have not got when it is so trivial compared to someone else.  They, the children of the movie, are desensitized.  They are more than desensitized by what is around them.  They see sex as an act, like they are watching a tv program. When the one boy is with the hooker, Pixote is sitting on the bed watching with a blank stare, no feeling.  He wants to be a little boy and have a family but the hooker has no compassion either and pushes him away.  A human film, with human relations and moral judgement in a ugly, scared, cruel world.  Reminds us that life is not fair, but you can still have a human connection. "},{"Title":"Neo Neorealism","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Is it enough that a film seem real?That's the pitch here, and in so many films. This one even starts with the filmmaker speaking to us before the film proper, telling us about the horrible situation and literally showing us the lead child actor in his regular life of squalor. We know also from the publicity that the other children are real, though presumably all of the adults are actors. This film is set up to impress on this score. The situations are brutal and fully believable. The kids are effective. The scenes seem genuine.But its just bad film, bad drama, bad storytelling except for two bits &#151; unless you count the value of realism. That's because it has no narrative structure. Yes, we see the child harden, and why, but is that enough? Not for me. It takes more than the real to make a story, I think.I will recommend two scenes to you. They both feature Marília Pêra, who we saw as effective in Central Station. She plays a prostitute who enlists the children to mug her johns. One scene has her after a successful heist in the woods with the children, seducing the oldest, who we know is in a relationship with one of the boys. This scene works amazingly well, lighted by the headlights of the stolen car, animated by her dancing body. The words tell us that she was a sexy go-go dancer who was fired, but the motions tell us that and so much more. Later, when they get back to her place and we see the two making love with the other children watching on the bed, she captures another mark. Wheels turn and tragedy strikes, setting up the penultimate scene which may be one of the most memorable in cinema.People are dead, and the whore and child are left on the bed. Her legs are askew displaying her crotch to us and the child. They are reaching to each other, he simply staring and she filling the room with loneliness. The camera focus changes from his blank face to her vagina, which we have seen her use seductively before &#151; in fact in every case. She approaches the boy.He in turn is drawn to her breast which he cuddles to and suckles which she accepts. But over a few moments you can see her confusion breaking her. A life of sexual twisting is visited on that contact and she breaks. The camera decides to show the boy, now lost in the last scene that follows. But it is the woman whose loss we know.These two scenes demonstrate how much greater reality a talented actress can give us, more surely than the real thing.See it for those two scenes.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Based on the book by the same name","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I was living in Brazil, the first book I read in Portuguese was Pixote infancia dos mortos, which was the first and most famous novel written by Jose Louzeiro in 1977. When I discovered there was a movie, I had to see it. It's been about 5 years since I read the book and I may have misunderstood many things since my Portuguese is not fluent, but I believe that the story in the movie is not at all the same story in the book. The names of the characters are all the same and some of the events are similar. In the book, the story primarily focuses on the kids' lives engaged in crime around the city selling drugs for Crystal. In contrast to the movie, in the book they spend very little time in the boys reformatory, Fumaca is with them throughout much of the book, and in the end the boys get major revenge on the police. The book and the film are equally disturbing portrayals of Brazil's street children. I'm not sure if the book is available in English.  "},{"Title":"Hardened, but sad","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" To speak relatively, if one were only to see now Hector Babenco's Pixote (1981, Brazil;pronounced as pi-shot), after having seen quite a number of films that deal with street children, juvenile delinquents, kids in trouble (Truffaut's The 400 Blows, Bunuel's Los Olvidados, De Sica's Shoeshine, Nair's Salaam, Bombay!, Bresson's Mouchette, Nugroho's Leaf on a Pillow, etc.), one might be afraid that the plight of the kid portrayed in the film might not affect one anymore, having been de-synthesized already after going through the emotional roller-coaster ride put in motion by the previously quoted films.Thankfully, that won't be the case. For Babenco narrates his film in such a matter-of-fact manner (artlessly, as one film reviewer put it, in a positive light) and that his central child performer, Fernando Ramos da Silva (13 years old at that time and a street kid himself), gives such a no-frills, wounded performance, raw in its simplicity (that hardened face, those lonely and longing eyes) that one is hard put not to be pierced in any way. (Such a feeling may achieve such a heightened realism when one learns that the child had only lived but a short life, having been involved in street crimes after the film and subsequently murdered.)In about first half of the film, Pixote and his fellow street kids and delinquents spend their time in a repressive state-run reformatory school, where brutalization and humiliation, rape and murder, are the norm and culture;where they are forced to confess to their crimes, on the flimsy notion that under the Brazilian law, underage felons are not punishable for their offenses. For these kids, the dubious freedom offered by the streets is more preferable than the harsh rehabilitation provided by these supposed well-meaning authorities. Within the walls of this supposed protective establishment, these young souls are soon to discover that love and care from parental figures are likewise nowhere to be found, if not to a degree worser.(For Pixote, the only form of escape comes from puffing grass and sniffing glue, secretly smuggled inside the reformatory.)When the kids burst themselves into a small-scale revolt to finally express and then fulfill their collective desire to get back to the outside world--their home--the intensity and form are of such a kind that one can't avoid thinking of the schoolboys' revolt in Jean Vigo's influential Zero for Conduct. It's only that in Pixote, the uprising is made to appear on a gutter level.Once Pixote and his small group are back on the streets (the film's second half), they engage in robbery, pimping and drug-dealing to fend for themselves, along which they get to meet Sueli, a battered but kindly prostitute. Sueli willingly accomodates the four lost souls, in such a way that she allows her customers to be robbed by them and that she provides more than motherly care (at least to one of the children).One would have thought that the street kids have at long last found the one person who can provide them the love and warmth that have been sorely lacking in their lives. But as dubious as the freedom that these kids believe the streets are providing, this new-found maternal figure cannot but stay forever. Jealousy, squabbles, differences, and murder have only set the kids apart--and for good. And during that defining scene where Pixote, prompted by the circumstance, gets to shoot not just Sueli's arrogant American customer but also his fellow street urchin Ditto (more than a son to Sueli), he thereafter literally goes back to infancy, as he sucks from the right breast of the disoriented woman, right there and then materializing his lingering desire for parental affection, the image itself both sad and unsettling.It is so that Sueli, in a probable coming back to her senses, lamentably pushes back Pixote from his nourishing position and rejects him, for good. Thus, in a quietly wrenching moment, Pixote, with that young-old face and those sullen eyes (not entirely dissimilar, though in a different context, to the young boy's mien in Elem Klimov's harrowing Come and See), gets himself up, puts on his coat and takes his gun (yes, a gun!), and sets off to nowhere, walking along the train tracks and with the morning light just beginning to show up. With that scene, Babenco may just be doing an homage (amongst many other homages found in different films!) to the iconoclastic final scene in Truffaut's The 400 Blows.But whereas we got to know what has become of Antoine Doinel three years later in the short film Antoine et Colette (as well as in three other feature films in the years thereafter), we are left grappling in the dark as to what lies ahead for Pixote after he finally disappears from the last frame, that being the last time that we'll get to see this real-life street child (notwithstanding the fate that eventually befell him in actuality).Pixote may not be as nearly as whimsical as The 400 Blows or as hallucinatory as Los Olvidados, but it still stands out among films of similar theme and texture because of its simple, raw power. "},{"Title":"Powerful movie about street life in Brazil.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Even though this film is about children, this is not a children movie and I warn all adults twice before children under sixteen see this movie.  I remember seeing this movie over twenty years ago and it still haunts me today of these powerfull images of urban street life and the downside of human nature.  You follow the life of the main character (a young boy Pixote) as he tries to survive the mean streets of San Paulo.  His only crime is he is an orphan and poor. You see how the powerfull adults use the powerless 'children.  You will see how poverty and the constant struggle for a daily existence will damage the young characters in this movie for the rest of their lives.I would highly recommend everyone to see this film if you want to get a glimpse of what it is like to live in the so called third world and how the victimization goes on daily agains the powerless members of those societies.   "}{"Title":"GREAT REAL WORLD FILM","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pixote is one of my favourites films,Hector Babenco used real kids from `the favelas', street kids, and focus his story in one kid  Fernando. The director show us the crimes and the prostitution in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro,in Brazil. The kids watch all that kind of things happens around them murders, prostitution, drugs, corruption, police abuse and involved in them. After you watch Pixote don´t miss `Quem matou Pxote?' cause explain the life of the young boy(Fernando) after the film who makes him a star and how he becames a delinquent again, it´s a good movie if you loved Pixote. You have to watch it in the original language, if you don´t do it you gonna miss to much quality.  "},{"Title":"A movie that reflects our dead society","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pixote  made me reflect because it deals with something one sees in an every day basis.  Its contents, though sometimes rude to see, are settled in a natural way, since the world sees all what is happening to Pixote as natural. Nothing more cruel.  After seeing Pixote you cannot go on the streets and ignore the so called boys of the streets. "},{"Title":"A Sobering Look At Street Children in South America","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" For me, this is another one of those films that I got to see off of the Los Angeles based Z Channel when it was in service. And it was another one of those movies that I saw when I was young...and learned that there was a world out there...one I did not want to accept.Moving to Los Angeles and getting to watch international cinema became quite the guilty pleasure hobby of mine and to date, no premiere channel programming has matched the Z Channel in its showing of international films. The three international films that stuck in my young head were Spetters, Beau Pere and of course this one, Pixote.This was the most shocking and saddest movie I ever witnessed in my life. This was also one of the first movies that made me understand that there IS a difference in cinema to entertain, and to inform. Let me be honest..growing up in a small town on the east coast, I had no idea anything like this -- to this extent -- existed. All I knew from South America was brochures of fabulous Brazillian vacations and that Columbia had a lot of drug trafficking.Then comes a film like Pixote. Sad. Disturbing. Unflinching. Scary. You're watching Children. Those that need shelter, love, understanding and all these get are a way to survive day after day through drugs, sex, robbing, stealing, sleeping on the streets and in sadistic group homes etc. Their survival is hard to watch with other street children, prostitutes, etc., and you begin to wonder HOW can things like this be allowed to happen in this world.Pixote is not a film for entertainment, it is a film of information. It shows shocking and disturbing images - but it shows life for these daily street children. "},{"Title":"One shocking movie about criminal children in Brazil","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has an outstanding acting, by Marilia Pêra, and a stunning dicretcion by the argentine Hector Babenco. This is, in my opinion, the best Brazilian movie ever made. The movie was filmed with child from the 'favelas' , the brazilian ghetos. The children weren't actors and were casted by Babenco in the city of Rio de Janeiro. The story is about the criminal children that are arrested in the correctional prison, that looks much worse than Alcatraz. The children are constantly raped and beaten by the policeman. Unfortunately this is not purely fiction, in Brazil it does happen till today. A must see for those who like violent movies. But take your mother off the room, because it is a hard movie. "},{"Title":"No words.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  PIXOTE is a film that makes you cognizant of greater tragedy. It is a devastating film that says much about alienation, the lack of affection in a violent world, and the abandonment of priorities. Even with this summary I can not fully describe my feelings about PIXOTE. It has effected me physically and emotionally unlike any other film. Any words that I may use to describe it are inadequate in describing the overall result on my life. I will not got into any details about the plot only because it is hard to find words to effectively summarize it. I don't think I will ever get over this one. Shattering... "},{"Title":"Drugs, rape, prostitution, murder &#150; Pixote has seen them all","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I liked the movie. At the beginning it started as documentary as some guy was talking about the tough conditions in Brazil. What actually impressed me was that as the guy mentioned all the kid actors including the main character Pixote played by Fernando Ramos Da Silva were coming from the real world &#150; from the poorest neighborhoods, with one mission in life &#150; to survive.Drugs, rape, prostitution, murder &#150; Pixote has seen them all, and after reading the biography of the actor I am inclined to think that he has seen this things much before the idea of crating of that movie came up. You could actually sense that in his acting.Not only the horrors of the street life are shown, the cruelty of the police and people who are in theory responsible for people for problems which have found themselves arrested for some stupid crime &#150; do they deserve to die for it ?!? Any why does no one cares &#150; but instead the police and the director of the brostel in which Pixote is taken are trying to cover everything up &#150; to avoid any responsibility, blaming everything upon the people they are supposed to help. In the movie when a boy asked his mother to take him out of the place where he was locked up &#150; she said  what could happen to you here  &#150; only she didn't know and he did not want to tell her &#150; to describe the dimensions of the hell surrounding him &#150; invisible to the outside world but existing. And I have to tell you that this is just as things are in the real life &#150; but no one cares... "},{"Title":"There is always hope.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"      Upon viewing this film for the first time I was inspired to write a poem, on the second viewing I wept, and I am a man so it's never been easy for me to weep, but then this is no easy film. There is such a deep affecting beauty at the core of PIXOTE that the story and it's characters will remain with you, perhaps always. And though it is a truthful look at the poor I didn't find it horryfying in the least, as others have described it, Perhaps this is because I was once that poor too, right here in America. Now the thing is I never snatched purses or the like but numerous other things that PIXOTE and his crew were invoved in were a part of my environment. This is why to me PIXOTE is a BEAUTIFUL, SWEET film. And each time I watch, there is a point when a smile breaks over my face, the scene of PiXOTE and LILICA at the beach and CHICO commets on how he wishes ROBERTO, PEG LEG were there, this is a part of my childhood this is a part of me because what Hector Babenco communicated to me through this film wasn't LOOK AT THE PLIGHT OF THESE CHILDREN but LOOK AT THE PLIGHT OF HUMANITY, US! This should be required viewing for everyone, for everyone who's always wanted what they couldn't have. Which is all of us.  "},{"Title":"Thanks to the publishers for the recent DVD release","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this masterpiece on VHS 10 years ago, and the powerful interpretation on angry-kid-painfully-against-established-society it carried stayed in my heart since then. Director Hector Babenco is such a good humanity, who finds a delicate angle to tell the story of how urbanity kills the childhood of the kids from poverty class. Even the outcast kids have their innocent beautiful dreams. But the corrupt reality never gives a chance...Thanks to the publishers for the recent DVD release, I now can keep this great movie to my favorite collection.  "},{"Title":"Graphic and disconcerting.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This depiction of childhood homeless and exploitation is accurate - A friend of a friend from Rio De Janiero is going on and off the streets and is winding down the drug habit. But the film is exploitatious. How so, you may ask? All of the lowest elements of society to degrade and humiliate a human being, that's what's depicted here. I was unsatisfied with this film. It didn't give the main character much of a purpose or motivation, he just wanted to do the best he could do to live on the streets. All the characters in the film wanted to. What separates him from the rest of them? I will say that this movie was well acted, and well filmed, but good acting and good filming cannot save an otherwise mundane topic - the plot and the controversy of the film pretty much speaks for itself.   "}]