[{"Title":"Unlikely hero in comical family film","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. I grew up watching Condorman and I always think of it with fond memories. The special effects may not be the best; however, the movie is over two decades old, and I think the effects are quite adequate. Besides, the movie is not supposed to be realistic, but rather it is a comedy with action elements. It provides a window into what people worried about in the early eighties; Cold War espionage is a major part of the story. Overall, it is charming and is a feel-good movie. It has all the classic elements good verses evil and boy meets girl. It is a quality family movie and I would recommend this film to all who are young at heart. "},{"Title":"The greatest motion picture of all-time.  Hands down.","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Forget Ben-Hur.  Forget Casablanca.  Forget The Godfather.  Forget them all. Condorman is the greatest movie of all time.  The epic story of the larger-than-life hero Condorman, brought to life by comic book writer Woody, a common man.  When he is asked to partake in a secret mission of helping a beautiful Russian agent called The Bear, but known passionately to Woody as Natalia, defect to the United States.  Things go awry when the evil Russian Krokov sends the deadly assassin Morovich and his deadly Prognoviach.  But just when Krokov thinks that the best kept secrets of Woodrow Wilkins can be found by any small child for the price of a tiny coin, Woody uses one of his many disguises to fool Krokov.  An amazing boat escape is the climax of this epic.  So, order yourself a Triple Istanbul Express and sit back and enjoy the greatest single piece of art ever. "},{"Title":"The ultimate action/adventure movie for kids.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If the best James Bond movie had a G rating, it might very well have looked liked Condorman. It has all of the cool gadgets, world-wide locations, a sexy femme fatale, creepy Russain villains, and best of all, some of the coolest car and boat chase sequences on film. Keep in mind that this is a kids movie, so the humor level is elementary, but nonetheless funny. The acting is over-the-top and cartoonish, but regardlessly enjoyable. Everyone looking for a fun, fast-paced adventure movie should check out this movie. "},{"Title":"Classic kids film","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I grew up with this film and must have watched it at least 20 times and i still do sometimes.It stars michael crawford who takes his persona of frank spencer and adds an American accent as a cartoon artist who helps a friend who works for the CIA with a job.Anyhows this is merely an excuse for some fun with jokes and some really cool action sequences (the bit with the Porsche's is excellent) think james bond for kids.There is also a bit of romance but nothing to worry about, it really is just a great film for kids.(okay and adults) "},{"Title":"Far from great, but still a lot of fun.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Condorman is not a great movie.  However, it is a lot of fun to watch.  Condorman follows cartoonist Woody Wilkins (Michael Crawford), an eccentric who refuses to have his hero, Condorman, do anything in a comic book that he himself hasn't done in real life.  The acting is predictably predictable, but still fun. Aside from Crawford, the other characters include a ravishing Barbera Carrera as the gorgeous Russian spy Wilkins falls for, and Oliver Reed as her old fling.  If for no other reason than to see a pre-Phantom Crawford in an outrageous role, this movie is worth at least a look. "},{"Title":"Remake!!! Remake!!! Oh go on..","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Condorman,wow....the film that made a childhood. It was THE Easter/Summer/Christmas/Half Term movie of a generation. Back in the 80's this film was ALWAYS on TV in the UK. Now,you hardly see it, its a disgrace (to my knowledge the last time it was on was at 5am on a Saturday morning on BBC1).Kids today have no idea what their missing,this was superhero movie magic at its best.....no...really...it was. It starred Michael (Phantom,Some Mothers) Crawford as Woody, a comic book artist who turned into his creation (Conderman) in order to rescue the beautiful (when your 10) Barbara Carrera from the clutches of the evil Hannibal (played in ultimate OTT mode by Oliver Reed... What i find more upsetting is that this masterpiece isn't available for us in the UK (Video or DVD). So,why,with the current trend for making Comic Book movies at a high,does nobody take a chance and offer this classic a remake!! Think about it..its got to be better than Daredevil,The Punisher, Batman and Robin and as for Catwoman,don't get me started!!. Question is,who could replace the Wonderful Crawford,Reed,Carrera?? Well the part of Natalia (Carrera) could go to somebody like,umm,lets say Hilary Swank.........Hannibal (Reed),needs to be one mean SOB,so how about Vernon Wells (Bennett in Commando, bad guy,bad string vest,back moustache,perfick!) and last but by no means least the part of Woody Wilkins.....well Vin Diesel needs a Hit!!!! But i feel the acting part of the role may be too much for him, so lets get Jeremy Irons on board!!! COME ON Hollywood GET WITH IT!!!!!! "},{"Title":"It was better when I was about eight years old","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this film in the eighties. I used to own it on Betamax, but since VHS and DVDs took over the world, I lost my copy of Condorman somewhere along the way. Michael Crawford (better known for his hapless TV character Frank Spencer), plays a comicbook writer who gets recruited by the CIA.As improbably as that sounds, you're best just glossing over it, as thinking too deeply about anything you see will spoil the film further.It's just stupid, cheesy fun. I loved it as a kid, but I have to admit being a little disappointed at what was really in front of me all the time. I could still appreciate some of it. The gadgets were fun, but Frank Spencer... sorry, Woody Wilkins, can just be a bit annoying. His jokes aren't that funny and he isn't tough enough to carry off being an action hero. I know this is a parody of spy movies in general, but if you want a cheesier spy movie, just watch some of the later Roger Moore James Bond films.Yes, I loved it as a kid and others who have such nostalgic memories of it will probably get something out of it, too. However, it's unlikely to find a new audience nowadays. If you have an eight-year-old boy, he might like it, but anyone over the age of eight will feel pretty bored by it all.I'm giving it 6/10 because of how much I used to love it. By today's standards, it's probably no more than a 5/10.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Comic spy spoof","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the most talented actor's of his era stars in the lead role. Perhaps we could say that the other actors' were being given a chance. There was no lack of ambition in making the film. Some of the on-location scenes are truly stunning. Although the special effects are starting to appear dated they are none the less original and brilliant. The concept of the film is a cross between a comic book hero and a secret agent who failed O'Level spying. It has the humour of the Morecambe and Wise show and the special effects of an early Bond film. A worthy flick that will appeal to everyone from young to not-so-young. It contains humour, gadgets, one-liners and plenty of action and is certainly not as predictable as one might think. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I only rated it a 9 mainly because of some of the finer details others have pointed out which could have made the film better, but really it is exactly what it was meant to be-- a hilarious double spoof a spoof on super heroes, and a spoof on spy movies.If you're like me, once you've seen one spy movie, you've really seen them all. They're all the same, with different details. Spy movies, the normal variety, are highly overrated. The same is true with super hero movies, comics, cartoons, etc. Once the original Superman, Spiderman, etc, are introduced, nothing is ever original after that, and it's just so much hogwash that takes itself far too seriously.Enter the spoof, or the farce. This delightful genre of movie or TV show takes something known to be serious, and makes it silly. The fun in watching something like this does not come from thinking wow, this really could have happened, it's so realistic but rather from thinking, Aha! They are making so much fun of James Bond in this scene, it's just hilarious! A spoof is a variation of a farce-- a farce is a silly story that no one could really expect to happen, but a spoof is a farce that makes fun of something that people take way to seriously. Other popular farces and spoofs have included Get Smart, Gomer Pyle, USMC, The Inspector General, Mathnet (on Square 1 TV), The Princess Bride, Robin Hood Men in Tights, and all the Monty Python adventures. There are many others.Condorman is just such a spoof. It is meant to be funny. It is comedy first, romance and drama second. It appeals to a wide range of age groups because children actually think it's cool (if they're not already spoiled with too many brain-numbing robot and ninja cartoons to be able to appreciate true comedy) and adults love the stabs and jabs taken at the serious spy movies and superheroes.Yes, Condorman might have been better with a bigger budget, and maybe a little more effort could have been put into some of the plot, but I still love it and I think it is by and large one of the most satisfying and memorable films ever made. They don't make anything like it any more-- it's of the same ilk as Strongest Man in the World, and Herbie. Maybe Don Knotts would have been a funnier Condorman, but I still think it was great. I never noticed the wires holding Condor man up or the poor American accent while I was a kid-- come on, you people still watch the Wizard of Oz! For overall watchability, I think this is one to keep on the front row of your DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Ready for a Re-make.............","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this on VHS rental in the early 80's and remember it with massive fondness.  Over here in the UK the film has been deleted from VHS for over a decade so my chance to see this film again was nil.So along came DVD, I had no player and this was only available in the US. I bought a player that could play all regions and imported me a copy, and when it bounced through the letterbox to the floor I was like a kid at Christmas.This is the story of an American comic book artist drawing his books from Paris.  His best friend, and flat mate, is a CIA office clerk.  When a job comes up for a civilian to carry out, Woody is recruited.  After the success of the first mission, all be it by pure luck, Woody is requested by a KGB agent to help her defect.Now this film is still one of my favourites at the age of 30.  And that's not seeing through rose tinted glasses anymore.  This film is funny and you really wanna see the good guys win.  The gadgets blow James Bond away and I dare anybody who doesn't wanna own a old wagon that converts to a car, or a massive condorman suit that helps you fly.Now for the bad bits.  The film doesn't relate to today's audience with the cold war long since dead and the Russians our friends and allies now. Michael Crawford will always be Condorman to me, but his American accent is very poor.  The films print looks lifeless with no colour and the music still lives in 80's ville.  Also the plot is very loose, why they went across the alps and through small villages when they could of got on a plane and been in the US in a few hours is never explained.  But please do not let this put you off.  This is a gem of a movie that still makes me wanna be Condorman.  So Speilberg you ever make a remake of this count me in........... "}{"Title":"Remember when we were young","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film reminds me of the first 'flick' our entire family went to see. Oh and the last. Condorman will only be a good film for those who remember times gone by. This is a very watchable family film but don't expect major laughs, especially with Michael Crawford's (Ooooh Betty) poor American accent. This was Disneys alternative to Superman with a splash of James Bond, and quite simply it was anything but. Please watch it so you can see how much storyboards, acting and special effects have progressed. If you like Porsche's chasing a gypsy waggon, then this is for you. If you are going to analyse this film for its kit-ch humour, and the directors/studio's desperation to get a film out for Summer, don't bother, however it is a way of introducing a spy film to your 3 year old. "},{"Title":"Great kid's movie","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was about 12 years old and loved it. It was by far my favorite Disney movie that wasn't animated.The movie stars Michael Crawford who plays Woody/Condorman. He is a comic book writer who is recruited to help a beautiful Russian agent to defect (Natalia). He instantly falls for her and risks his life to save her.Full of laughs and some older special effects, Condorman also features two great chase scenes (one in a car, one in a boat).If you are like me and like tongue-in-cheek humor with some cool gadgets, then you will like Condorman. "},{"Title":"An All-Time Favorite","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a fun movie. I'm sure it didn't wow 'em at Cannes when it came out, but what it adds up to is a great film.The film is a fun way to spend a Saturday afternoon. In some ways, Woodrow Wilkins is better than Bond. A man who is head over heals in love. He's not a love 'em and leave 'em type. He's truly sincere.As the movie starts, we see Woody as a bumbler filled with too many clichés and Bogart-schtick. As the film develops, we see that Woody is as heroic as the character he draws on paper He's an unlikely hero, but a hero nonetheless.The movie offers a little something for everybody Romance, comedy, and some great chase scenes with some pretty nifty gadgets which while not great today's standards still will make any red-blooded American boy go, Cool. The film is brilliantly scored and sets the tone perfectly. From the intense dramatic music before Condorman's triumph to the ominious music when the bad guys enter, everything is perfectly timed.While it doesn't belong up there with Citizen Kane, it should be on Disney DVD. "},{"Title":"Condorman is cool!","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The reason I gave Condorman a 10 isn't because it's the best movie I've ever seen, but more because it's one of my fav childhood memories. I remember none of the video stores had it, but the library did. I used to rent it almost on a weekly basis for more than a year and it's funny...All I can remember of it is the title track and a boat chase vaguely, but what I remember most is how much I loved sitting down in front of our old brute of a T.V. that was probably 10 years older than me with the crappiest color you've ever seen and watching that movie over and over and over. So I guess what I'm saying is that although I don't remember much of the movie itself, I'll never forget how much I loved watching it. I haven't seen it in more than fifteen years and I don't think I ever want to see it again. It seems to me that when you're a four year old kid, movies seem a lot more amusing. I think if I watched it again now, I'd be more disappointed than anything else. HAIL CONDORMAN!!!! -Chris P. "},{"Title":"CONDORMAN (Charles Jarrott, 1981) **1/2","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Being a superhero flick made by Walt Disney Productions, one couldn’t expect the violent thrills associated with the genre – but, then, neither was it the kiddie-oriented fare I was dreading. In fact, it’s more espionage stuff (the narrative occurs in a variety of European locations) in clear imitation of the James Bond extravaganzas, complete with multi-purpose car, than outright fantasy (the hero is a mild-mannered cartoonist and the “Condorman” outfit emerges to be decidedly quaint, getting very little mileage into the bargain!).Still, it’s engaging and pleasant-looking for what it is – though the simplistic “Condorman” theme wouldn’t rank among famed composer Henry Mancini’s most memorable pieces. The cast enters gleefully into the absurd spirit of the thing Michael Crawford as the unlikely hero; Barbara Carrera as a luscious defecting Russian agent (she would eventually feature in the “Odd Bond Out” of that series i.e. NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN 1983); Oliver Reed, a bit glum but at least non-hammy as the chief villain; James Hampton as Crawford’s C.I.A. agent pal; Jean-Pierre Kalfon as Reed’s top henchman, a one-eyed menace; and Dana Elcar as the C.I.A. operative who unwittingly puts “Condorman” on the map.Typically, we get a number of disguises (at one point, both Crawford and Hampton don the garbs of Arab sheiks!), chases (on land and sea) and stunts (directed by the ubiquitous Remy Julienne) – not to mention romance (Crawford, of course, falls for Carrera and models his fictional “Laser Lady” character on her!). Incidentally, while we’re obviously not treated to an action prologue here like in the Bond films, we’re given an animated sequence instead – which is a nice way of acknowledging the film’s comic-strip aspect. Finally, I wouldn’t say that CONDORMAN is hilarious…but it does contain one good in-joke – a crack by Hampton that “not everyone in the C.I.A. is Robert Redford”, clearly a reference (and a very apt one given the title!) to that star’s own espionage venture THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR (1975). "},{"Title":"The Stinkiest Piece Of Cheese","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If this was a childhood favourite then so be it you can't be helped. But coming to this as an adult with a fondness for Disney I have to say the usual Disney magic is completely missing here. I knew we were in trouble straight away when Michael Crawford's Hello Dolly American accent reared it's ugly head again. The first mission was quite amusing and cleverly choreographed and instantly falling in love was ridiculous but forgivable and there's one or two other passable mildly funny bits but it was very hard going sloppily written and directed. I admit I did drop off at one point. Maybe with a better actor it might have worked. It's a shame as it looked like they spent a lot of money on the special effects and locations. A low point for Disney (3/10) "},{"Title":"The Disney connection ruins it","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" CONDORMAN is a SUPERMAN spoof tainted by association with Walt Disney. The Disney association means that this is a film with a scattershot approach, a mixture of highly dated special effects scenes with humour of the lowest and most obvious variety and a rather twee and 'safe' approach that means nobody really gets badly hurt or killed despite the preposterousness of the plot.Michael Crawford is an obvious choice for the stunt-heavy lead role. His work in SOME MOTHERS DO 'AVE 'EM has provided a template for him to perform various physical feats without the aid of a stuntman, and in that respect he doesn't disappoint. His grating American accent isn't the best, but then neither is Oliver Reed's Russian one. Speaking of Reed, he plays the villain of the piece, but is entirely distracting given the deep red colour of his skin throughout the production. He looks like he's about to blow a gasket any second.The plot is some Cold War nonsense in which Condorman and his pals go up against the might of the Russian empire. Aside from a few obvious Superman-inspired bits, this feels more like a James Bond spoof, with high speed car chases, exaggerated fight scenes, gadgets and the like. Sadly, it's all very cheesy and dated, and only fans of early '80s cinema are likely to get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"Other childhood films were better!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Condorman' isn't in the same league as other of my childhood favourites, and while nostalgia is one thing when revisiting a film, sometimes you realised that the charm would have worn off if you re-watched in your teenage years. Simply put, 'Condorman' is an okay film that is essentially for children and it's a lot better than revisiting 'Howard the Duck'. There was some decent car-chase sequences involving a one-eyed henchman in a bike helmet inside fast Porsches, and some fun comedic where Michael Crawford got to showcase his timing, and I really liked the performance by James Hampton as Woody's sidekick. Oliver Reed was okay as the villain and Barbara Carrera was good as the love interest. The bad was that awful score from one of the greats, and some of the exposition scenes at the beginning felt obvious and seemed to know little about comic-book history, and of course, Condorman in costume having to flap his wings isn't quite the superhero we are used to in films.Filmed in 1981, 'Condorman' is definitely dated, and maybe only suitable for people who actually remember this as a child. It gets a pass from my older self! **½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"Cheezy yet sweet","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Think of Batman meets Inspector gadget!Even for '81 this movie can bring you along for thrill ride.  Beautiful women, neat gadgets and one of the best car chases.  The main musical theme is easy to remember and consist of a one word lyric CONDORMAN!. Yet Condorman is so ignorant that he doesn't realize the peril he puts himself into.  He's a cartoonist for goodness sake!Wonderfully cheezy in today's standards! "},{"Title":"Cheesy Classic","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are a Michael Crawford fan, this film is for you.  Definately not for the traditional movie buff. This is really mean for slightly older children about 7-10 years of age, but with all the high tech and marketing behind current kid shows and movies, they may not appreciate it.  Worth a rental before a purchase. "}{"Title":"I never heard of this superhero, but he was a lot of fun!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I first saw this movie, i became very intrigued. But I wondered aloud on where this Condorman came from. It may have come from another time, if so, I think it would very interesting to find out. Watching it with my friends from elementary school was really a blast. I liked the car when it shot up the black Porsches. And the boat was cool too. It's cool when none of the vehicles were downed by the bad guys. And the bad guys were kind of interesting as well. The one with the scary eye freaked out my friends. But that eye was anything but useless. That man can aim that gun accurately. But that didn't stop Condorman! I liked the part when Woody(Michael Crawford) put out that fire in the goblet with his hand. Anything else would burn instantly. This movie was campy, but I would say it wasn't bad. I liked it all the way, and it was quite fun for the family as well. Rating 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Underrated sub-Bond fun","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Primarily aimed at a younger audience, this movie is nevertheless great fun for kids of all ages. Many stunts are performed by Crawford himself and the various action sequences are splendidly executed - particularly the breathtaking car chase. Apart from Crawford's appalling attempt at an American accent, performances are good - particularly from Barbara Carrera. Oliver Reed seems to take his role very seriously - maybe he wanted to be considered as a future Bond villain?The weakest aspect is the special effects - clearly the big money went on the wrecking of several Porsches and motor boats! Overall, though, this delighful little pic is highly entertaining, quite amusing and moves along at a splendid lick. Odd how it has rarely been screened on British television. "},{"Title":"Somewhere good between awful and awesome","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's comforting to see others have the same, fond, childhood memories of this film as I. Watching it again for the first time in well over twenty years, I have to say it holds up really well. It's got a ridiculous plot, hammy acting, dodgy accents, and lame jokes - just like every James Bond film before 2007. But it's fun, and funny, and full of all of the cool spy stuff that I still love as a 38 year old little boy of 10. And in the 30 years since I saw it in the cinemas the theme tune has not left me - it remains as apt, exciting, hummable and ridiculous as it was at the time.As if you needed any other reasons to love this film, there are two words that guarantee it Oliver Reed. What a baddie! If you have a 10 year old child, nephew, or niece, it is your duty to ensure they watch this wonderfully silly action film. "},{"Title":"Cartoonmaker","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Once again, we have a film about a cartoonist (or writer or filmmaker) who is drawn into his own work. Conceptually, the notion is rich one gets to support two simultaneous levels and play with the notion of self-created narrative. We've seen a few experiments along these lines that are intelligent. This one is along the lines of `Misadventures of Margeret,' `Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle' and `Monkeybone' which fail because they take the cartoon end too seriously.The most interesting element is what drove Disney to explore such an approach. The second most interesting feature is the casting of Barbara Carrera. She is a fine example of what defines spy movies exotic appearance, damsel in distress, obvious acting deficiency deliberately engineered to produce a characterless sex object. She is perfect, in fact, I'll see if I can find her anywhere else after this.  "},{"Title":"An unlikely superhero in comic book creator Woody saves the day.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A rather underrated childrens film that taps into the mind of all those who enjoy comic book heroes.  Disney released this little gem in 1981 when I was just a small 7 year old.  I still hold it with great regard and treasure my taped version from the TV, as it is impossible to find on DVD or VHS in PAL. The film is full of great Bond-type gizmos and gadgets and a rather unlikely hero who does the job to A - fulfill out the fantasies he has dreamt whilst creating these comic book heroes and B - to save the beautiful damsel in distress, of course. "},{"Title":"Michael(The Phantom) Crawford)","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How could you not like this movie? It´s great to see Michael Crawford in a movie role before he landed the role as the Phantom in Andrew Lloyd Webber´s Musical The Phantom of the Opera The movie is fun and romantic. I recommend this movie. It has everything!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Nostalgia versus Intelligence","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let me preface by stating I was one of the 12 people who actually saw this in theatre in its original run. I was about ten years old and thought it was the best movie EVER. If you have a ten year old, please get this movie and let them enjoy it. Don't let the following carping get in the way.THAT said My god, whose brain was out to lunch on this one? I am really trying to figure out what Disney was trying to do (this was in the desperate last years of the Ron Miller era) in producing this film. They go all over Europe for real location shots (as opposed to re-dressing the Medfield set once again), and yet still resort to cheap optical shots (they must have been the last studio to use them at this point). Then they go and get real actors; like Oliver Reed as the villain (instead of Keenan Wynn) and don't bother giving them a decent script. Now, I am all about suspending disbelief, especially in a family comedy, but...1) Are we supposed to believe that Woody jumps off of the Eiffel Tower in a birdsuit and no one notices? 2) Are we supposed to believe that Woody is a competent artist, yet still chooses to wear The Ugliest Sweaters Ever Seen in a Film? 3) Why is it that Natalia is a trained KGB agent yet is completely helpless in a fight and never has an idea? 4) How is it possible that the CIA is able to create the following things overnight with one line Get these to Fabrication. A gypsy truck that turns into a car that has multiple guns and shoots fire, and converts into a ramp and then a hovercraft. A speedboat that shoots blue lasers. A pair of wings light enough to carry as a secret backpack but sturdy enough to carry two people aloft.5) Why are all the children in Switzerland non-accented English speakers and as multi-ethnic as a Pepsi ad? And oh my...the first scene with Woody and his friend...probably the clumsiest exposition ever put on film.If you are over the age of 12, worth a view if you want to MST3K it. "},{"Title":"Good, dopey fun","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie to watch if you want to let your brain rest awhile. Phantom of the Opera alumnus Michael Crawford plays a carefree comic-book writer who inadvertantly ends up helping a Russian spy (played by Barbara Carrera, the definitive 007 femme fatale from Never Say Never Again) defect to the West. The film is helped by beautiful location photography in Paris, Monaco, and Istanbul and two awesome chases (one is a car chase in Yugoslavia and the other is a boat chase in Monte Carlo. But there are some parts that try to be humorous but fall flat. Overall, though, Condorman is a pretty cool movie. "},{"Title":"He is not an agent of the C.I.A., he is a writer of comic books!","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a kid's movie that I wonder how it could have even appealed to me as a kid back when it first had a little more, uh, technical relevance I suppose? Actually, no, I wouldn't guess so, if at all ever? Was it a tax write-off? Or maybe the filmmakers took too many drugs and drinks while watching James Bond and Pink Panther movies? Or maybe they knew what they were getting into and thought they could still pull off a legitimately entertaining movie for the whole family. I really have no idea how I would've reacted to this is I were a kid, but as a twenty-something, me and the friends I watched it with became practically the Mystery Science Theater guys, heckling and making up lines as it went along. And, in truth, I might've done it even if I was watching it alone. It's camp without knowing it, or if it does know it maybe it's all the smarter for it. But it does try to pass itself off as something for the kiddies when really it's just too ridiculous and inane for anyone.Maybe the title gives it away, but there you have it- he's a man, but he's also a condor, get it? Well, to put it plainly if I can, Woody Wilkins (Michael Crawford) is ambivalent for about a second to take his 'Condorman' idea to the next step- to team up with the CIA! His mission is to stop a Russian terrorist, played by Oliver Reed, while also with the seductive Ruskie 'Bear' (Barbara Carrera). That's really all you need to know, oh wait, there's more there's a lead henchman with an eye-patch, or is that a marble eye, or both? How about big gargantuan title cards to introduce every single locale (though sometimes, like with the alps scenes, becoming a little confusing again)? Or massive explosions? I think that might sum it up. But really, if you seek out the movie, you should know what to expect not just from the title but from just the LOOK on the cover of the DVD or VHS. It might be one thing if British director Charles Jarrott went for such silly subject matter with more gusto, but it's almost as if he KNOWS how goofy this is, and has car chases that just spring out of nowhere, plus a climactic speed-boat challenge where even more big explosions happen (and the ratio of the henchmen who jump off the boats before explosion and those who stay on during it is maybe 1/2 and 1/2).In other words, it was perfect as a kind of film to rag on, to put it mildly. It might be one thing if it was so good it's bad, but it turns it it's so mediocre it's just, well, bad. It's got heroes and villains that put out dialog that sometimes is a little incoherent, the bumbling sidekick who is SUPPOSED to be a CIA agent, and that darn one-eyed henchmen, come together in a film where said Condorman only takes flight for less than four minutes! If anything kind can be said about it, it's at least not a boring bad movie, where its so relentless with cheesiness that it becomes wearisome. It's almost too whacked out to get dull at any one point. It is consistent in trying to be entertaining when it really isn't, however it thus becomes on the flip-side entertaining again as fodder for the sort of slings and fun that would make Statler & Waldorf of the Muppets die to dig in on. It's simply one of the most unintentionally funny movies of the 80s, at least from Disney. "},{"Title":"Ooo Betty, my accents awful......","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Comic artist and writer Woody performs a simple courier operation for his friend Harry who works for the CIA. But when he successfully fends off hostile agents, he earns the respect of the beautiful Natalia, who requests his assistance for her defection. Woody uses this request as leverage to use the CIA's resources to bring his comic book creation, Condorman, to life to battle the evil Krokov......If you look at my lists, this month I'm watching a few bad movies. While this one obviously has a fan base, it was a flop on its initial release and nothing has really been seen of it since.And I can see why. The only time I remember this being on TV was on ITV in the eighties at five on a weekday, not a good thing for such a big release, and starring one of the biggest TV personalities (at the time) in the UK.And the main problem? Its boring on the verge of wanting to turn it off, and just when you think Crawford could save he movie, he opens his mouth and releases a truly awful American accent, probably for the overseas audience, because no on could really see a Brit as a hero (a bit pathetic really).So for the rest of the movie, we have some poor James Bond spoof, featuring a flying bird man, with a dodgy yellow car, and a dodgy boat, that fires silly lasers.For a bona-fide kids film, it's very violent indeed, and poor old Oliver Reed is in the middle of it looking like he hates himself.It's a shame that Disney couldn't take a chance and let Crawford use his real accent, instead we get this mundane stuff.The funniest part of the movie, was the promise of a sequel, that made me chuckle. "}{"Title":"Weak Disney live-action offering.","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   The Disney live-action films were in a pretty bad way by the time Condorman came to the screen (see No Deposit No Return and Popeye for further evidence). It is no surprise, therefore, that this effort is yet another on the long list of forgettable family films to come out of the studio during its late 70s/early 80s slump. Not even a strong trio of leading actors (Michael Crawford, Oliver Reed and Barbara Carrera) can put any sparkle into this one. Crawford, sporting a poor American accent, plays a cartoonist named Woody. Woody is the creator of comic-book superhero Condorman, but one thing that Woody insists on is personally testing the stunts that Condorman attempts in real-life. Woody persuades his friend, a CIA boffin, to let him take part in an assignment. And, having completed the assignment by the blindest of blind luck, he is contacted by a beautiful lady spy who wants to defect to the West. The best scene features Woody ordering a particularly potent alcoholic drink in a restaurant (when the drink arrives it is so hot that it is on fire, yet he still manages to drink it!) Beyond that, the humour is childish and often strained. The special effects are quite poor on the whole, especially during Condorman's flight sequences where the strings are plainly visible and the back projection photography looks pitifully obvious. In terms of story, it seems almost unfair to criticise the film as it never aspires to be anything more than a kids' adventure flick. However, if you're the type of viewer who likes to get your teeth into a strong storyline then be warned that this one is flimsy at best and utterly infantile at worst. Condorman has mysteriously become something of a rare movie nowadays, but it isn't really worth weeks or months of your life trying to track it down. "},{"Title":"How did this make it out of the can?","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I caught part of this with my buddies when it was released as a double-feature after some Western (Young Guns, maybe).Amazingly, fewer than 10 (out of 200+) remained in the big screen theater for Condorman.It starts off looking like another moderately entertaining Disney kid's film, but runs downhill rapidly with a combination of predictability, cliché dialog, horrid performances, and low budget production values unusual for a Disney film. Special effects were poorer than films made 30 years earlier.Oliver Reed demonstrates once again that he will do anything for money, Barbara Carrera is pretty to look at but nothing else, and Michael Crawford manages to be goofy but completely uninteresting. We were the last to walk out after perhaps 40 minutes.Yawn! "},{"Title":"Hardbodied Hero Saves the Day","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Condorman is one of those lost movies that has such an underestimated value. If Hollywood should remake any movie, As most of you are, I am a major fan of racial diversity so I think that Wesley Snipes should play Condorman in the remake. Also, someone primal like Missy Elliot or Queen Latifa should play the amazingly beautiful Natalia. For that matter, I think that we should probably redo the entire cast so that they are all, indeed black. Why not set the film in Africa, where all the action is in the first place? Think about Condorman saving the day in a promising nation such as Namibia or Sierra Leon? Live 8 wasn't for nothing, and remaking Condorman into an African American remake would be the perfect way to fully unite the world in our fight against Africa and the third world in general. Hopefully I'm not alone on this one guys. I read all of your reviews and you guys are so boring. Let's get serious here and do something that really matters in this world. "},{"Title":"I fell asleep after ten minutes","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was in the days before seat-back screens in airliners, the film was unavoidable. This one began with a bunch of people in an office talking, then, I think, some of them were somewhere else, talking. No laughs, no action, no clue as to why anyone should care about what comes next, and the production standards of an end-of-the-line Murder She Wrote after they moved it to New York. It did not help that I have never appreciated Crawford's acting, he gives me the creeps. If this was a kids' film why did it start off so slow and boring? Maybe the rest of it was better. I don't intend finding out. I'm glad so many people loved it, but there should be an unsuitable for adults classification for stuff like this. "},{"Title":"Blecch.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I understand that this is primarily a kid's film. And much has been made about the pre-Phantom Michael Crawford appearance. But should that excuse the stupidity of the film itself, the ridiculous story and the dime-store quality special effects? Kids will easily notice that the wires can be seen when Condorman flies. They are so thick they look like ropes! Very distracting. A pathetic movie that should have never been made. "}]