[{"Title":"Complex yet Stunning","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"66 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came to the film adaptation of 'The French Lieutnant's Woman' with initial trepidation. As anyone who has read the John Fowles novel will appreciate, this is one text for which adaptation would not be a walk in the park. How unfounded my uncertainty was! The director, writer and actors did a fantastic job in adapting a complex novel to the screen. The film works impeccably as a metaphor for what the novel was trying to achieve, which is all we should expect from film adaptations. Stand out features include The actors are perfect. I can't say anything new about Meryl Streep, who I believe to be the finest actress ever to have graced the cinema screen. Here (as ever) she is perfect - if you didn't know she was American you would believe she is English, the accent is so accurate. She embodies the character of Sarah perfectly with a multi layered performance, managing to convey Sarah's dignity, her independence and her complex mystery. My only criticism (if you can call it that) is that she is too beautiful! According to the novel, Sarah is not beautiful by any period's standards, but with her porcelain complexion and delicate features, Meryl Streep is stunning. As Charles, Jeremy Irons gives a commanding performance, managing to convey the character's genteel veneer and the inner passion that lurks beneath. Both actors are excellent, and the chemistry between the leads is tangible. A Story within a story. The way in which Harold Pinter weaves the Fowles tale with the lives of Anna and Mike - the actresses who are playing the Victorian lovers, is inspired. The manner in which the film flits from Victorian age to modern day, is the filmic way of conveying Fowles's tendency in the novel to judge his Victorian characters and their era by Twentieth Century standards. Some critics have found this device jarring - I find it clever and affecting. Overall, 'The French Lieutenant's Woman' is a beautiful, haunting tale of repressed love and social hypocrisy. Right from the opening shot, where we see the image of Sarah on the Cobb looking out to sea, the viewer is grabbed and drawn into this complex world. The actors are faultless, the screenplay ingenious and the cinematography and score, haunting. If you normally find yourself disappointed by novel adaptations, look no further than 'The French Lieutenant's Woman' to show you that when a work is adapted properly, the results can be stunning.  "},{"Title":"A multi-chambered Nautilus shell fossilized in stone.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"51 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie opens with a scene of an archaeologist chipping at a multi-chambered Nautilus shell fossilized in stone. The image is apropos, as the story itself opens from chamber to ever larger chamber as it weaves two seemingly disparate stories with a clever ending.Jeremy Irons and Meryl Streep are impressive as the leads in two different time lines. In one, Streep is a woman of poor reputation who ensnares a gentleman (Irons) in the black hole of her own guilt and loss. In the other, they are the romantically involved actors making a movie about a woman of poor reputation who ensnares a gentleman. And if that sounds a little too clever, it nonetheless has more creativity and insight than typical plot-twist movie, including the most contrived and overrated movie of all time, Memento (not good enough to be called bad).There is a scene, in which Streep and Irons are rehearsing a scene from the movie, and, according to the story, it just isn't working. Then, all at once, Streep gets a look on her face, and we are transported into the past time line with a single glance from the greatest working actress and second only to Katherine Hepburn as the greatest actress of all time.The cinematography, costumes and set designs are legendary, and come from the same team that gave us The Count of Monte Christo, which featured Guy Pearce, who was in the above-mentioned Memento (it still stinks, but how's that for six degrees?). And speaking of legends, the screenplay was written by none other than Nobel laureate Harold Pinter, and it shows.It is a sublime movie experience to watch the delicately chambered story open up, and there are scenes that are so memorable, like Streep on the misty pier, that you would swear this movie comes from the Golden Age of cinema, not the go-go eighties. The movie is emotionally draining, and Streep gives a typically high concept performance. Irons lacks something, but it's not clear what, but in the end it helps support the story by making him appear flawed enough to have been trapped in the intricate web of The French Lieutenant's Woman. "},{"Title":"Narrative Folding","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Haunting environments, two of the century's greatest film actors, one of the half-dozen or so best modern playwrights and Fowles' experiment in parallel narratives. Fowles' work was pale compared to Nabokov's Pale Fire, for instance in building a convoluted, layered narrative, but is comparable in extent. Here, Pinter's obsession with time refines the vision -- his Proust Screenplay, also centered on layered time, is much studied and admired.Everything clicks here. Gorton's designs are detailed and hypnotizing, especially the use of the Lyme groin and related tunnel-like streets. Francis' camera (after Elephant Man) captures a dim grey sky, made sharp in modern sequences. With the director, they have contrived to quote great paintings. In particular, the first shot after the three year search when Irons gets the telegram directly and obviously references a famous Monet painting -- in fact the first impressionistic painting, a turning point in the artist's perspective. Davis' music -- the only thing that spans time -- supports. And Meryl is lovely, but so different in each role. We really wonder if her modern madness created the modern affair in quest of the perfect chemistry for the Sarah role It makes Sarah's imagination deeper and more self-referential than in the book. One scene is uniquely masterful the modern actors walk through a scene, then they do it again. Streep turns on, steps into the role and becomes Sarah, and a moment later, she pulls the whole scene into the past. This will stick with you, I promise.The director, Reisz, is supposed to have suggested the concept to Pinter, and then attracted the very best. His tightness of vision is apparent. I wish he were still making films. In a sense he is he literally wrote the book on modern film editing. "},{"Title":"A classic film about sexual repression past and present","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved The French Lieutenant's Woman. The film-within-the-film is more than just an experimental device - it is actually a key feature of how the film works and part of what makes it so fascinating and enjoyable. Harold Pinter, who wrote the screenplay and has a Nobel Prize for Literature, should be given some credit for knowing what he is doing. The two stories in the film are juxtaposed to provide intriguing contrasts and comparisons. At first, I found myself thinking that the point was to show how much easier and more uncomplicated sexual relationships are in the twentieth century, but as the story develops, and as more entanglements obstructing their happiness are revealed, I began to realize that the film may really be trying to show that we are not so different from the Victorians after all we have our own obsessions, repressions and frustrations. A happy middle-class family proves to be as much of an obstacle to sexual gratification and fulfilment as hypocritical Victorian morality. A warning there is no point watching this film for visible and clearly expressed emotion and a satisfyingly romantic representation of love in this film, since it makes a point of resisting that by focusing on the characters' awkward and embarrassing fumblings, and by deliberately avoiding all the clichés of period drama. The inclusion of the contemporary story line actually helps us to distance ourselves from the Victorian plot rather than drawing us into it, and makes Jeremy Irons's proposal at the beginning, or the love scene in Exeter between him and Streep, more comic and ridiculous, than volcanic and romantic. But that is the point, isn't it? Period films have a tendency to ignore how bizarre sexuality was in the past, and by romanticizing and familiarizing it, make it more easy for us to consume now. But there was no such thing as normal sexuality in Victorian Britain, because, as the statistic about London prostitutes in the film shows, they were all far too screwed up. And maybe we are not so different these days. It's not as if the sex industry has got any smaller since then. It's not a conventional period romance, but if you want something a little more thoughtful and interesting than that, then you will hugely enjoy this film. Apart from anything else, it has two great performances from Jeremy Irons and Meryl Streep. Streep in particular is spectacularly mysterious and alluring as the object of Irons's sexual obsession. Great film. "},{"Title":"An inspiration to Goths everywhere","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're researching the beginnings of today's Goth movement, be sure to look at this complex tale of Sarah Woodruff (Meryl Streep), a secretive, pale-skinned outcast in a 19th century English coastal town. Known to the locals as poor tragedy, she sketches spooky self-portraits, always dresses in black and haunts the sea wall waiting for the return of a Frenchman who seduced and abandoned her. With a single, unforgettable look and such dialogue as my only happiness is when I sleep; when I wake, the nightmare begins, Sarah bewitches visiting Londoner Charles Smithson (Jeremy Irons, in what turned out to be his big break), a paleontologist and gentleman of leisure. The tricky screenplay by Harold Pinter contrasts the story of Sarah and Charles with the lives of actors Mike and Anna, who are playing them in a film. Offscreen, Anna is anything but Victorian, indulging in an on-location affair with Mike while her husband is away. The contrasts between the two couples born 100 years apart make for one of the most intriguing films of the early 1980s, and the performances by Irons and Streep are predictably outstanding.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is visually fascinating as well as dramatically satisfying. Every camera shot is breathtaking - this includes both stories.The script is brilliant. I thoroughly enjoyed the post-modernist self-awareness - the blurred line between one reality and the other calls the entire experience into question.  But I knew I was watching modern actors playing in a period piece and I was still caught up in the story, both stories - which mirror each other and make you wonder which character is influencing which performance. Irons gets to play two obsessive roles, something he seems to be really good at. Streep is enthralling and brings a third dimension to two enigmatic roles perfectly suited for her. "},{"Title":"Terrific -- with one major flaw","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a joy to watch -- as not many films these days are. The settings are superbly created -- the green, grotto-like woodland where Irons and Streep meet in the Victorian world of the film, the murky streets of Lyme, Exeter, and London, and the interior of the lawyer's office, for example. The Victorian part of the film emerges from the dawning of the concept of abnormal psychology (just before Freud) and is really convincing. Streep shows us that her character cannot move on emotionally until she has worked out her own madness. That constitutes a remarkable and complex performance of insanity and self-awareness inhabiting a single psyche. She earns the gentle movement out of the tunnel and onto the calm lake. The turbulence of the unconscious -- that threatening sea of which Irons has warned her -- has been subdued. Seems to me the flaw lies in the 'modern story' (as some here have pointed out). It may be that the Streep character is trying to find a subtext for her fictional heroine, but it looks like the old ennui, so that, while her lack of concern for the relationship is understandable, his obsession with it is not. Though the garden party at the end almost gets it there. Were we shown her decision there? If so, I missed it. I like the concept of the 'two endings' and their contrast, but the ending in the 20th century was a so what? The one in the 19th century was complex and included much of the pain that the relationship had caused both characters. A little more attention to the contemporary love affair -- to suggest that it was more than just a romp on location -- would have helped that dimension of the film per se and also suggested what the Victorian lovers had earned within their Hardyesque world. "},{"Title":"Powerful Victorian romance; the modern scenes would have been better omitted.","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although John Fowles's novel is set in the Victorian period and deals with a love affair, it is more than just a period romance. Throughout the book there is a strong authorial voice, which Fowles uses to comment on Victorian social and sexual mores, and the way in which they contrast with those of Fowles's own day. The book famously has two alternative endings, one happy and the other tragic; this device is perhaps Fowles's ironic comment on literary conventions and on the omniscient narrator persona which he adopts elsewhere in the work.These stylistic devices therefore mean that this is not the easiest of novels to transfer to the screen. The solution that Harold Pinter came up with was to combine Fowles's Victorian story with another story, set in the present day. The film moves back and forth between the two periods. A similar device was used in another British film of this period, Heat and Dust, although in that case both stories were present in the film's literary source.The Victorian part of the film tells the story of Charles Smithson, a wealthy gentleman and amateur scientist, who visits Lyme Regis in Dorset in order to search for fossils. (The area around Lyme has become known as The Jurassic Coast because of the rich fossil beds in the area). While there he meets and falls in love with a young woman named Sarah Woodruffe, even though he is already engaged to Ernestina, the pretty daughter of a wealthy businessman.Some years ago, Sarah was jilted by her sweetheart, a French lieutenant, and has been named by the locals Poor Tragedy from her habit of walking along the seashore, dressed in black, looking out to sea as though waiting for his return. The belief that she was the man's mistress has gained her the more contemptuous title of The French Lieutenant's Whore; the film's title derives from the reluctance of the genteel Ernestina to use the word whore. Charles's initial feeling is simply one of concern for the young woman's welfare, but he soon feels a powerful attraction for her and decides that he must leave Ernestina for her, despite being warned by his friend Dr Grogan not to do so. Grogan has diagnosed Sarah as suffering from what he calls obscure melancholy, a condition which manifests itself in intense guilt feelings and in the masochistic tendency to inflict emotional pain on herself.The modern-day part of the film concerns the attempt to make a film about the story of Charles and Sarah, and the affair between Mike and Anna, the actors cast in the two leading roles. Jeremy Irons plays both Charles and Mike, and Meryl Streep both Sarah and Anna.The Victorian part of the film works very well as a powerful and potentially tragic love-story, conjuring up the sexual repression and double standards which dominated that period. Sarah and her French sweetheart were not, in fact, lovers in the physical sense, but many local people believed they were, and this suspicion has been enough to blight her life. It is unlikely that a man's reputation would have been destroyed by a casual encounter in this way. On the other hand, double standards could also sometimes work against the male sex as well. A woman, for example, who decided she had made a mistake by getting engaged would have found it much easier to break her engagement. Charles only avoids being sued for breach of promise by signing a humiliating confession, in which he acknowledges that he has forfeited the right to be considered a gentleman, and is haunted by guilt over broken engagement, especially as Ernestina has done nothing to deserve such treatment. In the book Ernestina comes across as rather insipid, but here Lynsey Baxter, only sixteen at the time and appearing in her first film, makes her a delightful young lady.Irons and Streep are excellent as Charles and Sarah. (This was also Irons's first leading film role, and the one which made him a major star). Streep copes perfectly with the British accent, although she did perhaps sound a bit too upper-class for Sarah, who comes from a lower-middle-class background. She also looks particularly striking in this film, with her red hair and pale alabaster complexion contrasting with her black clothing. The scene where Charles first meets her, on the storm-swept Cobb in Lyme, has become one of the most iconic scenes in the cinema of the eighties. There are also excellent performances from Leo McKern as the perceptive and kindly Grogan, from Peter Vaughan as Ernestina's doting father and from Patience Collier as Sarah's obnoxious employer Mrs Poulteney.I am a great admirer of the original novel, but what works on the printed page cannot always be transferred to the screen, and Pinter's attempt to find a cinematic equivalent to Fowles's literary devices struck me as a vain one. The modern-day love story always seemed weak and trivial by comparison with the much more serious Victorian one. Neither Mike nor Anna was a sympathetic character, especially as both were married and cheating on their spouses. When Anna decides not to leave her husband for Mike we do not feel pity for him in the way that we pity Charles when he is abandoned by Sarah. I felt that the film-makers would have done better to omit the modern scenes and to concentrate exclusively on the Victorian story. The result would have been a different film, but in my view probably a better one. Nevertheless, the film we have is a fine one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"More than just a great film. It's an experience of seeing how reality and fiction works","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautiful, original and intelligent of using a certain source (a book written by John Fowles), changing the perspective presented in it and turning it into a fresh cinematic experience that is as much satisfying than the original source, the film version of The French Lieutenant's Woman escapes the sometimes overused routine of following the literature step by step by creating a nice way to compare life with reality, mixing two stories into basically the same context. Harold Pinter's screenplay takes the story from the book, told in the Victorian England, and adds the element of the movie within a movie, dividing it into two segments the actors playing in a romantic film and the actors life in a current period. Let me organize the situation in the modern times, two actors (played by Jeremy Irons and Meryl Streep, are shooting a movie whose story takes place in 1800's, with Irons playing an respected biologist engaged to a rich woman who ends up falling in love by the mysterious French Liutenant's woman (Streep), who awaits for his lover to return. During those times where moral was above anything else their romance seems to be faded to failure, almost impossible to exist since she isn't seen with good looks by society constantly called as crazy or as the French Lieutenant's whore. This is practically an unhappy story at first glance. Later, we'll notice the actors life following the same path as the characters they play except the times are other, things are a lot easier for them; they're in love with each other but they're married with other people. And this story seems a happier story than the other, also at first glance. The intersection of both stories serves to show us not only which couple (the real one or the fictional one) might last together but also the period contrasts (there's a scene in which the actors are reading a paper with informations of how things were during the Victorian Era and they are surprised by the facts they learn) The examination one must have of both stories is the relationship between the characters played by Streep and Irons, and the way both have similarities even one being a work of fiction and the other being the reality. The only problem with the film directed by Karel Reisz is the fact we spend more time following the movie within the movie instead of following more of the actors life and their romance, which only had a notable importance when the other story was concluding as well. I'm not saying that the other story wasn't interesting but we should spend an equally balanced time with both segments so that we could see things more fairly, properly presented. Even so, the screenplay is brilliantly written and very original in terms of developing a story that goes to show the distinction between fiction and reality without playing tricks or use of excessive surprises to impress the viewers. But a film is not only its script. The French Lieutenant's Woman has an fascinating and careful art direction and sceneries, beautifully made, recreating England of the 19th Century is great details; costumes and clothes are also great; the cinematography is impeccable and one of the most wonderful works I've ever seen. At last, the most interesting aspect of the film is the acting delivered by Meryl Streep (Oscar nominated for this roles, after all she plays two roles) and Jeremy Irons (he deserved a nomination that year, playing one of his first leading roles showing a great talent in carrying the whole film). I've seen them playing another couple in the underrated The House of the Spirits and I loved them in that film just as much as in this film. They make acting seem easy whether playing complicated characters like the ones played here or in blockbuster films as well. And their characters go through everything here, love, hate, insanity, possession, kindness, a high range of emotions that very few actors can be natural and have a certain simplicity in playing it. Sparks fly high when they're together! Where do we have the chance to be really happy? In fiction or in reality? True love is that same kind of love we see in pictures or it's different in life? See it for yourself and think of some conclusions by watching this absolutely great film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Top quality performances","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Fantastic performance from Jeremy Irons, and of course Meryl Streep is flawless. 1981's interpretation of a period piece, contrasted with '81 present day. I am a huge fan of late 70s and early 80s movie conventions for quality movies - slower pace, more left to the viewer to discern. Brilliant. If you like period pieces and amazing acting, you will like this. If you like Meryl Streep I also recommend Sophie's Choice and Silkwood. Jeremy Irons' debut was in Brideshead Revisited (avail on Netflix), an early 80s miniseries -- worth checking out, he's great in it. Another good specimen of his acting is in Reversal of Fortune. But there are lots more. "}{"Title":"Romanticism without the base alloy of actual feeling","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"31 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a real curio of a movie, more a dry experiment with form than a story concerning fleshed-out characters. The primary focus is on the plot developments of a film within the film--a story of two illicit lovers in 19th century England--while a secondary narrative follows the two leads in that film who pursue a similar relationship to the one they portray. The way these two stories intercut back and forth is, unfortunately, one of the few interesting things in the movie. Unique to this presentation is the way the Victorian Era scenes are shown only (with the opening scene being a lone exception) as a finished product, that is, we see that part of the film as its theoretical audience would. There are no shots of cameras in the foreground, no scenes of director and crew watching rushes in a darkened theater. This device might have allowed the viewer to become more involved in the old-time goings on--if only we had been given something, anything onto which we could have hung our emotional hats. This is the insurmountable problem of The French Lieutenant's Woman. While the Victorian Era plot is luxuriantly mounted--while the characters are played by wonderful actors--the heart of this film is occupied by this film within a film device. While interesting, it's not enough to keep our interest from flagging. In both story lines, emotions are uniformly muted, or absent altogether. The 20th century story is about two bored actors who engage in their affair simply as a distraction from the tedium of making a movie. No hint of passion here. The Victorian narrative at least provides a HINT of feeling, but always held at arms length--and further attenuated by the inevitable return to the modern story, reminding us that the costumer portion of the film is not only not real, but TWICE removed from reality. There is a scene at the end of the movie where all signs point to some grand cathartic denouement--a scene where, finally, we will be swept up into the currents of these players' lives, the promise of romance finally realized. Instead we are given an awkward, bumbled scene without so much as a kiss or an eloquent avowal of love. We are left with a muted, distant view of the two purported lovers on a lake--its surface as calm and unmoved as the film's audience. A disappointing end to a disappointing film. "},{"Title":"Cunning, parallel lives-romance","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An operatic romance, kept sharp and constrained by a parallel plot involving the actors as actors. This is no intermediary narration but a second, alternative tale of romance which takes its lead from the marvellous novel by John Fowles who splits his ending off into a fate-forked coda.It's possible to watch the period drama in a mental bubble with its corset-busting tumescence, wave-crashing symbolism and fine acting from the deeply committed principals. However, Karel Reisz really makes the modern tracking story work in tandem with the period yarn, turning a misty romance into a mysterious metaphysical matinée. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Grossly underrated","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is worth a far higher rating than it has been given on the main page. though the reviews are much more appreciative. The casting and acting is perfection, that has been noted, as has been the script. The music is fine in its own right and superbly crafted into the action. The photography is probably the finest ever achieved in this category of film, with the contrast between the period and modern scenes ingeniously used to remove any confusion while at the same time avoiding false or exaggerated characterization.Most remarkable of all is the sound track, both in regard to the voices and the background sound. I am stunned that none of the reviewers even mentioned it and I am coming to the conclusion that the human race is developing damaged audio organs. The average film these days, even those from the biggest studios and with the biggest budgets, suffer from utterly unrealistic voice registration. This is probably due to either modern miniature microphones placed in places other than where the viewer is in their imagination, or in sound added afterwards with an attempt at a simulated environment. In either case the result is usually terrible, with the acoustics making no sense at all with the picture being shown. As a result the atmosphere, for those with ears not destroyed by ipods or walkmen, is destroyed and the film has no presence or reality. This has reached such a pitch that it appears people no longer notice it and directors no longer care.In this film the acoustics and sound registry are a work of technical mastery and, along with the photography, script, editing and acting must give it a place amongst the top 10 of all time. 6.8/10 is an absurd rating. I give it 10/10. Where would you take a point off? "},{"Title":"First sight of Streep decides it","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are wide extremes of opinion expressed on this board about this film. The film certainly has defects, but they pale when compared to its achievements.  It is a tour de force of the cinematic art.  The switching between Victorian and Modern eras is seamlessly announced by tone, costume and manerism of character.  Meryl Streep's depiction of two women, in differing circumstances and, more importantly, different times is intellectually challenging.  But if you do not connect with her fragile appeal or Jeremy Irons soulful searching for fulfillment, as two very different characters, then this will be lost on you.  While technically this is film making at its finest, ultimately it is a love story. You either feel for the characters or you don't.   "},{"Title":"Uniquely Structered Romantic Drama.","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meryl Streep and Jeremy Irons play dual roles as Sarah, an outcast woman in 19th century England, and respected biologist Charles, already engaged to the daughter of a powerful man, who finds himself attracted to the melancholy, mysterious, and beautiful Sarah.This is contrasted with their real life counterparts Anna and Mike, who are actors portraying their romance in a film. Their lives mirror the fictional ones closely, as their affair has similar consequences to that of Sarah and Charles, only with a different outcome...Though the juxtaposition between the 19th and 20th centuries is at first jarring, it does eventually work, since the performances and direction are so good. A compelling romantic drama that does effectively illustrate the difference between Hollywood and Reality, and how the viewer will inevitably prefer one over the other... "},{"Title":"Smart, atmospheric love story with brilliant actors","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I got this movie, and read the title, I wasn't expecting anything that would suit my taste. I have been expecting a cheesy, unrealistic and boring women's movie. - I have been wrong. Of course it was a bit cheesy, but less cheesy than most Hollywood movies. Actually, the whole movie was quite realistic. Of course this movie is mainly for women. - It's a love story! Yet, I find it has more to offer to male viewers than other love stories. The main actor is male. An absolutely interesting character. A character that is trying hard to be good, but isn't perfect at all. A character you can actually identify with. And my god, Jeremy Irons played that character so well. This movie has a calm and melancholic atmosphere. I am sure many people will mistake it for boredom. - Not me; the story is so interesting, that it kept me curious throughout the whole movie. I really didn't know how this story was ending. And yet, the ending satisfied me totally. An extremely unusual case for me.My pretty much only gripe about the movie is, that the story in the 20th century is suffering in length. While characters and storyline are in perfect shape when it comes to 19th century, the story and characters lack depth, when it comes to the 20th century. "},{"Title":"The French Lieutenant's Woman","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two film actors named Anna and Mike (Meryl Streep and Jeremy Irons) rehearse their roles for a Victorian period piece and have an affair with each other. Interspersed with the present day scenes are extensive clips from the finished version of the film they're working on the love story of a gentleman named Charles and a poor woman Sarah who has lost her reputation after having been romantically linked to a French officer. Charles and Sarah, like Mike and Anna, are played by Irons and Streep.The movie-within-a-movie structure makes it possible to examine the expressions of romance in very different eras that still mirror each other in many ways. While the Victorian society is suffocating in its prim and proper moralizing, relationships are not necessarily easier in the liberal modern era either, as it is always difficult to follow one's heart without hurting someone in the process.Technically the film is well made, the historic sets and costumes look good and Streep and Irons are convincing in their double roles. Especially the eponymous Sarah character is full of tragic mystery and understandably carries the film whenever she is on. The pace is slow and peaceful, allowing the romances to develop without haste. In the end the Victorian story gets more attention and is probably what the film is best remembered for, but the present day romance is a tale worth telling too. In any case, I recommend the film for any fan of romantic cinema &#x96; it's essentially two romances in one. "},{"Title":"Awarding my first 2.  Spoilers below!","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers! The film is very disappointing. The lack of chemistry between the two stars, the insertion of the modern story with the lack of chemistry between the players within the modern story, the overacting by all the actors (or is it poor directing?) the length of the film, the assumption that we would believe Sarah a virgin when Charles finds her at the hotel, that we would believe Jeremy's character would be so gullible and go against very inflexible norms of Victorian behavior, the fact that the heroine should have been an English actress, the attempt to too literally adapt the novel to film, and then the overlay of Darwin, Freud, and the Pre-Raphealite Brotherhood just made a totally unengaging, wearing film. "},{"Title":"Brooding, classy, evocative melodrama.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... Anyone who's read my earlier review of Damage, and disagrees with the feelings I expressed there; THIS is how Jeremy Irons should be utilized to portray destructive longing! It's a bodice-ripper without the ripping going on - all internalised, *raw* emotion. It's gorgeously shot, too; and Streep makes good on her reputation in a poignant showing. I've never read Wuthering Heights, but I couldn't help thinking of Heathcliff and the moors, nevertheless...It reminded me of 'The Hours', only it has a less 'studied' feel to it. The realities of 'social exclusion' really hit home, but thanks to the great performances, we don't doubt the extremes shown. Love renders all other concerns as 'insignificant', when you're in its grip.This isn't the kind of film I would normally like; but in my quest to sample as much that is acclaimed as possible, I ended up here. I'm glad I did. If you have romance in your soul, this is apt to get you, inside. I only left this out of my 250 list because due to being something of a 'grinch', I tend to side with LIFE'S version of how things end, rather than literatures; but oh well... ! "},{"Title":"Dramatic tale of dual affairs failed to engage me","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This appears to be a well crafted film, an artistically done 'story within a story'. However, though I realize I am in the minority and the movie's praises were universally sung, I personally did not care for it, finding it somewhat boring, occasionally confusing, and worst of all, NOT emotionally engaging.The film relates the story of two romances...the affair between two actors, Anna (Meryl Streep) and Mike (Jeremy Irons), who are playing the roles of lovers Sarah Woodruff and Charles Smithson, in a movie set back in 19th Century Britain. Frankly, the darting back and forth between the two affairs, creative though it may have been, was for me simply distracting. I found that I couldn't really become emotionally involved with either couple, and was sometimes even confused as to the point being made.The stars are accomplished actors and their performances were lauded at the time. Personally, Meryl Streep is normally not my favorite actress as I feel she tends to overact, though I really liked her in Music of the Heart. Jeremy Irons is certainly competent and was quite brilliant in The Mission.The modern relationship between Anna and Mike simply bored me. During her husband's absence, Anna is indulging in an affair while on location with her co-star. I found this pair unsympathetic and their affair uninteresting. Even THEY did not seem that interested in it! I would have preferred NO story within a story, but simply ONE romance, the Victorian couple, Sarah and Charles. In that case, I might have found their tale more compelling.As to the Victorian Era affair...Charles is a paleontologist, engaged to be married to a proper young lady, Ernestine, of good family and dowry, when he is bewitched by the fascinating, outcast Sarah and begins a passionate affair. The film does dramatically reveal the contrast between the outwardly respectable, genteel Charles (a proper Victorian gentleman), and his hitherto sexually repressed but actually passionate inner self, as revealed by this illicit love. Sarah, a wronged and tainted woman of ill repute, dubbed by some as 'the French lieutenant's whore', is mysterious and melancholy. My enduring mental picture from this film is of Sarah looking forlornly out to sea, waiting for the return of the French soldier who seduced and abandoned her.The film has beautiful cinematography, especially the 19th Century scenery. I generally love romances from this period, and I note that another reviewer compared the dramatic seascapes here to the moor landscapes of Wuthering Heights. Yes, sort of a similar mood with the enigmatic, outcast Sarah even shades of the brooding Heathcliff. However, while Wuthering Heights is a film of haunting emotions, this liaison between the respectable Charles and the outcast Sarah had little impact on me. Apparently, the point of the movie (so I have read) seems to be not so much engaging the viewer emotionally as comparing love affairs from the two eras...the forbidden Victorian passions in sharp contrast to the not very passionate, sort of half bored, casual affair of the modern actors. Yes, the contrast is apparent here, so in this goal, it succeeded. Nevertheless, I would have greatly preferred emotional engagement. I didn't read the novel of the same name, but understand the film within a film approach was meant to replace the narrator's role in the book. If so, this technique may have been clever and artistic, but left me personally cold and simply detached from it all. "}{"Title":"Hot and Bothered in Victorian England","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Fowles' pastiche of Victorian novels is a smashing read, but Karel Reisz's film, while not exactly ruining it, sure does suck a lot of the life out of it.Instead of presenting the story in an over-heated, slightly exaggerated manner, which is probably the right way to adapt Fowles' novel, Reisz and screenwriter Harold Pinter decide to address the meta element of the book by breaking the film into two intercut segments one is the story that actually makes up the narrative of the novel while the other is a contemporary one about the making of the movie, with Jeremy Irons and Meryl Streep playing actors playing Fowles' characters. It's a pointless approach, as the contemporary scenes don't add anything to the film but length. It also doesn't help that Irons and Streep, though both immensely talented actors, aren't exactly the go-to people for breast- heaving, corset-rending passion. One who had never read Fowles' novel would come nowhere near having a sense of how great it is based on this adaptation alone.It's a handsome looking film, I'll give it that, and I'm not the only one who thinks so, as it garnered Academy Award nominations for Art Direction and Costume Design back in 1981. Its juggling of two parallel stories impressed the Academy into giving it an editing nomination as well. The last two of its five nominations went to Pinter for his screenplay and Streep, in one of her few undeserved nominations, for Best Actress.Grade B "},{"Title":"Sex, Then and Now","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies where you suspect that someone is trying to make a profound point, but you feel like a dummy because you just cannot figure out what it is. The best I could come up with is that love is just as nerve-wracking today as it was in the nineteenth century, only today men don't have to worry about being sued for breach of promise, and women don't have to worry about being ruined for life. So I guess we can call that progress. There is a ludicrous scene in which Irons finally gets to have sex with Streep (in the nineteenth century), and he spends more time taking off his clothes than he does having sex with her. So that is another difference in the nineteenth century, people wore more clothes and had less foreplay. "},{"Title":"Great Use of Movie-in-Movie","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A film is being made of a story, set in 19th century England, about Charles (Jeremy Irons), a biologist who is engaged to be married, but who falls in love with outcast Sarah (Meryl Streep), whose melancholy makes her leave him after a short, but passionate affair.I did not think this would be my kind of movie. A period piece romance with Meryl Streep? Sounds pretty boring. But instead, we get this really interesting movie-in-movie, where the action we see as real can be cut away from at any time. And then this also allows us two stories in one, which have more than a few parallels.Streep is obviously a gifted actress and the best of her generation. Irons is great, as well, though not nearly as recognized. He makes all that he touches turn to gold. "},{"Title":"Good film...","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in the early Eighties, and loved it. I was struck by the beauty of Meryl Streep. I read the book a few years later, and from what I remember, Sarah Woodruff whipsawed Charles Smithson at least one more full cycle of falling for her and being abandoned by her. The framing device of the movie being made is OK. It annoyed me back in the day, but I can see its effectiveness now. It is a way to make commentary on the Victorian times (and their hypocrisy), plus I suppose that it substitutes for that additional cycle of hurt. Great settings and photography of 1860's England. Excellent acting all around, and a good script, once you get past the modern-day scenes. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A familiar device a film within a film...","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A film crew on location in Dorset, England, is shooting a Victorian drama about a passionate affair between a gentleman (Charles) and an abandoned woman (Sarah);there is a parallel story about the love affair between Mike, the actor, and Anna, the actress, who are Charles and Sarah in the film within the film. The modern love story is presented in brief episodes and so the Victorian drama appears to be the core of the film. Fowles's novel,Pinter's screen adaptation and Reisz's direction seem to be the best combination for a great cinematic enjoyment the photogenic landscape, even more dazzling than Kubrick's Barry Lyndon and Polanski's Tess, along with the high level acting by Jeremy Irons and Meryl Streep, create a unique filming atmosphere... "},{"Title":"Male and female lead actors, bad casting.","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The French Lieutenant's Woman, 1981. As Mike and Anna, two film actors involved in a tumultuous affair, and Charles and Sarah the star crossed Victorian couple whom the actors portray. Charles reputation is ruined by the enigmatic Sarah, Mike finds he cannot accept the affections of the wily temperamental Anna. The weaving of these two love stories---One Victorian and one contemporary give an insight into human passion and emotion.*Special Stars- Meryl Streep, Jeremy Irons, David Warner, Leo McKern.*Theme- Love is fickle.*Trivia/location/goofs- Filmed entirely in England. Oscar winner for Best Actress, Meryl Streep. This film is not very true to the intricacies of the book plot. Vanessa Redgrave was supposed to play the Sarah role, but a satisfactory script was never achieved.*Emotion- A script that is decidedly a 'chick flick' with all of the drama and emotions of two small people in their respective lives. The jump editing between present day and Victorian times is jarring and adds confusion. There is little on screen 'heat' between the male and female lead actors, bad casting. While the cinematography and locations was visually inspiring, the plot was uninteresting and slow with little pacing to keep the viewer engaged. Not for the viewer that is looking for some adventure, drama or human insights into interpersonal relationships. "},{"Title":"Seen Many Years Later","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Thirty years after seeing it for the first time, I revisited this film last night on PBS. I had remembered only two things from it The quality of Meryl Streep's acting and the famous scene of her standing on the very edge of a stone wave breaker while the sea burst around her. I had forgotten that it was a film within a film. I had forgotten all but the vaguest outlines of the plot. I had entirely forgotten Jeremy Irons. If retention in memory is the hallmark of a good work of art, I'd have to give The French Lieutenant's Woman a low mark.And yet the second viewing of the film was a revelation. I hadn't previously been struck by how beautiful Meryl Streep was when she was young. Nor did I remember how controlled her acting was in this overwrought movie. The French Lieutenant's Woman was nominated for five Academy Awards and deservedly lost all five, including Ms. Streep's nomination as best actress. Nevertheless, this was one of the record number of nominations she has compiled and it should be seen if only for that reason. It adds a different dimension to her incomparable portfolio of challenging roles. Jeremy Irons fares less well in my estimation. Like Ms. Streep, he plays two parts, one as her co-star in the film being made and the other as the lover ruined by his all-consuming love for her film character. Not that Irons does a bad job of acting. He simply fails to be convincing in the second of his two roles. That may be because the story (or the part) is inherently unconvincing, sort of Wuthering Heights without the emotional tide which causes that heavy- breathing romance to seem plausible to many women if not to their menfolk.It's still not a great movie. Maybe not even a good movie. But if all we ever cared to watch were good/great films, Hollywood would soon be out of business. "},{"Title":"Piece of autumn evening","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" More than a movie , it is an answer to a special novel. More than a love story with two levels is stage for great actors. More than a show it is a impressive event. So, it is difficult to define or pledge. Beautiful, delicate and smart, adaptation and window, refined game and piece of autumn evening, castle of sand and nostalgic veil, play and song, exercise of beauty and honesty, challenge and proof of talent, a movie about love in a different alphabet, The French Lieutenant's Woman is collection of pages from Victorian books and shadows of present. It is not a surprise but not even rule. It is only a form to discover old fragments of any existence. That is all ! "},{"Title":"The French Lieutenant's Woman","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I admit I mainly wanted to see this film for the stars, and I have to say it is quite an interesting plot. Based on the novel by John Fowles, it involves two love stories in two time and situation periods. These are the film story with biologist and engaged Charles Henry Smithson (BAFTA nominated Jeremy Irons) falling/having an affair in love with gloomy (in mind) outcast Sarah Woodruff (BAFTA and Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Meryl Streep), and the present day couple that are acting out this couple in shooting of the film with almost the same type of love situation, Anna (still Streep) and Mike (stil Irons). Both stories are colliding with each other to almost make a whole one. Both stories have troubles, and both will end in some form of despair or incomplete happiness. Also starring Hilton McRae as Sam, Emily Morgan as Mary, Charlotte Mitchell as Mrs. Tranter, Lynsey Baxter as Ernestina, Jean Faulds as Cook, Peter Vaughan as Mr. Freeman, Colin Jeavons as Vicar, The Royle Family's Liz Smith as Mrs. Fairley, Patience Collier as Mrs. Poulteney, John Barrett as Dairyman, Leo McKern as Dr. Grogan, The Fast Show's Arabella Weir as Girl on under-cliff, Harry Potter's Richard Griffiths as Sir Tom, Harry and the Wrinklies' Toni Palmer as Mrs. Endicott, The Omen's David Warner as Murphy, Alun Armstrong as Grimes and Shaun of the Dead's Penelope Wilton as Sonia. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design, Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, it the BAFTAs for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Carl Davis and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Direction for Karel Reisz, Best Editing, Best Production Design/Art Direction, Best Screenplay for Harold Pinter and Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. Meryl Streep was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and she was number 26 on The World's Greatest Actors, and Jeremy Irons was number 30 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"Lovely movie, interesting concept","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished reading the book and like most Victorian stories, there is so much repressed and kept between the lines. I wanted to see the movie again. Meryl Streep is wonderful and defines Sarah quite beautifully, although the ending was a bit of a departure from the book. Sarah is an enigmatic and mysterious woman, but I think at heart she is an insightful woman with an independent spirit who cannot and will not be contained within the confining and stifling role that period has assigned her.The book and the movie are an interesting study in the contrasting morality between Victorian times and the 20th century (now the 21st century)...and the price it extracts. I did like the convention of using a movie in the process of being filmed as a means of replacing the narration that accompanies the progress of the book. It is a lovely movie, complex and thought provoking. "}{"Title":"The Films Of Meryl Streep French Lieutenant's Woman","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981) Starring Jeremy Irons, Meryl Streep, Emily Morgan, Hilton McRae, Charlotte Mitchell, Lynsey Baxter, Jean Faulds, Peter Vaughan, Colin Jeavons, Liz Smith, Patience Collier, Cathrine Willmer, Ben Foster, Arabella Weir, Edward Duke, Anthony Langdon, Richard Griffiths, Graham Fletcher-Cook, Michael Elwyn, Toni Palmer, Cecily Hobbs, Doreen Mantle, David Warner, Alun Armstrong, Gerard Falconetti, Penelope Wilton, Joanna Joseph, Jude Alderson, Cora Kinnaird....Director Karel Reisz...Screenplay Harold Pinter.Based on the novel by the late John Fowles, director Karel Reisz' The French Lieutenant's Woman, was released in 1981 and was an early success for actress Meryl Streep. She portrays two roles- Anna and Sarah, one an actress of the modern period of 1981 and the other a fallen woman of Victorian England. The novel by John Fowles is far more complex and this Hollywood treatment, adapted for the big screen by Harold Pinter, is a lengthy, bittersweet romance without the multiple layers of meaning that the novel had. But all this can be overlooked when you consider the fine performances by the principal actors and the prestige quality of this costume film, not to mention the innovative juxtaposition of a modern extramarital romance and an one happening in 1880's England. Jeremy Irons portrays Mike, an actor who is Anna's co-star in a costume drama about a forbidden romance between two married people. Irons also plays Charles Henry Smithson, the married Victorian who breaks his wedding vows and engages in a relationship with the unsavory Sarah Woodruff, a married woman who boldly defies conventions. This film boasts wonderful cinematography by Freddie Francis, whose look is dreamy and yet realistic all at once while maintaining an unusually literary quality, much like another great Meryl Streep film from this same 80's decade- Out Of Africa. The rarest part of this movie is the constant jumping back and forth between time periods as we see the relationships progress. Meryl Streep glows with a beauty and charm all her own and has the superb training of an actress reared in the fine tradition of actresses like Katherine Hepburn. She totally encompasses the spirit of both women, who are really one. She is modern, liberated and yet stricken with guilt and anxiety, which ultimately results in her decision to break up with Charles. Jeremy Irons is doing his usual great thing here and there is excellent chemistry between Irons and Streep. The part of the film that got to me was the ending (spoiler alert). The modern times relationship between Anna and Mike ends unhappily but the Victorian Era romance between Sarah and Charles ends happily, as if to say only in film or fantasy romances of the past do we find true happiness but reality is far more complex and tragic. With original music by Carl Davis, who attempts to emulate late Romantic/classical music and lovely costumes by Tom Rand. This is a remarkable movie. Fans of Meryl Streep will eat it up. This is a great role in a film early in her career and she would only continue making one great film after another. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had purchased this film from a charity shop a number of weeks ago. With the recent death of the author of the book this film was based on (John Fowles) I was inspired to watch his most famous work. I put it off for a few days fearing the film would be boring and unengaging but I was pleasantly surprised! I was in a state of confusion for the first few minutes of the movie, what on earth was going on?! Had they put the trailer at the start of the video, had I bought a behind the scenes tape by mistake? I was so shocked I had to stop the film and read some comments on here to clarify what was going on! When I found out there were two stories set in different eras going on simultaneously, I was eager to find out more and whether this device would work.I thought the use of the two stories, one the plot between Sarah and Charles set in the 19th century and the other, the actors playing them, Anna and Mike was an interesting and original idea although one which I am not sure was entirely necessary. The use of modern appliances to emphasize when the film was in the 1980s also seemed a little brash.However, the film really made me care for the characters and I was caught up in the emotion of it all. This was my first Meryl Streep film, and from her convincing performance in this, will certainly not be my last! Beautiful cinematography from Freddie Francis too. Although not an outstanding film, it is still one worth watching and one which deserved the praise and accolades it received. "},{"Title":"With hindsight, a good film","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have only seen this film once, about 20 years ago, when I was in my mid teens. It intrigued me then, but went completely over my head. I could dimly perceive grand themes in it, but couldn't bring them into focus. A few years ago a friend gave me a John Fowles book to read, The Magus and this caused me to re-evaluate this film entirely. For me, the story's strength does not lie in anything definite. It's main themes are suggestion and allegory. The creative role of the mind in human perception is very clearly depicted in The Magus and this is central to TFLW too. The 2 central characters, in their modern guises are caught up in this, as the audience is expected to be. Perhaps there is no central message to be understood ... maybe a viewer should just be delighted by the parallels which are revealed by telling these 2 stories in this way ...  "},{"Title":"Intriguing and compelling piece of British heritage drama","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Written in the sixties, John Fowles novel reflects back upon literature and language of Thomas Hardy, and as with Hardy's Far From The Madding Crowd, Fowles uses a faux ending as part of a homage to the great writer.  Karel Riesz's clever direction exploits the contrast of past and contemporary setting by the the story taking place in British Heritage film using a classic script for it's basis.  The parallel continues  with the book's plot being followed on-screen - once again a clever parallel and parody of the Heritage Genre that the film belongs to.  Once again, in true Hardean style, one ending does not fit with the overall tone of the film making the true ending even more crushing.  A true contemporary classic. "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie is worth seeing, especially because of it's script. Pinter, a genius playwright, wrote a brilliant script about the thin line between acting and real life. Actors playing actors playing characters, the movie is full with jokes about actors and playing. The movie within the movie prevents the emphasize that we usually feel towards the dramatic characters, and never lets us forget that Anna and Mike (the actors) are actually Meryl Streep and Jeremy Irons. The movie itself is a bit disappointing, and I'm not a great fan of Ms. Streep, either, yet I think it is a good and interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Possibly The best Meryl Streep film...","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Short and sweetly, The movie holds up surprisingly well for an early 80's film and the DVD is  a must for those who haven't seen it since..Meryl Streep plays two roles as Sarah, The French Lieutenant's Woman of the title and Anna, the actress playing Sarah.  I recommend trying to find the novel written back in 1970, as it fills in alot of gaps in the character of Susan.  Relatively quick paced, the story within a story(kind of like Adaptation)method is used well here and I highly suggest viewing this film for all Streepies out there( you know who you are). "},{"Title":"A truly romantic film, how reality and fiction can reflect each other...","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the romantic film to top them all.  If you're into action flicks and quick takes, forget this one.  But if you want a beautiful ride into human emotion, terrific acting, an imaginative script and visuals that stun the eye..this is for you.  I had read Fowles' wonderful novel and while Pinter took liberties they were very much in keeping with the tone and intent of the original author...which is not often the case when novels are transposed into film.  Irons and Streep are perfect for their dual roles as movie actors and the 18th century characters they are cast as...both anguished over love frowned upon by society.  "},{"Title":"Good acting can't save a boring script","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Charles Henry Smithson (Jeremy Irons) falls in love with outcast Sarah (Meryl Streep) in 1800s England. In the present day Mike (Irons again) and Anna (Streep again) are doing a movie about their tragic love affair and the movie jumps back and forth between the stories.Incredibly dull movie. Streep and Irons are fantastic in all their roles but the script is dull, the movie drags on forever and the parallels between the two stories are pointless and groaningly obvious. I have nothing against slowly paced movies (I love Howard's End and Room With a View) as long as they're interesting. This isn't. You don't care one bit for any of these characters or their situations. I caught this snoozer in a theatre and had trouble staying awake! This is one of those prestige movies that critics fall all over themselves praising but audiences stay away from. This was a bomb at the box office and has (rightfully) been forgotten. This gets a 2 just for Streep and Irons. "},{"Title":"Watch this!","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So... I finally read the book and -at last- I saw the movie!! Well,even though, as usual I preferred the book, I did like the film as well. Very much. Meryl Streep was unbelievable, I just loved every quote that she said. She managed to show the peculiar Sarah's character and to create a very interesting character for Anna, as well. Jeremy Irons was great also. Generally, all the cast played good. However, I didn't like Lynsey Baxter as Ernestina. I think she didn't appear as young as it was supposed too, and that she was saying the lines sooo slowly that it get annoyed after some time. I also didn't like the idea of adding Anna's and Mike's world in the story. I'd rather prefer just to be in Sarah's and Charles' reality. It's true that John Fowles often interrupt the narration to comment something or to compare the two centuries. However, Anna's and Mike's existence didn't touch his comments at all. In the first half of the film their scenes last too little so they are not useful. In the second half their story becomes more interesting but at the end it seemed to me that it was a small and fast-made movie, violently put into J.F's story. In other words, I'd like to see Anna's and Mike's story in a different movie! Additionally, It wasn't justified -to my opinion- Anna's behavior at the end that reminds us Sarah! Yet, I have to admit that I was impressed because Meryl and Jeremy could easily play themselves as Anna and Mike. But, I was not seeing Meryl and Iron on the screen, even they were playing two characters so common to their reality, they find their own character's personality -a personality different than theirs. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say. In conclusion, I believe that if I hadn't read the book and haven't seen the movie on the laptop (I couldn't find it in a DVD) I'd like it much more! It is a story that you have to learn either from the film, either from the book, they both have their own magic! "},{"Title":"Not amazing","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't really think this is all that good a film. I mean, it's not exactly bad in any way, and it still left me interested n it throughout to continue it, but it was mostly out of respect to Streep and me wanting to finish her filmography. It does drag quite a bit throughout. But one reason to seek it out is Streep, who is marvelous playing the American and the American herself playing a character. She's definitely worth it, and I mean, it's Streep. That's why I kept with the film, because I do want to end up seeing al of her nominated performances, but if you're expecting a Sophie's Choice performance, you won't get it here at all. As it is I give it a C "}{"Title":"Jeremy Irons on the Pyre.","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like Jane Austen, Gustave Flaubert, Henry James, and novelists of that ilk, you ought to get a bang out of this story of Jeremy Irons sacrificing his self esteem for love of a woman whom he loses for the flimsiest of reasons.The story in the main has Irons and Meryl Streep back in Victorian England. She is the French lieutenant's woman and is shunned by the village for having had an affair with the married man. She now moons over her absent lover and waits for the return that will never be realized.Irons is an independently wealthy naturalist who visits the village in search of fossils and finds love for the darkly mysterious Streep, although Irons himself has just married into a family of some repute. He divorces his wife -- shocking! -- and gives up his status as an honorable gentleman. He gives Streep money, and later follows her to London, loses her, finds her three years later, and she rejects him because she has now become a liberated woman.There is a parallel story that doesn't get much time. It takes place today. Irons and Streep, both married, are having a fling during the shooting of a film. Again, Irons falls in love, but for Streep the encounter was far more casual and despite his efforts, she takes off happily with her French husband.The only Fowles novel I've read is The Magus, which follows a similar trajectory -- man is coerced into a woman's thrall and is then deliberately and openly betrayed by her. The traditional Madia Gond, a tribe in India, had a custom called the ghotul in which adolescent boys and girls lived in the same house and played musical beds each night, whether they wanted to or not. The elders of the tribe claimed that this practice was intended to cure them of love. I begin to wonder if Fowles isn't on the same trip. You know, Most friendship is feigning; most loving mere folly? Jeremy Irons as the uptight Victorian naturalist manqué never steps wrong. He ALWAYS never steps wrong. Meryl Streep. If you've seen her in later character roles like The Iron Lady, you may not remember how lovely, pale, and fragile she could be in her earlier films. She's a splendid actress, even though make up has given her a mop of dark reddish hair so massive that it may have its own time zones. And both of the actors are perfectly capable of overcoming the sometimes stilted dialog I have taken unpardonable advantage of your condition. Forgive me. There are some allusions to Darwin but I don't think they amount to very much.It was directed by Karel Reisz. He directed the colossal art house flop called Weeds, which was saved from complete obscurity only by my own stellar performance as an extra. Boy, did I establish atmosphere, or what? A prisoner smoking with a cigarette holder, a masterful touch! Here, whatever else we may say about the film, Reisz and his photographer, Freddie Francis, have paid such close attention to composition, values, rich colors, and camera placement that every shot is almost a painting in itself.I'm compelled to recommend it, although I wish the endings had been different and at least ONE of the Ironses finally wound up with one of the Streeps, but no dice. It's a story of lost loves, along the lines of Wuthering Heights, but I wasn't bored for a moment. "},{"Title":"The Woman - Yes, Scenery - Yes, Music -Yes, Story- No","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am going to the top end of a 5 here. This film had a big reputation when it was 1981 but almost all the quality here is Meryl Steep in her first role, and first Academy Award.Some great sites were used and the filmography has an experts look to the eye. It has a great score. The problems- it is too long and the story turns into a mush mash of themes once you get past the early reels.There is not enough romance scenes with Meryl Streep either and at an age where any guy would climb all over this one unless he was spade or neutered. For Streep, she earns 4 out of the 5 rating out of 10 I give it. "},{"Title":"The French Lieutenant's Woman","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Movie based on the novel published in 1969 by the novelist and essayist John Fowles.The action places in the year 1867, in England. Charles Smithson y Ernestina are compromised for time and going to marry very soon. One day, when Charls walks along the cliff sees a young woman dressed in black in the levee of the port. Ernestina says to him that she's Sarah Woodrof known as the wife of the French lieutenant , because years ago she had certain relation with a man who then left her. Miss Woodrof passes the days looking at the sea hoping that the gentleman returns. Charls decides to approach to Sarah, slightly difficultly initially, but later it he obtains, up to the point almost of turning into obsession. She tells him the truth of her relation with the French lieutenant and of the fingerprint that left her.Charls and Sarah they end up in a relationship furtively Ernestina, the fiancé of Charls. Since he knows that it is not nice gives her money and help in order that she leaves to Exeter, but little later he goes in her search and they pass the night together in the hotel. Charls asks her to wait for him, that she gives one day to break with Ernestina, but when he returns to Exeter she already has gone away.Charls search to her and in the end, three years later, he finds her accommodated in a new happy life.Parallel to this history one gives that of both protagonists in the reality, constant these two romances cross in the movie, though only the fictitious one has a happy end.Also we are attending at the furtive romance, because it is not seen well, between the servant of Charls and the servant of Ernestina. "},{"Title":"Interesting intertwined tales of love and lust","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE FRENCH LIEUTENANT'S WOMAN ***Both Jeremy Irons and Meryl Streep give really accomplished performances in this rather interesting and somewhat peculiar movie.  Essentially, the movie centres around an actor and an actress who are rehearsing a Victorian script and who are themselves engaged in something of an affair.  But the movie's prime focus is a similar relationship actually in Victorian times between a scientist and disturbed woman who the locals named Tragedy.  The movie is cleverly written and thoroughly engaging, although sometimes the movie does tend to drag on a little.  The scientist in question is a Mr. Charles Smithson who is on the verge of marrying his sweetheart, a young woman who is the daughter of a well off shipping merchant.  All goes well until one fateful meeting between the woman who people call the French Lieutenant's whore, and the aforementioned Smithson.  The movie manages to bring together multiple aspects of emotion wand shows an adeptness at handling its material.  The characters involved are varied and diverse also, from the typical old age Victorian female taskmaster to the cheeky cherubic servants of Smithson and Miss Ernestina.  The blend of characters ensures that the movie is rarely dull, and I was really impressed by Meryl Streep's performance.  Playing the woman who has been tarnished by her past, the movie takes an unexpected turn and she manages to bring to life an energetic and mildly touching performance that spurs on the last three quarters of an hour.  Jeremy Irons was steady throughout and he seems particularly suited to that lovable upstanding citizen type with just a little bit of unpredictability about him.  The scenery was beautiful and the landscapes were used to show the general mood of the characters throughout.  Smithson who was soon besotted with this enigmatic woman soon realises however that a sense of reality must dictate, but who eventually succumbs to his raw emotions.  Meanwhile, the issue of true love keeps burning right to the very end.  The movie also manages to create an anger at our characters as many people get hurt because of the central characters actions, in both contexts.  A good movie then, which lacked any real cutting edge to be considered great, but nevertheless an impressive effort. "},{"Title":"dreamy","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dreamy. Another example of why Meryl Streep is one of the greatest actresses of our times. In a beautiful, gentle, yet powerful way, The French Lieutenant's Woman showed me (a guy) a century's perspective of what it is to be a woman within the context of society. "},{"Title":"Engaging film but ending is odd...","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was fabulously done. The movement between the two plotlines really kind of scared me at first, like my dad had switched the video's or something.  But then slowly, the contrasts between the two plots and the visual movement started to mix nicely.  Like Maltin said, jarring, at first.  But I think that the ending was a little weird, but chalked up to the time the film was made.  Hey, we can't all have movies get up to speed just by watching them now.thanks "},{"Title":"Muted romanticism","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Fowles adapts Harold Pinter, two literate gentleman not exactly known for harlequin-styled romance. So much for the romantic angle of this rather heavy plot concerning a woman-of-ill-repute having an affair with a French soldier in 1860's England; at a counterpoint is the contemporary actress and actor playing these roles in a movie--and sharing a similar relationship off-screen. Mixture of fantasy and reality doesn't really come off, as the pacing is sluggish on both counts. Meryl Streep and Jeremy Irons are arch and uninvolving, although the production design is admittedly beautiful and Freddie Francis' cinematography is sumptuous. Ambitious perhaps, but unmoving. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Streep's 1st Starring Role!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981) Finally a full-fledged starring role!  Streep and costar Jeremy Irons play  actors immersing themselves in the  roles they are rehearsing. The movie  alternates between this action and  the parts they are working on. As a  scarlet woman Streep creates a chara cter of beauty and mystery. She garnered  another in a string of Oscar nominations  for this role. Though be forewarned  gentlemen, this is what is commonly  referred to these days as a chick flick. "},{"Title":"extraordinary acting by Meryl","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't quite like the story, this type of story.  The structure of the story is indeed interesting there are two threads, one for current actor and actress; the other for the characters they are playing.  Yet Meryl Streep's acting is extraordinary.  See this part when Anna(played by Meryl) is thrown down by Mike(by Jeremy), she got up with trembling limbs, showing the tension in her heart. I feel this type of role suits Meryl Streep, it's very much like Sophie in Sophie's choice. "},{"Title":"Post-modern but dated","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The French Lieutenant's Woman' is a film about the making of a film about a pair of Victorian lovers.  If it was done today, there would undoubtedly be a post-modern twist, in which a significant part of the viewing experience would be the judgment we would be invited to make on the nature of the inner production.  However, in this film, the outer story is quite limited (and Jeremy Irons appears to be playing the same role in both tales), while the inner film is a straight costume drama as they were made twenty years ago, stodgy and unsubtle in both direction and plot.  The latter - sexually repressed man meets innately mysterious woman - is drearily predictable - he's even an evolutionist, a depressingly common and obvious career choice for characters of this sort; while Meryl Streep's persona seems to owe more to pre-Raphaelite romanticism than the real world.  Meanwhile, all the moderns do is provide some distraction from the thinness of the characterisation and story in the film that they make. Fundamentally, this film works according to our prejudices about the Victorian world (and how it differs from ours) rather than challenging them - and spins two weak stories where one strong one would be better.  It's not awful, but a bit disappointing considering the potential in the concept of parallel lives; a remake would be interesting, if made by a director with a less precious view of 19th century life. "}{"Title":"Unintended lusts","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My God, I had forgotten how gorgeous Jeremy Irons was as a young man. Of course now that I think about it, I knew several long haired, earnest, moustachioed young men back then, Jeremy reminded me of all of them throughout the movie, making it hard to pay attention to the film. Not that the film was all that interesting. Meryl Streep is oh so lovely and forlorn in her roll as Sarah and just plain good looking in her roll as Ann the 20th century movie star. Streep and Irons did well with the material, but there wasn't much given them really and Irons does look a bit silly plodding around the countryside in his fashionable Victorian suits. Still the possibilities of their love kept me hoping.The single most annoying factor was Lynsey Baxter as Ernestina, the fiancee of Jeremy Irons' Charles Smithson. She looked and acted like she had just walked over from the filming of a Jane Austen novel, totally out of place, in this dark piece. That said most of the other characters seemed disjointed or knew more of what was going on than we are shown. The doctor, for instance, seems to know more of the depth of Smithson's feelings than even Smithson. That would be OK if we were given some clues as well, but we are not.In the end I just kept watching for the nostalgia of the look the Jeremy Irons wears so well and that isn't such a bad thing, is it? "},{"Title":"A screen classic for sure . . . but Hepburn the greatest? . . . .","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Your lead commentary via one budmassey from NC, leaves me gasping. Gaping? That too. His basic take on the film under discussion, the Karel Reisz visualization of the John Fowles novel is fine by me. Indeed, I agree with much if not most of it. But comparing the vast and incomparable acting skills of Meryl Streep with the limited, if highly personable, projections of Katharine Hepburn, in whatever reference, is like raising Boston baked beans above every Michelin star ever recorded for chefs' toques. Dorothy Parker had it right when she characterized Hepburn's Broadway debut as running the dramatic gamut from A to B. And la Hepburn, for all her broad-A girl/boy blandishments and Hollywood hoots, African Queen included, ditto the dismal Golden Pond, may well be one preeminent projection of cinematic gumption and gall, so far as esthetics and art can be concerned, but she was NO actress. Performer, maybe. Persona, for sure. But name me ONE performance in which she was anything other than Katharine Hepburn. As for the film arguably under discussion. for me, it was magical, and Streep's performance(s) was/were absolutely galvanizing. "},{"Title":"Visually fascinating yet boring as hell","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have watched this movie in its entirety once and attempted to rewatch it a few years later. I was quickly reminded of how boring and drawn out it is, and even though it's beautiful I needed something w/ more of a pace. If you are a Meryl Streep fan, she gives a knockout performance and the movie is worth watching for her alone. However this movie flows like The Bridges of Madison County, another amazing performance in a film that I will never rewatch b/c it is so slow, but she embodies those characters well. The cinematography, lighting, shots, locations are outstanding, yet make the story move slowly and beautifully, yet the story is hard to follow and makes u so bored that it is hard to separate story lines. All in all, a beautiful film if you do not have digital cable, youtube, myspace, facebook, or an iphone, b/c those will make u distracted and lose focus. This movie would not be enjoyable to anyone ADD, ADHD, w/ a short attention span, who did not go to an Ivey League school, or someone who takes a lot of breaks. If you are in a hospital bed or retired you might enjoy this slow-moving long journey. "},{"Title":"almost there but not quite","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Melodramatic mishmash which totally squandered excellent cinematography & potential source material.I wasn't too disturbed by the split storyline, but I was disappointed by the acting (especially Meryl Streep's) which seemed so 1-dimensional.  The cinematography is beautiful, so the film is well worth a watch just for this alone.  "},{"Title":"middling","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As we all know, Meryl Streep has a special affinity for accents Polish in Sophie's Choice, Oklahoman in Silkwood, Danish in Out of Africa, Australian in A Cry in the Dark and Irish in Dancing at Lughnasa, to name a few. In The French Lieutenant's Woman, she sports an English accent.That said, there isn't really much to the movie. Essentially a cross between a Jane Austen novel and a tell-all Hollywood story, this movie tells of an actress (Streep) whose role in a movie reflects her real life. Jeremy Irons plays her husband in both the movie and in the movie-within-a-movie.The movie doesn't suck. I guess that it's the same sort of situation with movies like Hurry Sundown given the talent involved, they should have come up with something better. "},{"Title":"No Surprise This Was A Box-Office Bomb","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After all the hype, this was a big disappointment. I have since learned to read between the lines with a bunch of national critics, knowing their cultural bias. This story is full of postmodern bias and is one of those film-within-a film stories. A lot of times, those are clever but if they aren't done right, they are big bombs and movie-goers are turned off. That's what happened here, and one reason you see so few reviews on a film that national critics - naturally - loved. It didn't do well at the box office, either.If you watch a lot of movies, you will see and hear things in TFLW that are familiar, such as Meryl Streep with another foreign accent, plugs for evolution and cheap shots against Christians, digs against the Victorian Era and huzzahs for anything liberated, etc. You get the picture. The agenda is the normal left-of-center.A person portrayed as downright nasty in this movie is one who believes in God, reads the Bible and is always shown with a cross around her neck. The leading man, however, the good guy, is a disciple of Charles Darwin, the man who brought us the enlightening theory of evolution. This is just one example of what I am talking about in the above paragraph.The story involves a bunch of real life elitist actors playing themselves - talking, rehearsing their lines, sleeping together, etc. - in the Victorian Age and making it all look grand. Speaking of that, the film does offer some beautiful photography.As for Streep, a wonderful actress, this was her debut and she went on to star in films with Danish accents, Australian, Polish and a host of others. I've always liked Jeremy Irons, too, who is the male star in here. I have no problems with the acting, cinematography and the story - it's the other prejudices that I am tired of seeing on film that makes one viewing of this movie enough. "},{"Title":"Boring film","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are a die hard Meryl Streep fan, you might want to take a look at it. Other wise you better avoid it. It is the worst performance by Irons as a leading actor, totally lack of inspiration that he usually had to flame up the screen. And the film itself is also banal. The director is like a careful student that follows text books. As the result, the film is more like a craft than a piece of art. I'd recommend you spend the two hours on other films--life is short.3/10 "},{"Title":"As boring as it gets","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Has Jeremy Irons ever made a good movie?, I dont think so, may Dead Ringers was good, though I didnt see that.  This film is so dull that it sucks the energy out of anyone who watches it.  I dont know why people used to think Meryl Streep was a good actress, every film shes been in, except for Silkwood, shes used that same annoying accent.  Though it did have a few memorable bits, this film is really not worth seeing.  I give it 5/10.  "},{"Title":"What an awful film","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst film I have ever seen. I heard once that it was a good film, but I became terrified how this film is bad. Two hours that does not pass. This film doesn´t have not even a good part to worth while. "}]